More than 1,000 illegal dumpsites are set for closure as the fight to get rid of the city’s garbage piles intensifies. The illegal dumping sites identified by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service are allegedly owned by cartels who frustrate garbage collection in the city. NMS deputy director-general Kang’ethe Thuku on Friday said the dumpsites were unearthed over the past two months, with most found in Ruai. “Seventy-three dumpsites have been cleared and closed, preventing further illegal disposal. NMS is still working on the remaining areas,” he said. In their first 100 days in office, NMS identified 110 dumpsites following a directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta to crack down on all illegal dumpsites. It was also mandated to curtail the discharge of effluent into rivers by firms in the capital. The Mohamed Badi-led team said it has designated 35 new garbage collection points across the city to help make Nairobi a garbage-free zone. NMS through the Environment directorate has employed new casuals to help in the collection of the garbage along the streets and estates. The additional casual labourers are to help improve the deplorable state of the capital. The casual labourers will undertake manual jobs aimed at enhancing aesthetic value across four regions in Nairobi. Starehe, Kamkunji, Mathare and Makadara subcounties in the southern region, while Dagoretti North and South, Kibra and Langata subcounties form the northern region. Embakasi North, Central, East, West, and South are part of the eastern region, while Westlands, Ruaraka, Kasarani, and Roysambu will be part of the western region. The deputy director also said that in collaboration with the National Youth Service, they are set to increase the daily collection and disposal of garbage. NMS is collecting an average of 2,500 tonnes of garbage daily, up from 1,800 done by the previous regime. “We aim to increase the average daily waste collection to 3,000 tonnes by roping in casual labourers to boost the collection,” Thuku said. NMS  has also engaged solid waste contractors who are assisting in garbage collections in various city estates. Their engagement has increased the number of garbage collection trucks to 205. The contractors are expected to pick garbage at gazetted points across the 85 wards. Collection points depend on the population size. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 