ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday said a mega political machine is in the works. He trashed Deputy President William Ruto’s bottom-up, people first economic model, saying it belongs in the dustbin of history. Raila said the formation, which he said will transform into a "tsunami", will sweep the country in next year’s general election. “Nitie kalausi mabiro malich ainya. Obiro lokokre tsumani. Omiyo aduwa jothurwa mondo ang’e ni wang’eyo kuma wadhiye,” he said. This loosely translates as, “There is a wind coming. It is heavy. It will turn into a tsunami. That is why I want our people to know that we know where we are going." Raila spoke in Dholuo during the burial of his cousin, former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo in Gem, Siaya. The comments followed  boardroom talks between Raila’s ODM and his handshake partner President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee to form a pre-election coalition. There are also talks to revive the moribund Nasa coalition to face Ruto who has settled on United Democratic Alliance (UDA) as his vehicle to run for the country's top seat. “Wadwaro ni mondo ung’ee ni machine ma waloso kaka waloso cha, en machine mapek. Moko ineno ka go korgi kucha, podi gin gima ringo aringa kamano (We want our people to know that the machine we are making is a heavy one. You see others chest-thumping, they are passing wind),” Raila told the crowd during the burial. The former Prime Minister went on to rubbish DP Ruto’s bottom-up economic model, saying the blueprint will not transform the economy and urged his supporters to shun it. “Ng’ato wacho ni oduaro mondo ochak gi yo mapiny kucha. Akiya ni wachak gi mama mboga, akiwa oduwa ni omiyu wheelbarrow, akiya ni mkokoteni. Wheelbarrow itimo go ango’o?” “Someone says that he wants to start from the bottom. I don’t want to start with a vegetable vendor to whom he wants to give a wheelbarrow, handcart. What are you going to do with a wheelbarrow?” he asked. Raila added, "Bottom-up economics gin economic moko ma oripo ter e dust bin. (Bottom-up economics is an economic model that should be taken to a dustbin). Ruto has been marketing the bottom-up economic model which he believes would alleviate poverty and transform the country’s fortunes. He contrasts that with top-town, trickle-down, central planning economics that he says benefits the rich. “We are confident that through this competent team we are going to succeed. The BBI is going to move forward. That reggae will proceed,”Raila said. Raila termed Midiwo  a cousin as political son whom he grew together with  and mentored. He later became an astute debater who left an indelible mark in Parliament. “He left a big record in Parliament,” he told the mourners in the heavily political send-off.. Ida Odinga, Raila wife, described Midiwo as a close friend of their house that was always opened up to him. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa narrated how Midiwo took him on for questioning Raila during his tenure as prime minister on the whereabouts of Kazi kwa Vijana funds. He said Midiwo was an orator and astute debater who defended his party leader and the party will zeal. Governors Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) and Anyang’s Nyong'o (Kisumu), and a host of members of the National Assembly and senators attended the ceremony. Midowo’s brother, Jalang’o, said the DCI is investigating the cause of his brother’s death after the family questioned the cause of acute kidney failure that led to his death. (Edited by V. Graham)