A school dorm captain who was charged with the murder of a fellow student he allegedly accused of theft has been set free for lack of evidence. Court papers said that on October 11, 2016, in Homa Bay county, he, jointly with others, not before court, murdered IOO. The students names were set in initials in court papers to protect their identity. The prosecution said IOO and another student were suspected to have broken into the box of XO and stolen a phone. IOO had recorded a statement that the accused and two others had slapped him. The following morning, he complained that he was unwell. He was allowed to seek medication but died on October 16, 2016 in hospital. The accused denied the offence. The school principal said IOO had alleged that the accused was one of the three students who beat him. IOO's father said his son told him he was beaten by the accused and two other boys, whose names he did not provide. The deputy principal, who was the disciplinary mistress at the time of the incident, said that when the matter was referred to her, IOO said he was beaten by three boys, who included the accused. However, in the statement she recorded with the police, she indicated that after IOO was implicated in theft, the captain stopped him and another student hit him on the head with a piece of wood. She said she got this information from IOO. IOO's aunt testified that when she found him in bed and said he was unwell, he told her that XO, OB and OG had beaten him as he headed for the dormitory. But the captain testified that after IOO and two others were implicated in theft, OG hit him on the head with a piece of wood. This is when he was making enquiries in his capacity as a dorm captain. In a judgment delivered by Justice Kiarie Waweru on June 8, he noted that the unfortunate incident was triggered by an alleged theft from the box of another student. Probably this explains why his reports to various people differed as to who injured him, he said. "From the evidence on record, there is no sufficient evidence to show that the accused and one Ogweno had common intention. I accordingly find that the prosecution has not proved the offence of murder against the accused. I acquit him of the charge and set him free unless if otherwise lawfully held,” the judge ruled. 