Pharmacy and Poisons Board inspectors have arrested 22 people in a massive crackdown on illegal chemists in Wajir and Garissa. The team has camped in the counties in the past week. They partnered with the National Police Service and mapped unlicensed drug outlets following surveillance exercise. Northeastern PPB's inspector Ali Omar on Sunday said in Garissa that owners of 48 chemists who got wind of the inspection shut their businesses to avoid arrest. Those nabbed will be charged with operating unlicensed businesses and selling unregistered drugs. They were taken to Garissa and Wajir police stations but later released on police bail. They are to be arraigned on Monday. A spot check in Garissa town and its environs revealed that some chemists remained closed for the better part of the week, an indication that they had been operating illegally. “It is unfortunate that they resorted to closing down their facilities after word reached them that we were in town. We suspect they are operating illegally and feared inspection. They are, however, not off the hook. We marked them and have issued closure notices. They can run but cannot hide,” Dr Omar said. The inspector said that out of the 44 pharmacies inspected, 32 complied with regulations. Dr Omar regretted that the profession has been infiltrated by quacks and unscrupulous businesspersons who endanger the lives of unsuspecting patients. “These are the people we were determined to get rid of completely. We continue advising members of the public to use heath safety codes displayed in registered pharmacy outlets to verify the legality of the premises," he said. Mid-last year, the board banned the sale of over-the-counter drugs unless the medication sought had been prescribed by a doctor. Omar said the ban is still in force. Youth in the region abuse Cozepam, Diazepam and Beryline, which they use when chewing miraa. “We want to put on notice anybody still involved in this illegal business. We are determined to completely rid [the region of] these drugs that have been badly abused by our youths, turning them into zombies,” he added. Miraa dens and shops still selling the drugs are doing so discreetly to loyal customers. Abusers of the drugs, who requested anonymity, said the drugs are hard to find following constant raids by the board. "Things have changed. Unlike before when you could just walk in a shop or chemist and get them, right now it is difficult," one of them said. "Even the few who are still selling them are doing so in great fear.”  Edited by F'Orieny 