Outgoing Kenya National Examination Council chief executive Mercy Karogo exits as a silent hero in the fight against examination cheating. Karogo was appointed as acting Knec chief executive in 2016, following Joseph Kivilu's dismissal over widespread cheating in the 2015 KCSE exam. Her arrival at the council coincided with the appointment of Fred Matiang'i as the Education Cabinet secretary. After the widespread exam cheating in 2015, a joint team was formed consisting of the Education ministry and Knec. Only a few months in office, Karogo chaired the team, which sought to provide solutions to the chronic problem of exam cheating. It was at the meeting that the recommendations that are today credited with the transformation were sired. Karogo explains that the team identified the handling of examination papers by too many hands as the first loophole to compromising examination integrity. “We agreed to have only the headteachers as the solo handlers of the examination papers,” Karogo told the Star in an interview on Wednesday. The team also recommended a container storage that would serve as a strong room with double lock system and each key given to different individuals. They also recommended centralising of examination marking and reducing the number of days the marking is conducted. “Today people ask why the change had not taken place earlier,” Karogo said. “This is a team effort and having laid a better foundation we hope that those taking on the mantle will better.” Although she was never as vocal as her male counterparts Matiang’i and George Magoha, she diligently remained an influential figure as they safeguarded KCPE and KCSE examinations. During her tenure, she served in an acting capacity. During the arrival of examination from the UK, those familiar with the exercise say she would be out in the night as they waited for the cargo. “This could be all night long, and would leave at 4am, she was always there,” a source told the Star. Njeng'ere will serve for a five-year term, effective July 1, 2021. He holds a Doctorate in Education from Moi University. Until his appointment, he served as an adviser to the Education CS. Before taking up the position, Karogo had served as senior deputy director and head of the Curriculum and Research Services department at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. -Edited by SKanyara