The Bishop of Embu has urged National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to have a church coronation — in addition to elders' blessings to lead Mt Kenya. Bishop Ezekiel Nyaga of the National Independent Church of Africa said on Saturday Muturi's coronation as Mt Kenya spokesman at the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga was not wrong or unchristian. The elevation is opposed by those who want the position for themselves and say it splits Mt Kenya. Agriculture CS Peter Munya is one of the critics. Nyaga, apparently referring to Munya,  said church rites are needed to sanctify Muturi's elevation.  After seeking  more blessings from the church, Muturi will be able to unite the rest of the nation, not just Mt Kenya, he added. He spoke at NICA Kavutiri in Embu during the ordination of nine priests. "I understand Speaker Muturi has visited elders from Meru, Embu and those from Central Kenya. He should realise that is not enough yet. "He should also visit the church to seek church blessings, too. He is not going against God or the law by speaking to the people of Mt Kenya and I urge him to continue. Nyaga said that leaders unimpressed by the coronation of the Speaker should rise up and seek the same position since it is a constitutional right. He was referring to Munya's sentiments as he opposes the speaker's coronation as Mt Kenya spokesperson. Munya on Saturday in Meru said Muturi was not crowned as the Mt Kenya kingpin by the leaders and such an honour has to be decided by all the leaders in Mt Kenya. Munya —  who also wants to be Mt Kenya leader — said he only recognises President Uhuru Kenyatta as the Mt Kenya spokesperson. However, Nyaga said that anybody has the freedom to seek political favours in any region. A political lobby, the Embu Youths Movement, said lack of unity and greed among leaders has led to some Mt Kenya leaders opposing Muturi. Filex Fundi, the Youths Movement chairman said, "We support Speaker Muturi and call on leaders from other regions to unite with the Speaker and consider working together in his mission of uniting Mt Kenya as he eyes 2022." The youths also called for peaceful politics and said political fights are the biggest cause of unemployment among youths. The youths said the few leaders from Mt Kenya West who don't favour the Speaker should speak up and let everybody know their position. They urged Muturi to unite Mt Kenya so that the nation can appreciate Embu's existence in leadership. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)