Wajir Governor Ahmed Muktar is appealing  state and non-state actors to help in tackling the devastating drought. Speaking on Thursday during a county steering group meeting, Muktar said there is over-concentration of livestock on major boreholes, which has led to frequent breakdowns. The governor said the frequency and intensity of drought has increased, giving the community less time to recover. “Reducing the impact of these disasters requires concerted efforts from a broad range of stakeholders including the county and national governments as well as development and humanitarian partners," he said. Muktar urged all government and non-governmental entities to intervene and mobilise resources to reduce the impact of drought. County commissioner Jacob Narengo discussed the May assessment by the National Drought Management Authority. According to the report, the county faces severe food insecurity and is classified as stressed with a worsening trend. The report said the county is in the alert phase of drought, with Wajir West and Eldas categorised as being in the alarm phase. The short rain food security assessment showed severe vegetation deficit, depletion of pastures and bowsers and drying of all waters pans.  Effects of depressed rain were compounded by frequent bush fires especially in Wajir South, West, Eldas and North areas. This destroyed the pasture and led to animal and human diseases' outbreaks. The governor attributed major challenges to delayed disbursement of county funds by the National Treasury, which harms pastoralists. “Let us be realistic, counties cannot operate without funds. Right now we are talking about drought and the state has a big role to play to avert it,” he said. Narengo said the national government will continue to work closely with other  non-state actors to ensure both human beings and livestock are not adversely affected by the drought. He appealed for more well-wishers to come onboard. Two weeks ago governors threatened to shut down counties next week, citing lack of funds to run operations. Through the Council of Governors, the county chiefs criticised the delayed disbursement of monies by the National Treasury. The lack of money has crippled operations and delivery of critical services to the residents. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)