Nairobi leaders have been urged to support the Nairobi Metropolitan Services in implementing city projects. Makadara MP George Aladwa on Sunday praised NMS boss Mohammed Badi for his efforts to restore Nairobi’s past glory. “The NMS, under the exemplary leadership of Major General Badi, has demonstrated that we can indeed transform Nairobi into a smart city, if we utilise our resources well,” he said. Aladwa said although people are against 'militarisation' of Nairobi, NMS has proved the opposite by delivering services to the city. “We all remember the politics that surrounded the creation of this organ, many threw stones at it but the rest of us chose to give the agency time to prove naysayers wrong and indeed, it has delivered positive results,” he added. The Makadara MP applauded NMS efforts of recarpeting roads within the central business district. “We must applaud and express with overwhelming satisfaction, the progress made by NMS in implementing the directives given to it by President Uhuru Kenyatta and more so, the provision of key services to Nairobi residents,” Aladwa noted. Noting that access to health care has been a challenge in Nairobi, the Makadara MP said the construction of the 24 hospitals was a game-changer. Major General Badi last week said they were finishing works in CBD before they move into the estates. NMS has hired youths to clear drainages, collect waste and rehabilitate roads. The NMS Directorate of Environment last month announced it was contracting additional casual labourers in a bid to improve the deplorable state of the capital. The casuals undertook manual jobs aimed at enhancing aesthetic value across four regions in Nairobi Aladwa also said the entity has sunk boreholes across informal settlements. Last year, NMS in partnership with Athi Water Works Development Agency sunk 193 boreholes and constructed elevated steel tanks. The Ministry of Water allocated Sh1.7 billion to implement independent community projects aimed at increasing water supply to the vulnerable communities, especially during Covid-19 pandemic. Last year August, President Kenyatta directed NMS to set up 24 hospitals across Nairobi's informal settlements at a cost of Sh2 billion The 24 hospitals will be set up in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. Five hospitals have already been commissioned, while 12 more have been completed with the rest at different levels of completion. “We must also take pride in the fact that the NMS is building 24 new hospitals, which will be complete before the next general election. This is a milestone achievement that will help create thousands of jobs both directly and indirectly in the health sector,” Aladwa said. According to the 2014 Kenyan National Slum Upgrading and Prevention Policy, the challenge of urban slums is particularly acute in Kenya and its capital city, where over 65 per cent of Nairobi's population (3.2 million people) live in informal settlements. “It is now upon us, elected leaders, to play our role in supplementing the work being done by the NMS so that by the time it exits next year, all its work will be finished to the benefit of Nairobi residents,” Aladwa added.