Kenya Ports Authority(KPA) is banking on the Meter Gauge Railway from Naivasha to Malaba to boost cargo uptake from the Inland Container Depot (ICD). Uganda which has been the biggest target with the ICD has been unwilling to use the facility, despite cutting the distance between Kampala and Mombasa by more than 500 kilometres. Kenya Railways has been rehabilitating the line which will be connected to the Standard Gaige Railway (SGR) at Longonot area. To entice Ugandans and other neighbouring countries, the Kenyan government has gone ahead to extend parcels of land near the ICD as it looks at turning th region into an industrial and logistic hub. According to KPA acting managing director Rashid Salim, the MGR will increase cargo haulage to the borders, into the hinterland. “With the meter-gauge railway, we expect volumes through the inland container depot to grow,” Salim told journalists during an interview in his office. The line is also expected to increase agricultural exports such as tea and coffee and serve factories in the Rift Valley, western Kenya and the fish industry in Kisumu. A link to the Kisumu Port is also expected to support revival of Lake Victoria water transport, connecting Kenya to ports of Uganda and Tanzania,  a major boost to regional trade. Uganda remains the biggest target for transit cargo through the Port of Mombasa and the Naivasha dry port, accounting for  83.2 per cent of transit goods. South Sudan takes up 9.9 per cent while DR Congo and Rwanda account for 7.2 per cent and 2.4 per cent respectively. Last year, efforts by Transport CS James Macharia to force all hinterland cargo to Naivasha failed with the Ugandan government saying it was not ready to use the facility. Macharia had indicated that all transit cargo destined for the hinterland would effective June 2, 2020 be cleared and collected from the Naivasha facility. However a communiqué from Uganda’s Ministry of Works and Transport indicated the neighbouring country was not ready for Naivasha , and would prefer to continue picking their cargo from Mombasa. China Communications Construction Company Limited handed over the Sh6.9 billion facility to the government on May 7 last year. It comprises over 1,000 acres of space with a marshaling area able to hold 700 trucks at any given time.