The Murang’a government is vaccinating cattle in Kiharu and Mathioya following the outbreak a contagious disease that can kill animals within six hours of infection. Haemorrhagic septicemia, which may cause blood to ooze from all openings of an animal, has already killed many head of cattle. The bacterial infection was first reported last month. It has caused heavy losses to farmers who depend on their dairy cows to supplement their incomes and support their families. It is characterised by acute sepsis and high death rates and mostly affects cattle and water buffaloes. The bacteria is transmitted through direct contact with infected animals and materials or objects such as clothes, furniture and utensils, with the animals getting infected after inhaling the causative agent. "Stresses such as a poor food supply increase susceptibility to infection, while close herding and wet conditions seem to contribute to the spread of the disease,” Livestock executive Albert Mwaniki told the Star, adding that the bacteria can survive in water or damp soil for a few days. The incubation period varies from three to five days and symptoms occur immediately after infection, with death occurring within hours or in about five days in cattle with higher immunity. Initially, infected cows exhibit fever, dullness and reluctance to move. Salivation and nasal discharge also develop and swellings—which spread from the head to the throat, the brisket and ventral cervical area—become apparent. The disease also causes respiratory distress, which, in turn, prompts the infected cow to collapse and usually die within six hours. Haemorrhage may occur in all parts of the body. Mwaniki appealed to farmers to urgently report whenever they notice such symptoms to enable the county government to facilitate treatment and help control the disease. He said the measures so far taken by the county are already bearing fruit and will soon stop the spread to other areas. However, Grace Wangui, a farmer from Mukangu area of Kiharu, questioned whether the vaccine is effective. “The cows do not seem to respond to the vaccine. We are afraid we might lose our entire cattle population if the disease is not managed urgently,” she said. Wangui said she lost two of her dairy cows to the disease. She said it will take her family a long time to recover from the loss and called for urgent assistance, adding that the disease has made milk a rare commodity in the village. Agnes Wambui also lost her dairy cow. She says hers was producing more than 30 litres of milk a day. The money she made from sales was enough to feed her young family, she said, but the cow died suddenly upon contracting the disease. It was so sudden that she did not even have time to seek veterinary services, she said. The crisis could have a far-reaching economic fallout. Dairy farming is crucial to the economy of the county and has seen Governor Mwangi wa Iria's administration invest billions of shillings in subsidised high-quality dairy cattle given to residents under the One Home One Cow programme. It has also established a milk processing plant to help add value and boost incomes. The county also invested in high-quality nappier grass to complement the dairy programme and is in the process of setting up a factory to provide high-quality feed at a subsidised price.  Edited by F'Orieny 