Tanzanian Opposition leader Tundu Lissu believes transformative politics is the key to free East African parliaments from the clutches of executive control. Lissu said Parliaments have become tools of the executive and therefore the only source of salvation is outside of this branch of the government. “Parliament has been under the shadow of the presidential system and presidentialism and getting it out of that requires the kind of transformative politics that happens outside politics," he stated. Lissu stated that Parliaments across East Africa have failed to uphold the principles of democracy. "The crisis East Africa Faces is one of a political leadership with brutal dictatorship. We are different in the sense that, we become very clever. We have a dictatorship that has power and one that claims to be opposition as he dims fit," he said. Five political parties from Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania are meeting in Nairobi to reshape the role of opposition parties in the country at a time coalition governments are becoming a norm in the continent. Kenya is represented by Kenya Africa National Union (KANU), Amani National Congress ( ANC) while Chama cha Demokrasia na Maendeleo (CHADEMA) and The Alliance for National Transformation (ANT) are from Tanzania. Uganda is represented by the Democratic Party (DP). Tundu Lissu lost to the late John Magufuli in the last presidential elections in Tanzania. In his opening remarks, Lissu speaking before a high end dignitaries attendees among them Tanzanian delegates, Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga, renown politician Gitobu Imanyara and media personality John Allan Namu, reflected on his sentiments about being in the country. "It is always a bittersweet moment for me personally to come to Kenya especially of September," Lissu said. This was vocal as the Tanzanian opposition chief's maiden returned to the country after losing in an election that saw his vehicle sprayed with bullets “I must have a lot of Kenyan blood. My doctor told me I received four times the normal volume of blood donated by Kenyans. It tells the story not only of our parliament, but our politics and our history as Eat Africa Nations. If you go through the book, The title may not necessarily correctly represent the content. It is our political and constitutional history with some emphasis on our parliaments," he said. The four day event hosted by a Germany based non profit organization Konrad Adenauer Stiftung (KAS) seeks to refresh the role of opposition parties in the region to challenge governments on social economic matters. Lissu, while launching his book titles ‘Parliament and Accountability in East Africa’ pointed out the need for a paradigm shift. "Transformative constitutions require confirmative political leadership and transformative judicial politics and transformative institutions as that is what it takes,' he said. Adding, "In what can happen to parliament to unmake the stereotype rule of law, the kind of politics needed to make parliament meaningful can only be through extra parliamentary struggle." Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga, on the panel discussion alongside Lissu and Namu in his remarks stated that devolution is the greatest pillar in terms of equitable distribution of resources. The conference was being held in Kenya at the time the country's opposition chief had merged forces with the President to champion Building Bridges Initiative (BBI), limiting the opposition's role as public watch.