When Athletics Kenya Tokyo Olympic Games national trials start at the Moi Stadium Kasarani this morning, athletes will approach the event with mixed targets. Some are yet to attain the required standards and will view this as the last chance to qualify while the qualified athletes will seek to make the final Team Kenya to Tokyo through a top to finish. Having already qualified, world junior 1,500m record holder Ronald Kwemoi's target will be to rank in the top two to book a ticket to Japan. Apprehensive of the challenge that lies ahead, where he will meet other qualified athletes including world champion Timothy Cheruiyot, 2017 world Under 20 champion George Manang'oi, Bethwell Birgen, Vincent Kibet, Charles Simotwo, Abel Kipsang and Kumari Taki, Kwemoi said he has to be in his best form. Speaking in Eldoret after a training session, Kwemoi — the 2014 Commonwealth Games silver medalist — said he has been working on his speed-work and running 5,000m as a way of sharpening his endurance. "We need to prepare in order to run well at both the trials and at the Olympics Games,” said Kwemoi. “Just like any other runner, I want the slot to the Olympics, that's why I have been hard at work to ensure I am in top shape for the trials and eventually the Olympics," he said, adding that he expects tough competition from the rest of the pack. Just like Kwemoi, two-time national cross country junior champion Samuel Chebolei will look to make the 5,000m team, where a tight battle battle is expected among the 18 qualified Kenyans. He says he wants to make the Olympics to erase the disappointment of failing to grace the Africa Cross Country Championships, which was cancelled due to the coronavirus pandemic. On the other hand, Africa under 20 5,000n bronze medalist Reuben Longosiwa will have a two-pronged approach to the trials — hit the 27:28 qualification time for and at the same finish in the top two ahead of the already qualified nine 10,000m runners. “My expectations are to try my best to win a slot to Tokyo,” said Longosiwa, younger brother to the 2012 London Olympic Games 5,000m bronze medallist Thomas Longosiwa. Junior runner Hillary Kibiwott is hoping to upset the formbook by gatecrashing the big boys' party in the 800m. Having already qualified for the Games, the 19-year-old is looking to challenge the likes of world silver medallist Ferguson Rotich, Commonwealth champion Wycliffe Kinyamal, Emmanuel Korir, Michael Saruni, Elias Ngeny, Cornelius Tuwei, Jonathan Kitilit, Kipngetich Ngeno, Collins Kipruto, Edwin Kiplagat, Festus Lagat and fellow youngster Noah Kibet. “I am still a junior but I don’t want to compete at the World Under 20 Championships because I believe I have the power to fight for bigger things,” said Kibiwott after a morning training at the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret. 