Police are looking for a suspect who was part of a gang that kidnapped an elderly woman at Mua Hills, in Machakos County. This was after the two men he was with, were lynched by an irate mob on Thursday. According to the DCI, the two suspects -Jackson Mulinge Mueke and Augustus Nzioka Ndeto- were part of a three-man gang that had trailed Veronica Kiilu, from a bank in Machakos town. Earlier, Veronica and her 72-year-old husband Wellington Kioko, had withdrawn Sh500,000 from the bank. From the sum, Sh150,000 was used to pay a lawyer based in Machakos town, for an unspecified assignment. Veronica then boarded a matatu to Kaloleni in Mua Hills, carrying the rest of the money. "She left her husband in Machakos town, attending to other matters," Kinoti said. On arrival at Kaloleni, she hailed a motorcycle. Barely after a 200-metre ride, they were intercepted by a fast moving car, a white Toyota Axio registration number KCH 348S. In a dramatic scene, two men jumped out of the car and grabbed the 60-year-old woman from the motorbike. "They bundled her into the back seat of the gateway car and sped off, towards Muthwani shopping centre," DCI said. Kinoti said along the way, they robbed off the woman the remaining Sh350,000, before abandoning her. "No sooner had the vehicle approached Ndovoini, than it was intercepted by irate boda boda riders & members of the public, who were baying for the occupants blood," he said. "The suspects were immediately ejected from the car by the unruly crowd and beaten." Two of the suspects died in a hail of stones, blows and kicks, while the third suspect managed to escape the onslaught by a whisker. A walkie talkie and three mobile phones belonging to the suspects were recovered. Also recovered was an identity card bearing the name Katu Nzalu, believed to have been left behind by the suspect who was lucky to escape. "However, the suspect’s freedom is short lived, since detectives are looking for him. Should you have any information that may assist in expediting his arrest," he added. Cases of kidnapping have been on the rise in the past one month. On Wednesday, three people were arrested in connection with the kidnapping of a 79-year-old man, that occurred on June 6, in Kitale. Grace Nyakundi, Samwel Makori and Richard Matunda were arrested for kidnapping Kennedy Nyabwari. Nyabwari disappeared after setting off for Kisii, from his Kitale home at around 5:30 pm that day. Last week, DCI detectives arrested the main suspect linked to the kidnapping of a child in Murang'a. Charles King’ori alias Delvin Maina was arrested following a dramatic chase in the streets of Naivasha town. He is suspected of kidnapping four-year-old, Liam Ngucwa Mwangi, from his grandparents on June 2, 2021.