 Boda boda business has quickly penetrated Lamu Island, providing a source of income for hundreds of youths. But the trade is increasingly turning into a curse, leaving many nursing injuries and fractures as a result of frequent crashes. Unprofessional riders have infiltrated the business, especially in remote areas, leading to a surge in accidents. Now the situation is worse for crash victims from poverty-stricken families. They can't afford the high costs of treatment and have opted for traditional solutions. One such victim is Sheba Hero from Mtangawanda area in Lamu East. He was injured three years ago and has yet to seek medical attention in hospital because of the prohibitive costs. The 37-year-old father of four sustained a fracture. He says Sh90,000 was required to get it fixed. He can't raise the money. "I was on my way home from fishing when a boda boda knocked me from behind, leaving me with a fractured hand. I went to a hospital in Faza then later in Lamu and Malindi, but the hand could not be fixed because the costs were high," Sheba says. It took the intervention of a Good Samaritan, Dr Ahmed Bunu, who volunteered to take Sheba to a hospital in Malindi. Sheba's condition was already getting much better a day after an operation at the Star Specialist Hospital when reporters caught up with him. "I sincerely thank Dr Bunu because had it not been for him, it would have been difficult to have the fracture in my hand fixed," Sheba said. He says many other crash victims are suffering in silence in Lamu. Many have also sustained fractures after falling off coconut trees. Sheba's mother Nyebwana Bwana said they tried all means to get treatment for her son, but the costs were out of their reach. The family thus decided to let Sheba live with his fractured arm. “It's not until recently when the Good Samaritan offered to help my son and paid the costs of surgery. He is now better," Bwana said. She said she was grateful because her son will be able to provide for the family again. Dr Nurein Mohamed, an orthopaedic surgeon who conducted the operation at Star Specialist Hospital, said Sheba’s hand had developed a fake joint at the fractured area because it had not been fixed for a long time. The doctor said Sheba's condition should return to normal after healing. “We had a patient who had come all the way from one of the islands in Lamu and it was an interesting case because the guy had a fracture some three years ago. We decided to help him because he is his family's breadwinner," Mohamed said. He said they normally receive many cases of fractures that are caused by boda boda accidents. Some lead to death. "There is a need for training before one becomes a rider to avoid many of these accidents," Mohamed said.  Edited by P.O