The government will not reduce tuition money sent to schools despite the revised term dates, Basic Education Principal Secretary in the Ministry of Education has said. Speaking in Nakuru on Monday, when he toured schools to inspect infrastructure development and compliance with COVID-19 protocols, Julius Jwan assured parents and basic education institutions that the Primary and Secondary school capitation would not be affected by the reduced term dates. He maintained that the tuition money disbursed to national county and extra- county secondary schools would not be reduced either. He said the tuition fees from the government would cushion schools from any gaps left by school fees revision. He confirmed that school fees have been reduced between Sh10,000 and Sh5,000 depending on the school category to ensure that parents also benefitted from the shorter-term dates. Jwan, who was accompanied by senior education officials from the national and county governments, urged high school principals to adhere to the revised fee structure. He said the new 2021-2022 revised fee structure for secondary schools will not in any way affect the smooth running of schools. He also maintained that the shorter-term dates were adequate to cover the syllabus. “For each of the terms we have reduced the duration due to the limited time that we have but we have also ensured it is adequate to complete the curriculum,” he said. On Elimu scholarships, Jwan said that more than 700 pupils from extremely needy families in the informal sectors in Nakuru applied out of which 210 were shortlisted and 126 picked after the interviews. “Of those who have been approved for the scholarship are 69 girls and 57 boys and the government will ensure that they are all placed in secondary schools in accordance to the policy,” the PS said. He said the government was still committed to the 100 per cent transition from Primary to Secondary school. On COVID-19, Jwan said the schools that he had visited had complied with the set protocols including wearing mask and sufficient hand washing points. He observed that the country had been lucky because there had been no major cases of infections in schools since they opened partially last year and the felly starting January this year.