Linda Katiba has come out to protest the move by the president to attack the Judiciary in his speech during Madaraka day celebrations. The movement’s head of secretariat Wanjeri Nderu said on Thursday that Linda Katiba is deeply troubled by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s onslaught directed at the Judiciary. She said that Uhuru’s remarks appeared are tantamount to a declaration of political anarchy. “Whatever one thinks about the merits of an issue before a court, there is no place for threats whether real or allegorical," part of the statement said. The president used part of his speech during the celebrations to blast the Judiciary over what he termed irresponsible rulings that negate the people’s will. Uhuru said the recent judgment on BBI overturned the people’s will, diminished their power, and stifled efforts to fix ills that have bedeviled the country. “From nullification of a presidential election in 2017 to an attempt to stop the will of the people as expressed through BBI, the Judiciary has tested our constitutional limits,” the President said. Linda Katiba added that personal attacks on judges by any elected officials including the president are inappropriate and unacceptable. According to the movement, such comments challenge the reputation of the third co-equal branch of the state government; the independence of the Judiciary, and the personal safety of the judicial officers. “State officials who personally attack judges dangerously create a political perception that the judicial system is serving a political or other purpose rather than the fair administration of justice.” It said that it is incumbent upon the President and state officials whose sworn duty it is to uphold the Constitution and the rule of law and to do what they can to preserve the integrity of the judicial system. “President Kenyatta's continued vindictive attacks, bullying, threatening, and intimidation on the judiciary must cease. If he feels aggrieved there exists a legal mechanism for redress” The movement added that the independence of the judiciary, free of external pressure or political intimidation lies at the foundation of Kenya’s constitutional democracy.