President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned unnamed Northeastern leaders against using the name of terror group al Shabaab to cause mayhem in the region. He said the government is aware of some leaders using the name of the name to trigger inter-clan attacks. “Don’t use the name of al Shabaab to cause inter-clan attacks. We are aware and urge you to stop it before we take decisive action,” he said. The President made the remarks when he presided over the destruction of more than 5,000 illegal guns in Ngong town. His remarks suggested that some of the fatal attacks being witnessed in parts of Northeastern and coastal regions could have been staged by locals who have an agenda. The latest incident happened on Monday when gunmen suspected to be al Shabaab militants attacked two passenger buses and killed three people including two police officers. The gang also torched a police vehicle after the ambush in Banisa, Mandera county. At least seven police officers and 11 civilians were injured in the attack. On Monday, another gang shot into a police camp in Kutulo, Wajir, in what is believed to be a recce mission. The area of the attack, which is northern part of the county has been a safe area since 2013 but has lately been a soft target. This has affected among others the education sector forcing tens of non-local teachers to flee. The militants have been targeting security installations in the area in a series of incidents destroying them. Last month, the gang tried to attack a communication mast in Afaat, Wajir county, but three of them were killed. Police have been mounting operations in the areas to deter their plans. The area is near the Somalia border and militants usually cross over at will and stage attacks before escaping back. Al Shabaab insurgents have been attacking places in the region especially in Mandera and Garissa after breaching security zones, which left dozens of civilians and security officials dead or wounded. They have been planting explosives on the routes used by the security agencies and attacking them.  