A woman who claims to be Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka’s mistress wants him to pay Sh25 million for the upkeep of their unborn child. IM says she has been in a relationship with the Speaker for three years and it resulted in her current pregnancy. She wants court to compel Lusaka to make a monthly maintenance of Sh200,000 for direct or indirect needs of their unborn child. “Pending the hearing and determination of this petition, the respondent be and is hereby ordered to support the unborn child by making a lump sum payment of Sh25,000,000 or any other reasonable amount in the circumstances which should meet the direct and/or indirect needs of their unborn child and after its birth,” the petition reads. Through lawyer Danstan Omari, she wants the court to compel Lusaka to accept and take responsibility for their child. On Monday, Justice James Makau certified the matter as urgent and directed Lusaka to be served with the petition. According to Omari, his client and Lusaka have been in an intimate affair since 2018 up until about two months ago when they disagreed after she disclosed to him that as a consequence of their relationship, she had conceived. The woman claims that they fell out when he insisted she terminate the pregnancy. And to clear any doubts as to the paternity of the baby, she is ready for DNA tests. According to court documents, despite Lusaka being a man of means, he has refused, neglected and ignored to take care of her pre-natal clinics necessary to ensure the wellbeing of the child. IM claims that would be perhaps in the hope of stressing her and causing a miscarriage of their unborn child. Omari claims that his client has been going through pregnancy complications that potentially threaten the life of their unborn child if unmitigated and largely because she is unable to financially meet the cost of the hospitals that guarantee expectant women the highest standard of health commensurate with the class and stature of the Senate Speaker. She also wants the court to order Lusaka to include her in his medical scheme to safeguard the welfare of the unborn baby. "Lusaka's defiant and brazen refusal to accept responsibility and assist the applicant to access esteemed hospitals capable of giving her highest standard of prenatal care threatens the life of their unborn child and is therefore is in sharp contravention of the constitutional safeguards of life, which begins at conception," read court documents. She claims that Lusaka has consistently rejected his association with the pregnancy despite his full knowledge that they have been having unprotected sex, instead of subjecting himself to a scientific examination in order to clear his doubts. Omari argues that his client being unemployed and the pregnancy being a high-risk one, and of a child that would possibly rise to the position of the Speaker of the Senate, the position to which its father has risen in the governance of the Republic of Kenya, or even higher in the leadership of this country, her maintenance needs are of national importance and priority by all standards “Unless this matter is disposed and determined on a priority basis and ex-parte orders granted irreparable damage and prejudice will be occasioned on the un-born child and/or its mother yet the cause of the pregnancy in question is well known to do the individual that runs the risk of improperly mentoring young men to be irresponsible men and fathers,” Omari says. The case will be heard on July 7. Edited by Henry Makori