The national government should find an amicable solution to the Sondu market border dispute between Kericho and Kisumu counties, a former lands official with the lakeside county has said. Tensions flared recently following remarks by Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruyiot that the Sondu market belongs to Kericho county, not Kisumu. Former Kisumu Lands and Housing executive Vincent Kodera said the matter must be handled with the seriousness it deserves. “This matter must come to a stop. The Ministry of Lands should help end the Sondu border dispute once and for all,” Kodera said. He urged Nyakach MP Aduma Owuor, Kisumu Senator Fred Outa and Governor Anyang Nyong’o to engage the National Land Commission on the matter. Kodera said it was high time the government put a stop to the perennial Kericho-Kisumu and Nandi- Kisumu border disputes for the peaceful coexistence of residents on either side. “It is our wish that such issues should be resolved because the government has the capacity to do so. The records are also there to help in finding a permanent solution,” Kodera said. The former executive noted that the neighbouring communities know their boundaries: where they start and end and this should be factored in decision-making. Kodera said the Sondu border dispute must be completed in good time and in a manner that will help and unite the neighbouring communities in the future. He urged leaders to stop making remarks which were likely to fuel conflicts among the neighbouring communities. During his term as Lands and Housing executive, Kodera said they held talks with his Kericho counterpart over the matter and sent a team of surveyors to Sondu and gave direction. He assured residents of Nyakach, especially at Sondu, that they are not afraid to have the matter solved before the Ministry of Lands. Kodera said that historical injustices have for many years affected residents from Nyakach who live in Sondu, hence the need to end the border dispute. Two weeks ago, Cheruiyot said officers from Kisumu were harassing traders from Kericho at Sondu market. He also questioned why the Kisumu government was collecting revenue at the Sondu market. The senator alleged that Sondu town is 90 per cent in Kericho. He said they have reached out to the relevant government authorities over the dispute. Cheruiyot gave Kisumu and Kericho 14 days to resolve the Sondu town border dispute.  (edited by o. owino)