Gracing the Olympics stage is a lifelong dream for every sportsperson and the ultimate destination of his or her career. The chance to hog the spotlight, under the scrutinising eyes of billions of viewers worldwide and thousands others cheering on in the stadium, is one that any athlete would not pass over for anything else. Indeed, an appearance at the Olympics is the reward athletes get for the many hours, days and years spent perfecting their art and craft in the various disciplines. This perfection comes at the price of momentary setbacks, such as injuries, opposition from friends and foes as well as disappointments in various competitions. However, the year 2020 heralded a new stumbling block to many athletes’ Olympic dreams in the form of Covid-19. This virus has been a wrecking ball, smashing everything in its path and turning the society upside down. Truly, as Jesus Christ said, “the devil comes to steal, kill and destroy;” the coronavirus pandemic is an epitome of these famous words. With less than two months to the rescheduled Olympics, the competition is in a "will-it-or-will-it-not-proceed" mode as various quarters either advocate for the games to go on or be cancelled altogether due to the worsening Covid-19 situation in Japan. The anti-Olympics voices have even gone to the extent of expressing fears over the emergence of a new "Olympics strain" of the virus after the competition. Nonetheless, even as they insist the games will continue, the International Olympic Committee has issued a raft of conditions to insulate themselves from any responsibility or lawsuit that may emerge from a spike in infections during the quadrennial event. One of the conditions for participation in the Olympics is that participants bear responsibility for any bodily injury or even death resulting from exposure to any health hazards during the three-week event, such as Covid-19 infections and any other contagious diseases. Though a usual clause inserted for anyone participating in a major competition — as far as injuries are concerned — the lethal nature of coronavirus raises questions of how this condition impacts athletes' performance and motivation to compete in Tokyo. Risk analysis Is a Covid-19 infection in the course of competing in Tokyo a worthy price to pay for an Olympic dream? Paralympian Asiya Mohammed, who will be representing the country as a pararower at the Paralympics, believes it is part of the risks that come with the job of an Olympian. She points out it would be cowardly and a waste of time and efforts to withdraw from Tokyo for fear of contracting the deadly virus. “As an elite athlete, getting to the top level is all about taking risks and this (coronavirus) is one of them. Why work all your life to reach such a huge stage and then pull out because you are afraid of being infected? So long as you are adhering to the stipulated measures, then you will be okay. Also, most sportspersons who contract Covid-19 are asymptomatic because they engage in constant physical activity so I believe the health effects won’t be devastating,” Asiya says. The Mombasa-born paralympian supports IOC’s stance on Olympians assuming personal risk and responsibility for any infection, noting that the committee cannot police everyone to ensure they maintain the laid-down procedures to curb the virus. “They have played their part by putting in place stringent measures to minimise the likelihood of infections. From then onwards, it is the personal responsibility of athletes to adhere to these measures to ensure they do not contract the virus. If you do not comply, then it is entirely your fault and cannot blame IOC if they decide to expel you from the competition or leave you to carry your own cross,” she says. Similarly, Paul Bitok, head coach of the women’s national volleyball team, says participants do not have much room to wiggle with regards to the aforementioned condition for participation in Tokyo. “There’s nothing much we can do because rules are rules and so we must walk in accordance with them. The only thing I request is if maybe players who get infected in the line of duty can be allowed to recuperate in quarantine and if they turn negative while the event is ongoing, to be allowed to rejoin their teammates and continue competing,” the Malkia Strikers’ tactician says. Bitok’s advise to fellow Olympians is for them to be vigilant in adhering to the measures instituted by the Ministry of Health as well as during major competitions to avoid falling afoul of the clause. “Back here in our bubble camp, we have been following the measures, such as wearing face masks, sanitising always and maintaining social distance. Furthermore, our training areas and accommodation are always fumigated. The government and Olympics Kenya have gone on the overdrive to provide conducive environment for us to prepare despite the challenges of Covid, including vaccination against the virus,” he says. The former Rwandese national team coach, however, admits the coronavirus situation has affected some athletes psychologically who may be contemplating withdrawing from the Olympics altogether for their safety and health. “Some may opt to pull out, may be from other countries because of the psychological impact of Covid-19. That is why for us in Team Kenya we have a sports psychologist to help the athletes navigate through this difficult time. I hope other countries are doing the same,” Bitok says. School of hardknocks The 2016 Paralympics 5000m bronze medalist Wilson Bii believes the pandemic has forged athletes into men and women of steel and thus, very few may pull out of the Olympics — personal risk and responsibility notwithstanding. “Personally, am not scared; am ready for the repercussions of participating in Tokyo. Success never comes easy and you must be prepared to suffer losses or setbacks to achieve it. Maybe last year, when the virus was in its infancy, many athletes would have withdrawn from the competition because of the fear of the unknown. Right now, many of us have become used to it and knowledgeable about it and hence feel it is a risk worth taking,” Bii says. The 2021 World Para Athletics 5000m champion's words of advice to fellow Olympians and Paralympians is to consume a lot of vegetables and fruits as well as observe the stipulated protocols to guard against this invisible enemy. Nonetheless, he suggests that those who contract the virus in Tokyo should be catered for by the organisers as well as their respective countries. “For some of these athletes, an infection will come with increased psychological strain and financial issues. Back home, some are unemployed and rely on sports to put food on their tables. Being left to bear personal risk or responsibility may leave them worse off,” he says. Expulsion from Tokyo Just like normal injuries incurred in competition, one of the major hurdles to an athlete’s progress in their respective disciplines at the Olympics is a Covid-19 infection. This would mean the affected athlete has to abort his or her Olympic dream and return home regardless of whether they are asymptomatic or not. Bii supports Bitok’s point of view that such participants should be quarantined and allowed to resume competition should they recover in time. “I believe it should be handled on case-by-case basis. Maybe an athlete contracts the virus and his first competition or event is a week away. It would be unfair to send him home rather he should be isolated, tested regularly and allowed to compete if he recovers in time. The Olympics and Paralympics are a major tournament that means a lot to a sportsperson’s career,” he says. In contrast, Asiya says IOC’s decision to expel a Covid positive athlete is for their own good. “Covid is more psychological than physical for most athletes. Once you know that you have it, your mind will switch off from a competition mode. Therefore, as much as it may be painful, it is better to return home, recuperate and refocus your attention on other upcoming events,” she says. As Asiya, Bitok and Bii attest, risk assessment is a must-have skill for all sportspersons to decide whether participating in any competition is worth the injuries or illnesses, which may emerge in the line of duty. No where has the importance of this skill been amplified than the Tokyo Olympics and Paralympics, which represent the pinnacle of success for many sportspersons who may never get another chance to grace the grandest stage of all. 