Home player Shiv Mandavia carded an impressive round of 45 points at the Sigona Golf Club on Saturday to secure the overall win of the 2021 NCBA Golf Series. The handicap 32 player’s imposing performance was enough to fend off the challenge by Sagar Bhatt (24), who carded 41 points to emerge winner in the men’s category ahead of Rajesh Karia (20), who claimed the men’s runner-up spot with a total of 41 points. In the ladies’ category, Esther Ngigi (20) shot an impressive round of 42 points to emerge the lady winner ahead of Zipporah Wachira (6), who carded 38 points to claim the runner-up spot. In subsequent members’ events, Kirti Chauhan and Palkesh Shah emerged first and second nine winners, having carded 25 and 22 points respectively, while Chets Murkhjee won the nearest to the pin award for his approach at the fifth hole. Zamin Nasser took the longest drive award in the men’s category for his shot off the 13th tee while Sobhna Pattel took the ladies’ prize. Meanwhile, NCBA’s Charles Omondi (22) was crowned staff winner after carding a round of 38 points. The Sigona GC event was the fourth leg of NCBA’s 21-event golf series. The event attracted over 200 golfers was preceded with a tree-planting exercise as part of the bank’s “Change the Story” initiative. Speaking on the sidelines of the event,  Tirus Mwithiga, NCBA retail banking director, said the bank is looking at reorganising events disrupted by the March lockdown, adding that the series will culminate in a Grand Finale at the Karen Country Club later in the year. “We are very pleased to be back for the NCBA Golf Series. We have had three events with this leg being the fourth. About four events were interrupted by the second lock-down that happened, and we hope to reorganize them later,” noted Mr. Mwithiga. “It is a series of 21 events which will culminate in the grand finale that will be held at the Karen Country Club. So, in every Club that we visit, we are inviting the club members to participate, and those who play well will then have another chance to join us at Karen for the finale,” he said. Commenting on the bank’s junior golf development program, Mwithiga said the aim is to nurture young talent and prepare them early to challenge for top honours in the leading global golf tournaments hosted in Kenya. “We will also have two events for juniors: one will be at the Karen August, and another one in December at the Muthaiga. These events will be open to all juniors nationally and not just the junior golfers in those clubs,” noted Mr. Mwithiga. “It is part of our initiative to support the development of golf. It is a dream one day, one of our juniors will win the big events that are now being hosted in Kenya,” noted Mr. Mwithiga. He said the golf series will be supporting NCBA’s ‘Change the Story’ initiative by involving all golf clubs taking part in the tournament.