The proposed change of the valuation roll will increase fees for land rates significantly, Nairobi property owners have said. Landowners' lobbies say the county is insisting that the rates will go up by a very small margin, when the actual fees will skyrocket to millions of shillings. City Hall is set to collect public views on the proposals to change the valuation roll and increase land rates on Wednesday. Runda Residents Association has led the groups opposing the proposed changes contained in the Nairobi City County Draft Valuation Roll. Property owners have been paying their rates at 25 per cent of the Unimproved Site Value according to the 1890s valuation. City Hall reckons this has seen it lose on the appreciation of plots. The draft valuation roll proposes the new rates be based between 0.1 and 0.115 per cent of the current value of undeveloped land. In their protest statement the Runda residents said, "Currently, most residents pay an average of Sh30,000 annually, meaning the USV had been valued at Sh120,000. The new valuation places the least valued property in Runda at Sh28 million. "If they were to charge 25 per cent of this, you will part with a minimum of Sh7 million in rates annually," they said. The county government has rejected joint protests and asked city property owners to submit individual objections. To submit an objection, one is required to pay Sh500. The public participation exercise will be conducted across 17 subcounties. The four-hour forum will begin at 9am in different venues. In Dagoretti North, the forum will be held at Muslim Primary School.  Residents of Dagoretti South will meet Waithaka Social Hall, Embakasi Central (Kayole Two Social Hall), Embakasi East (Embakasi Social Hall) and in Embakasi West subcounty administration grounds in Umoja One. In Embakasi North the forum will be held at Dandora Three Social Hall, Embakasi South (Mukuru health centre in Imara Daima), Makadara (Jericho Social Hall), Ruaraka (Ruaraka resource centre), Roysambu (Kahawa West Market parking area) and in Kasarani at Maji mazuri. Residents of Kamkunji will gather at the Eastleigh North Social Hall, Lang'ata (Karen Social Hall), Mathare (Undugu Social Hall at Mabatini), Kibra (Joseph Kangethe Social Hall), Westlands (Parklands) and in Starehe at the Kariokor Social Hall. The draft valuation roll was tabled before the county assembly on May 20. To encourage adherence to Covid-19 protocols, City Hall digitised the inspection and objection of the Draft Valuation Roll via the short code *235#. City Hall began reviewing its 1982 valuation roll in October 2016 when the World Bank contracted Geomaps Africa to do the job alongside 11 of its valuers. Nairobi County Lands and Urban Planning executive Charles Kerich in February said property owners will start paying higher rates compared to the current rates once the new valuation roll comes into effect. He said that public participation will inform the final percentage on all ratable properties in the capital. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)