The government might announce restrictions in some Western and Nyanza counties to tame the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has warned. He said they are monitoring the trend and will announce a way forward soon. "I know that we are up to the task and by the end of today (Wednesday), we will have a decision and we will consult and see how to enhance the containment in Nyanza counties," Matiang'i said. "It may lead to new measures to deal with movement and social activities to manage the spread. Managing Covid-19 has been a hard task but with coordination from the Ministry of Health, we have not been defeated." He said it has become necessary to have containment measures in Nyanza counties and parts of Western Kenya. A meeting was being held Wednesday under the National Emergency Response Committee to consult with President Uhuru Kenyatta on how to enhance the measures in the region. He said the pandemic has battered the country, but efforts are being made to address it. Public and private hospitals in Kisumu are overwhelmed with Covid-19 cases. The county government is set to scale up testing after receiving 6,000 rapid testing kits from the Ministry of Health, Kisumu Health executive Boaz Nyunya said. On Tuesday, more than 150 people were arrested and charged in Kisumu for failing to wear face masks, keep social distance and other violations of Covid-19 rules. The arrests were made in public service vehicles, bars and restaurants. A multi-agency team has been conducting swoops at bars and restaurants that do not comply with the 7pm closing time. Kisumu has in recent weeks been recording high numbers of new Covid-19 infections, with the Indian variant being reported in the county. Last week, a meeting in Kisumu chaired by Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o and county commissioner Josephine Ouko announced sweeping and stringent containment measures aimed at disrupting the spread of the virus. They said an operation would be conducted to ensure residents adhered to the rules. At least two county courts are to be revived and gazetted in the next few days to help handle those flouting the Covid-19 protocols like wearing masks. 