When Faith Njuguna's stomach started to swell, she sought medical attention to help relieve the pain and feel better. The doctors thought the swelling of her stomach was caused by ovarian cysts. They drained about four litres of fluid from the cysts in her stomach but Njuguna, 72, did not get better. She left her Tudor estate home in Mombasa county and travelled to Nairobi for further tests. A computerised scan of her tissues at Nairobi’s Aga Khan Hospital last December revealed that all her lymph nodes were cancerous. Lymph nodes are located in the neck, armpits, groin, around the gut and between the lungs. Early last year, she had also been diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension. Njuguna has been in and out of hospital because of her illness. “Last year, I was diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension. Because I could not afford the regular medication, I approached the Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir for assistance,” she said. With other older people within Tudor estate, Njuguna was enrolled in the National Hospital Insurance Fund programme by the Mvita Constituency Development Fund. Njuguna was among the 2,000 families that have benefited from the Sh12 million one-year NHIF medical cover by the CDF. The cover is due for renewal next week. She said the NHIF card and money from well-wishers have helped her cover half of the hospital bills. “This card has been sorting out almost half of the medical bills. It pays for half of all the scans that I undergo and the additional money we get from well-wishers,” she said. For example, she said that for a Sh150,000 PET scan, the NHIF card catered for Sh60,000 and for the Sh20,000 CT scan, the insurer paid Sh10,000 and catered for all other medication expenses like medicines that she is required to buy. Njuguna has already undergone four chemotherapy sessions at Mombasa Hospital and Mombasa Cancer Centre. She is required to undergo an additional four chemotherapy sessions from July 5. "Before I start my fifth chemotherapy session, the doctors said, I would have to undergo another PET scan to see if the cancerous cells have gone down. Initially, I had over 3,000 cancerous cells in my body," she said. Njuguna's 46-year-old daughter, Anne Nyambura, has been battling cancer for longer, having been diagnosed with breast cancer six years ago. She got treatment and recovered, but last December doctors said that the cancer was back attacking her lungs. She also partly got her medical funding from the local MP. “That time, the NHIF programme was not in place, but my mother went to MP Nassir and he really helped me in my medical journey, until I was declared cancer-free,” Nyambura said. In December, during Nyambura’s routine check-up, the doctor said that cancerous cells had been detected again. She is now required to go for further testing. According to Nassir, the NHIF programme to help the vulnerable in society was informed by the fact that healthcare is very expensive. “Every now and then, we get requests from people asking for help to treat their loved ones. We thought it could be better and wiser to invest in NHIF, whereby a single card will cater for the entire family,” Nassir said. He said the model of issuing NHIF cards to vulnerable members of the community has really helped and more MPs have picked up the idea countrywide. “Most of the leaders have taken up the project to cover their constituents, improving the national health sector,” Nassir said. Next week, ODM leader Raila Odinga is expected back in Mombasa for the renewal of the Mvita NHIF cover, according to Nassir. In Mvita, the NHIF insurance covers up to 2,000 families and approximately 10,000 people directly benefit from the programme. The medical cover caters for surgeries, checkups, outpatient and partial inpatient expenses. “We are not limiting our help to NHIF only, but we will also help from our own personal finances when required to do so,” Nassir said.   (edited by o. owino)