Kenya is among the countries listed to receive part of the 55 million Covid jabs from the US which will be shared globally, according to the White House. This is a boost to the country’s aim of vaccinating its people against the virus. It also comes after the country received a consignment of 350,000 Covid-19 vaccines of AstraZeneca, a donation from the Danish government. President Joe Biden’s administration announced, the distribution list for 55 million of the 80 million doses of America’s own vaccine supply, that Biden pledged to allocate by the end of June in service of ending the pandemic globally. Earlier this month, the Biden-Harris administration announced the plan for the first 25 million doses, and today’s announcement completes the list for the remaining 55 million doses. In the concluded G7 summit that was held in Cornwall, UK, global leaders pledged to share Covid-19 vaccine doses internationally, in support of global equitable access and to help end the acute phase of the pandemic. The leaders pledged 870 million additional doses to support equitable access to vaccines in 2021 and 2022. According to the White House, approximately 41 million doses will be shared through the COVAX, with the following allocations: Approximately 14 million for Latin America and the Caribbean to the following: Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Paraguay, Bolivia, Uruguay, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Haiti, and other Caribbean Community (CARICOM) countries, Dominican Republic, Panama, and Costa Rica. About 10 million doses for Africa will be shared with countries that will be selected in coordination with the African Union. Also, about 14 million doses or 25 per cent of the 55 million vaccines will be shared with regional priorities and other recipients, such as Colombia, Argentina, Haiti, other CARICOM countries, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, Panama, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Philippines, Vietnam, Indonesia, South Africa, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cabo Verde, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, Yemen, Tunisia, Oman, West Bank and Gaza, Ukraine, Kosovo, Georgia, Moldova, and Bosnia.