The county assembly will operate without a substantive clerk due to court orders barring both former clerk Jacob Ngwele and Edward Gichana from office. An Appeal Court on Friday ordered assembly clerk Edward Gichana to vacate office pending the determination of a lawsuit against him. Former clerk Jacob Ngwele moved to the Court of Appeal to challenge the Labour Court ruling declaring him illegally in office, allowing for  Gichana's appointment. The courts issued injunctions against both men from acting as assembly clerk. “For clarity, both Mr Edward Gichana Ombwori and Jacob Muvengei Ngwele are hereby injuncted from exercising the powers, privileges and responsibilities of the office of Clerk, Nairobi County Assembly, pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal,” the ruling read. The court also ordered the assembly to restrain from advertising, shortlisting, recruiting or appointing a substantive holder of the office of the clerk pending the determination of the intended appeal. The court also stayed an October 16,2020, ruling by the Employment and Labour Relations Court that ordered Ngwele's removal. “… the application dated November 5, 2020, is allowed and we hereby order a stay of execution of the judgment of the Employment and Labour Relations court ( Justice M. Onyango) dated October 16, 2020, pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal to this court against the said judgment,” the ruling read. Last year’s ruling had declared Ngwele’s 2014 appointment as clerk as irregular and unlawful, saying it was marred with irregularities. A month later Ngwele moved to the Court of Appeal seeking orders restraining his removal from office and the Speaker of the Assembly from reconstituting the Assembly service board in which he served as  secretary. He also sought a finding then-Speaker Beatrice Elachi had engaged in a malicious scheme orchestrating his unlawful and unfair removal and that of other senior officers and assembly staff from their offices since September 2018. Ngwele further sought orders quashing the gazetted changes in the membership of the county assembly board in which Gichana was listed as the secretary. The clerk is the administrative head of the assembly, the secretary to the board and the principal adviser on allassembly procedures. Confusion had characterised occupancy of the clerk’s office since 2019 when  Ngwele and former speaker Elachi fell out. Judge Maureen Onyango stayed orders on Ngwele as the clerk and gave the assembly 45 days to recruit a clerk. The assembly’s board declared the vacancy and 11 people were interviewed, including Gichana. On July 24, Gichana was sworn in as the new clerk but a few days later the court suspended the gazettement of his appointment. On August 5, Justice Onyango ordered Ngwele to step aside pending the hearing and determination of his case. “It was the court’s view though Ngwele is the current clerk, he should step aside until the case is concluded. “In the meantime, the deputy clerk currently in office will take over the functions of the clerk until the petition is determined,” the court ruled. Justice Onyango also ruled that there was no vacancy in the office of the clerk until the case was determined in October. “Petition 71 of 2020 stays as it seeks to fill the position of the clerk of the Nairobi County Assembly which is not vacant and which will be resolved by the determination of this petition.” Justice Onyango ruledNgwele’s appointment to the clerk’s office was marred with irregularities. “The petitioner sought an injunction against the respondents for illegally or unfairly interfering with his employment by way of suspension, termination or removal whether acting directly or through a third party. "Having found the petitioner’s appointment was shrouded in irregularities, hence, illegal, this court declines to grant those orders,” she ruled. She suspended all orders in relation to the case. “I find the petition is without merit and dismiss the same. All the interim orders, including the stay of the Petition No 17 of 2020 and the order suspending Gazette Notice No  5072 of July 24, are hereby discharged.” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)