The youth have been challenged to seek opportunities in the ongoing transport and other infrastructure projects. Mount Kenya Youth Caucus chairman Linford Mutembei on Wednesday said the infrastructure projects being undertaken will spur growth and enormous opportunities even in rural areas. President Uhuru Kenyatta's government through the CS James Macharia-led Transport and Infrastructure ministry has initiated roads and other infrastructure projects across the country. They include thousands of kilometres of roads across the country by the Kenya National Highway Authority, Kenya Rural Roads Authority and Kenya Urban Roads Authority  as well as the revival of the meter gauge railway. The road networks will improve connectivity and enhance trade and profitability along the routes. Mutembei while addressing the press in Ruiru said once complete, the infrastructure will create several opportunities across sectors. Small businesses, hospitality, industries, agribusiness and agro processing, jua kali and modern farming enterprises all stand to benefit. “With good transport network, young people can engage in livestock and crop farming without huge capital and target urban markets. We should also expect agro-processing plants, hotels, Jua Kali shops to mushroom in the regions,” Mutembei said. The State Department of Urban Planning is also working on multi-billion modern markets in Nairobi, Kisumu, Nakuru, Kiambu, Nyeri, Murang’a, Coast region, Kajiado and North Rift. “Once completed, the markets will ensure local traders get an opportunity to venture in international markets. Many export companies will have space for collecting and packaging of fresh produce for overseas markets,” Mutembei said. He said since 2013, President Kenyatta’s government through Peter Mundinia-led Kenha, has completed 49 roads projects, 40 projects are underway while dozens are earmarked. Kerra is working on an estimated 4,100 kilometres as part of the Sh300 billion-10,000 kilometres of Low Volume Seal Roads programme, with at least 2,900 kilometres completed. Rehabilitation of the meter gauge railway lines is also ongoing, with the 177 km Nairobi- Nanyuki having done its maiden freight last week. It has since attracted investors in Nanyuki, notably Vivo Energy depots that will serve Mount Kenya region. Nakuru- Kisumu lines, Naivasha to Malaba line as well as Nairobi Commuter Rehabilitation Project are already operational. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)