Doctors in Kisumu have given national and county governments one week to address the issue of staff shortage and PPE, or they go on strike. The doctors, through the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, said they are overstretched mentally, physically and psychologically. Nyanza branch chairman Onyango Ndong'a said they want both levels of government to address the issues of shortage of doctors, nurses and lab technicians at Covid-19  isolation centres. "We must mention that our staff are overstretched. The available isolation units are full and medicines for Covid-19 are running out" Ndong'a said the county needs at least 10 more doctors in the isolation units. Each doctor needs three nurses, which translates to 30 more nurses, he said. They also want personal protection gear and medicines increased. Ndong'a said doctors have been buying their own personal protective gear while on duty at isolation facilities. "Failure to address this means doctors will not go to isolation facilities or see patients if they can't even have PPE," Ndong'a said. "For mental health, sitting with somebody who has been sick and hanging on to life is not something you would not want to see every day. These people have been working in isolation for one and a half years, they need to be rotated and some need rest." He said in Kisumu, they have 10 doctors at the isolation units and almost half of them have contracted Covid-19. "That's why we insist on the observance of our occupational safety and guidelines on how the workers are treated. They need insurance so that when they get sick, they can get proper medication." Ndong'a said there has been talk in public, social media, print and electronic media about the state of the pandemic in Kisumu. "We need to face the facts and confirm that it's true. The numbers have increased significantly. The medical staff workforce is stretched to the limit." He said matters of Covid-19 should be divorced from politics. "Because when we do not face facts, then we risk dealing with this pandemic in the worst way possible. In Kisumu, we have a surge and we need to take action before something drastic happens to us." For other counties in the region, Ndong'a said the union will carry out spot checks to ensure that its members are adequately facilitated, prepared and well-equipped to manage Covid-19. On vaccination, he said the government must align vaccine rollout strategies to existing systems to ensure equitable access to the jab. "Budgetary allocations to health must itemise vaccination programmes as a priority". Edited by A.N