Telkom customers will get to enjoy a life-time value of 1GB of Mobile Internet Data and 100 minutes of talk time to make Telkom-to-Telkom calls, for free, every month. This life-time offer called Madaraka Life will also have the Telkom customer, as part of the company’s commitment to ensure easier access to its services, registered to T-kash, Telkom’s mobile money service. Telkom’s Chief Executive Officer, Mugo Kibati said the customer will receive an instant cash back of Sh50 to their mobile wallet, upon successful registration. This move follows Telkom’s announcement on the eve of this year’s Madaraka Day, when the company stated that it would be offering Kenyans an important access key to their own digital independence, for the Madaraka season, and beyond. "Telkom is therefore making this commitment to empower Kenyans with this digital independence that they seek; giving them easier access to essential technology services that continue to simplify our lifestyles," he said. “We continue with our long-term terrestrial network expansion plan that is informed by our overall company strategy, which will see us scale up to 80% of our network to 4G, increase our network footprint across the country, and get more Kenyans online.” In May, Telkom announced the integration of T-kash with the government digital services platform, eCitizen. Last month, Telkom Kenya said it would introduce two new subsidiaries to help improve it's digital and financial services. Telkom said the move is in line with plans to position itself as the best telecommunications company in terms of data services and digital infrastructure. This according to Telkom is the next phase of its transformation, as it seeks to improve service delivery. The consumer service delivery unit will, however, remain within Telkom. Last year, Telkom restructured to become a digital driven company with focus on transforming the Consumer, SME, Corporate and Public Sectors, expansion of 4G/LTE network, and creating a smart landing hub for submarine cables.