The government's affordable housing programme in Nairobi is taking shape with 1,042 units in Pangani estate set to be ready in December. Nairobi Metropolitan Service deputy director Kang’ethe Thuku disclosed that the project will be completed by May next year, delivering  1,562 houses. “Since NMS took over the housing function from the county government of Nairobi, affordable housing projects have been fast-tracked and today we witness tremendous progress especially of the Pangani housing project,” he said. Sixty per cent of the 1,042 Panagni units are said to be within the affordable housing bracket costing between Sh1 and Sh3 million each. The remaining 40 per cent are duplex apartments priced below their market value. “The houses are designed to promote sustainable neighbourhoods with a mix of affordable and market-priced housing,” Thuku said. Housing PS Charles Hinga emphasised the importance of partnerships. “All these projects in affordable housing continue to underscore the success that can be achieved when the government and the private sector work together in a coordinated, collaborative, and proactive way to the benefit of the people,” he added. Hinga urged private developers and financial institutions to come forward and partner with the government. Nairobi Deputy Governor Ann Kananu said her administration was honoured to partner with the national government in the affordable housing programme. The county government waived all planning approval fees for affordable housing projects. “In return, the national government assists Nairobi county to secure waivers of stamp duty when transferring land to the special purpose vehicles that we form with the developers to execute the projects,” Kananu said. At Pangani, infrastructure services like water have adequately been addressed with sufficient water supply factored in two-level basements. Pangani being the pilot project is estimated to cost Sh25 billion and sits on 5.2 acres of land valued at Sh4 billion. The contract was awarded to Technofin . It is among seven estates which are under the affordable housing project in Nairobi. The others are Jevanjee, Ngong Road, Suna Road, Uhuru and Inspectorate staff quarters. The original 48 tenants of Pangani will be part of the first group that will take ownership of the new units. In May 2019, each of the tenant received Sh600,000 to facilitate their resettlement rent for the next two years as construction works progress. Each tenant will be allocated a new house for which they will pay Sh8,000 monthly for 30 years.