You will only remain an aspiring MP or MCA if you do not have a genuine degree for the 2022 General Election, another state agency has said. The Kenya National Qualification Authority on Wednesday said it has put in place strict measures to  weed out holders of fake degree certificates. Speaking to the Star on the phone, KNQA director of technical services Stanley Maindi said they will partner with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Together, they will ensure only aspirants with valid and genuine qualifications are cleared to run in the August 2022 polls. He said there is a database, which is a one-stop-shop for all genuine qualifications in the country. It contains all data concerning the academic journeys of all Kenyans. “KNQA has developed this system, where all universities and colleges feed in details on their graduates. This this will help crack down on fake certificates. We have already trained more than 130 ICT and registrars on operation of the system to ensure certificates in the market are genuine,” Maindi said. The Star has established that close to 121 current MPs and more than 600 MCAs could be locked out of the 2022 election. On Monday, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati affirmed a provision in the Election Laws Act which requires aspirants to have a degree applicable in the 14-months away election. Months into the 2017 General Election, members of the National Assembly amended Section 22 of the Election Act, making it mandatory for aspirants to be holders of a bachelor’s degree before they are cleared to contest. The law may bar a number of aspirants, most current sitting MPs and MCAs who want to run or defend the coveted seats. Maindi said KNQA has launched an outline portal where members of the public can report people they suspect to having fake certificates. He said KNQA and the Commission for University Education developed a framework on how to vet political aspirants. The framework  is set to be submitted to the IEBC. “KNQA has also an online platform called Cheti Mwitu, where Kenyans can report people they suspect to have fake certificates. KNQA is also working with DCI, Immigration and EACC to deal with those who have fake certificates,” he said. Several MPs who are close allies of the political bigwigs —President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) have no degrees. Some aspirants are understood to hold university degrees faked at backstreets such as the famous River Road, while others bought their without stepping in a lecture room. Already, MPs and MCAs who do not have the degrees have protested and are said to be planning a meeting with their party leaders to once again push for the postponement of the law. Some have argued that they could not attend class due to the Covid-19 disruption in 2020 that saw learning in universities suspended. Meru assembly Majority leader Victor Karithi stirred the debate on Tuesday, saying the law is unfair and the requirement is likely to be contested in court. “There are people who even qualified for universities but because of various reasons were not able to attend. It is unfair to deny them an opportunity. It is not rocket science to understand there are people who have an inborn ability to lead,” he said. The KNQF Act says the authority is mandated to maintain a national database of national qualifications and competences, provide for recognition of national and foreign qualifications, establish standards for harmonisation of qualifications and build confidence in the national qualification system. (Edited by V. Graham)