Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo has shuffled his administration after sacking four executives. A press statement from Ottichilo’s office stated that the reorganisation of the government followed resolutions of the county assembly approving dismissal of the four. The statement said it was necessary for the governor to reorganise his government to ensure better service delivery within the affected departments. Executives Paul Mbuni (lands), Pamela Kimwele (public service), Amos Kutwa (health) and Kenneth Kiseko (trade) were sent packing on alleged gross misconduct and violation of the Constitution while in office. Henry Lumbasio was appointed executive for physical planning lands and housing in an acting capacity. Lumbasio is the CECM for education, early childhood development and TVETs. Geoffrey Vukaya who was serving in the department of Agriculture, livestock , fisheries and cooperatives was transferred to trade, industry, tourism and entrepreneurship. Innonda Mwanje, CECM for transport and infrastructure, has been appointed the acting CECM for health. Mary Amalemba, CECM for environment, energy and natural resources, is the new CECM for public service and administration in acting capacity. Governor Ottichilo further made changes among his six chief officers. Lucy Ijai from lands moved to public service and administration, replacing Dominic Luvavo. Mary Anyienda was transferred from early childhood education to health. Anyienda was replaced by Pamela Busungu, transferred from agriculture, livestock and fisheries. Busungu’s office was taken by Dominic Luvavo from public service and administration. Clement Manyulu, who was serving as the chief officer for water and sanitation, was transferred to lands and housing, replacing Lucy Ijai. Ottichilo after making the changes, said he is working with the County Public Service Board to ensure the human resource audit is finalised. “The audit has taken us too long and it's time it should come to an end. Outstanding salaries for our health workers for the last two years should be resolved as well starting the end of this month,” Ottichilo said. “Staff promotions that have stalled for long will be effected in the incoming financial year as it was recommended by the CPSB,” Ottichilo said. Edited by Henry Makori