Seven fishermen have been arrested and their gear confiscated in Homa Bay for allegedly engaging in outlawed fishing in Lake Victoria. The arrests were made days after Homa Bay Fisheries department agreed to collaborate with Kenya Maritime Authority and other government agencies to contain activities that threaten the lacustrine ecosystem. Fisheries officials also seized Sh1 million fishing gear. The suspects were taken to Mbita police station as they wait arraignment. “The suspects were arrested when they were catching fish at Ndhuru and Alikamwa beaches in Lambwe, Suba North,” said George Okoth, Homa Bay fisheries director. Experts have raised concerns about the dwindling population of tilapia, Nile perch and other fish species in the lake. Okoth said they should be producing more than 100,000 tonnes of fish annually, but this has drastically reduced because of illegal fishing practices. Homa Bay currently produces 25,000 metric tons in a year, translating into a 75 per cent drop, he said. The reduced production threatens fish supply and has contributed to job losses as the subsector cannot absorb people to work in production of processed meals. “We’re collaborating with Homa Bay beach management unit officials led by chairman Edward Oremo to conduct a crackdown and weed out negative fishing practices in Lake Victoria,” Okoth said. Other state organs involved in the fight and campaigns against illegal fishing are the Kenya Coast Guard and the police. Part of the campaign is to discourage fishermen from casting their nets in fish breeding grounds. The seven fishermen who were arrested were also accused of trawling, which is blamed for destroying schools of fish, including the juvenile ones. Okoth said they acted on concerns of some other fishermen who are worried that their source of livelihood is at stake given increased outlawed fishing practices. He said some fishermen have continually deployed wrong methods. “The trawling method also produces strange sounds that scare fish in water before they are caught,” he added. On Thursday, the fisheries department called on fishermen to strictly comply with the rules governing their activities. Okoth said they will keep the nets as they seek court orders to destroy them. The crackdown is set to continue.