The leadership of One Kenya Alliance is scheduled to meet Tuesday to plan for the 2022 polls amidst reports of emerging cracks in the formation. Wiper national vice chair Mutula Kilonzo Jnr downplayed claims of a split and said all OKA principals will attend the consultation forum. Reports had Monday indicated that Kanu chairman Gideon Moi had decamped from OKA and is crafting a 2022 coalition with ODM leader Raila Odinga. “Jubilee and Kanu are in a coalition. So if ODM joins Jubilee, then Kanu chairman Gideon Moi is ideally part of that coalition. That is what it means. Let us wait for the Tuesday meeting,” Kilonzo told the Star on Sunday. Amani National Congress deputy party leader Ayub Savula also dispelled claims of a split in OKA. Savula told the Star he is one of those planning Tuesday's meeting. “I have been calling political bigwigs from other parties urging them to be part of One Kenya Alliance. I have called senior politicians from the coast and they said One Kenya Alliance is a good idea,” the Lugari MP said. Savula added that they are determined to put together a strong coalition to face Deputy President William Ruto. “We want to bring together many people on board and then select one who will be our flagbearer,” he said. Kanu secretary general Nick Salat said reports of Kanu leaving OKA are misleading. “There has not been any official communication from Kanu about us leaving One Kenya Alliance,” he said. Jubilee Party is in a coalition agreement with Kanu and Wiper Party. The ruling party has also indicated that it will be signing a pre‑election pact with the ODM ahead of next year's general election. Secretary general Raphael Tuju said having the two parties work together is in the best interest of the country. "If we reach an agreement in terms of coming up with alliance, which is on the table, then we should have one presidential candidate," Tuju said. Wiper and ANC have ruled out working with ODM again, even after President Uhuru Kenyatta urged Opposition leaders to reunite to take on Ruto in 2022. Nasa which unsuccessfully vied against Jubilee in 2017 had Raila, Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula. Kalonzo said last week it is very unlikely that he will support Raila for president again.  (edited by o. owino)