LeagueBetting firm BetKing, sponsors of the Football Kenya Federation Premier League as well as the National Division One League say they are impressed with how the two leagues have been run in their first year since signing their mega partnership. BetKing are sponsoring the Premier League to a tune of Sh 1.2bn for the next five years while the third tier Division One League enjoy Sh100m sponsorship over the same period. “They have done extremely well to ensure the league is running well despite the challenges we have had this season. We are looking forward to finish the season well,” BetKing country director, Ivana Ristic stated. “We are also pleased with the Division One League and it is also a very important thing for us because we are trying to get the story of that league out there. The teams and the work they put in with the passion, motivation and dedication is incredible and this is something that we should be talking about more,” she added. She was speaking on Wednesday as the company donated oxygen tanks and assorted equipment worth Sh1m to the Mbagathi Hospital as well as the Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital. Each of the two hospitals will receive Sh500,000 each worth of equipment from BOC gases. “We have seen the dire effects that Covid-19 has had not only on our community but also our economy. The novel coronavirus has invaded every part of our country without restraint. While as a community we are so separated from each other, the Covid-19 crisis is also revealing how much compassion and empathy we have for each other,” Ivana said. “We receive this extreme kind donation from Betking Kenya with happiness because the need for oxygen in hospitals is up in the roof especially during this Covid times. The supply has been inadequate since Covid started and this will go a long way in dealing with the deficit,” said Mbagathi Hospital Medical Superintendent Dr. Lois Mutahi. Derrick Mwangi, the head of marketing from the Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral Hospital said; “We want to thank BetKing and BOC Gases for this donation today. We are a Covid centre and so the need is so much and this will go a long way in seeing that we bridge the gap that we have.”