President Uhuru Kenyatta has said he will back any candidate fronted by the National Super Alliance (Nasa) in the 2022 presidential election, sources have told the Star. During a meeting with leaders from the Lower Eastern region held at the State House on Monday, the president assured of his support to the Nasa coalition. His remarks come days after both Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and ODM leader Raila Odinga hinted at the possibility of working together again in 2022. Lower Eastern region leaders met with the president ahead of his tour to the region. Uhuru said that he will start his tour to the Ukambani region on June 28 and 29. The President will be in Machakos and Makueni on June 28 and Kitui on June 29. Earlier during the day, Ukambani leaders led by Kalonzo held a consultative meeting at the Sarova Panafric Hotel, Nairobi. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and her Machakos counterpart Alfred Mutua were among the leaders who attended the meeting, but Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana was absent. The meeting also brought together elected, professional, opinion and clergy leaders from the Lower Eastern region. However, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has maintained that there are no plans for a reunion of National Super Alliance principals. Mudavadi contradicted  Raila Odinga and Kalonzo during his tour to the coastal region over the weekend. Raila and the other NASA principals—Kalonzo, Mudavadi, and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula—have been pulling in different directions since 2018 following the handshake between the former prime minister and Uhuru. Chama Cha Mashinani party leader Isaac Ruto, who was also part of the team, is now with Deputy President William Ruto. Mudavadi accused Raila of creating a narrative to insinuate there is a possibility of NASA coming back together ahead of the August 2022 polls. “Leaders should stop sending conflicting signals and messages. When you send conflicting messages, you discourage people,” he said. Kalonzo at the weekend appeared to be warming up to Raila. The Wiper leader pledged unity ahead of next year's polls.