The degree requirement for those seeking political seats in next year’s general election has elicited mixed reactions among the Kwale county leaders. About two weeks ago, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission announced that the academic requirement of a degree for those seeking to run for MP and MCA will be mandatory next year. Previously, only the president, deputy, governors and their deputies were required to be holders of at least a bachelor's degree. The poll body's announcement has been met with varied opinions with some Kwale leaders opposed to it saying it is a violation of constitutional rights. On the other hand those in support said it will enhance the integrity of leaders and improve the leadership management skills. Msambweni MP Feisal Bader, who criticised the announcement, said the requirement would bar many people who have inborn leadership skills. He said the move will only favour a few individuals and lockout the majority who do not have degrees but have the capacity to lead. "I think out of the total Kenyan population, only one per cent of them have managed to go for higher studies," he said. It is estimated that about 50 per cent of elected leaders currently do not have degrees. The lawmaker said the Constitution clearly indicates that it is the president, governor and their deputies who should have a degree. The degree requirement law was expected to be in use in the 2013 general election after it was introduced to Parliament in 2011, but by then many leaders did not have the document. Bader said the current lawmakers will make sure the degree law is annulled for fairness to prevail in contesting for elective seats. Kwale governor seat aspirant Chai Lung'anzi said the government should give talented persons equal opportunities in leadership. "It is a crucial thing but at some point it denies people having inborn leadership abilities a fair shot at elective posts," he said. The leaders termed the degree requirement as uncalled for saying leadership is God-given. Waa/Ng'ombeni MCA Mwinyi Nasoro supported the law on degree requirement, saying all elected leaders must be highly educated. He argued that governance is changing, therefore, people only knowledgeable should run the political offices. "For example, BBI has a package for ward development funds, this one requires leaders with expertise to appropriately manage the operations," he said. -Edited by SKanyara