Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has reacted after the road signpost named after him was vandalised again by being set on fire. Atwoli said that his name is common all over the world and that there is no need to put signage anywhere for him to be known. On Monday night, unknown individuals burned down the Francis Atwoli Road sign just a few weeks after it was vandalised. Atwoli said that bringing down honorary road signage under his name does not have any effect on him. “On the flip side, it will haunt for life those who are behind it. For how does it benefit them? How do you sleep at night knowing you are a vandal?” Atwoli said. “My name is all over the world and one does not require street signage for them to know who Francis Atwoli is.” Atwoli added that his name will leave in posterity, adding that his years of selfless service to Kenyan workers and the world will vindicate him. “If anything, the signage was an act of honour bestowed to me by Nairobians taking into account my many years of service,” Atwoli said. Earlier on Tuesday, before it was vandalised, security guards were seen restoring the signage. The signpost has attracted uproar from Kenyans since it was renamed from Dik Dik Road in honour of the Cotu secretary-general. Nairobi County Government named the road in May after Atwoli, in a ceremony led by the Acting Governor, Ann Kananu alongside other county officials. During the ceremony of recognition, Atwoli said it was in honour of his service to Kenyan workers. In June 2017, the National Addressing System Strategy Development and Implementation Committee proposed new rules prohibiting the use of names of living persons. The rules abolished any changes to existing street names. The proposed guidelines said the CS for information and communications through the Communications Authority of Kenya, would have oversight responsibility regarding the national policy and standards on street-naming and property numbering. The county has also renamed Nairobi's Accra Road to Kenneth Matiba in honour of the veteran politician, who had died three years earlier. Nairobi County Assembly passed a motion to rename Accra Road after the former Ford Asili party leader, in his honour.