The Uasin Gishu administration has not initiated new projects in its Sh9.6 billion 2021-22 budget as Governor Jackson Mandago seeks to finalise those he started. Mandago is keen on completing his legacy projects as he prepares to exit the county's top office at the end of his two terms next year. Members of the county assembly are expected to debate and approve the estimates presented by Finance executive Julius Rutto. The Finance executive said the budget seeks to help the administration bounce back from the ravages of Covid-19 in addition to completing pending projects. The Health sector received the largest share of the cash, with Sh2.6 billion allocated. Part of the cash will go towards containing the Covid-19 pandemic. Roads and Infrastructure have been given Sh1.1 billion as the Public Service received Sh826.6 million. MCAs have been allocated Sh807 million for their operations. The Agriculture department will get Sh692 million to deliver services to farmers in the country's breadbasket. Lands and Water departments will utilise Sh500 million each. Rutto told MCAs that the budget will focus on strategies for socio-economic consolidation and recovery. “The strategy will leverage the projected recovery in economic growth and positive growth prospects and enlist support and participation of all residents including youth and women,” Rutto said. The county estimates it will collect about Sh980 million as internal revenue, while Sh608 million will be grants from development partners. Rutto said Sh6.4 billion, which is about 67 per cent of the budget, will go to recurrent expenditure. Sh3.1 billion will be used for development programmes. Mandago initiated several key projects during the last nine years he has been in office, most of which are in the final stages. The main ones include the Ziwa Level 5 Hospital project for Sh800 million. It is expected to be completed before Mandago retires. Another one is the Sh400 million West Maternity Hospital. The 64 Stadium is also being refurbished for more than Sh1 billion. “I will ensure that all the projects we initiated are completed before my term ends,” Mandago said. The county chief has directed his executives to ensure all pending projects are completed and commissioned. Members of the county assembly had been up in arms after Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said in a report that Uasin Gishu had not used Sh3.6 billion in the 2018-19 financial year. The county failed to absorb more than Sh2.7 billion in the 2019-21 financial year. Assembly leader of majority Josphat Lowoi appealed to county executives, chief officers and sectoral committees to ensure the 2021-22 budget is fully implemented for the benefit of residents. Lowoi said the county should end the financial carry-overs when residents still cry for basic needs like water and healthcare.  (edited by o. owino)