Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has said more than Sh200 million was properly spent on Covid-19, following questions raised by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu and the county assembly. He said although Covid-19 was an emergency, the county tried its best to effectively and prudently use the funds to mitigate the pandemic in the region. Sang appeared before the Senate Health Committee for grilling last Thursday. He responded to key audit queries in the special audit report even as he was put under pressure by Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei who claimed the governor and his administration misused part of the funds. One of the main issues raised by the auditor and the assembly was the failure by the county to pay all the front line health workers involved in the battle against Covid-19. The county had received Sh58.4 million from the national government for payment of allowances to front line workers. A total of 1,424 front line workers were paid, while others are yet to receive their money. The county had also received Sh151.6 million for Covid-related activities. Sang explained his government disbursed Sh58 million for allowances based on the data on employees but some of the names were left out because the data was yet to be updated. “Like all other counties, we usually update the government with details of our employees so as to generate personal numbers for the workers and other details. In this case the central data is yet to be updated in order to capture all our workers, though we already gave them the details from our side,” said Sang. He said in the process the Sh58 million was less by about Sh4 million, which was to be paid to the workers yet to get their allowances. Sang said the issue was being handled, but in the meantime the money has been factored in this year’s county budget to ensure the workers are paid. “We have asked the workers to be patient because they will be paid,” said Sang. The auditors had also queried why the county budgeted Sh9 million for purchase of PPE but ended up spending about Sh15 million.  The county was required to explain the source of the extra Sh6 million. Governor Sang said the extra money was from the usual county budget line for the health sector and that it had already been allocated and approved for purchase of non-pharmaceuticals away from the Covid-19 budget. “As a county, we just deemed it fit to make the purchases at ago in order to boost our capacity during the pandemic period,” said Sang. The purchase of ICU beds was also flagged in the audit reports and by the MCAs. It was alleged that two ICU beds bought for the Nandi Hills Hospital Covid-19 unit were missing, but Sang explained that the two beds were available and fitted in the maternity wing of the hospital and not in the Covid-19 ward. An ad hoc committee of the county assembly which probed the use of the Covid-19 funds had stormed the oxygen plant at the Kapsabet hospital and found it not operational, raising an outcry. However, Sang explained that at the time of the abrupt visit by the MCAs the oxygen plant was undergoing routine maintenance and that it was being fitted with a motor to improve its capacity. The county is supplying oxygen to several other hospitals within and outside the region, hence the increased demand that necessitated the repairs. “Just a day after the visit by the MCAs, the repairs were through, and the oxygen plant is working well,” said Sang. The assembly has recommended that four top officials of the Nandi county government including the health and finance executives be suspended from duty over alleged misuse of the Covid-19 funds. The same officers had been summoned by the Senate for grilling. The governor said he did not act on the recommendation by MCAs because most of the complaints raised had been explained to the satisfaction of the auditor and the Senate. Edited by Henry Makori