Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago says he has higher political ambitions after his term ends next year. Mandago says he would even consider running for President in future because he has gained the necessary experience in leadership by heading the county. The governor says he would run for the top seat after the next 10 years of Deputy President William Ruto who hopes to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta next year. Mandago is among four North Rift governors whose two terms end next year. Others are Josphat Nanok of Turkana, Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia. He is a close ally of DP Ruto but has not made it clear which seat he will vie for next year. There has been speculation that he may run for the Senate seat in Uasin Gishu, which is currently held by Margaret Kamar. “I have worked with everyone well and now pray for me as I aim higher. I have a strategic plan for my life and I am thinking of vying for the presidency in future,” said Mandago. He spoke at a church event in Uasin Gishu where he was with former minister Henry Kosgey. The two politicians urged Kenyans to ensure peace and unity prevails as the country approaches the next elections. Mandago said although his term ends next year, he will work with residents and churches to foster peace and unity. Kosgey said Kenyans should prepare to elect leaders of high integrity next year for the country to progress. “As residents of this region, the only area where we don’t think there should be competition is as concerns the deputy president whom we want to vie for the top seat,” said Kosgey. He told residents that they should not entertain tainted leaders during next year’s polls. “When election time comes, go for leaders with very high integrity. Avoid anyone who is tainted so that we ensure our country prospers,” said Kosgey. As Mandago prepares to exit, the race to succeed him is hotting up in Uasin Gishu and several aspirants have hit the ground to seek support from residents to take over next year. Among the front runners is Kenya’s ambassador to Pakistan Julius Bitok. “I will be in the race but as of now I am still in Pakistan serving the government and Kenyans," said Bitok. Business tycoon Bundotich Kiprop also known as Buzeki is considered a key contender to succeed Mandago. With the exception of Buzeki, most aspirants in the area are expected to compete for the UDA ticket in Ruto’s camp.  Edited by Henry Makori