A man was burned to death over the suspected murder of his mother. 28-year-old Moses Gitau is suspected to have fled after stabbing 58-year-old Teresa Muringo using a kitchen knife. Residents of Kibingoti village in Kirinyaga county, on Saturday morning got wind of his return, they accosted him, beat him and burnt him to death. According to the residents, the suspect had gone back to their family home early Saturday morning to kill his brother. His plan failed when his brother screamed for help and the villagers ran to his aid. Gitau was suspected to be using hard drugs and was allegedly under the influence when he stabbed his mother. Residents expressed no regrets over taking the law into their own hands. They ignored the presence of police officers who had arrived at the scene and insisted on burying the remains of the suspect with or  without permission from the government. One of the area residents said “We are happy and satisfied with what we have done because we have put an end to his evil plans. We were afraid of our safety because we didn’t know of his whereabout. "We purpose to bury his body today and we are in the process of digging his grave,” Mithamo said. A village elder condemned the deceased‘s act of murdering his mother. He said the entire village was in utter shock of his action. “We are not remorseful for having taken the law into our own hands. We are just avenging his mother’s death. We were all afraid of our safety, “ another resident said. The suspect’s elder sister Lucy Wanja said her brother showed up at home on Wednesday evening carrying ribbons used in funerals. “He came carrying some red ribbons which he displayed from the main gate to the cattle shed. After about two hours of the bizarre act, he stabbed our mother with a kitchen knife.” The suspect’s grandmother Esther Muthoni, said this was not the suspects first attempt to kill his mother, he had tried a few months back. "He also knocked off one of his mother’s teeth in yet another bizarre occurrence. It is suspected that he wanted to cause harm to his mother but the issue was resolved in a family meeting," she said. Muringo’s body was taken to Jamii mortuary hospital in Karatina, Nyeri county. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)