No amount of confusion in the country will force us allow for the postponement of the 2022 general elections, The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri has said. He spoke on Sunday after attending a service at Africa Independent Pentecostal Church of Kenya church in Kitengela, Kajiado. Kiunjuri said some leaders were coming up with issues meant to put the country in a confused state so that they get an excuse to postpone the next general elections scheduled for August 9, 2022. He said Kenyans won’t allow the elections to be postponed and the constitution must be respected by all saying they praying for peace in Kenya. “Every day we hear about disunity among leaders across the country. What’s important is those leading us should know, even if there will be confusion, we must conduct the elections according to the constitution,” Kiunjuri said. “As Kenyans, we respect the constitution which is clear that the next general elections will be conducted next year. There shouldn’t be people who want to create confusion to have the elections postponed.” Kiunjuri said there were politicians already propelling propaganda to advance their interests through BBI, Okoa Kenya, and such with the intent of portraying that the country wasn’t ready for elections hence the need to have them postponed. He said that was unacceptable since Kenyans were tired, as they have gone through hell during the Jubilee government’s regime. “We don’t have money in our pockets. The most important development is that we can educate our children, earn decent livelihoods, settle hospital bills, among others,” Kiunjuri said. He said even with the Covid-19 pandemic that had hit the Kenyan economy hard, the government of the day wasn’t sensitive enough to address such challenges. “We have Covid-19 but what we are seeing are divisive politics so that they get the excuse of we aren’t ready for the elections. There is no two way about it, we must have elections next year,” Kiunjuri said. He said he was the most qualified politician to help Mt Kenya ascend to the highest senior position in the next government.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris