The government is ready to roll out the Competency-based Curriculum to Grade 5 and the schooling reforms remain on track, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has said. He dismissed claims the implementation of the new curriculum was facing uncertainties because of a cash crunch. "As part of the rollout preparations, learning materials necessary for the Competency-based Curriculum have already been delivered in schools as learners prepare to transit during the start of the new calendar year in August," Magoha said. "Anybody who wants to get that CBC report can go to the Government Printer and get that report. We did not circulate the unprinted ones because it could be abused." Magoha spoke on Wednesday in Manyatta, Kisumu, where he visited two homes of beneficiaries of Elimu Scholarship Awards. He said the scholarships will be given to deserving students only. Magoha was accompanied by Nyanza regional education director Weru Mochocho. He said the government has already disbursed funds for the CBC implementation. Magoha said funds for infrastructure have also been given out to schools. “All schools will get the required desks and those who want to steal the funds will be arrested and prosecuted,” he said. The CS said the government has released Sh1 billion for secondary and Sh900 million for primary schools for desks out of the Sh4.9 billion for the infrastructure. The Education CS said a desk costs Sh3,500 and wondered why anybody would want to demand Sh7,000. "Where will the other Sh3,500 go to?" Magoha said. Magoha also ruled out the possibility of shutting down schools in the wake of the surge of Covid-19 in 13 counties. “Let me assure parents and stakeholders that any situation will be dealt with in isolation just like has happened before,” he said. Magoha said the government is fully prepared for the onset of the new school calendar year next month. "Covid-19 is here to stay. I thank President Uhuru Kenyatta for his boldness in agreeing that we go to school. That we open school from last December," Magoha said. "Nobody knows how Covid-19 is going to go. There's absolutely no cause for alarm. We will deal with the situation as it arises. If there's a crisis in one particular school, that school will be dealt with in isolation. This is what we've done in the past and it has worked. Don't scare people that there is Covid-19 and therefore we are going to close schools." Magoha said the academic year beginning in August will end next year in March. He praised residents of Manyatta for wearing masks and urged Kenyans to adhere to Covid-19 containment measures. The CS said that schools have money to ensure Covid-19 protocol are observed. "If in any case there's Covid-19 in any school we shall deal with it as we've done with the Ministry of Health," Magoha said.  (edited by o. owino)