Fishermen operating in Lake Victoria are a happy lot after the Treasury allocated Sh325 million to improve fish landing sites. On Thursday, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani while reading the 2021-22 Budget said the funds would enhance rehabilitation of fish landing sites along the shores of Lake Victoria. The announcement was a sigh of relief for fishermen in Homa Bay, Siaya, Kisumu, Migori and Busia counties. Poor landing sites around Lake Victoria have made a number of beaches inaccessible. The situation has been worsened by backflow from the lake as the water level continues to rise. Some main landing sites have been submerged. Lake Victoria Beach Management Unit chairman Tom Guda said the funding will boost fishing in areas where such activities have deteriorated due to destruction of infrastructure. “Beaches that need faster rehabilitation have been identified to enhance fish production within the lake among our fishermen. We commend the government for the allocation,” he said. Guda said they have identified six landing sites to begin with before they extend to other beaches. He spoke to journalists in Homa Bay town. The official asked the government to ensure the money is appropriately spent to avert further suffering of fishermen in the lake. Many Kenyan fishermen have blamed reduction of fish production to frustrations they undergo during fishing in the lake. Guda said there is a drastic drop in fish production tonnage in all the counties that border the lake. Homa Bay, which has about 60 per cent of the lake water cover in Kenya, now produces 25,000 tonnes annually. Previously, it used to produce 800,000 tonnes. “We hope this would be the beginning of Kenyan government to start revamping the fishing industry in Nyanza region. Let’s get more funding to enable our fishermen to grow,” Guda said. Homa Bay BMU chairman Edward Oremo asked the government to focus on how fish industries and other infrastructures can be improved in the  region. “Currently our fish are transported to other counties for processing. The government should establish at least two fish processing plants in Nyanza to enhance job opportunities,” he said.  