At least 75 per cent of Kenyans, or 39 million people, have already been exposed to Covid-19, the Ministry of Health calculates. The ministry said the high rate of exposure is driven by poor adherence to health guidelines and the Alpha variant (formerly UK strain), which is highly transmissible and is becoming dominant in Kenya. “The most plausible explanation for the pattern of cases and seroprevalence is a combination of differential adherence to measures in 2020 followed by a sharp increase in virus transmissibility in 2021. This is consistent with that observed in other countries affected by variants of concern, eg the United Kingdom and India,” the ministry says. The analysis was developed by the ministry and scientists from the Kenya Medical Research Institute-Wellcome Trust. It has been submitted to a scientific journal for peer-review and publication. Exposure to the virus does not necessarily mean infection. It simply means being within six feet of someone who has tested positive for Covid-19 for at least 15 minutes regardless of whether one or both parties were wearing a mask. The study, titled ‘Explaining Covid-19 Waves in Kenya', also says a fourth wave is likely this year. Leading pathologist Dr Ahmed Kalebi advised the government to conduct antibody tests across the country to assess distribution of natural immunity from previous infection by location and population segment. “This would inform targeted containment strategies,” he said. “A fourth Covid-19 wave in Kenya before the end of 2021 would only be likely if a variant arises with substantial further enhancement in transmissibility or immune escape, such as the Delta variant (formerly Indian variant), or significant waning of immunity in those previously exposed,” the authors say. The 33 listed authors include acting director general for health Patrick Amoth, CAS Mercy Mwangangi and Rashid Aman. Others are Kemri scientists including Edwine Barasa, George Warimwe and Lynette Ochola-Oyier. The authors also explained how the exposure rate could have jumped from 5.6 per cent in June last year to 75 per cent within 12 months. The reasons include the changing adherence to measures over time, seasonal effects on transmission, reopening of schools and new strains. Kenya has experienced three major waves since the disease was reported on March 13, 2020. Commenting on the report, leading pathologist Dr Ahmed Kalebi said a fourth wave is already approaching. “The Covid-19 curves suggest that Kenya is on the foothills of a fourth wave with clearly rising seven-day averages for daily new cases and test positivity rates,” he said. The paper says the first three waves were mainly driven by behaviours of two social groups – Kenyans in low and high social economic status. The higher socioeconomic status group represents Kenyans with a smartphones and whose movements were easily captured by the Google mobility reports last year. The lower social economic group are Kenyans without smartphones, the authors say. The analysis suggests poor Kenyans drove the first wave in August last year because they did not reduce their movements movements much during initial restrictions and reverted to normal life immediately after the lockdown as they could not work from home. The second wave in November was triggered by the higher social economic status group returning to pre-Covid-19 mobility patterns. The third wave in March this year was blamed on the Alpha variant. Dr Kalebi advised the government to conduct antibody tests across the country to assess distribution of natural immunity from previous infection by location and population segment. “This would inform targeted containment strategies,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)