 Kenha has instructed the Nairobi Expressway contractor to expand diversions and make them easily navigable to reduce traffic snarl-ups along the busy Mombasa Road and Waiyaki Way. The move will come as a relief to motorists and commuters who have had to make do with traffic jams, some that lasted hours. Traffic congestion has been attributed to the construction of the elevated road that cuts right across the capital city. Kenya National Highways Authority which is supervising the project on Saturday held a meeting with the contractor and advised that new plans be adopted to reduce traffic congestion. The authority's chairman Wangai Ndirangu and director-general Peter Mundinia spent the weekend surveying the entire stretch of the Nairobi Expressway. They pointed out to the contractor what needed to be done to address the problem. A statement from Kenha said the meeting observed that narrow diversions and the existence of potholes slowed down traffic leading to traffic snarl-ups. It was pointed out that some diversions were too sharp to allow more than one vehicle to navigate at a time. “We must reduce road user inconvenience as much as possible even as we continue with construction,” Ndirangu said. Kenha directed that the dual carriageway be restored in sections where the skeleton expressway has been installed. “Let us embark on improving the carriageway so as to make it smooth. Similarly, let us endeavour to provide smooth curvatures and diversions for effective flow of traffic,” Ndirangu said. He appealed to Moja Expressway Company Limited and the contractor, CALE Infrastructure Construction Company Limited to install and maintain sufficient road signage for advance warning of any diversions or road closures. The contractor gave an undertaking to engage the traffic police more in guiding movement along any affected stretch of the road. Ndirangu asked for a weekly brief regarding the traffic management plan for the authority to intervene whenever there are challenges. Mundinia said the contractor will install a temporary footbridge at the General Motors area before demolishing the existing one. “I will closely follow up to ensure that any issues raised are resolved within six hours as we have agreed in this meeting. Similarly, deployment of a dedicated team to continuously inspect the diversions starts from this Monday to ensure effective flow of traffic,” he said. Mundinia said there won't be traffic snarl-ups if the contractor ensures the diversions are two lanes at the minimum. “One major contributing factor to traffic jams is an attempt to divert three lanes traffic into a single lane. That is courting disaster,” he said. The expressway is expected to be completed by December, a year ahead of its initial completion schedule of December 2022. The project links the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport to the Nairobi-Nakuru highway at the James Gichuru junction in Westlands. The expressway will have 10 interchanges. 