Scientists have warned that millions of species could go extinct in the next 10 years if efforts to halt degradation are not prioritised. The United Nations Environment Programme has said the next 10 years will count the most in the fight to avert climate change and loss of biodiversity. Success will depend on the actions taken by everyone. The UN General Assembly has declared 2021-30 as the UN Decade on Ecosystem Restoration. Led by the United Nations Environment Programme and the Food and Agriculture Organization, the UN Decade is designed to prevent, halt and reverse the degradation of ecosystems worldwide. On Thursday, Kenya joined the global community in commemorating World Day to Combat Desertification and Drought. Arid and Semi-Arid Lands make up to 89 per cent of the country, with approximately 38 per cent of Kenya’s Population. Asal regions are home to more than 90 per cent of wildlife that supports the tourism industry. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said nearly 91 per cent of Kenya’s landscape face some form of degradation. Sixty-one per cent and 27 per cent of the country's land mass faces high and severe degradation respectively. "Chalbi desert in Marsabit has claimed about 100,000 hectares (247,105 acres) of once beautifully forested landscape," Tobiko said. His speech was read by Chief Administrative Secretary Mohamed Elmi in Chalbi Desert, Marsabit county. Chalbi desert is believed to have been a lake that dried up a thousand years ago.  Chalbi means 'bare and salty'. The landscape consists of a large lava plateau, sand dunes, rocky and volcanic hills, ridges and inselbergs. The Chalbi lake basin is filled with a mixture of sand, silt, rocks and clay. Tobiko said his ministry is collaborating with various stakeholders in the war on desertification, land degradation and drought. He cited a recent move by the ministry to spearhead the development and endorsement of the Target Setting Programme under the Land Degradation Neutrality initiative, which sets to bring a neutral world with no net ecosystem losses by 2030. Marsabit Governor Mohamed Ali said his county has developed a climate change adaptation policy. Leaders present during the event included Leisamis MP Malimo Arbelle, North Horr MP Chachu Ganya, Nema Board chairman John Konchellah, Kenya Water Towers Agency Board chairman Joseph Malombe and National Environment Management Authority director general Mamo Mamo. Others were National Environment Trust Fund CEO Samson Toniok, Kenya Forestry Research Institute Director Joshua Cheboiwo and World Wide Fund for Nature-Kenya CEO Mohamed Awer. During the event, the ministry donated four water tanks, sanitary towels, tree seedlings and assorted foodstuffs to two primary schools in the area.  Edited by A.N