National 400m record holder Hellen Syombua is determined to make up for her absence at the World Relay Championships in Silesia, Poland by producing a top performance at the Tokyo Olympics. Syombua tested positive for coronavirus late last month and was thus unable to join other sprinters for the championships, held on May 1-2 in the Polish seaside city. Nonetheless, she said she was never discouraged by the turn of events because she had already attained the Tokyo Olympics qualifying mark in 400m. "I tested positive for the virus and had to isolate during which the championships were going on. It is true I had been looking forward to compete and help my teammates but there was nothing else I could do. However, I did not lose heart. Even in quarantine, I kept training hard because I knew there were other competitions ahead in which I would participate," Syombua said. Syombua added she is fit and raring to go, with no injury worries on her mind. "I would say this is the form of my life. My focus is on the Olympics trials as well as on Tokyo. If I make it to the Olympics, there is no reason why I should not get a podium finish if I do everything right. I also don't mind representing the country in the African Championships if called upon," she said. She was speaking at the Nyayo Stadium over the weekend when she stormed to victory in the women's 400m final during the Tokyo Olympics pre-trials-cum-African Athletics Championships trials. Syombua clocked 52.92, ahead of Maureen Thomas (54.74) and Veronica Mutua (55.04) in second and third respectively.  Despite her dominant performance, Syombua believes there is still room for improvement. "I know I would have set a faster time had the competition been a bit intense because that is what spurs me. I want to improve on my finishing in the last 100m and believe it would take me to the next level. Everyday I do sit-ups and a lot of squats; despite my lean body, I can squat with up to 130kgs. There's the African record holder from Botswana (Amantle Montsho) with 49.54. I want to work hard on my speed and hopefully, break or attain the same record by the time Olympics kick off."