The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has been urged to crack down on unlawful allocations of passenger pick-up and drop-off stages in the Central Business District. Illegal stages are increasing, despite efforts by the Metropolitan Services to impose order. Nairobi Central MCA Daniel Ngegi has put on the spot five matatu Saccos operating at the junction of Sheikh Karume Road and Mfangano Street. The Sacco operators are also accused of being violent towards shop owners who ask them to make space so customers can enter their stores. The same is experienced along Tom Mboya Street. The new problem comes as NMS is implementing a decongestion strategy to ban all matatus from the CBD. Its efforts have included the construction of at least six bus terminals. Ngegi said on Tuesday that despite the visible efforts by NMS to improve the CBD and transport, the high number of illegal pick-up and drop-off points are overshadowing its good work. “All the works to uplift the CBD are gradually and surely watered down by the influx of illegal matatu pick/drop points, perpetrated by a clique of officers from the Directorate of Inspectorate of parking," he said. The National Transport and Safety Regulations document released last February shows 272 matatu Saccos are registered to operate in the city. However, there are 420 unregistered Saccos. In November last year, NMS froze any new allocation of picking/dropping bays for matatus in Nairobi after concerns were raised over illegal allocations by unauthorised officers. They disregarded suspension of the allocations. Ngegi explained that the illegal practice has surged. He said Tom Mboya Street is a notorious area where matatus have taken over and displaced business owners and taxi drivers. In a letter dated July 16 and addressed to NMS director general Mohammed Badi, the MCA said a cartel is issuing illegal stages, turning the allocations into a cash cow raking in millions of shillings of illicit cash from the subsector. “This unfortunate scenario is to blame for vehicular gridlock, insecurity, noise pollution, air pollution and the general poor state of the environment bedevilling the Central Business District. It stifles economic development," Ngegi said. Along Tom Mboya Street, a Sacco is said to have displaced taxis that have been  operating at the place for 30 years. A different Sacco has started operating at Commercial outside Tuskys Supermarket. The frontage of Church House along Moi Avenue has been allocated to a different Sacco. In a statement at the assembly, MCA Ngegi raised concerns that some county officials have been authorising PSVs to drop and pick passengers in restricted zones. The statement has not been discussed. Ngegi asked the chairman of the transport committee to enquire and report on the authorising officers who issue pick and drop licences. He also wants to know what steps the county has taken to ensure security is provided for in the illegal areas. Further, he wants to know what steps are being taken to ensure the business community, taxi operators and PSV operators work in harmony. (Edited by V. Graham) 