 Some teacher training colleges are likely to be shut because of poor enrolment brought about by the high entry grades set by the Ministry of Education. Prospective trainees must now have a mean grade of C (plain) in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam with a C (plain) score in Mathematics, English, Kiswahili, one science and one humanity subject. The ministry said the new entry grade was occasioned by the demands of the Competency-Based Curriculum. However, teachers in Embu say these demands are unrealistic and will lock out many prospective trainees. "This will lead to the closure of many teacher training colleges because a majority will not attain the set points. The ministry should scrap the requirement of at least a C (plain) score in the key subjects to provide some relief," Benson Njiru said. He is the Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman for Embu branch. Njiru spoke to the Star in his office on Thursday. There are about 200 teacher training colleges across the country. Njiru said their closure would worsen the unemployment situation. "The ministry should realise that most students who attain C (plain) grades in Mathematics and languages often end up joining university for degree courses in different disciplines," Josphat Kathumi said. Kathumi is the secretary-general of the Kenya National Union of Teachers Embu branch. In April, Basic Education PS Julius Jwan said the ministry had raised entry grades for TTCs this year. “Applicants for a Diploma in Primary Teacher Education should have a KCSE mean grade of C (plain) or its equivalent with a C (plain) in English, Kiswahili, Mathematics, and also a C (plain) in any of the humanities and science subjects,” Jwan said. “However, for candidates with disabilities, the minimum entry grade is C- (minus) with a C- (minus) in the cluster of subjects stated above.” The PS said applicants for the Diploma in Early Childhood Teacher Education require a mean grade of C (plain) in KCSE or its equivalent. “The duration of both courses shall be three years in accordance with the approved curriculum designs,” Jwan said. Kenya is phasing out the P1 training, but already has more 300,000 qualified but unemployed P1 certificate holders, according to the Teachers Service Commission.  Edited by P.O