The Kenya Electricity Generating Company has joined the UN-backed universal campaign to combat global warming. KenGen becomes the first Kenyan public service agency to commit to the campaign and is expected to establish emission reduction targets through investments in green and clean energy that will help limit the earth’s warming to 1.5°C as per the Paris Agreement of 2015. The campaign dubbed ‘Business Ambition for 1.50C’, is backed by a global coalition of the United Nations leaders, business organisations and Non-Governmental Organizations. Speaking after receiving confirmation on its admission to the campaign, KenGen Managing Director, Rebecca Miano said the platform echoes the organization’s position as a pacesetter in the Climate Change Action. "We have shifted our investments to green and renewable energy and harnessing of low carbon sources of energy," Miano said. Adding that, "We have also intensified environment conservation activities and energy efficiency improvement across the company." By joining the campaign, KenGen commits to annually disclose its Greenhouse Gas emissions as a way of checking and reducing its carbon footprint. KenGen’s admission comes as a time the world is working towards stemming the climate change crisis which they aim to reduce by half by 2030 and having zero emission by 2050. More than 1,400 companies globally are leading the zero-carbon transition efforts by setting emissions reduction targets through the Science Based Targets initiative. KenGen currently produces about 72% of the electricity consumed in Kenya, with over 80% of it being sourced from renewable sources. Data on Climate Action from the 2019 World Meteorological Organization report indicates that if governments and businesses do not slow global emissions, temperatures could rise to above three degrees Celsius by 2100, causing irreversible damage to our ecosystems. This comes a few months after KenGen bagged a gender award in recognition of its efforts to promote gender mainstreaming and women empowerment through its Pink Energy initiative. The award by the Government of Kenya, through the Ministry of Public Service and Gender, was presented to KenGen during a ceremony to mark the International Women’s Day (IWD) 2021 at the Kenya School of Government in Nairobi. Pink Energy is a KenGen initiative that was launched in November 2016 and has gone a long way in creating change and enhancing the potential of women in the company. It is anchored on three pillars: Personal development and empowerment; creating a conducive work environment and creating gender awareness.