The availability of indispensable right-attacker Enock Mogeni for the remainder of the season will make Kenya Ports Authority a more competitive force in their quest for a playoff slot, coach Sammy Mulinge has said. The Sweden-based 24-year-old is in the country following the conclusion of the Swedish season where he was playing for Sodertelge Club. Mulinge believes Mogeni — the Most Valuable Player in the playoffs in 2019 — will play a prominent role as the team looks to maximise on his talent. Mogeni, who was part of the KPA team that finished fifth in their maiden appearance at the African Club Championship in April, Tunisia — currently trains with Strathmore. The Makande-based side will shift their training base to Kapsabet this weekend ahead of their matches against Kenya Army, Western Prisons and fellow playoffs hopefuls, the General Service Unit GSU on May 12 and 13 respectively in Kakamega. "He was instrumental when we finished second in the KVF league two years ago and his presence not only gives us solutions in attack but also lifts the mood of the whole team. He's our star player. Every player is vital but on the scoring front, he's the key player," noted Mulinge who doubles up as national team beach volleyball women's coach. "I am very happy because he has kept himself fit by training with Strathmore together with Brian Nyabera. The team is in dire need of his services before he returns to Europe likely August. We have not had a full house training after the club championship but most of my players are doing individual drills," he said. Before settling on Kapsabet, KPA has looked at the possibility of training in Kisumu but opted against heading to Nyanza owing to the threats of the pandemic in the lakeside region. Mulinge is optimistic that the change in climate won't affect his players. "The climate is not the same. Temperatures in Mombasa are high even in Kapsabet which is on the highlands but KPA is taking the team there in good time. After three days of training, players will have adapted." KPA lead the standings with 19 points from seven matches. Kenya Prisons (17) and GSU (15), are second and third respectively although the paramilitary side has played a game less. 