A fraud case against televangelist James Ng’ang’a commenced on Tuesday in a Nairobi court but was then adjourned to allow the recording of a witness statement. Ng'ang'a was charged with obtaining Sh3.6 million from businessman Wickson Njoroge Mwathi in 2016 by falsely pretending he would lease a 17-bedroom house to him in Karen, Nairobi. Mwathi testified on Tuesday before senior resident magistrate David Ndungi that he went to see the house himself in Karen and was satisfied. He could, however, not recall the exact date. He added that in April 2016, with the help of a lawyer, he went to Ng'ang'a's office on his church premises near the Uhuru Highway-Haile Selassie Avenue junction. They then went through the contract together and signed it. “Ng’ang’a and I signed the lease agreement,” Mwathi told the court. He, however, stated that he left the cash with his advocate to proceed to bank it in Ng'ang'a's account as he went to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport for another meeting. At that point, the prosecution said the lawyer who banked the money had not recorded his statement. “The advocate did not record statements. He was present and he is the one who handed over the money. The investigating officer did not take his statement and I pray for an adjournment to have his statement recorded,” prosecutor Abel Omariba. He added that the accused was charged with obtaining money by false pretences, hence it should be proved how the money exchanged hands as it is crucial. "The investigating officer should take his statement. We are seeking justice in the right way as it will not prejudice the accused in the case." Ng’ang’a’s lawyer, however, opposed the request, saying the case was old and the prosecution had time to record the statement since 2016. “I don't understand how the statement will help in the case. The case started in 2016 and the prosecution should have already taken the statements. The matter should be heard expeditiously,” he said. But magistrate Ndungi agreed with the prosecution and ordered that the investigating officer record a statement from the lawyer who presented the money to Ng'ang'a. He adjourned the case to September 7 and directed the prosecution to serve the accused with the lawyer's statement within 14 days. Ng'ang'a is out on Sh500,000 bail. 