Security has been beefed up in and around Kisumu's Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium where President Uhuru Kenyatta is set to lead the nation in marking the 58th Madaraka Day celebrations. Invited guests accessing the venue were thoroughly screened in all the seven gates leading into the stadium. Only 3,000 invited guests are being allowed to access the stadium due to strict Covid-19 protocols. The members of the public were required to be at the various spectator stands by 8.00 am. Vehicles were not allowed beyond the perimeter wall fence of the former Mamboleo showground, except for those ferrying dignitaries. Artists invited to perform during the event included renowned musicians such as Susan Owiyo, Freddy Jakadongo, Iddi Achieng, Dola Kabary, Osito Kale among others. They belted out soothing tunes to entertain guests who patiently waited for the arrival of the president and his entourage. Top government officials and members of the clergy led by the chairman of the Nyanza council of Churches Bishop Washington Ogonyo Ngede made their way into the venue as early as 7.30 am. Burundi President Everiste Ndayishimiye is among the State guests invited to the celebrations. The president who landed in Kisumu before 11 am on Monday will preside over the function as the Chief Guest. Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga and senior government officials are among the guests expected to attend the event. By 4.00 am, police officers were deployed on the streets of Kisumu and roads leading to the stadium in the Mamboleo area. The officers are drawn from counties within the Nyanza region to help beef up security. Others were mobilized for crowd control. Officers from the National Youth Service (NYS) also provide additional strength to the combined security agencies that ensured everything went on according to plan. At the stadium gates, military, police and NYS personnel were deployed to strictly check particulars of those accessing the stadium from as early as 5 am. Members of the public were already lining up as early as 4.00 am, just to ensure they are not late and risk being locked out of the key event. Those who got access to the 30,000 capacity stadium were strictly under instructions to sanitize and wear face masks as part of the Covid-19 containment measures. Seats at the stands were carefully arranged to ensure the social distancing rule was taken care of. Media practitioners were also not spared by the hawk-eyed security officers. Journalists who were issued with the accreditation cards on Monday morning by the Ministry of ICT were required to produce their press cards and national identity cards before being allowed in. Kisumu County Government Health Department personnel were also deployed at the stadium to ensure guests sanitized and have their face masks on all the time. They also ensured guests were guided where to sit , based on their cards. Military officers drawn from the Kenya Air force, Navy and Army who had been assigned the duty of mounting the guard of honor were seen warming up ahead of parade to be inspected by their Commander-In-Chief.