Two Murang’a MPs have supported National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi's bid to unite the Mt Kenya region. Woman Representative Sabina Chege and Kangema lawmaker Muturi Kigano on Sunday said Muturi was welcome to any part of the region to bring the Gema communities together. The duo said the region needs to heal the emerging divisions to approach the next election on a united front. Chege said Mt Kenya, which has over five million votes, may be locked out of the next government if it does not unite. She condemned those backing the split in the region, saying the high number of voters will only work if they speak in one voice. Two days ago, Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said Mt Kenya East, which comprises Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi, will not support a presidential candidate from Mt Kenya West, which includes Murang’a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Nyandarua and Kiambu, in the next general election. Kiraitu said Mt Kenya East is considering fielding a presidential candidate, saying they have supported two presidents fielded by the west, hence it is time the 'westerners' reciprocated. Kiraitu has publicly supported Muturi whose coronation as the regional spokesperson has been dismissed by a section of leaders from Mt Kenya West such as governors Mwangi wa Iria (Murang’a) and Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga), The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri and former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo—all of whom are eyeing the kingpin position. But Chege cautioned that disunity among leaders may render the region's votes useless. She urged Muturi to embark on a peace campaign across the region to bring all the communities together. “We love you as our speaker and your leadership in the National Assembly is exemplary. Go out there and bring people together so that we can have unity of purpose. We do not want anybody to divide us,” she said. Kigano said the region should not be split by minute issues and should instead strive to stick together. “If somebody goes to Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine and prays facing Mt Kenya, how is that wrong?” he wondered, adding that the speaker is welcome to visit Murang’a or any other county anytime he wants. The duo spoke at Kenya Njeru ACK church in Kangema where they attended a service on Muturi's invitation. But Kieni MP Kanini Kega emphasised that President Uhuru Kenyatta is still the head of the region and will lead it in negotiations towards the general election. Kanini said the President has remained the kingpin since his coronation by elders in Ihura Stadium in 2012. He, however, underscored the need for the region to remain united, warning that divisions could mark the end of Gema—an association that brings together the Kikuyu, Meru and Embu ethnic groups. “Anyone interested in fostering peace in our community should be given a chance. We will only be in the next government if we work together,” Kega said. Muturi, for his part, said his mission is to preach peace and unity and urged residents to support those fostering peace. He said he also aims at protecting the interests of the region and ensuring they benefit from their toil. Muturi said though he was fronted for the speaker position by Jubilee Party, his main role in the National Assembly is to moderate members of all parties and remain impartial.