The former principal of Tom Mboya Labour College who was dismissed after she was accused of misusing construction funds, has been awarded Sh100,000 as compensation. The court ruled she did not have a fair hearing. Rosemary Meyo was offered employment as principal of Tom Mboya Labour College by the Central Organisation of Trade Unions (Cotu) through a letter dated May 28, 2013. Barely a year later, on April 7, 2014, Cotu issued a show-cause letter, asking her to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against her. She was alleged to have unilaterally used money allocated for construction of a fence to pay staff salaries, changing the contractor given the fencing job and producing unsatisfactory board minutes. However, on May 26, Employment and Labour Relations judge Stephen Radido ruled the board of directors of Tom Mboya College terminated her employment unfairly. “The court finds and declares the termination of the Claimant’s employment was unfair and awards her compensation of Sh100,000,” the judge ruled. Meyo said on May 15, 2015, Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli issued a warning to her, saying she was absent from the college that morning. She explained the absence in a letter dated May 18, 2015. Cotu issued another show-cause to her on August 8, 2015. It cited six allegations, including failure to implement board resolutions, delayed preparation and circulation of board papers, delayed preparation and circulation of board minutes and conducting unauthorised recruitment of staff. She told court she responded on August 19, 2015, and on August 24, 2015, she was notified of the termination of her services. On December 7, 2015, she sued the Board of Governors, Tom Mboya Labour College, alleging the termination of service was unfair because she was not accorded a fair hearing. She also alleged no reasons were given for the termination. The college contended the termination of Meyo’s employment was lawful. It called its acting principal who urged the court to dismiss Meyo’s suit. (Edited by V. Graham) 