Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa never met Deputy President William Ruto at Harambee Annex on the day he was arrested in connection with the Sh39.5 billion fake arms deal. A court on Monday heard that when Echesa went to the DP's office on February 13 last year, Ruto was at his Karen residence. Witnesses who testified in the hearing on Monday told senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot that Ruto was not at his Harambee Annex office. Officer Naomi Kinyanjui said she was manning the VIP lift where she ushers in guests. She said she received Echesa and two white men. It also emerged that late officer Kipyegon Kenei was on duty that day. Askar Nyaboke, a senior receptionist at the DP's office, said Kenei called her from the office line requesting a VIP lift for Echesa and his guests. “After around 20 minutes or so, I received a call from Sgt Kipyegon Kenei, an officer manning the reception desk in the VIP reception second floor requesting for the lift for Echesa which I did and Kinyanjui went to the lift for the visitors” Nyaboke said. In his testimony, Nicholas Maiyo Burkley said he saw Echesa and the two men alight from the VIP lift. “Echesa greeted us and told us that he together with the two men wanted to see the Deputy President and we told him that the DP was not around and that we didn’t think he would be coming but he confirmed that the DP had told him to wait for him at the town office,” Burkley said. He said they took away all their mobile phones and a bag they were carrying as is normal procedure but spared Echesa’s phone as he was to confirm with the DP whether he was coming to town. Echesa and his two guests were then ushered into the waiting room. “After they had stayed for around 15 to 20 minutes, we confirmed from the Karen office that the DP was not coming but rather he would be proceeding to Kandara in Murang'a county for a burial,” the officer said. According to Burkley, at some point Echesa had allegedly inquired the shortest route to Karen and they told him to use Langata. He then went back to the waiting room to pick the two men before they left. They later learned that he had been arrested outside the Annex office as he was leaving the premises. Echesa has been charged with conspiracy to commit a felony. He is accused of conspiring to make a document with intent to defraud in the multi-billion fake arms deal. The former CS has been charged alongside Daniel Omondi alias General Juma, Clifford Onyango and Kennedy Mboya with six counts of making a false document. They are also alleged to have obtained Sh11.5 million from Kozlowski Stanley Bruno by purporting that they would award him a tender to supply military equipment. The hearing resumes on Tuesday.  Edited by P.O 