A woman linked to the murder of a 19-year-old Mombasa girl is expected back in court on Thursday. The matter was deferred after Faiza Ali Hassan claimed she could not understand either Kiswahili or English and therefore could not respond to an application made by the investigating officer. Senior resident magistrate Vincent Adet directed Hassan be detained for two days as the court sought a Somali translator. Hassan is alleged to be the last person to be seen with Najma Abdullahi before she was found unconscious along Dongo Kungu. Najma succumbed to her injuries a few hours later while receiving treatment at the Port Reitz district hospital having been taken there by the police. According to an affidavit sworn by investigations officer John Mutwiri, Hassan  was the key suspect in the murder of Najma who was her friend and that she held crucial information on the killing. Mutwiri said the suspect was seen with the deceased on the evening of June 9, the same day Najma went missing. The deceased had left her home in Chaani area at around 6pm and informed her sister that she was seeing off a friend. Her phone however went off few minutes after 7pm after confirming with her sister that she was on her way back home. The investigator told the court that Hassan escaped from Mombasa and was seen in Eldoret on June 10, hours after the deceased went missing. The officer further told the court that the suspect then fled from Eldoret to Nairobi on learning that she was being sought by the police. He further said the DCI officers were however able to track her down and arrested her before ferrying her back to Mombasa. The investigators want the court to grant them orders to detain her for 14 days as they complete their investigations. They further said they were yet to record crucial statements from key witnesses who are not within Mombasa. The police also expressed their intentions to collect call data records from the respondent to analyse her communications with any other suspects. The magistrate ordered Hassan be returned to court on Thursday. Edited by Henry Makori