Governors on Tuesday cited their achievements during the 2020-21 financial year, despite problems posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The county chiefs cited late disbursement of equitable share by the National Treasury to county governments as the main cause of problems for them. Council of Governors chair Martin Wambora, while delivering the Eighth State of Devolution Address in Nairobi, said counties have continued to achieve remarkable success in the devolved functions in the period under review. The Embu governor singled out agriculture and health as key sectors that recorded tremendous improvements. “To address the socio-economic challenges resulting from the pandemic, the council, working with partners, developed the County Socio-Economic Recovery and Re-engineering Strategy,” he noted. Danish Ambassador to Kenya Ole Thonke acknowledged the success in devolution and asked governors to be in the front line in fighting corruption, saying the vice was eroding gains. “Every time there are calls for more allocations to counties, the issue of corruption comes up,” he stated. In attendance were Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Governors Anyang' Nyong'o (Kisumu), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma), James Nyoro (Kiambu), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet), Jackson Mandago (Uasin Gishu), James Ongwae (Kisii), John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot) and Stephen Sang (Nandi) among other guests. Wambora said the agriculture sector, a key contributor to the GDP of Kenya, faced declining growth because the pandemic disrupted local and global markets and the food distribution systems. He said the sector has been dynamic, however, with increased investments, particularly in export crops. He said governors, in recognition of the importance of the agriculture sector to the country's economy, have invested heavily in agriculture over the last eight years. “In the FY 2019-20, county governments spent 6 per cent of their budgets on agricultural development. In FY 2020-21, county governments allocated 7.3 per cent of their budgets, an increase by 1.3 per cent,” he stated. He added that counties have also distributed subsidised inputs to farmers, including 56,000 million tons of fertilisers, increasing from 10,597.5 million tons of what was distributed in 2019-20. Wambora noted that programmes aimed at reducing communicable diseases such as HIV/Aids, malaria, and tuberculosis have been sustained. “The number of people of Anti-Retroviral Treatment increased to over 1.2 million, and new infections reduced to fewer than 40,000. In addition, the malaria incidence burden has reduced to 40 per 1,000,” he stated. Wambora said county governments, in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and the Public Service Commission, have recruited 9,721 healthcare workers of various cadres to support primary health care management. “In addition, county governments engaged 101,797 Community Health Volunteers spread across 7,011 community units to promote public health care delivery at the community level,” he added. He further noted that during the 2020-21, counties allocated an average of 32.9 per cent of their total budgets to the health sector. “This is an increase from 26.1 per cent in the previous year. A total of 34 out of 47 counties allocated more than 30 per cent of their budget to health,” he said. Across the 47 counties, there are six Level 6 facilities (referral hospitals), 22 Level 5 (county referral hospitals), 852 Level 4 (sub-county hospitals), 2,364 Level 3 (health centers) and 9,945 level 2 facilities (dispensaries). Wambora noted that at the beginning of the pandemic, county governments had set up isolation centres with a total of 6,094 isolation beds. “Currently, counties have added 2,569 isolation beds, bringing the total to 8,663 isolation beds. They have installed 42 functional PSA oxygen plants, procured 2,828 oxygen cylinders and 730 oxygen concentrators and connected 3,601 beds to oxygen,” he said. He further noted county governments increased the number of functional Intensive Care Unit beds to 440 from the 361 beds at the onset of the pandemic. On finances, Wambora said the equitable share to county governments increased from Sh316.5 billion in 2019-20 to Sh370 billion in 2020-21 even with the ravaging effects of Covid-19 on the economy. Wambora said late disbursements of funds by the National Treasury has resulted in non-compliance by county governments to timely payment of employees’ salaries and remittance of statutory deductions. He added that late disbursements have also resulted in delayed settlement of validated pending bills. “It has also caused derailment of counties' response measures towards emergencies such as droughts, floods, and locusts in various parts of the country and the Covid-19 pandemic and negatively affecting service delivery to Kenyans,” he stated. He added that counties have also recorded under-performance in Own Source Revenue. “There are several pieces of legislation clawing back on devolution, such as the Tea Act, 2021, that establishes the Tea Board of Kenya, which will undertake regulatory functions meant for counties under the Constitution and the Business Laws (Amendment) Act No. 1 of 2020. "[It] amends the Land Act, 2012 and the Land Registration Act, 2012 by removing the requirement of obtaining certificates of payment of land rates or rent from the county governments, a key source of revenue for counties,” he explained. (Edited by V. Graham) 