The government has embarked on the second phase of Covid-19 sensitisation in an effort to avoid a possible fourth wave. The exercise that commenced on Monday will be conducted across all the counties and is expected to run from 8am to 4:30pm daily. Teams involved will be required to use local languages where possible to ensure the message reaches all community members. Phase one of the community awareness campaign on the pandemic was conducted in May 2020 in the initial eight high-risk counties of Migori, Siaya, Kisumu, Nairobi, Kajiado, Mombasa, Kwale and Kilifi. Broadcasting and Telecommunications PS Esther Koimette said they had chosen the public address system of communication to limit physical contact as part of the containment protocols. “Currently, the country is battling the third wave of the pandemic and it is necessary to upscale sensitisation campaign against the pandemic in all the counties,” Koimett said. The campaign aims to increase awareness on the disease mutations and new variants that are already circulating in the country. It also seeks to sensitise the people on the Covid-19 vaccination exercise. The Delta variant has been linked to a rise in Covid-19 infections with the Health ministry warning that it could soon overwhelm the healthcare system. So far, stricter containment measures have been announced by the ministry in 13 counties in Nyanza and Western and parts of Rift Valley that have seen a rise in infections likely being fuelled by the new variant. The government seeks to emphasize containment measures for personal safety and curbing the spread of the virus. County information officers are in collaboration with regional and national government administrators who are spearheading the campaigns in their respective regions. “Vehicles are going to move into the various estates across the 47 counties just to preach the gospel of the need to continue to observe the containment measures failure to which we are likely to get into wave four of the pandemic and we don’t want to get there,” Government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna said. He added, “There is some complacency that is creeping in and our people are going back to the old way of doing things and we want to remind them that this disease is still with us and therefore it is important for us to continue to obey these containment measures.”  Edited by P.O