Chicken farmers in Migori county are set to reap big if a proposed multimillion-shilling processing plant is built within the next three months. The proposed plant is the third agricultural value chain project meant to increase productivity and profitability for farmers. Governor Okoth Obado praised the project, which is supported by the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project, as important towards boosting incomes and fighting extreme poverty. Obado spoke during the groundbreaking ceremony at Nyailing'a, Suna West. Narigp is a national government project funded by the World Bank with an objective of increasing agricultural productivity and profitability of targeted rural communities in 21 counties, including Migori. Obado said his administration is determined to empower farmers at the grassroots through such initiatives and other enriched agriculture value chain projects. He said county funds are supporting about 605 people in fish, chicken and dairy farming in 20 wards. He pleaded with the farmers to consider chicken and other agricultural projects as important towards boosting food security and incomes. He said agriculture takes centre stage in both the Medium Term Development Plan together with the County Integrated Development Plan. Obado promised to support development partners who are committed to changing the lives of residents through farming. Agriculture executive Valentine Ogongo said chicken processing plant was the third value addition plant after Getonganya Sweet Potatoes Mini-Processing Plant at Getonganya in Kuria West and the Fish Processing Plant at Opapo in Rongo. Ogongo also emphasised the need for local farmers to adopt value addition agriculture projects geared towards creating sustainable livelihoods. The chicken plant is expected to cost Sh25 million and will benefit farmers' groups across the eight subcounties dedicated to farming. Rural Integrated Poultry, Cooperative and Marketing Society director John Okeyo termed the project historic and asked politicians not to interfere in construction works. The project will be completed within three months. “Our contractor has promised to finish this work within three months, the time in which this plant will begin receiving farmers' chickens for processing,” he said. The groups keeping chickens have been struggling to find market. “We now have a solution to our ready chickens for sale,” Okeyo said, urging farmers to work in groups to share ideas on how they can boost their productivity and profits. He said they settled on Nyailing’a in Suna West because it is believed to be the center of the county, hence farmers from other parts of Migori can easily access it. Local leaders, led by area MCA Patrick Aran (Wasweta 2 ward), welcomed the project, saying residents will get jobs, among other benefits. 