Olympics-bound Hit Squad heavyweight pugilist Elly Ajowi says he's worried that slow and clumsy footwork could deny him a chance to punch effectively to the medal podium at the Tokyo Games set to kick off this July. Ajowi said he had perfected all the other technical aspects of the game and he just needs to make his feet lighter to help him move around comfortably. “During the Konstatin Korotkov International Boxing Championship in Russia, I noticed that our hosts were better at footwork and that's what gave them the vital edge over their competitors. It's a crucial lesson we came back with from Russia,” he said. Kenya finished the tournament as the second-best African team behind Morocco. “I'm also working to ensure I improve the speed of my hands and it's my hope I shall have rectified my shortcomings in time for the Games on July 5,” said Ajowi. Ajowi also observed that winning at the higher echelons required one to be more abrasive towards the opponents and it's not always about playing by the rules. The Russians, he pointed out, employed some unorthodox tactics to plummet their opponents. “All along, we've been a little bit lenient to our opponents and to some extent, this approach has cost us a number of bouts, especially where we face off with reckless competitors. Some degree of ruthlessness counts in some cases,” said Ajowi. The Africa Zone 3 Championship gold medalist said his feat in Kinshasa had left him high on confidence and sharpened his claws well enough after he halted the dominance of African champion Maxime Yegnong Njieyo from Cameroon. “We've been training hard. We went to Kinshasa where I clinched a gold medal and later attended the tournament in Russia. I believe the two experiences have left us prepared for the task ahead,” said Ajowi. During a recent interview, Boxing Federation of Kenya communications director Duncan Kuria revealed that Ajowi would be the first Kenyan to step onto the ring at the Tokyo Games on July 7. “The squad is bound to leave on July 5 and the information we have so far is that Elly Ajowi has a bout on July 7,” said Kuria. The Hit Squad quartet, comprising Ajowi, featherweight Nicholas Okoth, flyweight Christine Ongare and welterweight Elizabeth Akinyi have been training in Lavington, Nairobi, alongside 12 sparring partners.