The national police service has deployed a multiagency security team from both land and air ahead of the Safari Rally to be held between July 24 to 27. In a statement on Tuesday, IG Hillary Mutyambai said the security is comprised of  National Police Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, National Youth Service and safety marshals. “They will provide total and round the clock security to all the participating stakeholders. The plan is executed in three tiers, prior to during and post-event,” he said. But he noted that some activities like traffic movements will be temporarily affected on the rally routes. “Spectators and photojournalists are advised to watch the event at the safe side of the road,” he said. Mutyambai said everyone should comply with the security and Ministry of Health protocols. “The security officers are under instructions to enforce them effectively,” he added. More than 1,000 police officers have been deployed to Naivasha to strengthen security during the World Rally Championship's Safari Rally. Hoteliers reported full bookings ahead of the event where around 30,000 visitors are expected in Naivasha. Over 50 rally drivers including 34 Kenyan racers are set to participate in this year’s Safari Rally. The fabled Safari Rally has always mesmerised the world. Over the years, the annual event had gained ground as a legendary fixture in the global motorsports calendar before it was dropped from the FIA World Rally Championship and relegated to the African Rally Championship in 2003. Kenyan organisers returned to the drawing board in an effort to regain the event's lost glory. In their first attempt, Kenya Motor Sport Federation ran the 2003 and 2004 editions on the South Coast to woo the world automobile governing body, FIA. In 2007, Kenya's Safari Rally joined the Intercontinental Rally Challenge for one year for the first time since 2002. The Fiat Abarth Grande Punto S2000 works cars driven by Andrea Navarra and Umberto Scandola graced the iconic event. Local tourism is set to benefit immensely from WRC's cumulative global TV audience of 850 million viewers across both the mainstream and social media. The rally will benefit from 25 hours of live TV coverage in 155 TV markets. Kenya is also hoping to plant 18 million trees across the Safari Rally route to celebrate the years the event has been out of the FIA series. Rally Navigator Wayne Fernandes reckons that the safari holds iconic status across the world and the region.