Tusker's title campaign sparked into life again after the brewers pipped Kariobangi Sharks 1-0 at Utalii grounds on Sunday to come within one point of leaders KCB. Just five minutes into the entertaining encounter, Luke Namanda unleashed a thunderous shot that spilled off the hands of Brandon Obiero. But it was Eric Zakayo who emerged from the dugout in the second half to inspire his side into their vital win. The dreadlocked youngster—doing his first term with the senior team after a stint in the academy side —stole the ball in the midfield and dashed with it down the left channel before setting up Sammy Meja for a cross that found Chrispinus Onyango strategically placed to rise unmarked and head in the all-important goal in the 62nd minute. Sharks shouldn't have left Utalii with an empty basket, but the tiki-taka lads squandered a perfect opportunity to get back into the game in the 76th minute when Douglas Mokaya fired his effort from the spot-kick directly into the stretched palms of on-form Mike Wanjala after Humphrey Mieno handled the ball in the box. Wanjala stepped up from the bench to pull off the exceptional piece of artistry after preferred first-choice custodian Robert Mboya was helped out of the pitch following a knock he suffered while advancing to clear a glaring danger. As usual, Sharks had blown themselves up into an unbeatable winning team, but the stubborn brewers pricked the balloon. The William Muluya charges were so inspirational, but their resilience wilted in the face of determined opposition. In the 80th minute, Tusker survived a major scare when Eric Kapaito came on the end of Fredrick Alushula's enticing cross with a brilliant bicycle kick that swished just inches wide past a stunned Wanjala who gasped a sigh of relief. And in the 43rd minute, Henry Mejja's attempt greased the crossbar much to the chagrin of the Ruaraka-based side. But then, their moment arrived in the 62nd minute when Chrispinus Onyango rose unmarked to head in Sammy Meja’s pinpoint pass from the left channel. There were flashes of brilliance, mainly from Eric Kapaito but whenever Sharks did find a gap to draw level, Wanjala foiled the party. At the final whistle, the brewers headed towards the stands and celebrated a renewed opportunity to charge for the title after firing themselves to 41 points, one adrift of leaders KCB. Sharks remain rooted in fifth with 31 points. Elsewhere, defending champions Gor Mahia edged Sofapaka 1-0 at Thika Stadium to ascend to joint third with arch-rivals AFC Leopards. Jules Ulimwengu’s effort was all the defending champions needed to bag maximum points in the highly charged encounter that witnessed pockets of tense moments.