The last time Annerose Waruguru, 56, had a conversation with her 36-year-old second-born son was on May 23 last year. Joseph Macharia had requested her to cook githeri, saying he would pass by her house in Wayani, Magongo, in Mombasa, after work. That evening, mother and son shared the delicacy, with laughter, joy and appreciation of life’s small gifts. At 6.45pm, Macharia realised he had only 15 minutes to get to his house before the 7pm curfew. He turned down pleas by his mother to spend the night in her house, insisting he would make it to his house before 7pm. He promised to come back the next day after work and finish his meal. He had not finished his plate of githeri. “Keep it for me and don’t let anyone eat it,” Macharia told his mother before dashing out. But that was not to be. On his way home, he encountered police officers on patrol, who allegedly beat him senseless for being outside during curfew hours. Macharia had to crawl to his house. Waruguru said she received a phone call the next day at around 4pm from Macharia’s neighbour, who told her he had not left his house since the previous night. Neighbours rushed him to Port Reitz hospital before Waruguru met them there. Since then, Macharia has been in and out of hospital. He could not walk or talk. He was being fed through pipes ever since he was brutalised by police officers on May 23 evening. Macharia died on Saturday at 4pm at Port Reitz Hospital, where he had been rushed to on Friday after he started bleeding through his openings. Waruguru has all along been by his side. She had to quit all her menial jobs to look after her son in the hope that one day, he would wake up, ask for the food he had left and eat it on his own. “I was hopeful he would one day wake up, walk and talk. I promised him I would cook githeri for him, so he could finish his meal. But the Lord has taken him,” Waruguru said on Sunday. Macharia, who had converted to Islam, had asked that he be buried according to Islamic rites. His body was interred at a cemetery in Magongo in a solemn ceremony attended by Muslims for Human Rights rapid response officer Francis Auma. Auma has been following up on the case. He was instrumental in seeking help from Muhuri, Mombasa Cement and the Independent Medico Legal Unit to clear Macharia's hospital bill. IMLU spent close to Sh1.8 million on Macharia in medication and hospital care at Port Reitz and Mewa hospitals. Mombasa Cement cleared a Sh75,000 bill at Port Reitz the first time he was admitted. Auma told the Star he is concerned about Waruguru’s mental health. She is distraught and has been seen talking to herself. “The trauma she has been through taking care of one of her three sons is taking a toll on her,” Auma said. The human rights defender accused authorities of ignoring the family. The matter was reported to the Independent Police Oversight Authority under reference IPOA/CMU/1649/2020. When the case was reported to former Changamwe subcounty police commander Joseph Kavoo in July last year, he said police must act professionally at all times. He said although he was not around when the incident happened, he would ensure justice is served. “There arechannels to be followed, so we can ensure these people get justice. This is a serious matter,” Kavoo said. On Sunday, Waruguru said she would only get closure and peace of mind once justice is found for her son. “They killed my son. This was the second year I was by his side. I have not been able to do any work and have been surviving through well-wishers’ tokens. I have not gotten any help from the government,” Waruguru said. Auma said Muhuri will, through senior counsel Lumatete Muchai, sue the police for Macharia’s death. “We consider this an extrajudicial killing,” Auma said. Macharia’s estranged wife Elizabeth Maleve said life will be tough for their nine-year-old son. The two separated when the incident happened last year. “But when I heard what had happened, I had to make certain arrangements to see how to support my mother-in-law,” Maleve said. Edited by A.N