Machakos Governor, Alfred Mutua has said that it is worrying that leaders only form coalitions to win power but not to help Kenyans. Speaking on Thursday morning, the governor said these coalitions get formed last minute and not out of ideology, a practice that must be stopped. "What they are doing with the Nasa brigade saying Kalonzo, Raila joining with Jubilee is to win an election not to change Kenya. It is not the right direction for our country; it is what has made Africa, the richest continent in the world, the continent with the poorest people," Mutua said on Citizen TV. Asked on whether he would join Deputy President William Ruto’s United Democratic Alliance, Mutua said he will only team up with a coalition if its ideology will be helpful to the people of Kenya. He went on to say that he will have to ask himself certain questions and listen to his people before making a decision on which coalition to work with. "Everything depends on is it helpful to our country. Will Ruto have a government that will really fight corruption while he himself has been accused of corruption? Will Ruto bring people together when he has been accused of division?" Mutua posed. This comes in the wake of political realignments that have seen leaders from across the country calling for unity, in order to form the next government. Deputy President William Ruto has been calling on Kenyans to join UDA, which he insists is the only national party in the country following the collapse of Jubilee. Another coalition that has been formed as a result of the same is the One Kenya Alliance which comprises former Nasa principals Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetangula teaming up with Kanu’s Gideon Moi. ODM and Jubilee are also working on a pre-election alliance that will see the parties field a single candidate for presidency come 2022. A few weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta in a meeting with leaders from the Eastern region called for the unity of Nasa, saying that he would back whoever the team will front as their flag bearer in the 2022 general elections. "Steve (Kalonzo), listen to your people and what they are saying. Unite in Nasa then we shall see what will happen. Whatever you will agree on is what I will go with," Uhuru said.