Victims of sexual or physical assault, road accidents, occupational hazards and animal attacks need to get a P3 form to help their search for justice. This is a legal police document used to request for medical examination by a medical officer of health to determine the nature and extent of the bodily injury sustained by the complainant(s) in assault cases. The process involved in obtaining one is as follows, as explained by Makaobora team online and police doctor Zephaniah Kamau. In criminal offences, government doctors must be the ones to fill the form. The P3 form is in two parts. One is filled out by the police officer assigned to the case, indicating details of the complainant or suspect in question in a particular case. The second part is filled by a registered medical officer or medical practitioner. Victims of violence either report to police stations first then the hospital or to hospitals first then the police station, usually depending on the degree of injury or safety. Dr Kamau recommends visiting a hospital first before police stations whenever possible to allow for medical intervention and for findings to be documented. Victims require a medical report from the hospital before the P3 can be filled. Sexual assault cases should ensure a Post Rape Care (PRC) form is filled out prior to filling the P3 form. This PRC form is a Ministry of Health document found, filled and stored at medical facilities. Note that for rape cases, a PRC form should be filled. This PRC form is required before filling the P3 can be done. The outcome depends on the case that brought about the need for the P3 form. If the case is criminal and involving a minor, then the complainant and accused must end up in court. In sexual violence cases involving minors, the case must proceed to court. If adults are involved, for instance, in domestic violence not resulting in death, then the complainant decides whether or not to proceed with a court process. If, for example, two adults are involved in a bar fight not resulting in death, then the complainant can decide whether or not to proceed with the case after the P3 form is filled. In sexual violence cases involving an adult complainant, they decide whether or not to proceed to court.