The Education ministry has ruled out the possibility of shutting down schools if a  fourth wave of Covid-19 hits the country. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said on Tuesday the country is still trying to recover the study time lost when schools were shut. “Our neighbours in Uganda have shut schools for 42 days and this is a decision we can't afford,” he said. Magoha spoke during the release of Form 1 placement results at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. Since the first case of Covid-19 was reported in the country in March last year, the  government has closed down learning institutions twice to stem the spread of the virus. The country is bracing itself for a possible eruption of a fourth wave, which coincides with the reopening of schools in July for the 2021 academic calendar and the admission of Form 1s. When the vaccination drive was rolled out, the government urged teachers to get vaccinated against Covid-19. Data by the Teachers Service Commission in May revealed that 152,641 teachers were inoculated during the first phase of the vaccination drive. TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia said though most teachers are yet to get a second dose of the vaccine, the single-shot they received during the first phase of the drive will go a long way in preventing adverse effects of the virus. However, the spread of the virus not only threatens learners but also parents, guardians and extended families. Seventy per cent of children in the country attend day school. Masks Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi told the Star on Monday that schools will have to rely on the use of masks as the best way to prevent the spread of the virus. He said those vaccinated will be required to wear masks. A model by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation shows that half of those vaccinated could transmit the virus. Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said the government lacks a plan for schools. “The fact of the matter is we haven't done much to ensure that schools stay safe. We haven't done much to measure the level of danger,” he said. Maiyo said some parents are terrified of maintaining their children in school in case of a fourth wave, while others want the institutions to remain open. Mutheu Kasanga of the Kenya Private Schools Association said schools should be last to close if the surge in numbers leads to a lockdown. 