Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya has said Mount Kenya will not accept to be split between the east and the west as it will lack the numbers to bargain at the national level. He said on Saturday the region might find itself in the opposition if it splits. “If we want to be in the next government, we must remain united with our counterparts. If we are split we will not make it alone,” the CS said. Munya spoke in Muriri, Tigani East, where he attended a dairy farmers' meeting. He accused politicians he did not name of orchestrating the split to be able to negotiate with Deputy President William Ruto. “We will not accept to be put in sacks like potatoes and sold out to someone at the will of an opportunist,” he said. The former Meru county boss said they want Mount Kenya to remain united as they fought for Independence together under Mau Mau. He indicated that he will seek to reclaim the Meru seat. Munya rejected the endorsement of National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi as Mount Kenya spokesman. He laughed off the events that culminated in Muturi's coronation in Murang'a by the Kikuyu Council of Elders. “I heard there was a man who did not bathe for seven days after he was taken to the forest and then afterwards he came out and said he was now our spokesman. Is that possible or even acceptable?” he asked. He said Meru people will not tolerate such kind of leadership that is seen as being linked to witchcraft. But Njuri Nceke secretary general Josphat Murangiri said they endorsed Muturi as there was no Meru leader with presidential ambitions. Munya said Muturi should have consulted Meru residents as they are the ones to vote in leaders instead of engaging a few elders. Muturi's endorsement by elders has elicited mixed reactions in the region, as Mt Kenya East threatened to go it alone in 2022 presidential polls if they won't get the support of their counterparts in the west. They accused their 'westerners' of "disrespect” after some Kikuyu leaders dismissed Muturi's coronation, citing their decades-old loyalty to Kikuyu candidates. Last week, Meru senator Mithika Linturi, a diehard supporter of DP Ruto, said they are ready for a split. Governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru), Martin Wambora (Embu), Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) and former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti have also backed Mutri. The Mt Kenya East leaders want the west to return the favour. But Munya said when the time comes they will bargain under the guidance of President Uhuru Kenyatta, whom he said is still the region's kingpin. "We will not achieve that by doing meetings to abuse them because when their time comes to support us they will not accept if we are not humble,” Munya said. He added that they have enough parties in Mt Kenya East and there is no need to form other parties. Kiraitu had indicated plans to revive the Alliance Part of Kenya ('Mbas' party). Munya said the Njuri Nceke elders who endorsed Muturi in Meru in March this year did not follow the right protocol. He said Muturi was duped by the elders for their own selfish interests. Munya said the ‘real elders’ will soon hold a meeting in their shrine in Nchiru, Tigania West constituency. He also dismissed the move by some elders to endorse Tharaka Nithi senator Kithure Kindiki as Meru spokesman in 2014. He said the legislator marshalled elders allied to him. Munya said politicians, especially those allied to Tangatanga, should respect President Kenyatta. He said the head of state is the symbol of national unity and ought to be respected. "If you abuse him it's like abusing those millions of Kenyans who voted for him,” Munya said.  