Kenya Railways has promised enhanced services after it acquired an enhanced ISO certification following an audit conducted in October last year. The ISO certification was awarded by the Kenya Bureau of Standards. The quality management systems for the Kenya Railways headquarters and Kenya Railway Training Institute were certified and awarded ISO 9001:2015. Treasury Chief Administrative Secretary Nelson Gaichuhie presided over the ceremony held at the Sarova Panafric Hotel in Nairobi. Gaichuhie said the certification allows Kenya Railways to offer excellent services to the public. “Kenya Railways as a transport and logistics hub interacts with several customers daily. Kenya Railways has embraced the customer-centric approach and quality service,” Gaichuhie said. He said the certification will support the government's implementation of the Big Four agenda. The Big Four agenda includes affordable housing, manufacturing, universal healthcare and food security. Gaichuhie said the certification will help Kenya Railways to comply with laws and regulations within the transport sector. He said the revitalisation of the old meter-gauge railway, as well as the Mombasa-Naivasha SGR will boost the economy. “The Commuter Bus Service has improved customer experience,” the CAS said. He said the government was committed to finalising projects having allocated Sh27.2 billion for the construction of SGR Phase II in the next financial year. Present during the ceremony were Shipping and Maritime Affairs PS Nancy Karigithu, Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation-Kenya Transport and Logistics Network Chairman John Ngumi, Kenya Railways board chairman Pastor Awitta and Kenya Railways MD Philip Mainga. Mainga said Kenya Railways has undergone massive transformation since it was taken over from the Rift Valley Railways. “We have been expanding our operations over the last two years. We wish to remind our esteemed customers that they are our number one priority," Mainga said. Awitta said the corporation was ready to offer the best services to Kenyans and that its staff had already been trained to offer quality services. He said risk management and monitoring and evaluation will be used to ensure that quality is maintained. “Individuals will take responsibility for performance,” he said. Awitta said a commendable foundation has already been laid as the corporation transition from the previous ISO 9002:2008 to ISO 9001: 2015. He said over 100 employees have been equipped with knowledge on quality management. Kenya Bureau of Standards MD Bernard Njiraini said the certification process is a strategic decision to improve service delivery. “Enhance efficiency within your operations. You must comply to meet your objectives,” Njiraini told Kenya Railways officials. He said the improvement in service delivery will have a spillover effect on the profits made by the corporation. He said the corporation’s staff establishment should be based on competency needs. Njiraini said the Kenya Railway Training Institute is a centre of excellence and will continue churning out qualified personnel. “Equipment must be serviced regularly to avoid breakages and time wastage and exceed customer satisfaction,” he said.  Edited by P.O