Buxton residents want the payment terms and conditions changed and extended for their units being put up by Buxton Point Ltd. The residents were evicted in March to pave way for the construction of 1,860 new units to replace the 545 old and dilapidated ones. Many residents now say the units are too expensive and the two-year repayment period too short. On Monday, in a session with Haki Yetu Organization, an NGO dealing with land and housing issues, residents said the current terms and conditions are impossible for them to fulfil. They complained barely 10 days after they were taken through the process of application and acquisition of the new units once completed. The information session took place at Sheikh Zayed Hall by the developer, Buxton Point Ltd. It is associated with businessman politician Suleiman Shahbal. “Many of us can’t afford the units with the current terms and conditions,” Chai Mbaru, chairman of the Buxton Residents Welfare Association, said. On June 5, the residents were told they would be given priority and special terms for payment, including paying a deposit of 10 per cent for their preferred units, payable over six months. Other clients interested in the units will have to immediately pay a 20 per cent deposit instead. "We had promised the residents they will get first right and a lenient purchasing plan. This is what we are actualising," Buxton Point CEO Ahmed Badawy said. However, Mbaru said on Monday the developer backdated the payment period, indicating that it started from the moment they received their Sh240,000 relocation cheques back in March. “It should have started on June 5 when we were told of this special plan,” Mbaru said. The residents said a significant part of the Sh240,000 they received was spent on repairing or replacing household goods that were damaged during the eviction. “We were ambushed. Thus, most of our goods were damaged during the demolition,” John Tsuma, deputy secretary general of the welfare association said. He added, “This means, according to them, we have only three months left to pay our deposits. It is too much.” The residents were to receive a relocation package of Sh300,000 but the developer retained Sh60,000 as deposits for the new units on behalf of the residents, who would be given first priority for the new units. Mbaru said they are also required to complete the payment of the balance for their preferred units in two years The chairman said this is unaffordable for majority of the residents and they want the payment period extended from two years to at least 10 years. “Most of residents are retirees and low-income earners,” Mbaru said. For example, he said, he intends to purchase a three-bedroom unit that sells for  Sh4.2 million. “That means I have to pay a deposit of Sh420,000 and I have three months left. Then, going by their calculations, for me to complete the rest of the amount, I will have to fork out Sh160,000 per month to complete the payment in two years. I cannot afford that,” he said. The residents said the majority of them did not qualify for mortgages from the banks because of their age and small payslips. Most residents are retirees. They demanded they be given a tenant purchase scheme instead, meaning they will pay the normal rent until they eventually buy of the units. CEO Badawy said they are in talks with the county government to ensure the tenant purchase scheme is also actualised. County lands chief officer June Mwajuma said the residents have been given more lenient terms and should therefore take advantage and become homeowners. "One of the major concerns the residents have is the tenant purchase scheme. This would be the best mode for a majority of them to acquire the houses," Mwajuma said. She said a conversation with the national government is necessary. Haki Yetu lands officer Munira Ali said the developer and the residents have to sit down afresh and solve the issues. “There are a lot of issues that need to be ironed out. There is need for even the National Land Commission and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to be involved," Ali said. The Changamwe Old Estate is the next county government-owned estate to be regenerated and talks between the residents and the county staff are ongoing. However, the Buxton residents warned their Changamwe Old Estate counterparts to be ready for confusion and lack of transparency from both the county government and the developer. Changamwe Old Estate residents already say they do not have enough information because their leadership has been having secret talks with the county staff. “All we want is transparency in this whole issue. The land we sit on is public but things are being done as though the land is private," Kennedy Masheti, a Changamwe Old Estate resident, said. He said the developer, who is not the one developing Buxton, wants to give them a relocation package of Sh200,000, from which some Sh50,000 will be retained by the developer as deposit for the new units. “Why are Buxton residents given Sh300,000 while they want to give us Sh200,000? The same developer did the Pangani Estate in Nairobi and gave them a relocation package of Sh600,000,” Masheti said.  (Edited by V. Graham) 