The importance of location in buying real estate can not be overstated. All factors considered; location ultimately translates to a tangible return on your investment. How? Location generates demand which leads to competitive and profitable prices for your property, should you want to resell it in the future. Properties situated in prime locations usually command higher buying prices. You may opt for a more affordable option in a locality that is not as prime, but this will ultimately cost you. As affordable as the cost may be, you may incur future losses due to a limited demand for your property which limits your ability to secure competitive rental yields or a substantial return on your investment, should you sell. Another factor to consider on location is urbanity. Land is finite, therefore properties in urban areas that are already well-developed cost more than those in towns that still have room for growth and development. Therefore, properties in the outskirts of a town or city are usually more affordably priced. When looking for a home, find out about any planned future developments whether commercial, residential, or public. These developments directly impact the perceived attractiveness of the location of your home. It is important to take note of your desired neighborhood’s accessibility, security, amenities, and appearance. A neighborhood is prime when it has a good road and transport network with easy access to highways and transport centres, making your commute seamless. Appearance is also an important factor. Look out for things like the landscaping, communal areas, views, etc., these will help improve both the quality of your life and the desirability of your home to tenants and buyers. Proximity to social amenities like schools, daycares, hospitals, entertainment hubs, retail & commercial centres, etc., is also essential in making your house more appealing. One such property that is situated in a prime location is 365 Pavilion Place Apartments by Centum Real Estate. This gated estate is strategically located between Safari Park Hotel and USIU, a private neighborhood that is only 18 minutes from Nairobi’s CBD, a fundamental element for investors. This premium location and the high quality of these master ensuite units will ensure sustained occupancy rates all year round. Other elements that make Pavilion fundamentally desirable are the amenities within the estate. Residents will enjoy a fully equipped gym, daycare, play areas, courtyards, rooftop lounge areas, jogging tracks and multiple green spaces. Consider these factors when you are looking for your home. They will help you find a suitable location for your home which will ensure aa profitable return on your investment. For more tips on real estate investment, email us on centum.re@centum.co.ke.