World half marathon record holder Peres Jepchirchir believes she has what it takes to break the  mixed women world marathon record of 2:14.04 — currently held by compatriot Brigid Kosgei. The Ras Al Khaimah (RAK) Half Marathon champion said she has grown in leaps and bounds in the full marathon, having initially been jittery about her capabilities for the road race. "I know it will not be easy but I will try my best. It may not be easy to run 2:14 but I have come to realize that in marathons, the pace is different from half marathons," said Jepchirchir. "I used to pray to God so that I can run 2:17 and it happened therefore breaking the barrier is not hard. In a marathon, one can relax while running but in a half marathon, it is one way and high speed. The long distance in a marathon is as competitive as a half marathon and 10km but the power to challenge the endurance," Jepchirchir said. The 2020 Female Sports Personality of the Year first plans to clock 2:15 before targeting Kosgei's record. Jepchirchir said she has amassed valuable lessons and experiences from the road races she has run thus far and feels motivated to give her all in Sapporo where the marathons will be staged. Initially, she used to train less than 35km to 40km in half marathons, thinking that marathons are hard but changed her perception when she tried her first full marathon. "I ran two half marathons (Runczech and world half marathon), breaking records all through then I had good results at the Valencia marathon where I had 2:23.50 and managed to run 2:17.16. Marathons are painful to run but once you are in good shape and health,you can run  very well. I will not fear so much so long as I am in good shape and healthy, without any injury,” she explained. The World Half Marathon champion, who will be debuting at the Olympics, is part of a female trio who will be flying the Kenyan flag, including Kosgei and world marathon champion Ruth Chepngetich. She thanked Athletics Kenya for the show of faith in her by including her in the team. “After Valencia, I requested Athletics Kenya to include me in the Olympics team to represent the country in the marathon. They heard my request and now I am in the team. As we speak now, there is a lot of tension because as you know we have a very strong team in Kenya as well as other nations like Ethiopia who also happen to have a strong team. Ethiopians have had a long experience in marathon,” she said.