Some 170 reformed juvenile gang members were on Wednesday taken through de-radicalisation training by security agencies in Mombasa. The youths number 300 but only 170 were chosen for Wednesday’s ceremony at Frere Town Hall in Nyali subcounty because of Covid-19 protocols. Nyali District Peace Committee chair Mama Shamsa said the 300 are from 30 different gangs, which operated in Nyali subcounty. Nyali deputy county commissioner Harun Kamau said most of the youths had been inducted into extremism. “We have come to celebrate them for accepting to start a new life,” said Kamau. Mama Shamsa said Nyali was a hotspot of juvenile criminal gang activities, especially in Ziwa La Ng’ombe and Maweni areas. “The youths are reforming. That is why security in Nyali has improved,” said Shamsa. She said all subcounties need to be safe for Mombasa to be safe. “If Nyali is safe and Kisauni is not, then Nyali is not safe,” said Shamsa. Shamsa said the juvenile criminal gang members are calling out for love, acceptance back into society and someone to listen to them. “Parents also have to take responsibility for their children,” she said. Red Cross, Inter-Religious Council of Kenya, Mombasa Women of Faith Organization and individuals like Abdalla Abdulrahman have been working with the delinquent youths to try and change them. The National Counter-Terrorism Centre has also been helping reform the youths through various programmes aimed at giving hope and a sense of belonging. Kamau said a change of tack has seen more and more youths involved in gang activities abandon their ways. Security agencies are no longer using force to change the youths, but have adopted a more welcoming form of persuasion to reach out to the juvenile criminal gangs. “That is what we will be using going forward. We will use the reformed group to be our ambassador to move across the subcounty convincing the remaining groups to move away from crime,” said Kamau. “Yesterday, three more called and said they are ready (to surrender and change) but we are taking them through a process. We don’t just receive them,” said Kamau. “We believe if we act as one, if we build confidence, we may be able to receive more, not only from Nyali subcounty but also from the rest of the subcounties.” Mombasa county has six subcounties including Kisauni, Likoni, Jomvu, Changamwe and Mvita. Kisauni, Likoni and Nyali are most notorious for juvenile criminal gang activities. NCTC’s Colonel Harun Rashid Mohammed said they are developing a legal framework through which they can work with reformed juvenile gang members on a long-term basis to make them safe. Mohammed said their new soft power approach, run by the Kenya Defence Forces in the NCTC, is yielding fruit. “Through this approach, we have seen fewer and fewer youths crossing into Somalia. Eight years ago, we had more than 1,200 Kenyan youths in al Shabaab in Somalia. Today, we have about 400 only,” said Mohammed. NCTC now gets invitation from different organisations from the counties seeking help in having talks with youths willing to reform. “Terrorism is not a single entity issue. It has permeated through different pillars and sectors like ideology, education, economy and other sectors meaning it is entrenched in different places,” said Mohammed. However, he said, there are still challenges in trying to counter the narrative that the al Shabaab operatives used to lure Kenyan youth into Somalia. He noted that a National Counter-Violent Extremism Strategy which has county actions plans for different frontier counties like Mombasa, Kwale, Kilifi, Lamu, Mandera and Garissa is being used to counter the Shabaab narrative. “County action plans are tailor-made for the specific counties,” said Mohammed. He said the talks by genuine religious leaders in mosques and madrassas are now taking root and more clerics are coming out strongly to counter the Shabaab narrative, which deliberately misinterprets the Quran to confuse the youth. “In the past, sheikhs were more fearful and used to cower when it came to al Shabaab issues. Today they are more confident in speaking out against al Shabaab,” he said. He said more religious experts are however needed to effectively counter the Shabaab narrative, something that slows down their progress. “We have not built the capacity to reach out to as many places as required,” Mohammed said. He noted that some areas like in Lamu, Mandera and Garissa are still hotspots and insecure, thus making it difficult for civilians to reach out to the people there. “It is only security personnel that can access these areas, thus the progress becomes slow,” said Mohammed. Edited by Henry Makori