The Kisumu county assembly has passed a Sh10.7 billion budget for 2021-22. This financial year's budget is 15.61 per cent less than the Sh12.7 billion for 2020-21. Budget and appropriation committee chairman Steve Owiti said the funds have been shared among the 14 departments of the county government. "This House should properly oversight its implementation to enable us to recover from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and to fulfil the dreams, priorities and aspirations of the great citizens of this county who trusted us with this mandate for five years," he said. In the budget, the Health department got the lion's share of Sh3.7 billion. Of the amount, Sh2.8 billion will be directed to personnel and emoluments and Sh150 million will be spent on development. Finance received Sh2.1 billion, with Sh1.3 billion directed to development. Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries department got Sh699 million, while the county assembly received Sh802 million. Other departments allocated funds include the City of Kisumu and the Public Service Board, which were allocated Sh468 million and Sh77 million respectively. The Office of the Governor received Sh315 million, while the Public Administration got Sh287 million. The county will receive Sh7 billion from the equitable share, while Sh2 billion will come from development partners. Owiti said the balance will be generated from local revenue streams. The county targets Sh1.3 billion from markets, parking, boda bodas, rent, land rates, single business permits, building plans and signboard promotions. Owiti said in the last four years, the county has never collected enough revenue to meet its projected own source targets. He said the committee recommended the creation of a revenue collection board to increase revenue generation and collection. The team also wants the county to fast-track payment of pending bills that have continued to dent the image of the county. "Many contractors in Kisumu now shy away from doing business with the county because of delayed payments," he said. Edited by A.N