Nairobi MCAs could be punished if they amend the standing orders to remove the role of the political parties in determining assembly leadership. By removing the role of the parties, the MCAs will give themselves the power to elect their own assembly leaders. The ward reps have pledged to proceed with the plans and vote to amend the standing orders, cutting down parties' power. Jubilee Party secretary-general Raphael Tuju last week warned the MCAs who will defy the party’s position should prepare to face the consequences. The same sentiments were expressed by ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. Plans to change the standing orders will diminish Jubilee and ODM's role in determining party leadership in the assembly. “If it is not broken, why is it being changed? We are not going to allow them to dictate to us who is going to be elected or not. If one defies, then they should be ready for the consequences of whatever action the party takes,” Tuju said. He said leadership at the National Assembly and the Senate is decided by the party. "We are not trying to wield power or make people’s lives difficult, but we want people to have a sense of belonging. We don’t have legislation that will take away this. Currently, our majority leader in Nairobi is from a minority group even though most of our members are from Central,” Tuju said. He also said most of the MCAs pushing for the amendments were from ODM, and Jubilee will not be a party to the scheme to reduce powers from the Raila Odinga-led party as the spirit of the handshake prevails. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said they have their eyes on the members who vote for amendments. “The same efforts they are using to remove the party from the affairs of the assembly, are the same efforts the party will put into removing them from its affairs,” he said. In a letter dated June 7, Sifuna had also instructed ODM members to withdraw participation from the process. He said the amendments are injurious to the proper management of the affairs of political parties within the assembly under the law. He added that every MCA serves at the discretion of the party, which has the power to designate who represent its interests in the House. “Nairobi is the capital city and we cannot just have any person lead the party. Our position as ODM is the party has to have a say on who can best represent its interests. As a party, we know the capabilities of every member and that is why we designate,” Sifuna said. He said the push to amend the Standing orders was being promoted by a few MCAs who had already been dewhipped from committees. The process began on May 26 when Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi proposed the deletion of Standing Orders 20 and 21 on county assembly political parties leadership. The letter was addressed to Nairobi speaker Benson Mutura and seconded by Huruma MCA David Okelo and Waithaka MCA Antony Kiragu. In the new proposals, Oyugi wants the standing orders amended to read: the largest party or coalition of parties in the county assembly shall 'elect' instead of 'designate' the majority leader. The members argued that they wanted to align the standing orders with those in other county assemblies, as well as Parliament. Oyugi said the Senate, the National Assembly, Murang’a, Nakuru and Kiambu assemblies, among others, have similar standing orders. However, the Nairobi assembly's standing orders were changed before the 2017 General Election. “Nothing in this proposed amendment takes away from the party the power to discipline errant members," Oyugi said. "The party still remains supreme as it can summon anyone at any given time, be it a leader or an ordinary member. It is only leaders feeling threatened by the changes that are spreading propaganda to the party.” He said the proposals consider gender balance and any existing coalition agreement entered into pursuant to the Political Parties Act.  (edited by o owino)