President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced an accelerated vaccination plan with 26 million Kenyans - the entire adult population - to receive the Covid jab by the end of 2022. "By Christmas this year, we intend to vaccinate 10 million people," he said on Tuesday. The initial plan was to vaccinate 10 million adults by June 2022. Uhuru said according to experts, Kenya will have built a capacity to vaccinate 150,000 people every day from August2021. A total of 10 million vaccines have been ordered from J&J, with the first consignment arriving in August, the President said. Uhuru said negotiations have been made to obtain J&J at a cheaper price, so tfor the price of 10 million, a total of 13 million doses will be obtained. The Johnson and Johnson vaccine is administered using a single shot. Uhuru said if a vaccine for under-age populations is registered by early next year, Kenya intends to vaccinate an extra four million young adults by June 2022. "With a vaccinated population of 30 million people, this will allow us to begin the journey for ‘Herd Immunity’." Uhuru described the war on Covid as a see-saw. "For the last 15 months, our efforts of fighting this pandemic can only be described as a ‘containment seesaw’. And I call it a ‘seesaw’ because sometimes we win on one front and experience a loss on another front," he said. The President said the 7pm to 4am curfew put on 13 counties identified as hot spots will continue until July 31. The counties are; Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori. The 10pm to 4am curfew will be maintained for 60 days for the rest of the country. Uhuru said in-person worship will continue at a third capacity, while political and public gatherings have been banned for a further 60 days. The directive that funerals be held within 96 hours continues; while attendees at weddings are to be no more than 100. All entrants to Kenya must have a PCR certificate obtained no earlier than 96 hours prior to arrival. Uhuru also announced a long-term plan to set up a human vaccine centre. "This will elevate our nation to a producer of vaccines." Plan to import the vaccine unpackaged and finish the process in the country, making Kenya a hub for the region.