Kiambu MCAs are rooting for establishment of rehabilitation centres across the county to counter rampant alcoholism and substance abuse. The ward reps led by nominated MCA Anne Kariuki want the county government to quickly set up and equip the centres to save thousands of youths. They want at least one centre in every ward. Kiambu has 60 wards. Kariuki who spoke at the assembly while moving the motion on Wednesday said idleness and peer pressure have seen most youths turn to alcohol and drug abuse. She said the behaviours had become a menace. “There is a need for these centres to be up and running as soon as possible to save our youths and counter alcoholism in our county,” Kariuki said. The county government in partnership with other organisations has already set up one centre at Karuri Level 4 Hospital in Kiambaa subcounty. But Kariuki said the facility alone cannot handle the big number of youths who are in urgent need of rehabilitation. “This is why I’m stressing that we need to have a centre in all the 60 wards to cater for youths,” she said. Nominated MCA Caroline Wangati said the alcohol menace has affected many residents either directly or indirectly. She said the call for the establishment of the rehabilitation centers was timely. She said private facilities were charging expensively for services. “Alcoholism has affected all of us including my family. A few months ago, I went searching for a rehabilitation centre but was shocked by the charges at private facilities. It is very expensive and unaffordable for many people," Wangati said. MCAs asked the assembly committee on implementation and legal affairs to fast track the motion so the centres can be established. “As the committee goes through the other motions and bills in the assembly, I would like to urge them to give this one priority to ensure there are proper financial structures to support the building of these centers,” Kiuu MCA Daniel Ngugi said. Three months ago, Governor James Nyoro assented to The Alcoholic Drinks Control Amendment Act, 2021 which proposes the establishment of rehabilitation centers from a percentage of the revenue collected through liquor licensing. In February 2018, former Governor Ferdinand Waititu launched the ambitious county alcoholic addicts’ rehabilitation programme dubbed ‘Kaa Sober’ with the aim of controlling brewing, sale and consumption of illicit alcohol across the county. Waititu said alcohol abuse had rendered youths unproductive. Some 6,000 addicts were recruited into the programme and were engaged in manual works such as clearing bushes, unclogging trenches and collecting garbage. They were paid Sh400 per day. The addicts were also offered free counseling services. At least Sh1.3 billion was spent on the programme.  Edited by P.O