3,214 Kenyans committed suicide in 2019, the latest report by the World Health Organisation shows. The report, ‘Suicide worldwide in 2019: Global Health Estimates’ shows that men constituted the majority at 2,371. Only 843 were women. Kenya seems to be having a high suicide burden in the region. Uganda recorded 2,033 cases, Tanzania had 2,474, Rwanda 704 while South Sudan had 425 suicide cases. The report notes that more than one in every 100 deaths in 2019 (1.3 per cent) globally were from suicide. 703,000 people die by suicide every year, 77 per cent of which occur in low-and-middle-income countries. “Suicide is among the leading causes of death worldwide, with more deaths than malaria, HIV/AIDS, breast cancer, or war and homicide,” the report states. According to the report, suicide was the fourth leading cause of death in young people aged between 15 and 29 years for both sexes followed by road accidents, tuberculosis and interpersonal violence. For females and males, suicide was the third and fourth leading cause of death in this age group. The report recognises maternal factors as the second leading cause of death in women. “Suicide was the fourth leading cause of death in 15 to 19-year-olds for both sexes, with the number of deaths relatively similar between females and males in this age group,” the report states. The report further states that suicide was the third leading cause of death in 15 to 19-year-old girls (after maternal conditions) and the fourth leading cause of death in males (after tuberculosis) in this age group.” Suicide rates in the African region stand at 11.2 per 100 000 population. The Eastern Mediterranean region has the lowest suicide rate at 6.4 per 100 000 population. The report calls for a global acceleration of the decrease in the suicide mortality rate to reach the global target of a one-third reduction by 2030 which countries have committed to. “As the majority of suicides are estimated to occur in low- and middle-income countries, good-quality vital registration data are urgently needed in these settings,” it states. WHO has called on the countries to improve suicide surveillance to inform planning, priority setting, monitoring and evaluation in countries, and to assess progress towards global suicide mortality targets accurately. The high suicide rates have prompted the WHO to produce new guidance to help countries improve suicide prevention and care. “Our attention to suicide prevention is even more important now, after many months of the Covid-19 pandemic, with many of the risk factors for suicide; job loss, financial stress and social isolation still very much present,” WHO director general Tedros Ghebreyesus said. The report however appreciates that globally, suicide rates are going down except for the American region which went up in 20 years from 2000 to 2019 by 17 per cent. The WHO however notes that should the decline continue at its current rate, the global SDG and WHO targets to reduce suicide mortality by one third by 2030 will not be met. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)