Kenyans have been afforded a platform to drum up support for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games-bound athletes through a comprehensive consumer campaign rolled out by Kenya Breweries Limited. Speaking on Friday during the launch, KBL managing director, John Musunga, urged local sports enthusiasts to display patriotism by supporting the concept. “Cheers to the Champions is a chance for every Kenyan to come together to show support for our sportsmen and women as they continue their vigilant preparations for the Tokyo Olympics Games that this July. “We recently announced our partnership with Team Kenya through which we are looking to support them as they prepare for the Olympic Games. ‘Cheers to our Champions’ is therefore meant to rally all Kenyans behind a powerful cause which is celebrating our heroes heading to Tokyo to represent us,” added Mr. Musunga. The 12-week campaign will give consumers across the nation a chance to share goodwill messages with the athletes as they prepare for the Games scheduled to take place between July 23 and August 8. It is among a string of noble initiatives KBL has come up with in support of Team Kenya, including pumping Kshs 45 million into planning and preparation for the Olympics in early March. “The promotion ensures our consumers can enjoy their drink, stand a chance to win several prizes with an added value of being part of the Kenyan Olympics story,” said Musunga. “This campaign ties into our larger Kenya Milele Campaign that we recently launched that seeks to celebrate the Kenyan from all walks of life and their indomitable spirit,” he added. Meanwhile, the National Olympic Committee of Kenya, Secretary-General, Francis Mutuku lauded KBL for rolling out the campaign, saying it will bolster the team’s preparation and ensure an even better outcome at the games. “We are grateful to KBL for their continued support to Team Kenya. The promotion is validation that they continue to see the importance of giving our athletes the necessary platform to excel at the Olympic games. “The preparations for a global competition are usually grueling and require extreme dedication and sacrifice. This backing from Kenyans I believe will provide extra motivation for the team to do well and this will translate into better results in Tokyo,” said Mutuku. The campaign will run from Monday, 28th June until the end of the Olympic Games in August. To be part of the campaign Kenyans will be required to register through sending an under-the-crown code to the number 29844 where they will have chances to win from an array of prizes following their registration. During the exercise, Kenyans will get the opportunity to win daily prizes and sporting merchandise – including Enda sports shoes -and monthly trips to various destinations around the country. Kenyans from across the country will be able to text or record a 10-second message to their champions through various platforms throughout the Olympic period. Participants will also stand a chance to win daily cash and airtime, weekly sports merchandise, and monthly Magical Kenya experiences as they continue to enjoy their favourite beer – Tusker.