The tourism sector is upbeat ahead of the high season starting July even as Covid-19 continues to hamper travel. There are already major events lined up such as the World Safari Rally to be held in Naivasha. The United States has downgraded Kenya’s travel advisory to Level Two, down from Level Four, adjusting travel guidance for vaccinated Americans in the process. In a notice dated June 8, 2021, the US Centre for Disease Control and Prevention  issued a Level 2 Travel Health Notice for Kenya due to Covid-19, indicating a moderate level of Covid-19 in the country. The update comes as a huge relief to tourism stakeholders as it raises hope for more international visitors, many of who had avoided travelling to Kenya since the onset of Covid-19 in the country last year. Kenya Tourism Federation chairman, Mohammed Hersi said the easing of travel restrictions by America is good news and will allow the tourism sector to salvage what is left of the high season. The United States is a major source of tourists for the country and the travel advisory imposed in April would have greatly affected the number of visitors in this years high season Latest data from the Tourism Research Institute (TRI) shows US was ranked as the second highest source markets for tourists in Kenya from January to October 2020, with 53,444 tourists. Hersi said that events such as the safari rally will be a major attraction for tourists who want to come to Kenya during the season. Silvester Mbandi, General Manager, Baobab Beach Resort & Spa has also welcomed the move by the United States saying America is a really key source of tourists. “Americans really enjoy Kenya as a destination from doing bush tours to visiting the beach, we look forward to hosting them,” Mbandi said. Kenya Association of Hotelkeepers and Caterers (KAHC) Coast branch executive officer Sam Ikwaye welcomed the move by the US saying the international market had really been affected by the advisories. “As the high season nears, the reopening of some of these international markets is good and not only for the tourism sector but for all businesses as a whole,” said Ikwaye. The tourism sector is re-positioning itself to reap from the World Rally Championship (WRC) set for June 24-17 in Naivasha. The Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) has termed the event a score for the Kenya’s positive brand visibility. “The safari rally as is known for many years, is an important opportunity to showcase what the destination has for both the domestic and international traveller,” said KTB acting Chief executive officer, Allan Njoroge. Naivasha is already abuzz with all kind of preparations with hospitality sector expected to reap from arrivals of both local and international participants for the 4-day long event. Most hotels in the region from Enashipai Resort, Hylise resort, Grand Tiara hotel, Lake Naivasha resort are reporting 70-80 per cent bookings “We are ready to host tourists from all over the world, Naivasha is a good destination for leisure and business but after the rally they can also visit the beaches in Mombasa,” said George Ndungu, a team leader, food and beverage at Sawela lodges. The 2021 WRC event which had been postponed in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic comes at a significant time when the country is looking forward to fully open up for tourism and gives an opportunity for the world to see the destinations preparedness.