Far too many men are beaten by their wives sucked into aggressive women's empowerment campaigns and becoming feminist fighters. These were the sentiments of Kirinyaga ACK Bishop Joseph Kibicwa and professional counsellor Rose Wachira on Saturday at St Thomas ACK Church. The occasion was the induction of more than 200 men into the Kenya Anglican Men’s Association (Kama) ministry. Couples were urged tame their tempers to respect each other and live in harmony to curb increasing cases of domestic violence. Bishop Kibicwa said violence has risen to "uncontrollable levels" in many homes. He especially condemned husband battery. Many men have narrated ordeals they have been subjected to by their wives, forcing them to flee their homes. Others suffer in silence. “We want respect and order to thrive in our homes. Wives should respect their husbands and vice versa. This will teach their children to respect them and be their role models,” the bishop said. The men were taken through rigorous training on how to serve their families, community and church, and especially how to guide younger men. Counselor Wachira urged women to appreciate their husbands' efforts to provide for their families and their future. “Appreciate them by thanking them and giving them peace of mind. Help each other and be good role models to your children who automatically will look up to you on household and family matters," she said. Washira also attributed the increase in gender-based violence to aggressive women's empowerment campaigns embraced overwhelmingly in society. “From our education systems to economic matters, women have continually become more empowered, thus diminishing habits like male chauvinism and patriarchal settings. "Little wonder, many women nowadays will not tolerate oppression from men. They will fight to the very end until their voice or action is respected.” Wachira also cited drugs and alcohol abuse that she said have tampered with men's hormones and egoes, thus weakening them, allowing women to take over their homes. She said the economic depression has forced men to dig deeper into their pockets while others struggle to make ends meet. This she says has brought forth frustrated men hence largely destabilising their families. “Men are in most cases the breadwinners. Unfortunately, the financial crisis aggravated by the pandemic has resulted in diminished or drained resources. This has resulted in struggling men unable to provide for their families." Andrew Ngirichi, the husband of Woman Representative Wangui Ngirichi, urged the government to create an enabling  environment for men to run their business. “The domestic violence being witnessed is a result of financial problems. Something ought to be done to bring peace in our homes.” Ngirichi advised men to support their wives vision as a way to build and complement each other. He announced his unwavering support for his wife bid for the governor's seat next year. She will face Governor Anne Waiguru and Nark Kena leader Martha Karua. (Edited by V. Graham