"As co-chair of the GPE 2021-2025 replenishment campaign, Kenya acknowledges and thanks the Commission for pledging EUR700 million and Italy MFA for pledging EUR25 million. Uhuru said the aim of the education financing conference is to raise 5 billion US dollars to ensure that all children, particularly those in developing countries, have equitable access to quality education. This comes hours after the president asked universities to invest in research and training that support the Kenya's Competency-Based Curriculum. 'The Competence Based Curriculum is a revolutionary step we took as a country to provide our learners with twenty-first-century practical skills relevant to the needs of the present world," the President said. He spoke on Friday when he awarded a charter to the Aga Khan University-Kenya (AKU) in Nairobi. Under the new the 2–6–3–3–3 education system, learners will spend two years in pre-primary education, six in primary, three in junior secondary, three in senior secondary school and another three in university. With the new programme, Grades 7, 8 and 9 will be domiciled in secondary schools with more focus on child development – effectively bringing to an end the examination-based culture. While in Aga Khan University, Uhuru also urged universities to concentrate on producing graduates who can tackle global challenges and make the world a better place. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday congratulated UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson for pledging £430 million(approximately Sh65 billion) towards the GPE The Global Partnership for Education (GPE) campaign. The president said the announcement marks a momentous day for Education campaign, which Kenya co-hosts alongside the UK. The two countries are set to host a two-day conference on global partnership for education financing on July 25 and 26 this year. Uhuru said the pledge aligns with the emphasis and significance that the UK has placed on girls' education during its G7 Presidency. "Kenya is grateful to PM Boris Johnson and the UK for for leading the call to fund Education and for rallying world leaders at the G7 and beyond to invest more in education as a way of leading the global recovery and building back better from the Covid-19 pandemic," he said.