Kenya has shifted focus to border points to stop the proliferation of falsified medical products in the country. Falsified and substandard drugs may contain toxic doses of dangerous ingredients and can lead to poisoning, early death and treatment failure. The Pharmacy and Poisons Board has adopted risk-based approaches in market surveillance, including targeted sampling, testing and risk-profiling of manufacturers based on market complaints. The board has established strategic partnerships with international, bilateral organisations and other government agencies like Kenya Police, customs, KRA, Kebs, Interpol and the World Health Organization to boost surveillance. There have been crackdowns during which pharmaceutical imports have been seized, pharmacy retail points closed and licensed pharmacists deregistered. “Among the technologies and innovations that have been incorporated in testing include Raman spectroscopic techniques and MiniLab techniques,” PPB chief executive officer Dr Fred Siyoi said. Kenya, just like the rest of the world, has been grappling with fake drugs. In April, government officials destroyed Sh32.3 million medical products seized at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in 2018. The 346.3kg consignment was being smuggled through the airport as personal luggage. The products, which were wrapped in sacks, included mifepristone tablets and other assorted medicines mixed in sacks. WHO estimates that one in four packets of medicine sold in street markets in developing countries could be fake. The global health agency notes that commonly counterfeited drugs include antibiotics, antimalarials, hormones and steroids. Others are anticancer and antiviral drugs. Counterfeiters take inert ingredients such as chalk and even dangerous chemicals, package them convincingly and sell them to consumers. In common with illegal narcotics, fake drugs are trafficked across borders, hidden in items such as teddy bears or labelled as animal feed. Having escaped detection by customs authorities, the drugs are repackaged in the destination country. PPB head of post-market surveillance Dr Karim Wanga said falsification of medical products is a global problem that threatens the gains made in implementation of Sustainable Development Goals on universal healthcare. “To address the problem, PPB has established a robust post-market quality surveillance system, including an electronic system for reporting suspected poor quality medicines,” Wanga said. The board has also established the Kenya Pharmacovigilance/post-market surveillance technical working group. The team was tasked with provision of technical support to the board as it works towards ensuring quality, safety and efficacy of medical products and health technologies. WHO in 2006 launched a task force to fight the thriving multimillion-dollar illegal trade in counterfeit drugs, vaccines and other medical products. The International Medical Products Anti-Counterfeiting Taskforce was established to put a stop to the trade in fake drugs.