Increasing cases of kidnapping in the country have been cited as part of major threats to stability ahead of the 2022 general elections. The boda boda menace too was on Wednesday cited as the main enabler of crimes and a threat to security as the country prepares for the polls. This was revealed during a meeting of regional commissioners and county commissioners in Nairobi with top security officials led by interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i. The security chiefs said the boda boda operators are being sponsored and protected by some politicians and that they operate with impunity. “Apart from them being enablers of crime, they are a menace to security at large and must be reigned on at all costs if we intend to have peaceful pre and post-election,” said Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho. Those in attendance were told to enumerate the threats in their areas and how they intend to address them. Some cited terrorism, clanism, hate speech, cattle rustling and criminal gangs. Matiang’i said they are determined to conduct violent free polls and urged for cooperation from all stakeholders to achieve the goal. “We must change how elections are held in this country. We must not have demonstrations before or after the polls and this is achievable,” he said. The meeting was called to discuss the threats that are seen ahead and how to mitigate them. Matiang’i said general elections provide an opportunity for citizens to elect those leaders that they feel will change their lives. “Elections are not a moment to perpetuate ethnic politics, hatred and to champion personal differences. All peace-loving Kenyans desire to participate in mature politics that are development-driven,” he said. He said as a country, they need leaders who inspire conversations that deepen our people’s confidence in the government of the day. The CS said it is a shame that in Kenya, every time the country approaches the electioneering season, there is high-level ethnic tensions, hate speech, voter bribery, and intimidation that often culminates into electoral violence. “A closer review of the political dynamics in the country, mirrored by the previous by-elections, points to possible conflict and electoral violence in 2022, which calls for all to ensure this does not come to pass.” He said there is a need for enhanced peace initiatives, including monitoring of conflict early warning signs, to provide real-time response. He said a Multi-Agency Team will develop Standard Operating Procedures on Peace and Security Management of the 2022 General Elections to guide the country through the elections period. The CS told those in attendance there is a lot of commotion across the country with little motion hence need to redefine their roles as National Government Administrators. He told the security chiefs they have a critical role to play by conducting civic education which is largely dissemination of political education designed to increase the level of consciousness in a society that is otherwise characterized by patrimonial and paternalist political cultures. “This political education is aimed at not only bringing about the change of attitudes towards candidates but also enhancing the capacity of our people to interpret Kenya’s objective reality,” the CS said. This process, he said, will assist the Elections Management Body in its mandate of delivering a free, fair, efficient and cost-effective election. This will include the basic voter information that every voter must have to arrive prepared at the voting station and vote on the dedicated voting day, sensitizing the electorate on the importance of participating in elections and providing the background, attitudes, behaviours, and knowledge among citizens that stimulate and consolidate democracy. He said Kenyans are looking up to the security chiefs as the last line of defence and directed them to start re-engineering our engagements with the public through our public barazas, which offers perfect platforms for the exchange and dissemination of electoral information. Matiang’i called for an enhanced multi-agency approach to mitigate against hate speech and directed those in attendance to collaborate with other agencies in its monitoring and management. “Regulation of political activities should be enhanced to minimize hate speech and propaganda,” he said. He told the security chiefs to offer effective coordination for all national government projects including special attention to matters relating to inter-communal conflicts management,  disaster response and coordination, war on drugs, inter-governmental relations with county governments and small arms and light weapons. They must also coordinate border security, security of critical infrastructure, terrorism and violent extremism organized criminal gangs, registration of persons, police and national government and administration officers reforms, civil registration matters and Human Resources Management. He told the regional and County Security committees to start engaging with relevant stakeholders with a view of coming up with election preparedness plans. Matiang’i told the officials to take responsibility for the various decisions taken to avoid unnecessary escalation of issues that could have otherwise been dealt with at their level.