The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission launched its strategic plan and operational plan last week. The latter covers activities they want to undertake before the election. So they already have a plan; then the work begins. We heard the IEBC announce they would start with voter registration with the money they received. The money was allocated, but I doubt whether it can cover everything that is needed. Looking at the amount given to the commission and considering the cost of the last general election, which was Sh45 billion, whatever they have is still peanuts. My only fear is there would be a referendum. Good preparation for the election will follow if we don’t have that referendum process so that the IEBC can concentrate on the 2022 vote. They have their work cut out. There are laws they may want to push through, for instance, the campaign financing laws, which are time-bound. There are regulations that should be in place within 12 months of the election, meaning they have only a month to process the legislation and send the bills to Parliament. We also have the electoral reform laws, the referendum laws, and the other laws that affect the election that need to be processed. There are two issues that are outstanding. One, there must be a full house for them to become functional as the High Court ruled they can’t function unless the rest of the commissioners are in place. The selection panel must work with speed so that we have the four commissioners posted. Then they need to be inducted. Otherwise, we may have a commission where the political class chooses four commissioners who work for them. There may be three who will not be on the same page with the others. This may result in a split. We need to fast-track this process to create harmony. The IEBC has also finished the vendor process for Kiems kits. Procurement takes 90 days. But if it's challenged, we may not have technology until next year. Then will it be tested in time? Will people be trained and deployed? The ELOG national coordinator spoke to the Star