BIDCO Africa has launched Planet Tangawizi, a new Ginger Soda in the Kenyan market. The new innovative carbonated soft drink was launched by the Chief Administrative Secretary (CAS), Ministry of Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development, Hon. David Osiany when he paid a courtesy call at BIDCO Industrial Park (BIP) in Ruiru – Kiambu County. Flanked by Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) Director of Quality Assurance and Inspection Mr.Bernard Nguyo, Hon. Osiany lauded BIDCO’s continued dedication and trust in Kenyan market by introducing and launching new products even in uncertain times. “Our role as Government is to create an enabling environment for investors by listening to their needs and challenges then identifying the relevant areas of support; what BIDCO has done today is a mark of confidence in our economy,” said Osiany. In a move to foster relations and collaboration between the public and the private sector, the joint visit by the Ministry and KEBS aimed to identify possible avenues through which the government can support grow the potential of manufacturers as part of the Big 4 Agenda while upscaling the economy. During the visit, BIDCO Africa showcased the huge multibillion investment in 4 manufacturing units that have brought to the local and regional scene, world-class systems used in the production of its food and beverage range of products. “I have gladly noted the impressive knowledge and skills transfer that has enabled understanding of the sophisticated machines which are at the centre of the company’s operations. As government, we will continue to support industry players to affirm the Big 4 Agenda and play strong in the now opened regional markets such as AfCTA,” said Hon. Osiany. Speaking during the plant tour, BIDCO Africa Group Chairman Dr. Vimal Shah noted that the company’s commitment to further invest to help grow the economy is firm. He lauded the government’s support in ensuring ease of doing business to help attract more investors that will position the country’s competitiveness. “We continue to put a mark of faith in the potential of our nation; we are glad to host the representatives from government today and with mutual beneficial winning partnerships, there exists a massive potential to boost our economic landscape through industry and public sector engagement,” said Dr. Vimal. KEBS Director of Quality Assurance Mr. Bernard Nguyo expressed his satisfaction with BIDCO’s level of compliance and adherence to both local and international standards of quality while setting pace for local players to define the market landscape. “We are impressed by the investment that BIDCO has put in place to ensure the consistent production of high-quality products meant for local consumption and export markets. This goes a long way in our mandate to setting high standards of quality as a nation,” said Mr. Nguyo. Planet Tangawizi is an additional brand in the Planet range of beverages already available in Kenyan market in three flavors of Soda namely Planet Orange, Planet Passion Pineapple and Planet Mixed Berries plus Planet Aqua water available for wholesome family refreshing consumption.