Lake Region Economic Bloc counties have insufficient oxygen supply in the wake of the Covid-19 surge, chairman Wycliffe Oparanya has said. Oparanya, who is also the Kakamega governor, told a press conference on Monday that the county had lost 19 people since June 1, translating into one person per day. He said 20 patients were admitted to the Kakamega County General Hospital and Mumias Isolation centre. Of the number, three were in the ICU, seven on oxygen and two on ventilators. The patients were from Siaya, Kisumu, Kakamega and Vihiga counties. Kakamega has acquired a new oxygen plant that can produce 1,000 litres per minute to help meet demand. “The plant that we have currently produces only 300 litres of oxygen per minute. We have imported a new one that is already at the Port of Mombasa and will be installed soon,” Oparanya said. He said governors from the region have formed a committee of eminent persons to monitor the progress in containing the virus. “The committee will monitor the bed occupancy within the region so that patients within the 14 counties of the bloc are referred to where beds are in cases where some facilities are full,” he said. The county chief said the governors will hold a meeting in Kisumu on Friday to review the progress in implementation of the containment measures. The government declared 13 of the counties in the lake region Covid-19 hotspots and reviewed containment measures for the next 30 days. The measures include expanded curfew from 7 pm to 4 am, suspension of church services and none food and livestock markets. This followed a surge in the delta strain of Covid-19. Oparanya also announced that non-essential staff in the county will be working from home for the next 14 days. He said only a third of MCAs will be allowed to attend house sittings in person; all committee meetings will be held virtually. The governor said the regional summit meeting will also review the effect of schools on the spread of the virus. “You know education is a national government function and we can only advise as governors because we are on the ground,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)