Machakos and Kericho counties have threatened to shut down services, sending residents into crisis over lack of funds. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and his Kericho counterpart Paul Chepkwony on Wednesday said they will have no choice but to stop services on Monday, should the national government fail to disburse funds. "If we don't receive funds by Thursday evening, I will shut down all services," Mutua said. 'Denial' of counties' funds is setting a dangerous trend, he warned. "It is calling for a revolution and opening up for disaster," the Machakos governor said. The presidential aspirant is on a Coast tour to meet with his Maendeleo Chap Chap party officials in the region. Chepkwony also said they have not received funds from the exchequer for the last three months. "We will discontinue service delivery because we have no option," he said. The two spoke at Whitesands Hotel after a lengthy discussion. The health sector will be the biggest casualty in a shutdown. The two governors said they will send home workers because they will have no service to give residents. “Our locum workers have not been paid for the last seven months. We cannot continue giving services to patients yet there is no medicine in the hospitals,” Mutua said. He said the Machakos Level 5 Hospital is a referral facility, serving other counties yet it cannot serve its own residents. Mutua said the "cat and mouse games" the national government is playing with county governments is a deliberate move to keep Kenyans poor so as to easily rule over them. He said it is illogical for the national government to keep paying national government staff but failing to disburse money to county governments. "The hungry are usually ruled by those who are full," Mutua said. Kenya is not a poor country, he said. It is only suffering from theft of public resources, Mutua said, reiterating President Uhuru Kenyatta's sentiments that Sh2 billion is stolen every day. He said Coast residents want the revival of factories and money in their pockets. "That is why we want to take over the leadership of this country so we can ensure we have factories in every subcounty," Mutua said. He said his Chap Chap party was formed to help Kenyans get food on the table and have development in their subcounties. "Other parties were formed to get positions," Mutua said in an apparent reference to the Jubilee Party. He said Jubilee did not believe in devolution. "If you believed in devolution, you would prioritise counties," he said. "Were our people in counties created by Satan and those in the national government created by God?" he asked. He was quick, however, to exonerate President Kenyatta, saying he is a firm believer in devolution. "It is within the system that there is a problem," he said. Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu on Tuesday read from a different script, saying shutting down counties is not a solution. In response, Mutua said counties are different. "Over 75 per cent of counties will not be able to deliver services. "Other counties may not have used their development funds well, so they may have money to pay salaries. Others like Machakos have used all our development funds and can't divert money from any other source," Mutua said. (Edited by V. Graham) 