In 2012, I published my first book, Fit to Lead. In it, I drew the parallel between health and leadership. The book was inspired by the death of Apple’s co-founder, Steve Jobs. Like the rest of the world, I was shocked by the passing of such a great mind, but it gave me a simple epiphany: every visionary need to pay attention to their body in the pursuit of success. If your body is unhealthy, the time that you need to express your vision may be cut short. You cannot ignore your body because it is a major success factor. Generally, professionals work till they burn out or develop some disease before they pay attention to the needs of their bodies – this is a mistake. Your physical health should be one of your top five priorities in life; it is unwise to push for success at the expense of your health. It is time for you to rest. Yes, rest your body. It is time for that overdue vacation; it is time to give your body a break. Your body needs time and space for rejuvenation and repair. You do not have to break down, heed your body’s warnings and do what is best for your health. Your dream, work, and family needs you healthy. You need to slow down and rest. As you pursue success, respect your body. An unhealthy lifestyle and chronic stress are disrespectful to your body. Learn to honor your body by giving it what it deserves to stay healthy. The body gives its best when its accorded due respect. Science proves that when the body is well-rested, productivity increases. Here, you can do more in less time because you are not distracted by your low energy – this is when people drink lots of coffee to stay awake, are tired by midday, and struggle at work the rest of the day. This struggle is unnecessary if you prioritize rest. Your body is more important than your work – please read it again. The thinking that work is more important than health has killed many professionals. The proof is simple: when you are admitted to The Nairobi Hospital and unconscious, it will not matter that you are the CEO of Safaricom. It is time for business leaders to wake up to the fact that the body’s state of health is a business factor – when health is affected, your dream or idea is affected. Rest your body; it is a wise management decision. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com