Old cultural practices in Kwale consider it taboo for older respected family members and in-laws to share a toilet or latrine with other relatives. That's one of the reasons behind rampant open defaecation in some areas, even Diani, Kwale and Kombani. It's an abomination, a sin, even witchcraft. Most families in remote areas have yet to build toilets because of this belief, which has hobbled the county's plan to improve hygiene and sanitation. Kwale has been leading a campaign to achieve an open defecation-free society. In 2014, the Ministry of Health said 51 per cent of residents were still defaecating in the open. The situation hasn't improved much. County field public health officer Joshua Waema said some residents are totally opposed to having toilets in their houses. And so they relieve themselves to uphold this belief. “Some locals still believe it is taboo or sinful to share a toilet with relatives they respect the most," Waema said. He said some families have been forced to build toilets, just to satisfy the public health officers, but they do not use those facilities. “They keep on going into the bushes,” he said. Waema said the belief is widely shared in parts of rural areas, where people live in extended families. Mbuguni and Shimba Hills in Matuga subcounty are notorious for having huge numbers of locals opposed to toilets. Sharing toilets is considered abomination or witchcraft. Some people believe they may contract serious illness when their waste combines with that of respected in-laws and family members. Resident Hassan Mwabega said some in the Mijikenda community believe "sharing toilets with in-laws is the most disrespectful act that could lead to a curse". He said he used to believe the myth but now that he has been educated about toilets and hygiene, he has changed his mind. “I know how to practise and uphold better hygiene standards,” Mwabega said. Mbarak Matano said they used to believe “sharing a toilet with an elder relative is like practicing incest, which is forbidden.” Waema advised residents to abandon the practice, adding that it is a health hazard as urine and faeces seep into ground and the water. He said open defaecation leads to waterborne diseases. “We are now campaigning against those odd beliefs so that we help the communities that are resisting change. We are also trying to stop the health crisis,” he said. In April, during a hygiene programme at Kwale Cultural Centre, county public health officer Said Mdune revealed that open defaecation was still rampant, even in the fast-growing towns. Through the numerous campaigns, 70 per cent residents have now built toilets within their homestead. Though the challenge now has been to use the facilities. The Kwale government, with support of the Water Trust Fund, embarked on a campaign to help residents construct modern latrines. Through the programme, any family with a standard modern toilet is awarded Sh80,000 and the money is increased depending on the number of latrines per homestead. By the end of last year, more than 115 modern toilets had been constructed and approved for use. However, 100 per cent defaecation-free will be hard to achieve. (Edited by V. Graham) 