Firebrand Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion's second term has been chaotic. The once-mighty union lost more than 90 per cent of members, going from having 187,000 in its books to remaining with only 16,000 teachers. With the few remaining members, Sossion still had to weather an internal rebellion. He survived three attempts to remove him. Sossion's nomination by the Orange Democratic Party to Parliament also stirred controversy, with the tutors' employer leading a protracted battle to deregister him. When it couldn't outmuscle Sossion, the Teachers Service Commission devised means to decimate his influence by refusing to remit members' union dues. TSC further cancelled the union’s recognition agreement in 2019 and stalled promotion for Knut members. For the first time, the union last year failed to hold its annual delegates conference and Sossion said it was due to lack of funds. One would imagine that such a tortuous term would make Sossion raise his hands up in defeat. Not the Knut boss. He is seeking another five-year term. On Saturday, 1,876 teachers' delegates from across the country will converge in Nairobi to pick new Knut officials in a do-or-die battle for Sossion. The secretary general will face off with acting national chairman Collins Oyuu. Other than the powerful post of secretary general, representatives will also fill 11 slots in the National Steering Committee. The NSC runs the day-to-day activities of the union including dealing with management and administrative issues. In Saturday's elections, delegates will also pick 44 representatives to seats in the National Executive Committee. The NEC is the supreme decision making organ. It okays all matters including industrial action and salary negotiations with TSC. The seats will be filled through secret ballot. The voting strength allocated to the regions shows that the Rift Valley could hold sway in the battle to control Knut, which has been teetering on brink of collapse in the last five years. The Rift valley, Sossion's backyard, has a total of 503 delegates followed by Nyanza which boasts 327 delegates. Western has 236 delegates Central 210 and Coast 138. Other regions include Nairobi which has 43 delegates, Eastern 393, Northeastern 26. There are also claims that major political players in the 2022 elections including Deputy President William Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga are keenly watching the polls. The country has more than 300,000 trained teachers whose massive vote basket could prop up a presidential candidate who gets their support. Sossion is a close ally of Raila, whose ODM party favoured him with a nomination as an MP representing workers in the 12th Parliament. His stranglehold of the union has been slackened by internal squabbles that have alienated him from other members of the top leadership. Sossion's chances of retaining his seat in the upcoming union elections appear slim after members from different regions rejected his bid. The chairman of branch officials from Nyanza region Samuel Omwaga told the Star that they will seek change to revive the union. Omwaga said that he had earlier led a delegation to Sossion’s home to appeal to him to “allow sanity to prevail”. “We have 110 branches across the country. These branches have not received any money in the last two months yet they have permanent staff and other bills to pay. Maybe if Sossion exits things will get better," Omwaga said. Sossion, 5o, has amplified the voice of teachers for nearly a decade, but it is now feared that he could be losing grip. He has steered Knut first as the chairman before taking over the role of the secretary general. His critics argue that his hardline stance is the cause of woes facing teachers. At the centre of his differences with the TSC and the ministry are newly imposed directives meant to enhance the quality of teaching. Other issues are the five major policies that came to force with the 2017-21 CBA. Steady rise The graduate of Egerton University first came into the limelight as a regional union official in Bomet on April 27, 2001. In 2007, Sossion won the seat of second vice national chairman and went on to be elected Knut first national vice chairman, before being elected as the union’s chairman in 2011. His rise to national leadership is attributed to his eloquence and abrasive demeanour. Those familiar with Sossion’s rise say former Knut trade unionist Francis Ng’ang’a nurtured and kept him close. Sossion’s daring courage and passion to confront matters head-on gave him an upper hand. With time, he outshone then secretary general Okuta Osiany as the official spokesperson. He drove the message they sought to pass across home whenever they addressed the media. Government project In an interview with the Star on Monday, Sossion termed Oyuu a government project out to destroy the union. "There is a plan by some of the union officials to bring down the union and this is through a sympathiser Collins Oyuu; we know this, and Knut delegates will not allow that to happen," Sossion said. Others argue that the exit of Sossion will mark the end of the union. Recently, Sossion objected to the elections citing the current Covid-19 pandemic that require social distancing, masking and sanitising. However, Oyuu insists that the elections slated for June 25 to 26 will go on as planned at the Ruaraka Sports Club despite efforts to derail the process. Oyuu Thursday alleged Sossion secretly sent a letter to the Health ministry to stop physical meetings over the weekend. He accused Sossion of misleading teachers, terming the alleged letter to the ministry as being in bad taste. Oyuu argued that Sossion ignored proposals by Knut’s Covid-19 protocol sub-committee that has to give guidelines on the handling of elections. “We are prepared because we have identified and paid up for the venue, delegates have already signed up and booked places," he said. Oyuu told the Star his main aim will be to bring back the teachers who have exited the union in the last three years. In that period, the union has been clouded with uncertainty and faced increasing resistance from within as well as hostility from outside quarters. Its income has dwindled from Sh144 million to Sh15 million against a salary portfolio of Sh80 million for over 600 workers spread across the country. A series of disagreements on the promotion of teachers, transfer and registration are behind the division both internally and with the state have rocked the union. Today all that remains of this once-thriving union is a heap of court battles and plenty of animosities.  (edited by o. owino)