Jubilee leaders have been warned against setting foot in Kiambaa if their intention is to campaign against party candidate for the forthcoming parliamentary by-election. A lobby group calling itself Kiambaa Jubilee Movement on Wednesday said it will not allow leaders associated with the party to campaign against their candidate. Jubilee Party has Tangatanga and Kieleweke factions that have been running different campaigns for different candidates in recent by-elections. The Tangatanga group has often supported UDA candidates or those running as independents. In the Kiambaa parliamentary race, the group is backing UDA candidate John Njuguna. But the Kiambaa Jubilee Movement says they will not allow 'outsiders' to campaign for candidates in the race. It said Kiambaa was a Jubilee zone and that they will work hard to ensure the party retains the parliamentary seat. Jubilee has fielded businessman Kariri Njama as its candidate. “We have come together as Kiambaa Jubilee Movement drawn from all the five wards across the constituency so that we can help our President to capture the seat through the Jubilee Party,” group leader Joseph Ndung'u said. They addressed a press conference in Ruaka. Ndung'u said the group is keen on averting a situation like that which happened in Juja last month where Jubilee lost to Moses Kuria's Peoples Empowerment Party. George Koimburi (PEP) beat Jubilee's Susan Waititu. Ndung'u said they will embark on door-to-door campaigns to popularise the party and drum up support for Njama. “We know that there are leaders elected on a Jubilee party ticket who have started coming to Kiambaa so that they can humiliate and spoil for President Uhuru Kenyatta,” he said. Kiambaa is in Uhuru's Kiambu backyard and a loss will largely leave his claim as the region's political kingpin severely dented. Grace Wairimu asked Kiambaa residents to elect a person from the ruling party so that development projects that were started by former Paul Koinange are completed. “We are calling on voters to support the government by electing the Jubilee candidate because we do not want to miss out on development projects due to politics," Wairimu said. She said it was disrespectful for Jubilee leaders to campaign for other candidates. The group asked the party's top leadership including secretary-general Raphael Tuju to liaise with grassroots leaders to ensure even voters in remote areas are reached. "Even President Uhuru Kenyatta should come out and campaign for the Jubilee candidate as our party leader." Youth leader Peter Kamau said the lobby was formed in 2017 to popularise the Jubilee Party. "Jubilee has roots on the ground and it is the leaders that are bringing divisions amongst our people. We are saying that we have realised what is happening and we are supporting the President and his Jubilee administration," Kamau said.  Edited by P.O