A coalition of civil society organisations has called on the Nyeri government to work progressively towards achieving equity in the distribution of resources. The Nyeri County Budget Coalition said it was ready to work with the administration to achieve the goal. The activists emphasised the need for the county to meet the five principles of equity which are needs, minimum share, capacity, effort and efficiency. They spoke when they met the county chief officer for Economic Planning, Francis Kirira, at the county offices on Tuesday. A Nyeri budget facilitator, Nelson Maina, said the meeting was also to find out the process that ward-specific projects undergo from identification to completion. “How are we making decisions around a fair distribution of resources? We have to come to an understanding of how we distribute resources,” he said. Maina said that the transport sector has been receiving up to 40 per cent in county Programme-Based Budget from 2019-20 to 2020-21 financial years and 70 per cent in ward-specific projects. Nyeri in 2010 passed the Ward Development Fund that was first factored into the 2019-20 budget. Every MCA from the 30 wards in collaboration with the residents choose projects to be implemented in a year with the funds. The activists wanted to understand why there is a disparity between the PBB and ward-specific projects. “Is it at the assembly level that they feel the need for prioritising transport and what informed that?” he posed. Maina noted that the Trade department got zero allocation in ward-specific projects in 2019-20 and some money allocated in 2020-21. Agriculture in ward-specific projects got 1.5 per cent in 2019-20 and 1.7 per cent in 2020-21, despite the county being strong on agriculture. “This is less than two per cent yet we are aiming at boosting food security and have been saying that we are prioritising agriculture. But the numbers in the budgets tell us otherwise,” he said. The allocation on Trade in PBB dropped from four per cent in 2019-20 to two per cent in 2020-21. Politicians say they have been putting more emphasis on agriculture for food security and trade to create jobs, but the coalition felt that the numbers show otherwise. On agriculture, the allocation was 10 per cent in 2019-20 and 18 per cent in 2020-21 which was growth at programme-based level but the same dropped at ward specific projects level to two per cent. The coalition members wanted to get feedback from the executive on the disparities. But Kirira said, sector-wise, the county works on a zero-based budget and not an increment budget. The budgets, Kirira said, consider the needs of Nyeri residents listed before budget preparation. Kirira said during the first year of Governor Mutahi Kahiga’s administration, the county concentrated more on health and agriculture to ensure people are healthy and are earning from agricultural activities. He said growth in the agricultural sector can be achieved by concentrating more on value addition. He said supporting trade in the budget is the same as supporting agriculture indirectly. The PBB and ward-specific projects do not go hand in hand as population size, poverty level and community assets are considered, he added. Roads, he said, were being allocated more money as it is an economic enabler. “We may invest more in infrastructure because we want the produce in the farms to reach the market. This is simply done to enable another sector to achieve its objectives,” he said. Projects to be undertaken in ward-specific wards, he added, are generated by MCAs and ward residents as per the people’s needs. The CSOs decried the low allocation on mental health, adding that there should also be equitable distribution of human resources to address specific regions’ needs. They said people have severe cases of mental health issues in some areas, which they blamed on the proliferation of second-generation brews. Maina said the coalition will publish a report that will be accessible to any Nyeri resident. The document will look at the PBB (and not recurrent budget) and ward-specific projects for three years from (2019 to 2022) to show whether there is fairness in resource distribution. The document will have an analysis of ward-specific projects among other budget items and will be analysing the distribution of resources across all sectors.  (edited by o. owino)