The World Health Organization has appealed for Covid-19 vaccine donations to Africa in the face of climbing infections. Most African countries have been unable to purchase enough vaccines largely because rich countries have purchased nearly all supplies in advance. Covid-19 cases in Africa are at least five million while the disease has killed about 136,000 people. The death rate is still substantially lower than the rate in other regions, but officials say risks remain. WHO regional director for Africa Matshidiso Moeti last week said new cases in the past week have risen by nearly 30 per and deaths have increased by 15 per cent. South Africa, Tunisia, Zambia, Uganda, and Namibia now account for 76 per cent of new coronavirus infections in Africa, she said. About 12 million people, representing close to one per cent of  Africa’s population, have been vaccinated. “Africa needs millions of more doses here and now to curb the third wave, and best practice approaches will be key to make the most of the available vaccines,” she said in a press briefing last week. By Thursday, Kenya had vaccinated 1.22 million people, 998, 073 of them with the first dose and only 222, 442 with both doses. WHO says Africa needs 200 million vaccine doses by the end of September to inoculate 10 per cent of the population against the coronavirus. The pandemic is resurging in 12 African countries. A combination of factors including weak observance of public health measures, increased social interaction and movement as well as the spread of variants are powering the new surge. In the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Uganda that are experiencing Covid-19 resurgence, the Delta variant has been detected in most samples sequenced in the past month. Across Africa, the variant—first identified in India—has been reported in 14 countries. “Africa can still blunt the impact of these fast-rising infections, but the window of opportunity is closing. Everyone everywhere can do their bit by taking precautions to prevent transmission,” said Moeti. WHO is deploying more experts to some of the worst-affected countries, including Uganda and Zambia as well as supporting South Africa-based regional laboratories to monitor variants of concern. WHO is also boosting innovative technological support to other laboratories in the region without sequencing capacities to better monitor the evolution of the virus. In the next six months, WHO is aiming for an eight- to 10-fold increase in the samples sequenced each month in Southern African countries. As many high-income countries vaccinate a significant proportion of their populations, proof of vaccination is leading to fewer movement restrictions. Globally, 16 countries are waiving quarantine for those with a vaccination certificate. Measures to prevent Covid-19 transmission are crucial, but with many African countries having limited access to vaccines, it is important that vaccines be only one of the conditions countries use to open borders and increase freedom of movement.