There is growing unease in the Cabinet over President Uhuru Kenyatta's 2022 succession plans and the future of his Jubilee Party. Cabinet secretaries are worried about their future in the President's larger succession matrix. Reports that the President could have resolved to prop one of the Nasa chiefs as his heir has caught most Cabinet secretaries with political ambitions off-guard. This means that some ministers who had hoped to receive the President's blessings to run for the country's top seat will now have to go back to the drawing board. They fear that the President's move coupled with the disintegration of the ruling Jubilee party could dent their political aspirations. Last year, some ministers said they would push for one of their own to continue with Uhuru's development record. They argued then that the work in progress can best be completed by an insider who understands the President's legacy plan and vision for the country. The ministers now fear that they will be thrown into an uncertain future if the succession plan is not crafted properly to also secure their interests after Uhuru exits next year. Because of the nature of their offices, some believe they have stepped on so many toes during the execution of their duties and would want a well-knit succession plan that secures their future. Some have played a significant role in executing the President's agenda to annihilate Deputy President William Ruto's 2022 presidential ambitions. “The succession should be foolproof to guarantee some of us a future to actualise our ambitions,” a Cabinet secretary told the Star on condition of anonymity. The CS revealed that most colleagues who have sacrificed a lot to push for the Jubilee agenda, have been marked by their rivals as the 2022 general election draws closer. “My prayer is that the 2022 succession plan should be mooted from inside Jubilee Party and work hard to steady the vehicle despite the challenges so that we could run on the outfit even for other political seats,” the CS said. The CS warned that ministers and other top government officials planning to run in 2022 will get it rough if things proceed "the way they are going". He believes that the implosion in Jubilee will kill the party and leave them with no political vehicle for 2022. “What happens to us when Jubilee becomes a shell in 2022 and there are no efforts to rescue it from collapse," the CS said. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has already released the 2022 election timeliness. Top government officials who wish to run in 2022 have barely eight months to quit. The law requires that ministers and other public officers seeking to run in a general election must resign six months to the polls. This means that political hopefuls in President Uhuru's Cabinet-nearly half-will will resign by February 9, 2022, to run in the elections. The president, deputy president, MPs, governors, and deputies and MCAs are not required to resign. “So when we resign, do we start again shopping for new parties given that some of those parties are Jubilee rivals? I think we must get our house to avoid any humiliation,” another CS said. Former Cabinet Minister Franklin Bett said jitters are normal when a transition is approaching, but advised the Cabinet secretaries to carefully plan their future. However, the ex-Moi and Kibaki era minister said Cabinet members interested in political office should resign early enough to plan their future. “Nobody should rely on Jubilee at the moment because the party is so disorganised and nobody seems to follow the law,” Bett said. The former Bureti MP said the chaos in the ruling party have been fuelled by non-compliance with the law. “Some are in UDA while claiming they are in Jubilee. The President elected on a Jubilee ticket is also associating with the Opposition,” he said. Some Cabinet secretaries, principal secretaries and chief administrative secretaries have been plotting to plunge into politics next year, mostly on the Jubilee Party ticket. Most of them have been plotting to run for governor as they transition from the Jubilee administration. State House-based political strategist Mutahi Ngunyi said the President will be the kingmaker in the 2022 polls, with over six million voters behind him. Ngunyi said the ministers with political ambitions must align themselves with the President's agenda. “The key issue is that nobody would imagine being president in 2022 without Uhuru's agenda. What they need to do is to align themselves with the President's agenda,” Ngunyi said. He said that although people believe that millions of votes in Mt Kenya have been chipped away by Ruto, the President "will have a way of bringing them back.” “It is clear that as we approach the 2022 elections, we will be on our own. People will have to make serious soul-searching going forward,” a CS told the Star. Another minister who has been harbouring political ambitions said the collapse of the Jubilee party will sound a death knell to their aspirations. He said the ministers will have to go back to the drawing board to map their political survival after Uhuru retires.