Clerics from the 14 locked counties categorized as Covid-19 hotspot zone have faulted the government over its decision to close churches while entertainment joints operate. Speaking to Journalists in Bomet on Saturday, the clergy from the various denominations termed the decision as not only insensible but also unjustifiable. They argued that churches as compared to bars and clubs have decorum on how their members conduct themselves during church services as required by the government on containment measures. Led by Felix Korir of Bomet Imani AGC, the group said churches have all along played instrumental roles in helping the government enforce the regulations through spiritual advice. “Churches have been supportive on this course, they have played crucial roles since the outbreak of the virus in the country. If we now close how are we going to reach out to the people?”  Korir posed. “All our churches have been compliant with the measures set by the government.” The clerics also lashed out at politicians saying they are to blame for the current quandary facing the country concerning Covid-19 cases which have continued to increase. They cited the recent meeting in Kisumu where they claimed despite the Ministry of Health issuing a red alert over the rising cases, leaders and politicians failed to adhere to the restraints. “We demand political responsibility, politicians should adhere to the restrictions like other citizens, let us not oppress other Kenyans while some enjoy special treatments,” Gilbert Mutai of Kingdom Aflame said. Mutai wondered the logic behind allowing politicians to move around the country presiding over functions with zero adherences to the regulations as places of worship remains closed. A spot check in most churches in the region showed that the places of worship remained closed while a few people were found worshipping. Last week, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe announced new measures which affected the counties in the Western and Nyanza region over what he said has constituted 60 per cent of the national caseload. The particular counties have, however, not come up with mechanisms on how to curb the movement of persons between the hotspot zones. Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok has already asked residents to avoid travelling to the affected counties as a way of helping to prevent its transmission.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris