Is a city politician behind the Francis Atwoli (pictured) Road signage drama? There are reports that the politician has been funding hooligans who burnt the signage erected in honour of veteran unionist. Details are filtering through the campaign to discredit the workers' industry giant is being bankrolled by a politician harbouring a grudge against Atwoli. There are reports that police have launched investigations into the frequent criminal acts targeting the signage. The probe is said to have narrowed down to the city politician. Irate youths said to have been hired by the politician burnt down the signage on Monday night. The probe is at an advanced stage and arrests could happen at any time. **** A constitutional commission that has been under intense criticism from a certain political formation for being partisan is on the spot, again. The agency has triggered anger among leaders and residents of a county in Upper Eastern after it recruited a coordinator with questionable academic qualifications and experience, expected for the role. According to those in the know, the man lacks the required six-year experience for the shortlist, leave alone getting the job. Worse off, the recruitment of the officer is said to have been influenced by a woman rep from the county. Perhaps the anti-graft agency might find this interesting. *** A flamboyant lawyer with considerable following on his social media accounts is in the eye of a storm. The learned friend posted a statement loaded with ethnic prejudices. He had claimed that one of the country's tribes is popular with hooligans. However, his followers were infuriated by the lawyer's post. They fired ferocious salvos at him, demanding that he pulls down the post. However, the controversial lawyer remained adamant, insisting he would not budge for speaking his mind. Recently, the lawyer attracted anger from followers allied to Deputy President William Ruto after he launched a bare-knuckle attack on the second in command. What is not clear is the reason for the lawyer's penchant for ethnic stereotypes. *** A flashy MP from Nyanza has rattled his opponents with early 2022 campaigns. The MP has deployed a lot of social support projects aimed shoring up his hitherto dwindling fortunes in the constituency. He has taken over funeral programmes with a fully equipped hearse serving constituents. This his part an aggressive campaign to retain his seat. However, a marital challenge that has rocked his family could complicate his campaigns. His wife has dumped him for a business titan keen to oust the MP in next year's polls. The mother of his children has already moved from the marital home and decided to put up with her new 'sponsor' at a neighbourhood in their Karen home. 