Athletics Kenya (AK) conclude the regional Word Under-20 Championships pre-trials on Saturday ahead of the national trials set for next month in Nairobi. Five regions will hold their pre-trials tomorrow, according to Athletics Kenya Youth and Development Committee acting secretary Joseph Ilovi. Nyanza North will hold their event at Moi Stadium in Kisumu while the Western region will stage their pre-trials at Mumias Sports Complex. Central region will be at Thika Stadium on a similar mission. North Rift region will stage their event at Tambach while Eastern will be at Kigari Teachers Training College in Embu. Already, Nyanza South, South Rift, Central Rift, Southern, and Nairobi regions have held their pre-trials. Speaking at Kisii University during the Nyanza South pre-trials, Ilovi said the probable athletes picked from the regions will be invited for the national trials scheduled for Nyayo Stadium On July 1 and 2. “Only invited athletes will be allowed to participate in the trials. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, no fans will be allowed at the two-day championship,” said Ilovi. Selected athletes will represent the country at the World Under 20 championships to be held in Nairobi from August 17 to 22. During the Nyanza South event, 37 athletes were picked to represent the region at the national trials, according to the regional youth coordinator, Haron Onchong’a. Onchong’a and the regional chairman said they are targeting to have at least 10 athletes in Team Kenya for the WU-20 Championships. “This region is renowned for producing sprinters, middle distance, long distance athletes, and throwers. During the WU-18 championships, we had 10 athletes from Nyanza South. Although some of the athletes we had prepared are now out due to age, we still hope to field a similar number from this region,” said Angwenyi. In Nyanza North, regional chairman Joseph Ochieng expressed concern that some schools may not release athletes for the pre-trials to be held at Moi Stadium due to the rising Covid-19 cases in Kisumu. “We hope to stage a very successful event despite the coronavirus situation in the county. Coronavirus containment measures will be followed during the championship,” he added. 