Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party has now registered more than 1.5 million members in the ongoing recruitment drive in the Rift Valley. The party has deployed coordinators in all counties in the DP's backyard to ensure they recruit as many members as possible. Nationally, it has registered more than 2.8 million members to bolster its strength ahead of the 2022 polls. Hundreds of aspirants are also setting up the ground for tough competition for the party ticket ahead of next year’s polls. Aspirants planning to vie for various seats through UDA have boosted the registration exercise to ensure their supporters register in early preparations for party primaries later next year. Uasin Gishu registration coordinator Paul Kiprop said they will hit the 2 million members registration mark because the interest in the party has increased. While in West Pokot Ruto made the clearest indication that he would vie for presidency through UDA. His move came after Jubilee announced a plan to form a coalition with ODM in readiness for the polls. UDA will likely be the most dominant party in the region and the primaries are expected to be more competitive than the general elections. The race for the governor seat, parliamentary and ward reps will be tight in the region during primaries. In some of the counties, a tight race is already shaping up for the governor seat. In Uasin Gishu Kenya’s envoy to Pakistan Julius Bitok is a front runner in the race to succeed Governor Mandago who is completing his second term. “I will be in the race when the time comes but as of now am still in Pakistan serving the country as envoy,” Bitok said. In Nandi Governor Stephen Sang who is a key ally of Ruto will seek re-election and analysts in the area say he will be the man to beat for the UDA ticket in the area. He will likely face off with several other aspirants including lawyer Allan Kosgey. The same competition will likely be replicated in all other counties in the region. “We are progressing well with the registration as we strengthen our party which is a national movement of Kenyans happy with the bottom-up approach to issues as spearheaded by the DP,” Kiprop said. A month ago the party launched a major membership recruitment drive in the Rift Valley where Ruto is seeking to galvanize support ahead of next year’s general election. UDA has targeted to register more than three million members in the area, who will also be mobilized to register as voters ahead of the polls. Registration is free and is also done online to ensure that the party reaches as many people as possible. So far the party has registered more than 100,000 members in each of the Rift Valley counties including Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Nakuru, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana, Kericho, Bomet and Baringo. Kiprop who is a former chairman of the Wareng county council and a close ally of Ruto said UDA was a mass movement because of its plans for the welfare of poor Kenyans in the next government. “The DP has been very clear on his agenda to put Kenyans first and that is why his thinking resonates well with very many Kenyans,”  Kiprop said. He said they had put in place structures up to the ward level to ensure the registration goes on smoothly. UDA has planned to open up a regional office to be named the Hustlers Centre North Rift which will coordinate all party activities in the eight counties in the area. Another centre will be opened in Nakuru to coordinate activities in the South Rift.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris