The Prisons Department will work with the Kenya Red Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross to improve sanitation in penal institutions. The partnership will ensure inmates are no longer forced to use buckets to relieve themselves at night. Interior CAS Winnie Guchu said prisons with capital offenders had the poorest sanitation facilities. She said due to security reasons, it was impossible to allow the inmates to leave their cells at night, hence the use of the buckets. “This is an archaic practice that needs to be replaced and we are working with partners to replace the use of the buckets in our prisons,” she said. Speaking at the end of a workshop between the Prisons department, KRC and ICRC officials, Guchu called for an improvement in the living conditions for inmates. “I firmly believe that conducive living conditions in the prisons have a direct correlation with effective rehabilitation,” she said. The CAS noted that under the joint project, plans were underway to implement a water and sanitation programme at Nairobi Remand prison. “Once complete, this project will address the perennial water challenges that have dogged this institution for years,” she said. International Committee of the Red Cross head Olivier Dubois attributed the health crisis in prisons to congestion and called for enhanced vigilance. He noted that the current challenges facing the country’s prisons are similar to those in other countries, saying that the collaboration would help address them. “There are inmates with special needs and though the worst is over, we need collaboration in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic in the prisons,” he said. Kenya Red Cross deputy secretary Annette Msabeni said that they were working closely with prisons in reducing risks of infections in the penal institutions. She said that the pandemic had caused fear and stress among the inmates and staff and hence the ongoing counselling sessions. “We have seen levels of resistance to the uptake of the vaccines and we shall use the counselling sessions to convince the inmates to get vaccinated,” she said.  (edited by o. owino)