Competitors' anxiety has definitely manifested in Naivasha with pre-event activities setting the pace for WRC Safari Rally which starts on Thursday. The event's two-day recconnainse which ended on Tuesday has not only allowed foreign teams a glimpse of the picturesque African terrain but has also given them an opportunity to savour the flora and fauna of the Great Rift Valley. Wednesday saw the World Rally Teams head to Ntulele on the outskirts of Naivasha for a shakedown. The shakedown offered the drivers an opportunity to have a feel of the course while the media had an opportunity to capture some moments. Day One of reconnaissance at Malewa, Hell's Gate National Park, Loldia and the shakedown venue at Ntulele saw 2019 champion Ott Tanak pose for a photo with a giraffe. The Estonian speed merchant, who races for Hyundai Motorsport WRT, later tweeted "Jambo Kenya" with his magnificent picture in front of a giraffe going viral on social media. The current generation of World Rally Team drivers have never been to Africa and are enjoying the experience on the Safari Rally Kenya, first held in 1953 to celebrate the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. Apart from the lakeside bird population in Naivasha and Elementeita regions, the course for this year's WRC Safari is a haven for buffaloes, zebras, warthogs, hippos, lions and leopards, as Chief Safety Officer Noriss Ongalo has witnessed over the past few months in his many route tours. Ongalo, nevertheless, says it's nothing to worry about since KWS rangers will be deployed in numbers across the course. "We came across a leopard in Chui stage and a lion in Soysambu. Usually, they are animals that want their space away from the din of rally cars. We are glad to announce that a good number of KWS personnel will be stationed across the stages to keep animals at bay, so it's nothing to worry about," he said. The Safari Rally has been synonymous with wildlife for donkey years. A ride through the scenic landscape around Lake Elementaita and Lake Naivasha is always a sight to behold– a situation that puts one in a great country surrounded by wild animals! The WRC Safari Rally Kenya which is returning to Kenya after almost two decades, has attracted over 50 cars.