More than 500 cane cutters contracted by Nzoia Sugar factory in Kanduyi constituency, Bungoma county, on Tuesday held peaceful protests over unpaid dues. The irate workers sang protest songs while wielding pangas outside the factory for over two hours demanding their five week's pay. They said that efforts to have them get paid have hit a dead end. The cane cutters working in the factory's farm that has five regions of Western, Eastern, Southern, Northern and Central are usually paid every week on Friday. Every tonne costs Sh260. They accused the firm's managing director Michael Makokha of taking them around in circles when they ask for their pay. Daniel Wanjala who has been cutting cane at the factory for the past 18 years said that they have undergone untold sufferings for lack of pay. "We wake up very early at around 4am and endure all the cold, wild animals including snakes and at times the rains get us, making us sick. But when we ask for our pay the MD says that the factory is undergoing challenges and we should wait. We are tired of waiting. We want our money," he said. Wanjala said that some of them have children in school and they need to pay fees, buy fertiliser for their maize and attend to other basic needs. He said that they are wondering why the factory is crushing cane and selling sugar yet they are not being paid. "We have no one nor any union to represent us and address our grievances. That's why we have decided to demonstrate,"he said. Erick Sikolo, another cane cutter, said the cutters also helped to plant cane and till  in 2018 and 2019 yet the factory is yet to pay them a single cent. He said the factory does not provide them with safety gear while on duty. The MD who addressed them and convinced them to stop the strike promised to pay. Makokha said that the factory has employed about 2,200 cane cutters who work daily. "We have had a constructive discussion with the workers who cut about 2,500 tonnes of cane per day and we pay them about Sh3.9 million for the services". He said that the factory has accumulated arrears of about two weeks but they are working round the clock to pay. He said the strike had not affected normal operations at the factory since they still had enough cane that had been cut previously. "We urge our cane cutters to go back to work and give us time as we work around to have them paid, "he said. Makokha said that the sugar market has been facing a myriad of challenges that have affected them but they hope all shall be well soon. Cane farmers are demanding a pay of more than Sh600 million from the factory.