Eight counties in Rift Valley are among those targeted for measles rubella vaccination that starts Friday. The Rift counties include Kajiado, Narok, Trans Nzoia, Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo, Bomet and Elgeyo Marakwet. In total, the government is targeting 22 counties in a campaign aimed at reaching at least 3.5 million children. The exercise follows reports of a measles rubella outbreak in West Pokot county to a similar one reported in Tana River a month ago. Other counties targeted are Kilifi, Tana River, Nairobi, Garissa, Mandera, Wajir, Bungoma, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Homa Bay, Kisii, Kisumu and Migori. The exercise, which targets children between nine months and  five years over the next 10 days, is expected to cost Sh800 million. Data from the Health ministry shows that least 2.1 million children in Kenya are susceptible to measles and rubella. The numbers are said to have accumulated over the last three years from 648,000, an increase of 1.4 million. At least 786 cases of measles rubella have been recorded in the country since October 2019 with two deaths having been recorded. This has seen the ministry step up and prevent a major outbreak by conducting a 10-days vaccination in 22 high risk counties beginning this Friday. “We still have an active outbreak going on in West Pokot county, before that it was in Tana River county,” head of Vaccines and Immunisation Programme Dr Collins Tabu said. “We have a sub-optimal coverage in as far as measles rubella vaccine is concerned so coverage averages around 80 to 82 per cent,” he said. Tabu noted that about 300,000 children remain unvaccinated in Kenya every year, adding that from a birth cohort of 1.5 million children, only 85 per cent are reached with the vaccine and out of which about 15 per cent do not develop immunity to the disease. “If you take into account that the vaccines are not 100 per cent efficacious, it means that out of the 1.2 million children that may have been vaccinated, only about one million actually develop the immunity that they need to fight off the measles rubella disease,” he added. This means that with a well-functioning immunisation system, we have about 500,000 children not developing the immunity that they need to fight measles disease. “Since these are children aged nine months to 59 months we have to speak for them and act on their behalf because this is the future generation of this country,” Ag Health DG Dr Patrick Amoth said. “We are sitting on a time bomb and an outbreak in the midst of  an ongoing  Covid-19 pandemic. With our fragile healthcare system, you can only imagine how the outcome is going to be,” said Amoth. According to Health CAS Dr Mercy Mwangangi, Kenya remains at constant threat of measles outbreaks as has been witnessed over the last one year, in which outbreaks have been reported in Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Westpokot and Tana River among other counties. The campaign will involve more than 16,000 health-workers, who will offer the vaccines free of charge through 5,061 vaccination posts. The posts will be set up in public places including markets, schools, churches, mosques and other social places. There will also be mobile vaccination teams in addition to all public health facilities within the 22 counties. “As such, all the requisite Covid-19 guidelines will be observed during the vaccination campaign,” Mwangangi said. -Edited by SKanyara