Rally teams in last weekend's WRC Safari Rally have welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta's announcement that Kenya will host the event for the next five years. In his post-rally speech at KWS Training Institute in Naivasha, President Uhuru said Kenya has secured the hosting rights of the elite motorsport event from the International Automobile Federation (FIA) and the WRC after years of intense lobbying and preparations. President Uhuru also announced the government's immediate plans to commence preparations for next year's global showpiece. Winner Sebastien Ogier expressed his unique experience during his first-ever arrival in Kenya and promised to come back. "I had a love-hate relationship with the Safari Rally. I loved it. It hates my guts. I will definitely be back," Ogier said. The 2019 WRC champion Ott Tanak said he has fallen in love with the event and is looking forward to next year's edition. "A zebra jumped over my car during recce and I didn't know whether to laugh or cry. Such beauty," Tanak said. Toyota's  Ogier won the Safari Rally and stretched his world championship lead to 34 points on Sunday after overnight leader Thierry Neuville hit a rock and retired his stricken Hyundai. The Frenchman finished 21.8 seconds clear of Japanese team mate Takamoto Katsuta, who celebrated the first WRC podium of his career. "The adventure on the Safari is one of a kind. It's the only place you will drive in a stage and the soil structure changes all of a sudden. I have never raced on grass or used wipers when there is no rain," Katsuta said. Hyundai's Ott Tanak was third and also took five bonus points from the final Power Stage. Ogier was fourth in that for two extra points. Harri Rovanperā said: "Short rally. Long rally. Beautiful rally. I am still absorbing the beauty of the Safari Rally." M-Sport Ford man Adrien Fourmaux says he was tempted to stop his car and take pictures of the beautiful scenes. "The colours, the people, such warmth," quipped Fourmaux. His M-Sport Ford teammate His Greensmith said a position five finish in what's been his toughest rally ever was like a win to him. "Hats off to the Kenyans, who seemed to enjoy this more than any other WRC rallies. I must come back and beat the course," Greensmith said.