President Uhuru Kenyatta has said that the Judiciary has tested Kenya's constitutional limits, but not broken them. During the 58th Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu on Tuesday, Uhuru said from nullification of a presidential election in 2017 to an attempt to stop the will of the people as expressed through BBI, the Judiciary has tested the He said the Rule of Law must be followed and obey the decisions of the courts but the sovereign and supreme voice of the People of Kenya must also be followed. Adding that this is why the National Conversation today must focus on the Burden of Choice. "Citizens are required to exercise their will and shoulder the burden of their choices, and so should our independent institutions. The field of independence has been expanded in the Judiciary, and so the field of their responsibility should respond to the summons of nationhood," Uhuru said. "Their decisions should also be accompanied by a burden of choice. This is what the national conversation should ponder," he added. Uhuru said the BBI is meant to build bridges, create inclusive politics, and to end the ethnic majoritarianism of two tribes. "If the decision to stop BBI had been subjected to a cost benefit analysis, in other words if it had considered the burden of choice: If we are in a constitutional moment, is a decision against BBI a decision in support of status quo?" Uhuru asked. The Head of State also stated that Kenyans must endeavour to pursue political stabilization by any means necessary because political stability is the life-blood of the republic. "We cannot engage in political stabilization if we live in political denial. For Instance: Everyone knows that BBI is good for the country even those who are unhappy with it, but Kenyans have embraced fear of change instead of continually striving for a more fair, just, peaceful, cohesive, and democratic Kenya. "Those opposing BBI oppose it, not because of its substance, but because they cannot dare to imagine a better Kenya for all," Uhuru said. He said if the political elite remains short-termist and self-serving, the consequences of their choices will become a permanent burden on our people. "The political class is invited to upgrade their status from being politicians to being Politicians are obsessed with personal gain; but our national pain disturbs leaders," the President said.