KenGen is set to increase Masinga Dam capacity by 22 per cent. The proposed project, which is at the feasibility stage, will raise its wall. The dam currently carries 1.5 trillion litres of water when full. During a media tour of the site, Masinga Power Station chief engineer Johnson Waweru Ndege said the project will help the company to have full capacity power production for a longer period, hence increasing its revenue. Ndege said that when there are erratic rains, the water level is below normal, hence full capacity power production is short-lived. When the water levels are low and the power demand is not high, KenGen is advised by Kenya Power to halt power production at night, he said. Ndege said the dam, which is 1,056.6 metres above sea level, will have its 2.2km wall raised by 1.5 metres to allow it to hold more water during heavy-rain seasons. That will avert spillovers so that power production goes on for a longer period. Ndege said the dam produces 40 megawatts daily from its two units, each producing 20 megawatts. He, however, noted that in the current March-May rainy season, the company expected water spillover, but due to erratic rains, especially in May, the dam is below normal capacity, and the water level is currently at 1,054.6 metres. Ndege said once the water is released from the dam, it flows into Kamburu Dam, which produces 94 megawatts; then into Gitaru Dam, the largest power producing dam in Kenya with an installed capacity of 225 megawatts. From Gitaru, the water flows into Kindaruma Dam whose installed capacity is 72 megawatts, then into Kiambere Dam, which produces 168 megawatts. From there it is redirected to the river to flow into the Indian Ocean. However, plans are underway to construct more dams downstream to tap water from rivers Thura-Ena, Mutonga and Kathita whose water floods the Tana River county. On power consumption, Ndege said the demand is increasing at a high rate and the KenGen is exploring other generation avenues such as establishing more solar plants.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris