More than 200 Kwale county inspectorate officers have been trained on counterterrorism and violent extremism by the National Counter-Terrorism Centre. The first group of 100 inspectorate officers was trained in January and the second batch last month. They are expected to graduate on Friday. Governor Salim Mvurya is expected to officiate at the ceremony. Col Harun Rashid from the NCTC said the programme intends to build the capacity of counties on information gathering and planning to combat terrorism. The programme has been ongoing in all counties affected by terrorism to help harness security and prevent attacks by the Somali-based al Shabaab insurgents. Rashid said the county officers have been trained on detecting and stopping suspicious activities at the grassroots. "We are creating awareness and educating officers on the ground to have a broad understanding of terrorism and how they can help curb the threat," said Rashid. Speaking during the official opening of a three-day anti-terrorism forum at Kwale Cultural Centre, Rashid said the county askaris have a big role to play in combating terrorism. “They can provide crucial intelligence that might be used to stop a crime from happening,” he said. Kwale region is one of the hot spot areas for youth radicalisation into violent extremism and terrorism. The region has been on the government radar because of al Shabaab returnees and alleged sympathisers. Other regions considered hotspots are Mandera, Wajir, Tana River, Lamu and Mombasa. NCTC cites unemployment, illiteracy, religious indoctrination and idleness among youth as factors that lead them into joining militant groups. "Training the county askaris will help in the war against terrorism because these officers live within the communities," said Rashid. The colonel said they will continue enhancing cooperation between various security agencies and county stakeholders to stabilise national security. He said acts of terrorism take different shapes and urged residents to remain vigilant and report any form of insecurity. "We must learn and interpret things happening around us because insecurity acts revolve within the populations,” he said. County secretary Martin Mwaro said the first training given to the enforcement officers yielded good results in improving the county security. -Edited by SKanyara