When Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi was asked by our chairman to delay his coronation to give room for wider consultation, he refused. Desecration of our shrine was the highest show of disregard and disrespect for the entire community. We do not understand why he chose to ignore us and we wonder who the person behind him could be. Whoever is behind him does not respect the Kikuyu or the Kikuyu vote. Kikuyus are feeling defiled and this is being done by somebody who would have come slowly and tried to reach a consensus with all stakeholders,  not with a renegade group of elders. He is coming in and trying to break the mountain. It could be a blessing in disguise, nonetheless. Before the coronation, Muturi should have answered critical questions. He should have stated what he has done with his position to benefit the community. If we were to speak about President Uhuru Kenyatta as the spokesman for the region, he can account for very many things he has done. That is not the case with Muturi. He has been indifferent. He is now overambitious and thinks that he can run all around. Overambitious politicians could again be blamed for commercialisation of the work of elders. Renegade and selfish elders are also to blame for this. Some politicians try and induce their endorsement or support from elders. That is why you will hear them say they are investing in elders. Those who do not have qualities of an elder are the ones who are making all of us look greedy and selfish. However, it should not be blamed on the entire group of elders. In very sack of potatoes, you will almost always find a few that are rotten. That is the same with us. Elders are not interested in politics. We are interested in giving overall direction to the community and the nation as a whole. Elders who do what is expected of them should not ask for any investments or handouts. They should only ask for room to do consultations before making certain decisions. Peter Munga, Kikuyu Council of Elders secretary general, spoke to the Star (Edited by V. Graham)