A Kibera court has allowed police to detain for 10 days five suspects accused of using fake documents to lease cars and steal them. Fred Outa, Nahashon Ayiecha, Charles Odhiambo, Kennedy Otieno and Lucy Wainui were detained on orders of senior principal magistrate Charles Mwaniki. Mwaniki approved a miscellaneous application filed by court prosecutor Allan Mogere on behalf of detectives. Mogere said the five suspects were arrested on May 28 at Pangani in Nairobi after complainant David Samuel Kalolo reported the matter to the police. The court heard that two of the suspects had sought to hire a car from Kalolo to allegedly pick a passenger who had just alighted from the JKIA. They agreed on Sh3,000 for a self-drive car hired for three hours to be brought back the same evening. They gave him a copy of an ID and a driving licence in the name of George Kanyiri. Kalolo accidentally left his ID and driving licence in the car. The customers did not return the vehicle and were unreachable on phone so Kalolo decided to report the matter to the police for assistance. “After mobile analysis and through intelligence the first suspect was arrested in Pangani and upon a quick search, a coloured lamination copy of the national identity card of the complainant was found in his possession. Upon interrogation, he led the officers to the second suspect and both the first and second suspects led the officers to the place where the third suspect was and was arrested,” the prosecution said. Mogere told the court that the third suspect was arrested in Donholm where the stolen vehicles are received and given fake registration details. The three suspects led the detectives to a hideout in Ngong where the fifth suspect was arrested. The stolen car was recovered at the Ngong hideout with different registration details including a number plate. The fourth suspect was arrested in Ruai with the help of the suspects who were already in the custody of the police. The prosecution told the court that the detectives needed 10 days to call an identification parade and compare DNA samples with those collected from the recovered vehicle. The investigation officer also sought to arrest more associates of the suspects and get car registration details from the National Transport Safety Authority. The matter will be mentioned before the duty court after the 10 days granted elapse.  