Patel Mansukh Shantilal, the owner of the dam whose banks broke in Solai in 2018 killing 50 people and displacing 300 others, has died. He died on Monday evening at Aga Khan Hospital, Nairobi, after suffering a cardiac arrest. Solai chief Kiragu Maina said Mansukh was in Nairobi when he fell sick. He was admitted to hospital late last week. "The man was still active at the time he fell ill. He was touring his business projects in Kenya, Africa and abroad under Solai Group of Companies," the chief said. How he made his billions Mansukh inherited his wealth from his father, Shantilal Nathabhai Patel, who migrated from India in the 1930s on facilitation of British colonisers. He owned the Solai Group of Companies. Entities under Solai Group of Companies include Kensalt Limited and Solai Coffee Estate, which grows flowers, macadamia, coffee and other horticultural produce for export. It also deals with ceramics. The group operates in 14 countries, including the United Kingdom and India. Aside from growing horticultural crops, the family has an extensive dairy farm which produces over 2,000 litres of milk daily. It is among the major suppliers to  Brookside Dairy Limited. Kensalt is based in Malindi and is Africa’s second-largest producer of salt, with an estimated annual output of one million tonnes. It controls 75 per cent of the salt market in Kenya and 50 per cent in Uganda. Nathabhai settled in Solai as an employee and later as a manufacturer of Indian sweets. When the Brits left, he was one of the Asians who acquired prime land in the Rift Valley to expand his business in the region. Over time, the small sweet factory Nathabhai built grew into a multibillion-shilling venture. The empire was inherited by Mansukh. Business seems to flow in the family's blood as Perry Mansukhlal Kansagra, the son of Mansukh, has established ventures with an international presence. He owns the Enkasiti Flowers, which sits on 65 hectares (160 acres) in Thika. The firm exports over 50 million stems of roses per year. Kansagra made a name in the early 2000s when his flower farm adopted organic pest control methods. He also owns Nairobi’s Rak Ceramics and a company known as Supplies and Services Ltd. On the damage that was done by the Solai dam, the court cleared Perry and eight others of manslaughter charges and any other wrongdoing. However, a Senate committee that investigated the incident indicted him. There are other suits by members of the local community affected by the accident, seeking compensation from the family. Edited by A.N