Like many other sporting events, the World Rally Championship (WRC) has its own vocabulary. Just in case you are baffled by rally talk, check out this glossary Ceremonial Start: often takes place against spectacular backdrops or in the centre of the host city. Co-driver: The navigator in the passenger seat who gives a running commentary through an intercom to the driver about directional changes and road conditions ahead. FIA: The Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile, the Paris-based governing body for worldwide motorsport which regulates and controls the World Rally Championship. Flying finish: The end of a stage where the timing stops. Remote service: A service period that takes place away from the service park at an outside location. Only parts carried in the rally car itself can be changed. Roadbook: A set of instructions and route maps issued to each crew by rally organisers. Road section: Sometimes called a liaison section, this is the public road that links the special stages, service points and parc fermé. Drivers must obey all applicable traffic laws on road sections. Roll cage: A structure of high carbon steel tubes welded inside the compartment designed to keep the driver and co-driver safe in an impact or roll-over. Running order: The order in which competitors tackle the stages. The running order (also called the start order) for the opening two days is determined by the drivers’ championship standings, with the leader going first. Scrutineers: FIA-sanctioned technical officials who check the legality of WRC cars before, during and after each event. Service: There are usually three service periods during a WRC day – 15 minutes in the morning, 30 minutes at lunchtime and 45 minutes in the evening. Teams can perform repairs or modifications to cars during these periods and select their tyre choice for the following loop of stages. Set up: The choice of tyres and suspension adjustments to give a WRC car maximum performance. Shakedown: The opportunity for crews to test their competition cars on terrain similar to the rally before the event starts. Competitors must drive through the shakedown stage at least three times, with all passes timed. Stages: The competitive sections of the rally, also called special stages, where drivers and co-drivers drive as fast as they can to complete the section in the shortest time possible. Stage time: The time recorded from the standing start of a stage to the flying finish. Start order: See running order. Stop Control: A point 200-500 metres past the flying finish where the car must stop to have its time recorded. Super Special Stage: A stage — often set up in a sports stadium — with two parallel tracks that enable two drivers to race each other. Super-special stages are also run in city-centre locations. Time control: The place where cars must stop to get an official passing time recorded by rally officials. WRC2: WRC2 is the leading support series (Manufacturer) to the FIA WRC. The WRC2 Champion titles for Teams, Drivers and Co-Drivers will be awarded to the team, driver and co-driver who have scored the highest number of points from six of the first seven rallies which they have entered to score points. WRC3- WRC3 is the support series (Private Teams) to the FIA World Rally Championship. The WRC3 Champion titles for Teams, Drivers and Co-Drivers will be awarded to the team, driver and co-driver who have scored the highest number of points from 6 of the first 7 rallies which they have entered to score points. Zero car- A course car that is driven through a stage before the competitors start to alert spectators that the section is live. The zero car is preceded by the triple zero and double zero cars. —Compiled by Samson Ateka