President Uhuru Kenyatta deserves a 21-gun salute for successfully resuscitating the FIA WRC Safari Rally in the country after a massive 19-year hiatus. The Head of State passed the test with aplomb. Also deserving special recognition are Sports CS Amina Mohammed and WRC Safari Rally Project CEO Phineas Kimathi, who were part of the brilliant, versatile and well-coordinated team that pulled the strings behind the scenes to power the event to its unprecedented windfall. The positive impact of the Safari Rally can aptly be summarised by the government's decision to fete the International Automobile Federation president Jean Todt with the coveted First Class Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear due to his outstanding service in motorsports. The icing on the cake, though, was the sumptuous news from President Uhuru that Kenya has secured the rights to host the event annually for the next five years. We can only envision what the revelation means for our country. Pundits reckon, and correctly so, that the return of Safari Rally is bound to patch up and inflate the wobbling tyre of the country's tourism sector which had been punctured by a slumping economy and torn further by the Covid-19 pandemic. Authoritative statistics gathered so far indicate that the Safari Rally pumped a whopping Sh4bn into the economy, quite an impressive return vis-a-vis the Sh450 million the government had set aside for the event. The country holds the iconic event so dearly as testified by the numerous petrol-heads who came out in droves to root for the multi-coloured machines as they rumbled off the streets of Nairobi and roared through the Naivasha jungle. We, hopefully, drew some rich lessons at the closure of the event. Suffice it to say, Kenya has the capacity to successfully host major international sports showpieces with appropriate and adequate planning. In the past, the country has had to contend with some sour grapes including the painful experience of losing the rights to host the 2018 African Cup of Nations to Morocco due to a dearth of standard playing surfaces. That notwithstanding, there are some glaring setbacks the organisers must iron out, such as snarl-ups witnessed heading to and along the course. Pockets of blatant recklessness that could have easily caused fatalities came to the fore. This raises serious security and safety concerns. There were also serious infringements of Covid-19 guidelines especially at the official flag off at the KICC, where spectators crowded and elbowed forward while jostling for strategic positions to catch a glimpse of the proceedings. At this juncture, we can only hope such scenes will not attract the wrath of the FIA. One important factor that seemed to have escaped everyone's notice, though, was the power of the event to pull together a nation once polarised by ethnic politics. For the first time in many years, Kenyans from all walks of life momentarily forgot that Naivasha was once the center of postelection violence in 2007. Motorsports enthusiasts jammed the town and mingled freely irrespective of their ethnicity and political ideologies.