The ZenBook Duo 14 is a refreshed version of the original ZenBook 14, combining the latest Intel processing hardware with Asus’ dual-screen design. The most distinguishable feature of this device is the secondary display, or as the manufacturer calls it – the ScreenPad Plus. You will now get two major improvements. First, there is the hardware side. Instead of making it flush with the chassis, ASUS has now added a second mechanism, which lifts the display. This makes it useful for ventilation as well. The device looks like a compact workstation with dimensions of 32.40 x 22.20 x 1.69cm. The main screen is a 14-inch IPS canvas that supports touch gestures along with FHD (1920x1080 pixels) resolution and a 16:9 aspect ratio with which creators are familiar with. What adds to this is the anti-glare coating, which works well even if working outside. You also get above-average 400nits brightness levels and the most important factor - 100% sRGB coverage along with Pantone Validation, so creators and developers get the most accurate visuals. You get stylus support as well for a more precise workflow. As for the secondary screen, aka ScreenPad+, the firm has made the 12.65-inch IPS screen better with 1920x515 pixels and support for the stylus. That’s not all though. The ScreenPad+ does push multi-tasking to another level. You don’t just get an extra screen to see at least four windows at once (main screen and three window support on the ScreenPad+) but also the option to swap windows with one button, giving easy access to lock the keyboard and access multi-windows screen. You can drag a window from the main screen downwards to drop it onto the ScreenPad Plus, or you can hit an Fn key and send whatever's on the main screen to the second screen. If you've had two open windows side by side, for example, and need to keep them open but want to work into a third, they can be quickly shifted out of the way, but still, be kept visible. You can also maximise an application window so that it spans both screens, giving an increased vertical viewing area. Mindful that creative types might be drawn to the ZenBook Duo 14 (UX482), there's also an app called Control Panel which provides controls for a range of graphics-related applications. It works with Adobe Photoshop, Lightroom Classic, Premiere Pro and After Effects. For business travellers and other remote employees, remote conferencing is now common more so in the current COVID-19 pandemic. Voice quality is key for efficiency and clear communication. The new ZenBook Duo 14 features an ASUS AI Noise-Canceling Audio, which ensures that users can hear and be heard clearly in any scenario. The ClearVoice Speaker function filters out all ambient noise except human voices so that users can hear and record more clearly — even if background noise is present.