A Thika market that was torched by arsonists more than five years ago is set to receive a facelift. Madaraka Market on Makongeni estate was set ablaze on November 21, 2015, by unknown individuals. More than 5,000 traders suffered huge losses as property worth millions of shillings was reduced to ashes. The Kiambu government plans to rehabilitate it from next month. Governor James Nyoro said in Thika town that the upgrade will include fencing, lighting, and constructing pavements, drainage and lavatories. “Madaraka Market is very crucial to the county government because it’s among the markets that generate high revenues for us. We are determined to enhance cleanliness, security and working conditions,” Nyoro said. Besides Kiambu traders, the market serves businesspeople from parts of Ukambani, Garissa, Murang’a and Kirinyaga. Traders welcomed the project, saying reconstruction was long overdue. They lamented disruptions they have to grapple with during rainy seasons. Margaret Wanjiru, who sells greens, said they have for a long time suffered losses as customers couldn’t stand the smell that was emanating from the stagnant water due to poor drainage. “Some selling points are usually rendered inaccessible by the floodwaters after the rains because there’s no proper drainage. Most of our customers prefer shopping at other markets within Thika and this has been a huge blow to us. This initiative will for sure help us and boost our trade,” she said. Mary Njoki, who deals in cereals, said construction of a modern market in the area will ensure all traders get space to sell their wares, hence boost the region’s economy. “At the moment, the market is very congested and some traders have been forced to sell their goods on the roadsides. A new modern market will be a reprieve to many of us and will accommodate everybody,” Njoki said. Nyoro also said the county government is sourcing funds from the World Bank and other partners to modernise markets. “Madaraka Market is among those earmarked to be developed into a modern market fitted with all amenities. We have approached financial partners like the World Bank for the same and hopefully, by next year the works will have commenced,” he said. He said some markets, including Ruiru, Juja, Kikuyu, Wangige and Githurai, have been completed and traders allocated spaces. At the same time, he said the upgrade of Thika town roads is 70 per cent done. The project is aimed at easing mobility and enhancing trade within the central business district. Nyoro said his administration will set aside funds for the construction of crucial feeder roads on the outskirts of Thika town to open up the industrial town to more investment. Edited by F'Orieny