Church leaders have been urged not to allow politicians to use the sanctuary to campaign. The National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) Central region officials said the country is entering the electioneering period and politicians will seek to use church platforms to campaign. In the statement read by NCCK regional chairman Timothy Gichere, the organisation called on church leaders to avoid asking for donations from politicians. He said this prevents them from asking for opportunities to speak during worship services in return. “We must safeguard the places of worship so that they remain sanctuaries where all people, regardless of their status in society or political party affiliation, can come to meet with and worship God.” The officials urged preachers to use their sermons to promote peace and prosperity. Gichere spoke during a regional conference of NCCK officials held at Caritas Development Centre in Nyeri town on Tuesday. The officials were drawn from Embu, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Nyeri, Nyandarua and Laikipia counties. They said the meeting was held to transact statutory business and reflect on matters of concern to their counties. They expressed concern that the country has not properly prepared for the general election that is 13 months away. They said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission appears unprepared for the elections as it is not properly constituted, has failed to undertake ongoing audit and update of the voters register and to communicate to Kenyans preparations and procurement of materials and services being undertaken. They also cited the failure to facilitate an independent review of the 2017 elections to identify shortcomings that culminated in the nullification of the presidential results and poll boycott by the opposition. “Parliament is yet to process and enact essential legislation aimed at assuring free, fair and verifiable elections in 2022,” they noted. They include Political Party Primaries Bill, Referendum Bill, Campaign Finance (Amendment) Bill, Representation of Special Interest Group Bill and the Gender Parity Bill. The leaders warned against delaying elections, saying the same should be held as stipulated in the Constitution. On matters BBI, they urged its promoters to postpone the process until after the 2022 elections, now that the process is in court. “It is not feasible for our nation to hold a referendum and a general election within one year. Priority should be given to the 2022 General Election,” they said. They urged Kenyans to consider instituting a parliamentary process to effect essential reforms to promote cohesion and peaceful coexistence in the country. They also warned politicians against using the youth to cause chaos during campaigns. “As the church, we have put in place plans to organise forums for the youth to develop memorandums on what they expect to find in the manifestos of political parties and candidates,” the officials said.