Mercedes say they do have performance upgrades for their car as they seek to keep up with Red Bull in the world championship fight. Team principal Toto Wolff said after the Styrian Grand Prix that the team had switched focus to their 2022 car. Technical boss James Allison said: “We have a number of things that will make our car faster in the coming races. Let’s hope they prove sufficient.” Allison said the upgrades would be both on the chassis and engine side. And he said there was not a contradiction between Wolff’s remarks after the race and the reality of the team’s development programme. Wolff had spoken a number of times over the weekend at the Red Bull Ring about Mercedes’ focus on 2022, and after the race he was asked whether he meant that there would be no more upgrades to the car in 2021. His reply was: “That’s basically what I’m saying, yes.” He went on to say that the new car philosophy introduced by a change of regulations next year in tandem with caps on budget and aerodynamic research and development meant “you’ve got to choose the right balance and pretty much everyone will be on next year’s car”. Allison, speaking to the official F1 Nation podcast, said: “I don’t think the two things are at odds with each other and I don’t think Toto has said precisely that [there will be no more upgrades]. “What Toto points out is that next year’s rules are a big and hairy affair and they demand a huge amount of our attention. “So most of the focus of our factory has switched over to next year, the performance discovery for next year, but that doesn’t mean there aren’t things still in the food chain from prior to that focus switch. “And furthermore it isn’t all of the factory, and furthermore we are only one of two factories — there is also the power-unit factory and there is a little more to come from the PU. “So there’s some more aerodynamic change in the offing, a little bit of PU we hope on the delivery side, and a few things that are not quite as tidy as we would wish that we still have the opportunity to put right while this season is still very much alive and hot.”