Kenya Table Tennis Association President, Andrew Mudibo has landed a major role as Africa Table Tennis Federation (ATTF) Vice President in charge of development. Mudibo romped into office unopposed on Saturday during the African Federation’s AGM held virtually to forestall Covid-19 infections. The elections saw Africa Table Tennis Federation President, Khaled El-Salhy of Egypt retain his seat unopposed for another term. And in his acceptance speech, El-Salhy tipped the body to benefit immensely from Mudibo's amazingly impressive track record as a long-serving ping pong administrator. “Mudibo’s election as the Vice President in charge of development, is a blessing for the Continent of Africa as we will be able to benefit from his wide experience and growth of the sport,” said Khaled El-Salhy. Mudibo currently serves on the International Table Tennis Federation board as a director and has been credited with the expansion and development of the sport in Kenya. Wahid Oshodi Enthan was elected deputy president while Alfred Bagueka (Cameroon) and South Africa's Hajera Kajee were elected vice president (administration) and vice president (finance) respectively. Lotfi Guerfel from Tunisia and Ivorian Karou Germain landed roles as vice president (marketing) and vice president (technical), while John Birungi (Rwanda) was elected vice president in charge of media & PR. Mudibo, an established media relations, marketing, and events management consultant started Saint Teresa’s Table Tennis Club at the St. Teresa’s Catholic Church Nairobi’s Eastleigh area in 1987 and has never looked back ever since. In 1989, he was co-opted into the Kenya Table Tennis Association to help uplift the profile and development of table tennis. The following year, he trained and qualified as an international umpire and thereafter officiated in a number of tournaments, including the Africa Senior Championships held in Nairobi, Kenya in 1997, World Championships in Osaka, Japan in 2000, the 2004 World Championships in Doha, Qatar as well as the 2006 Commonwealth Games held in Melbourne, Australia. He also officiated at the All Africa Games in Algeria in 2008, the World Championships in Tokyo, Japan in 2009, and the 2010 Commonwealth Games held in Delhi. His most recent involvement was at the 2014 Commonwealth Games held in Glasgow as well as 2015 All Africa Games held in Congo Brazzaville. In 1995, he was appointed team manager for the table tennis team to the 6th All Africa Games Zimbabwe, making him the youngest individual ever to have occupied such a role in Kenya's independent history. In 1996, he graduated from Hungarian University for Sports and acquired a diploma in coaching. In 2008, Mudibo was elected president of Zone 5 for table tennis that brought together 10 African countries, including Egypt, Ethiopia, Sudan, Uganda, Eretria, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania, Somalia, and Kenya. In 2014, he got elected president of the Kenya Table Tennis Association. During his tenure, he has been able to initiate partnerships with Germany, France, England, and Japan for the development of the sport locally. He is the man behind the “Tucheze Tebo” initiative that was introduced to encourage households and communities to embrace the game in the country. The initiative is picking up and through the partnership with Mathare Youth Sports Association (MYSA), Japan’s Sports for Tomorrow, and Tskuba Sports University, the target being to coach a total of 5,000 girls below the age of 12 years in Nairobi’s Eastlands area.  