Optiven Foundation has launched Go green awards set to catalyze the push more a more clean and sustainable planet. The awards will focus on 6 essential Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and will seek to honor and recognize those who have been friends of the planet. These include farmers, engineers, green building architects, policymarkets, government, city planners, entrepreneurs, students amongst others Speaking during the launch, George Wachiuri, Chairman and Trustee, Optiven Foundation pointed out that there is an urgent need for every player, both government and non-government actors, to pull together and help make the planet a much better place to live in, for both our current and future generations. “Currently, the United Nations estimates that there are 7.9 Billion people in the world. The UN also estimates that should the global population stretch to 9.6 billion by 2050, going by the rate by which we are depleting our natural resources, we might require an equivalent of almost three planets to provide for the natural resources that are needed to sustain our current lifestyles,” noted Wachiuri. He observed that with only 9 years to accomplish the 2030 Agenda, which sprung from the 2015 UN Resolution, there is a need to triple efforts towards a more sustainable world. “These goals set forth clear targets for a sustainable future, with internationally agreed goals in 17 areas such as; clean water and sanitation; affordable and clean energy; industry, innovation and infrastructure, sustainable cities and communities, amongst others.” “Unfortunately, only 23% of the environment-related SDG indicators are on track to meet the target if current trends continue. This is according to a UNEP report titled, Measuring Progress: Towards Achieving the Environmental Dimension of the SDGS,” said Wachiuri. He pointed out that everyone has a role to protect, to restore and to promote sustainable use of our terrestrial ecosystems, to sustainably manage forests, to combat desertification and halt and as well as reverse the huge amounts of land degradation and biodiversity loss. “This is the reason why Optiven Foundation, together with other partners, have today launched Go-Green inspired awards and we believe that this is movement that will bring a necessary impetus towards the push for a better and greener Planet,” he said.