Wadadia will make do without the services of first-choice goalkeeper Monica Odato, who has been ruled out for the remainder of the season after hurting her left knee in training last Friday. Odato landed awkwardly and dislocated her ankle and scans revealed she cracked a bone — potentially keeping her out for at least eight weeks. The 25-year old missed Wadadia's 6-0 buttering at the hands of newbies Nakuru West Queens on Sunday — the team's heaviest defeat this season. The team captain will also be unavailable when Kisumu All Starlets visit Mumias Complex in the ultimate match this weekend. "It is the lowest moment in my career since I have not had such a tough injury. It's a pity having been crucial to the side and missing out when it matters most. Initially, I thought it was a minor injury but my worst fears were confirmed after scans on Monday," Odato revealed. Ranked second, Wadadia will likely battle with either Ulinzi Starlets or Gaspo Women depending on the results in the last matchday. The international player, who boasts of four caps for Harambee Starlets, has been a mainstay at Wadadia, racking up 11 appearances from a possible 14 for the Zone 'B' side. Prior to the setback, Odato only missed matches against Kisumu and Nakuru through suspension. She hopes to recover in time for the FKF Women's cup quarter finals in August. "I hope to be back by the time the cup competition resumes. I hope there will be no setback as I begin my rehabilitation process," she said. Second-choice stopper Mercy Phabian will deputise in Odato's absence. Odato who is a trained teacher reserved praise for the former Bishop Njenga alumnus terming Phabian as the complete package and Wadadia's artillery in the remainder of the season. She however wants the experienced goalkeeper to forget the heavy loss but instead focus on helping the team fight for the Women Premier League title. "Phabian has done well in the past and her experience will be vital in the remaining matches. The sole objective should be to battle for the WPL gong." Odato was part of the Starlets team for the Turkish Cup Women's tournament February 2020. Also, she was in the Kenya team that fell at the penultimate stage in the Olympic qualifiers.