Expansion of the 62km Kaplong-Mulot highway in Bomet is continuing despite a stop order by the National Environment Management Authority. The order was issued on Thursday last week over alleged environmental hazards. Nema county director Samuel Ondeng said an inspection conducted at the stones crushing site at the Kamureito along the highway showed that it was set up without an environmental impact assessment. Machines used at the site, he said, are discharging excessive toxic water and other pollutants into the environment without the requisite effluent discharge license. The site, he pointed out, was emitting excessive smoke and gas in contravention of the constitutional rights of access to clean and healthy environment for all. Water pans near the site used by the locals have been affected as a result of smoke, forcing residents to travel long distances in search of the commodity for the animals and domestic use. Nema ordered the contractor to stop all the activities, warning that anyone found on the site whether day or night will be arrested and charged according to the provisions of the law. “Any person who fails to, neglects or refuses to comply with the environmental restoration order commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable for imprisonment for a term not exceeding 24 months or a fine of not less than Sh2 million,” reads the letter. Kenha is supervising the maintenance works along the stretch, which started three months ago and will be completed in three years. The works are being done following complaints from the motorists and local leaders over the highway's neglect. A spot check conducted showed works ongoing with the site closely guarded by armed security officers. Workers were adamant about commenting about it. An official at the site who did not want to be named, however, dismissed the allegations as untrue, saying they held the public participation and that they also contacted Nema before setting it up. Kenha regional manager Albert Ouma said he was not aware of the order to stop the works. “I am not aware of any order…the works are ongoing but if there is any, there are legal persons to handle that,” Ouma said. On Saturday, hundreds of residents and activists staged a peaceful demonstration in the area accusing the contractor of failing to conduct public participation before installing the machines. They claimed the smoke being emitted from the site had become a risk to their lives and even animals. Edited by Henry Makori