The government has revised curfew hours for  13 counties in the Western region from 10pm to 7pm. The counties are; Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori. The counties were individually and collectively declared as Covid-19 hotspot zones. "That the curfew within the hotspot zone shall be observed between 7pm and 4am daily," Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. However, ongoing nationwide curfew shall continue to be observed in the rest of the country, from 10:00 p.m. and 4:00 a.m. daily. In revised containment measures notice, Kagwe said the curfew exempts essential and emergency services in the hotspot zones. "...movement between the hotspot zone and the rest of the country is strongly discouraged," he said. All cross-border cargo drivers shall be required to possess a valid certificate indicating a negative Covid-19 test that was conducted no more than 48 hours before commencing their journey, and each cargo truck shall be limited to only 2persons per vehicle. That, weekly non-food and livestock markets are hereby suspended in the Hotspot Zone for a period of 30 days. All public gatherings and in-person meetings of whatever nature are prohibited within the Hotspot Zone, including house parties and sporting activities. All funerals and interment ceremonies within the hotspot zone shall be conducted within 72 hours of confirmation of death. Night vigils and overnight processions prior to funerals are prohibited within the Hotspot Zone until further notice. FUNERALS, WEDDINGS Kagwe said the attendees for funerals within the Hotspot Zone are capped to a maximum of 50 persons until further notice. "That the attendees, officiators, and facilitators of weddings, celebrations of marriage or traditional unions, ceremonies of rites of passage, and all other similar events or ceremonies is maintained at 30 persons in total until further notice," he said. All forms of physical/congressional worship (churches, mosques, temples and shrines) in the hotspot counties are suspended for a period of 30 days; Kagwe said all employers including the public and private sector, government offices, businesses and companies in the HotspotZone are advised to allow employees to work from home, with the exception of employees working in critical or essential services. All hospitals within the Hotspot Zone are directed to limit the number of visitors for hospitalized patients to one (1) visitor per patient per time until further notice. On Wednesday, Interior CS Fred Matiangi warned that the government might announce restrictions in some Western and Nyanza counties to tame the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. Speaking at Kenya School of Government, Matiangi said they are monitoring the trend and will announce the way forward soon. "I know that we're up to the task and by the end of today we will have a decision and we would consult and see how to enhance the containment in Nyanza counties," he said. "It may lead to new measure to deal with movement and social activities to manage the spread. Managing Covid-19 has been a hard task but with coordination from the Ministry of Health, we have not been defeated. "