President Yoweri Kaguta Museveni of Uganda has ordered all the higher-learning institutions and schools to be closed for 45 days by 8am, Monday. In his address to the nation on Sunday night, the President said that the move is meant to reduce the further spread of coronavirus. By Sunday, cumulative cases in Uganda were 52,929, while the number of deaths related to the virus was 374, and recoveries were 43,487. “We are concerned that this will exhaust the available bed space and oxygen supply in hospitals unless we constitute urgent public health measures,” Museveni said. All teachers have been directed to get the Covid vaccine before they are accepted in schools. Communal prayers in mosques, churches, or in stadia, and other open-air venues have been suspended for 42 days. Museveni has encouraged online prayers. Public and cultural gatherings or conferences, except for the sitting of the Cabinet, Legislature, and the Judiciary have been suspended for 42 days. Marriage ceremonies, parties, and all other social gatherings are only allowed with a maximum of 20 people under strict observance of the given restrictions. Also, house parties have been strictly banned and are to be enforced without fail, and all guests have been asked to wear masks and keep their physical distance. The maximum number of persons at the burials, vigils, and funerals has been limited to 20 people and all should wear masks and socials distance. Museveni said that the weekly non-food markets (MibuuloMarkets) are suspended for 42 days throughout the country. Also suspended for 42 days are the monthly cattle auction Markets ebikomera. All the public transport (buses, taxis, bodabodas) between and across districts are suspended for 42 days effective June 10, 2021. The two-day period is to allow our children to go home. All inter-district travel banned except travel within Kampala Metropolitan (Kampala, Wakiso, Mukono). Bars, discos, music shows, cinemas, and concerts remain closed. People have also been encouraged to work from home whenever possible and revert to 30 per cent physical presence at the workplace for 42 days.