Mombasa county health officials have raised the alarm over increasing cases of Covid-19 among health workers. In two weeks, more than 255 people have contracted Covid, including 10 health workers in Mombasa. June could be worse. Since March 22, 2020, when the first case was reported in Mombasa, 304 health workers have contracted the disease and three have died. From March to December last year, a period of nine months, 237 health workers contracted the disease. From January to June this year, 67 health workers have  been infected. November last year recorded the highest number of infections, 66. April had the highest number this year after 26 health workers were sickened. Officials in the region, which has 4,500 health workers, worry June might record the highest number of infections because of the rapid increase in the last two weeks. The Kenya National Union of Nurses Mombasa branch secretary Peter Maroko said poor adherence to Health ministry protocols is the main reason for rising numbers among health workers. “We have noted poor adherence to Covid-19 measures among health workers, which has led to the rise in infections," he said. He said health care workers are experiencing burnout because of long working hours, causing some to lower their guard. On Wednesday, the union will hold a press conference on neglect of health workers. Maroko said they have also pending issues on delayed salaries, payment of statutory remittances and promotions and now increasing infections and lack of adequate PPEs. Last year, the health workers went on strike over the same issues. “We want the county to address the issues raised by the health workers,” he said. A total of 5,505 people have so far received the second dose of AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, out of the target of 29, 417 people who received the first dose. So far, 1,334 health workers have received the second dose, out of the 4,209 who turned up for the first jab. The others are 473 teachers, 213 security officers and 1,496 people who are above 58 years. At the same time, the number of infections among the general public is also on the rise after 255 people contracted the disease and six others died of complications. Last Thursday, public health chief officer Pauline Odinga warned bar and club owners, saying they risk closure for violating guidelines. As of Monday, Mombasa county had 11,873 Covid-19 cases, including 3,797 women and 8,076 men. (Edited by V. Graham)