@ppcheti Machakos governor and presidential aspirant Alfred Mutua on Wednesday pledged to focus on industrialisation as a panacea for joblessness and poverty. The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader, who has been popularising his presidential bid, said he will set up factories to cater for various sectors in every subcounty if elected next year. Speaking in Mpeketoni, Lamu West, Mutua said his focus will be ensuring that the countless unemployed graduates get something to do. “One of the major problems in Kenya is lack of jobs. As MCCP, our vision is to set up factories at constituency and ward levels to empower the youth and the entire population. Increasing access to quality healthcare is also top on my manifesto,” he said. He said he will prioritise economic growth, with the objective of targeting the level achieved by developed countries. Marginalisation is still a major challenge and hindrance to economic development in places like Lamu. This widens the unnecessary gap between the rich and the poor. “Kenya is blessed with immense resources across the 47 counties. The challenge, however, is that of inequality due to marginalisation. We have a duty as political leaders to ensure such cycles end,” the governor said. He urged Kenyans to hold political leaders accountable by setting a performance bar for them and insisting on service delivery. Mutua said developed nations like the US achieved their status through equitable distribution of resources instead of ethnic-motivated political power games. “As a country, let us agree on the bare minimum as far as our expectations of our leaders are and let's hold them down to it,” he said. Mutua also drummed up support for the BBI, saying the Kenyan democratic space has been invaded and the only way to turn things around is through a referendum. “If we want our democracy to reach the levels of the US, France and Europe, we must do so through sound economic and social development policies. In this case, the BBI is our saviour,” he said. During the tour, Mutua met Maendeleo Chap Chap party grassroots officials and stressed the need for industrialisation and development of quality workforce to defeat poverty. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)