Nairobi's drug shortage will be over soon and health facilities can expect continuous supplies. The Nairobi County Assembly allocated Sh374.9 million to clear its outstanding debt to the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (Kemsa). For almost three years, City Hall and Kemsa had argued over the debt, resulting in health facilities running short of drugs at one time. Sometimes hospitals had to buy their own drugs and medical supplies; sometimes patients had to buy their own from private hospitals and pharmacies. Nairobi Assembly Budget chairman Robert Mbatia said payment of the entire debt demonstrates the county's goodwill. Kemsa now will ensure drugs are supplied to all facilities under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. “The Kemsa bill that has accumulated to Sh374 million is to be paid in full. Kemsa has been a problem in giving us drugs just because we had an unpaid bill with them," Mbatia said. "So having paid all that is due means drugs will now be supplied to all our facilities,” Mbatia explained. City Hall's last payment to Kemsa was Sh166.93 million in January last year. Kemsa and City Hall have had strained relations over unpaid arrears. In 2017, the authority  stopped supplying medicine to Nairobi hospitals over a Sh285 million debt. Patients were forced to buy their own medicine. It took the intervention of President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Health Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki for Kemsa to resume supplies last year. Most city hospitals had been grappling with a drug shortage In March 2019, the county government announced it was considering other drugs suppliers to stock its health centres, accusing Kemsa of being unreliable. Former Governor Mike Sonko said his administration will seek alternative sources, which he did not name, following disputes with Kemsa over Sh300 million. “My administration will not allow Nairobi residents to continue suffering as a result of drugs shortage. We will not allow Kemsa to sabotage service delivery and from next week I want this matter settled so services are not interrupted ," he said. In May that year, the county said it would buy from private suppliers after Kemsa suspended supplies because of a Sh284 million debt. The last order by the county government and the last delivery was in October 2019 and was to last for three months. Drugs worth Sh66.93 million were distributed to the top four county hospitals and other health centres across the wards. The four referral hospitals — Mama Lucy, Pumwani Maternity, Mbagathi and Mutuini — had been ordering on a needs basis and paying for them. On January 16, 2020,  data from Kemsa showed that of Sh2.8 billion owed by seven counties, Nairobi topped the list, owing Sh353 million. Kilifi followed with a Sh199.1 million debt, Kiambu with Sh141.6 million, Busia Sh119.08 million and Vihiga Sh114.4 million. Kemsa noted the goodwill from counties like Nairobi, which committed to clear the debt. (Edited by V. Graham) 