The Cabinet Administrative Secretary (CAS), Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs, Nadia Ahmed Abdalla has  projected that the re-engineering of Postal Corporation of Kenya (PCK) operations through a rapid adoption of technology will shore up the fortunes of the corporation. Speaking during the launch of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) commemorative stamp on indigenous languages, the CAS said Posta’s success was highly dependent on its ability to respond to fast-changing consumer needs and adapting to new technologies. According to her, 100-days Rapid Results Initiative (RRI) recently launched by ICT CS Joe Mucheru, would lead to improved service delivery and growth of revenue to enable the Corporation sustain its vast operations countrywide. The RRI is a management strategy reform programme that forms the building blocks towards the achievement of a set of long-term goals. Through the RRI, Posta seeks to improve delivery turnaround time and service level delivery at key branch offices countrywide, while sourcing new business from state agencies. Recently, the corporation in partnership with TAZ Technologies launched Mpost, a mobile-based innovation that allows users to receive letters and parcels from the post office. Postmaster general Dan Kagwe said the corporation is smack in the middle of implementing its strategy to leverage on initiatives such as the National Payment Gateway, the National Addressing System and Kenya Transport and Logistics Network for e-commerce business growth. The CAS noted that the challenges brought about by the ever-evolving technology and the Covid-19 pandemic, has become more of a threat than an opportunity. She noted that Posta Kenya has identified the importance of technology by developing new ground-breaking products that complement its core mandate of delivering financial payment, communication and distribution solutions to its customers. The Postmaster General said the Corporation was fast transforming into a paperless and cashless modern Agency capable of handling any Logistical and Payment solutions considering its vast network countrywide. Posta is now seeking to be the preferred Government logistics and payment services provider of choice, having recently signed last mile delivery partnership agreements with National Transport & Safety Authority and the Directorate of Immigration Services.