Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana has warned land cartels in Garissa town to immediately stop demolishing and torching houses. The rash of destruction must stop, he said. Court orders for demolition must be obtained and regulations followed. Speaking at a baraza at Modikar in Garissa, Ndalana said the government will protect the property of citizens and will not allow property destruction and razing of houses. “There must be guidelines on house demolitions. If you have a title deed to show that you own a particular piece of land, you must have a valid court order and give people notice to pick their belongings and relocate,” Ndalana said The regional commissioner also cautioned investors who have fenced their plots to follow county government planning protocols. He ordered all wall construction to stop at once “We cannot have someone raising a straight wall over two kilometres. People need to walk around.  How how will they access hospitals and markets? How will our children from the other side walk to school?” he asked. The public meeting was convened to address the land conflicts at Bulla Touwfiq that have resulted in the demolition of tens of houses and property worth millions of shillings in two weeks. Last week a bulldozer demolished more than 35 houses in the same area at 2am, witnesses told the press. The residents said they had lived there for more than 30 years and were not given any notice to vacate. On Thursday, more houses were burnt at 7am, witnesses said. Sources told the Star attackers fired bullets in the air before attacking residents and burning their houses. The villagers accused security agents of protecting the land tycoons. Sources, who sought anonymity, told the Star the destruction was caused mostly by inter-clan clashes involving the Abdala clan and the Aulian community. “This is inter-clan conflict. One group wants to replace the other on this land. It is unfortunate one community may be using armed bandits to attacked the other,” a source said. Ndalana ordered police officers not to protect anyone or any land. Police will only provide services to people with valid title deeds or court orders allowing demolition to recover their land. Northeastern police regional commander Rono Bunei urged residents to provide information to the police so they can hunt down bandits. “You know who the bandits are. You know who has illegal firearms. Some of you here are protecting them but when we find them in your house, we will arrest and charge you too,” Bunei said. (Edited by V. Graham) 