A family from Sikhendu village in the outskirts of Kimilili town, Bungoma county, is seeking justice for their mother who perished after being knocked down by a police vehicle. Margaret Nabudwa, 59, sold groceries outside Kimilili police station. She had closed shop and was leaving for home on Wednesday evening when a police vehicle knocked her down. The mother of four died on the spot after sustaining broken limbs and internal injuries. A boda boda rider was also hit by the vehicle but he survived. Gilbert Wanjala, 20, sustained broken limbs. He was rushed to Bungoma County Referral Hospital where he is fighting for his life. Doctors said he was in critical condition. The driver of the vehicle also sustained injuries. He was rushed to Kimilili Subcounty Hospital. Witnesses said the vehicle was speeding. Kimilili subcounty police commander Nelson Marwa said they were investigating the incident. He called for calm among residents as the probe continues. Nabudwa is a Ugandan who was married in Kimilili. Her death caused a sombre mood in the area. Her husband James Thuku Ndicho said the family was in deep sorrow. Ndicho told reporters that he and his wife had taken breakfast together that fateful day before she left for work. He was later called at around 7pm and informed that his wife had been knocked down by a police car. "I rushed to the scene and found my wife dead. I was so saddened that I couldn't speak a word. I am appealing to relevant authorities to help us get justice for my dear wife," a tearful Ndicho said. Most businesses in Bungoma close early so residents can beat the 7pm curfew imposed in the area. Bungoma is among 13 lake region counties where Covid-19 restrictions were escalated two weeks ago to curb the spread of the Delta variant of the disease. Ndicho said his wife was rushing home to beat the 7pm curfew before she met her death. "She was a loving mother who worked tirelessly to fend for the family by selling vegetables." Neighbour Shadrack Ngugi said that the death was caused by recklessness on the part of the driver. "Our mother had just finished her job and was heading home before the speeding vehicle knocked her down and ran over her," Ngugi said. Ngugi said the driver appeared to have lost control of the vehicle when the crash happened. He said Nabudwa was a dedicated woman who was loved by many. "If police who are supposed to be protecting lives are the ones who are causing the deaths of innocent people, then we are living in desperate times. We want the police officer arrested and charged," Ngugi said. Nabudwa's body was taken to Dreamland mortuary in Kimilili town.  Edited by P.O