Three police officers were on Tuesday morning injured when al Shabaab gunmen attacked their vehicle in Bambahowla area, Mandera County. The police vehicle from Wargadud police station was heading for Elwak when those on board came under gun attack. The driver managed to drive through but the attack left two Kenya Police Reservists and the acting Officer Commanding Station injured. The victims were admitted to local hospital with multiple injuries, police authorities said. This came a day after a gang killed three people and abducted three others in Falama and Jabibar areas of upper Northeastern region along the common border with Somalia. At Falama the terrorists hijacked a construction truck, kidnapped the driver and his crew before torching it while at Jabibar, the terrorists hijacked another lorry with five occupants before killing three and sparing the female passenger. One militant was killed after the lorry that was carrying miraa ran over them. This was after the gang tried to stop it. The driver later overturned few meters ahead enabling the gang to catch up with them, police said. Those abducted are yet to be found but teams of security agents had joined the hunt on them. The incidents come in the wake of a campaign mounted in the area by governor Ali Roba, EAC Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed, local senator and a host of Members of Parliament against al Shabaab. Regional Commissioner Nic Ndalana was also present in the two-day campaign in the area. The leaders said al Shabaab remains the greatest enemy of development in Mandera and urged the locals to help security agents to tame them. Northern part of the county has been a safe area since 2013 but has lately been a soft target. Police have been mounting operations in the areas to deter their plans. The terrorists have been targeting security installations in the area in a series of incidents destroying them. This has affected among others the education sector forcing tens of teachers who are non-locals to flee. The border region has borne the brunt of repeated attacks from the militants who are at times aided by locals.