Although they do not shout it from the rooftops, China has very close friends. It is genuine, pure and unpretentious friendship that has stood the test of time amid serious covert and overt opposition by those who have abrogated themselves the role of policing everyone else and determining who should relate with who! The decades old Sino-Kenya relations just hit a milestone last week after the two countries held a meeting of experts to celebrate 100 years since the formation of the Communist Party of China (CPC). The largely meeting of academia lauded the unprecedented social, economic and political milestones China has achieved under the leadership of the CPC. It was a feat that the participants felt that Kenya, and African countries as a whole could emulate. But not that it has been a walk in the park. “When the CPC was founded a century ago, China was still haunted by the epithet, the Sick Man of Asia,” noted chief guest Dr Zhou Pingjian, China’s Ambassador to Kenya. With the Opium War of 1840, China was plunged into the darkness of domestic turmoil and foreign aggression; its people ravaged by war, saw their homeland torn apart, and lived in poverty and despair. But with “tenacity and heroism”, noted Dr Pingjian, “dedicated patriots fought, pressed ahead against the odds, and tried every possible means to seek the nation’s salvation.” Three major principles have underpinned China’s transformation under the CPC. These include: For the CPC, it is all about officially putting people first; for instance, People’s Congress, People’s government, People’s Political Consultative Conference, People’s Court, People’s Procuratorate and People’s Liberation Army. This year marks the 58th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Kenya. The deepening comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Kenya is an important part of China-Africa cooperation. China has stepped up cooperation with Kenya in areas such as agriculture, infrastructure, healthcare and the secondary sector. China has also helped to boost cultural exchanges and cooperation at local levels to help Kenya advance its Big Four Agenda. China and Kenya signed a trade agreement in 1978, the year China adopted the ‘Reform and Opening Up’ strategy. Over the past 40 years, trade and economic cooperation between the two countries has reached unprecedented levels. Responding to the call of the Belt and Road Initiative, an increasing number of Chinese enterprises have established presence in Kenya, bringing along their advanced experience, technology and equipment, and worked closely with local partners to attain win-win outcomes. China welcomes Kenya’s participation in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Kenya is an important participant of the BRI and international capacity cooperation. For years, China has been one of Kenya’s top trading partners and sources of Foreign Direct Investment. The strong and fruitful economic and trade partnership between China and Kenya is vividly demonstrated by the over 100 major projects developed with joint efforts from both countries in the last 58 years. These include the Moi Stadium, the Thika Superhighway, the Mombasa-Nairobi Standard Gauge Railway (SGR), the Nairobi-Navaisha SGR, the upcoming Nairobi Expressway among several others. As the BRI continues gaining momentum, an increasing number of Chinese businesses are eyeing the Kenyan market. Currently, there are more than 400 Chinese businesses operating in Kenya, creating nearly 130,000 jobs for local people. These companies have played an important role in accelerating the advancement of the Big Four Agenda. In 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta visited China twice to attend the Beijing Summit of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation and the China International Import Expo. In April 2019, Kenyatta visited China again for the Second BRI Forum for International Cooperation in Beijing. The two sides reached a new consensus on trade facilitation and win-win cooperation. Consequently, more extensive cooperation is being undertaken in a wide range of areas, including trade (especially Kenya’s agricultural exports to China), infrastructure, delivery of smart city projects, and human capital development. As the BRI develops, it is going to bring more tangible benefits to people of both countries. It is now hoped that Kenya will be at the forefront as China enhances exchanges with political parties of other countries to share best practices in both party building and State governance. The writer is the Executive Director of South-South Dialogues, a Nairobi based research and development communication think tank.