A new Senate bill would empower the public procurement regulator to raid public offices suspected of committing procurement offenses, without seeking a court order. The Public Procurement and Asset Disposal (Amendment) Bill, 2021 gives the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority sweeping powers to reign in public entities and officials breaking the law. It is sponsored by Senate Majority leader Samuel Poghisio. The proposed law states that an authority, or a body authorised by it, may access any premises when conducting investigations, inspections, assessments and reviews relating to contracts, procurement and asset disposal proceedings. “….Authority may enter any premises of a procuring entity, at a reasonable time and inspect the premises to make any inquiries that may be necessary for the collection of information,” the Bill reads. It adds that where an authorised person is refused entry or is prevented from entering premises, the authority may move to court to seek an order and police reinforcement. “A magistrate may, on application by the authority, issue a warrant authorising the police to enter the premises, using such force as may be reasonably necessary, and to conduct the search and obtain the required information,” it adds. The changes will elevate the authority to the category of investigative agencies that raid homes and offices of subjects under investigation, Currently, the law provides that the authority shall recommend to investigative agencies, such as the EACC and DCI, to probe pubic officers it suspects to have engaged in criminal acts. “If in the course of monitoring in accordance with section 9(1)(a), the authority is of the opinion that civil or criminal proceedings ought to be preferred against a State Organ, public entity, state officer or public officer, the authority shall refer the matter to the relevant authorities,” the PPAD Act, 2015 reads. In the Bill set to be introduced in the Senate for the first reading next month, head of procurement functions in public entities shall be required to carry out mandatory market surveys. The aim is to guard against purchasing standards items at inflated prices. Public procurement officers have been accused of becoming overnight millionaires through fraudulent processes including inflation of prices of items they procure. “Where a public entity lacks capacity to comply with this Act, an accounting officer shall seek assistance from the National Treasury,” the Bill states. Further, the Bill seeks to shorten procurement periods by reducing the tender evaluation period from the current 30 days to seven days. However, where the tender is complex or has attracted high number of tenderers, the accounting officer may extend the tender evaluation period once for not more than seven days. The Bill also reduces from 14 days to seven days the time for the candidates to prepare and submit their applications for pre-qualifications. The Bill seeks to amend Section 96(2) and (4) of the Act to enable those Kenyans who have no access to newspapers and who would wish to participate in tendering processes. It states the procuring entity shall give a notice in at least two free-to-air television stations and two radio stations of national reach. Currently, the law requires such notices to be published on website of the procuring entities, or in at least one daily newspaper of countrywide circulation. (Edited by V. Graham)