A youth lobby group has said ODM leader Raila Odinga deserves to be the next President because he is a self-sacrificing and dedicated leader. Mount Kenya Youth Caucus officials, led by their chairman Linford Mutembei, said on Monday that the former Prime Minister has in the past three years demonstrated his interest in the betterment of the nation and his past has proved his ability to lead and spur development. The group said Raila’s past, which included involvement in the second liberation and his vast experience in politics, makes him the most suitable politician to continue with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda of rescuing the country from graft and tribalism. “Raila’s political wisdom and maturity that have come with his age makes him a better bet to succeed Uhuru because he will not only continue with the Big Four agenda but also extend the national cohesion project, which is credited for, for creating a peaceful environment,” Mutembei said in Kiambu. He said Raila's ability to spur development and improve the economy was tested when he served as Roads and Housing minister during President Mwai Kibaki's regime. "During the Narc government when he served as Roads and Housing minister, Raila laid the foundation of some already complete and ongoing massive road projects. Despite harsh criticism, he cleared road reserves to pave the way for construction." Mutembei said this means that if given a chance, the former PM would initiate such mega projects that would transform the country and continue with the war on graft. He said Raila, unlike some other leaders seeking to succeed Uhuru, does not have scandals. “In 2008, during the post-election violence that saw thousands of lives lost and families displaced because of the disputed presidential election results, he agreed to shake hands with his archrival Kibaki to save the nation," Mutembei said. He said Raila also helped Kibaki build his legacy by midwifing the new Constitution and implementation of the Thika Road project. The Star on Monday reported that Kanu chairman Gideon Moi had decamped from the One Kenya Alliance to support Raila. Gideon made the move on the advice of Uhuru. Edited by A.N