The International Leadership University (ILU) has held its 36th graduation today as it marks 40 years of Developing Leaders of Integrity. The event was presided over by Makueni Governor Prof. Kivutha Kibwana and attended by the Court of Appeal president Justice Daniel Musinga ILU is a Christian University that develops leaders of integrity to transform society holistically. The university graduated students virtually from its Doctorate, Masters, Bachelors, and Diploma programs in Leadership and Governance, Education and Social Sciences, Theology and Christian Ministry, and Counseling Psychology. Speaking at the event, ILU Vice-Chancellor Dr. Timothy Kiruhi said that the university builds not only competencies but also the character and contextual relevance of our graduates. “We are proud of today’s graduating class who are going back to impact their respective spheres as a true demonstration of ILU’s mandate for developing leaders of integrity for holistic societal transformation,” Kiruhi said. He added that “We believe character is quintessential for leaders of integrity, who manifest values and lead societal transformation such as restoring equity and human dignity and putting an end to corruption.” The university has also celebrated its first graduation of PhD candidate in Leadership and Governance. In his remarks, Kivutha said that Kenya and Africa at large need to drive lasting impact and transformation through leaders who are enduring values for inclusive well-being and sustainable development. “Congratulations to all ILU graduands today, this is a testament to your discipline, resilience and working smart. Indeed, knowledge without values is futile and I congratulate the University for their training designed to drive among other things good stewardship of resources and societal transformation, based on enduring values for inclusive well-being and sustainable development. These are the kind of leaders Kenya and Africa at large need to drive lasting impact and transformation.” Formally known as the Nairobi International School of Theology (NIST), ILU admitted its first four students in 1981, and this year celebrates 40 years of developing leaders of integrity. The university has graduated over 1,500 leaders from 20 African and other nations, who are leaders in all societal domains including Government, the Corporate Sector, NGOs, Universities and Schools, and Churches.