After a month of pre-trials at the regional level, attention now shifts to the forthcoming national trials for the World Athletics Under-20 Championship set for July 1-2 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Among those who shone at the pre-trials is Emmanuel Kiplagat, who is hoping to shine in the men's 5,000m during the trials and the August 17-22 global championship. The Torongo Camp athlete dropped out of the national trials for the Tokyo Olympics to concentrate on the junior category. "I will be looking forward to representing my country once again in the world event. I know all the youths who have qualified are looking forward to the race and I, therefore, expect it to be competitive. I’m finalising my program and I’m sure in the next one week, I will be ready for the trials,” the African Under-18 3,000m champion said. Another hopeful at the trials is Kamoiywo Camp's Emmanuel Wanyonyi, who performed exceptionally in the 400m and 800m during the Central Rift region event. Wanyonyi, who trains under former 800m champion Janeth Jepkosgei and coach Claudio Berardelli, believes he will reign supreme at the national trials and book his ticket to the world championships at the same venue. "My training is going on well and I believe in the next few days I will be able to finalize my program and run a good race during the trials,” the Kosirai High School form one student said. Additionally, under Jepkosgei's tutelage is Sylvia Chelangat, who also shone in the 400m and 800m during the Central Rift pre-trials. "My aim is to make the team and my build-up has been good so far. I’m happy because I managed to get a good foundation under Janeth Jepkosgei, who has always been my mentor,” said the Form Three student at Lelu Secondary School. Before the pre-trials, Athletics Kenya had promised to select a strong team in every category to ensure the country easily defends the title they won at the last edition in Tampere, Finland in 2018. Kenya topped the medal table with 11 medals (six gold, four silver and a bronze), beating Jamaica to second place. 