An additional 17,000 bright children in Nairobi will receive bursary funds after the county allocated Sh4.5 million for the ward bursary fund. This is a Sh1 million increase from the allocation in the current financial year of Sh3.5 million. During the budget statement read last Thursday, the Education, Youth Affairs, Sports, Culture, and Social Services department received an additional allocation of Sh170 million for scholarships and other educational benefits for primary education. About 900 students will be sponsored as each of the 85 wards will choose 200 more students to add to the 700 who receive bursary funds each financial year. Over the years, the county government has been allocating Sh297.5 million as bursary funds but in the financial year starting this Thursday (July 1, 2021) the allocation was increased to Sh382.5 million. Finance executive Allan Igambi said Sh590 million has been allocated for bursaries. To support the national government's effort to ensure 100 per cent transition to secondary schools, the county government has been providing support to needy students through bursaries. “Out of the allocation, Sh4.5 million will be allocated to every ward and the balance will be available to sponsor all continuing students under the executive scholarship programme also known as the Governor's scholarship programme,” Igambi said. City Hall operates two levels of bursaries including the ward bursary fund as well as the Executive or Governor's Bursary Fund. The ward bursary fund is administered by each ward representative who receives a standard amount to be disbursed to beneficiaries. For the executive bursary, beneficiaries have to attend public secondary schools and not private ones and must all be performers with only the top three from public primary schools in Nairobi generally picked. The beneficiaries are assured of support for the four years they will be in secondary school. Currently, Nairobi county has 3,000 students enrolled under the programme with each getting between Sh45,000 and Sh53,000 under Ministry of Education fee guidelines. In the 2017-18 financial year, the county government disbursed Sh421 million as bursaries, but the Education department could only account for Sh367 million. According to a report by the Auditor General, the department was excluded from being a signatory to the County Bursary Fund account. In May 2018, MCAs and beneficiaries complained about a large number of dishonoured cheques due to conflicting signatures and name mismatches. In June 2018, it was revealed that Sh297.5 million worth of bursary funds were erroneously sent to a bank account belonging to the University of Maryland, Australia, baffling the MCAs. Explaining the issue, the executive said accountants erroneously picked the health donor fund account instead of the bursary account. In February this year, City Hall disbursed Sh457 million in bursaries to at least 62,500 students from poor backgrounds. The funds were for the financial year ended June 30, 2020, which had delayed due to wrangles at the county government. (Edited by V. Graham)