Reigning Boulogne Half Marathon champion Nancy Jelagat and Eldoret City marathon bronze medallist Emmanuel Bor claimed the 11th edition of Re-Discover Nandi 10km road race in Kapsabet, Nandi County on Sunday. After finishing fourth at the national trials to miss out on the Tokyo Olympics, Jelagat shook off her disappointment and elbowed out the reigning Discovery Kenya Cross country champion Daisy Cherotich on her way to victory. Jelagat said the course was so hilly and tricky but she had prepared herself for the event well enough at her training base in Iten Forest, adding she did not stop amidst the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. “The race was very competitive and on a hilly course but since I always train on a hilly course back in Iten, it prepared so well for such an event,” said Jelagat, the Tecla Loroupe Peace 10km champion. Jelagat clocked  31:30 ahead of Cherotich’s 31:38 and former Africa junior 1,500m champion Naomi Chepng’eno who emerged third in 32:11. “I have been training, that is why I have managed to win this race. Even if I lost the Olympics team, I have hope for better things ahead of me. Yes I was 4th at the Olympic trials in 10,000m hence missing the team Kenya slot and that led me to this particular event,” added Jelagat. Three weeks after finishing third at the Eldoret City Marathon, Emmanuel Bor dominated the men's event to retain the title he last won in 2018. Bor, who has been consisted in both road running and cross country won the title in 28:21.19 ahead of Daniel Kiprotich and Victor Rotich who clocked 28:30.97 and 28:42.44to to finish second and third respectively. Bor who usually trains at Kimwobo Training Camp , said he sustains himself through sports and welcomed the government's move to allow activities to resume, adding he will use the money he won to offset his debts. “We have stayed home for long, accumulating many debts in shops but with such races, we are coming back strongly. My shopkeeper understood what I was going through and life of an athlete and till now I have not completed paying,” said Bor. “Nandi County is a hilly area and climbing that hill, it was good for me because I have been training along that course, which is next to my camp at the Kamwobo. I understand that hill so well and if you are not well prepared, you can’t shine and I was well prepared for that,” added Bor. He added that he has been praying alongside his pastor who promised that this will be his year to shine. “My pastor has been praying for me and advising me that this year, I will run well and through his prayers I have done well across the board,” he said. Selected results Women Men