The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri has raised concerns that there are systematic plans to extend the Jubilee administration's term beyond August next year. He said the politics surrounding the Building Bridges Initiative and the seemingly unprepared electoral agency could be used as the basis to extend the term of President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration and other elected leaders. The former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary spoke at a press conference on Wednesday. Kiunjuri read the statement on behalf of over 30 party members who included former governors and MPs. He said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission should start preparing for the polls as election day is 14 months away. Kiunjuri concurred with the Catholic bishops who last week said there was no room for the country to hold the BBI referendum then a general election within one year. “This roadmap will assure Kenyans that nobody is sitting somewhere planning an extension of the term of this administration, Parliament, governors or MCAs for even a minute. The 2022 elections should and must be held in accordance with the current Constitution,” he said. "In view of this, we demand a clear roadmap to the general elections from the IEBC and the government. Kenyans expect the government to facilitate IEBC effectively.” Kiunjuri said in light of the Court of Appeal setting the commencement of BBI case on June 29, it is clear that the matter will be determined in time to allow the IEBC to hold a referendum and within 11 months prepare to deliver free, fair and credible elections. “Kenyans should worry if there is lack of clarity about what is the most important thing the country should be focusing on,” he said. The former CS said the money being set aside to fund a referendum should be diverted to mitigate the effects of Covid-19 and reinvigorate the economy. “In fact, our position is that the several billions should be directed towards cushioning Kenyans against the rising cost of living caused by frequent fuel price hikes and enabling the NHIF to provide a Covid-19 cover,” he said. On the divisions that have rocked the Mt Kenya region in the battle for Uhuru’s successor as the kingpin, Kiunjuri said the “trend is a ticking time bomb to our unity, significantly denting our bargaining power.” He appealed to leaders from the vote-rich region to form a front through which they can negotiate for the interests of Mt Kenya. “Even though we may differ politically, our people and their interests are supreme. We must not let any artificial divisions to sidetrack us,” he said. “As a party, we shall continue rooting for and working towards the unity of Mt Kenya region right from the grassroots. Our resolve in this regard is unstoppable. We however recognise that there are competing and diverse voices on how to move the region forward.” Kiunjuri said no one should be intimidated or forced to support or reject certain leaders. He supported the coronation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi as the spokesman for the region. “They have the liberty to seek blessings through cultural, religious or other institutions of choice. There is no single approach to uniting our people. We cannot, therefore, condemn those that are using different approaches,” he said. “Our priority as a region should not be about who is best-suited to speak on behalf of the community, but how to ensure that our people have money in their pockets,” he said. Kiunjuri said there are no plans to merge his party with the United Democratic Alliance (UDA), an outfit associated with Deputy President William Ruto. He, however, said his party is ready to enter into a coalition with “like-minded parties”. Kiunjuri said every political party has a right to field candidates wherever it desires. “Our determination is to continue building a formidable party and that is bearing fruit. And our membership and leadership is increasingly clear about its place and position both in Mt Kenya politics and in the country at large,” he said. The former CS said contrary to claims by his critics that TSP is a non-starter, they are in for a rude shock as his outfit is set to roar across the country. “We do, however, know that Kenya’s politics have become coalition politics. Unless such arrangements are properly made and communicated by our party organs, The Service Party will field candidates across the country without fear,” he said.