Three Ward Reps were on Tuesday injured during a melee at the Kisii County Assembly. Police in riot gear were forced to lob tear gas canisters to end the chaos in the house. Among those injured were James Anyona (Masimba), Amos Onderi (Boochi Tendere) and Magret Atina (Nominee). They were all rushed to Oasis Hospital where they received treatment and were discharged. The Ward Reps are part of the Reps that support the bid to oust Speaker David Kombo. They said they sustained injuries during the scuffle with the police. Personnel were sent to stem violence in the Assembly which had been the Centre of squabbles between two factions. The division had been sparked by  the impeachment of Kombo. Kombo has since gone to court to stop the impeachment. On Tuesday the anti-Kombo Ward Reps who spoke to journalists outside Oasis hospital  spoke of a scheme by the embattled speaker  to use the police to have him stay in  office . "We had planned to conduct house business as outlined in the order paper today, among them  conduct elections of the Speaker when police raided the assembly and clobbered a number of us. Already three of our colleagues are here seeking treatment in hospital," said Sensi Ward MCA Paul Angwenyi. They described  the raid on the Assembly by the security agents as an act of  hooliganism. "He should not be forced on us, we hired him and now we have fired him, nobody has the fate of the assembly in his hand and this we should be left to make our decisions and within the ambit of powers given to us by the people" he stated. Boochi Borabu MCA Samuel Onuko and who presided the impeachment proceedings said Kombo was 'sent home within a proper framework of the law'. He the asked the courts to respect the decision of the Assembly and withdraw the order stopping the election of a new speaker. But in a separate press conference, Ward Reps who are Pro Kombo said the embattled speaker was back in office courtesy of a court order. They said the court ruling which degazetted the early gazette notice which had okayed the impeachment of the Speaker has since been withdrawn. "The orders are very clear which has stopped the gazettement, the same can only be made null and void by review of the same court," said Zablon Mokua, Chief Wip Minority. Leader Minority James Ondari, said the continued divisions in the assembly has derailed development. He said what informed the initial discussion to impeach Kombo has been by passed by self interest. 