 Residents of Lamu Island have decried increased accidents caused by boda boda riders. The number of operators continues to rise on the tiny island, despite an order banning their use. Residents are encouraged to walk on foot or ride on donkeys as a way of preserving the culture and heritage of the island. The use of automobiles is banned. However, the number of boda bodas has continued to grow. Currently, more than 400 boda bodas operate in the town. Lamu is one of the oldest and best-preserved remaining settlements of the Swahili tradition in East Africa. In 2001, Lamu Old Town was listed as a World Heritage Site owing to its well-preserved culture and heritage that spans decades. A World Heritage Site must maintain its originality and resist any form of modern influences, especially in architecture, culture and heritage. The introduction of motorcycles and tuk tuks not only worsens human traffic but also erodes the originality of the town’s traditional ways of life. On Sunday, the Lamu Council of Elders issued a statement decrying the increased boda boda accidents. They accused the county government of failing to contain the trade, which has now become a menace to both residents and tourists. The elders, through their spokesperson Said Seif, said they were disgusted by the situation and blamed the county government and politicians for their leniency towards the boda boda riders. The council plans to lead the community in a demonstration to push for the removal of boda bodas from the island. “The deaths of young children and old people being caused by these bikes is alarming not to mention scores of tourists who were knocked down by speeding boda boda riders here. "They are too much and they should go. This has now become and life-and-death affair and we must take action as elders,” Seif said on Sunday. Elder Muhashim Famau said tens of locals and tourists have been left nursing scars. He said the many boda bodas were to blame for the declining number of tourists. The National Museums of Kenya, through its Lamu office, has already received concerns from Unesco over the possibility of the town being delisted. “The Unesco listing contributed to a large number of tourists but that is slowly changing. The boda boda presence had destroyed the intended plan of this town and has scared away tourists. They must be done away with,” Famau said. Principal curator for the National Monuments and Lamu World Heritage site Mohamed Mwenje said lack of effective regulations to contain the boda boda business had become a serious threat to the site. “The status of Lamu Old Town as a World Heritage Site was up for review following recommendations by Unesco over concerns that the county was not keeping up with the required rules. The major concern is that of boda boda operators," Mwenje said. But Lamu boda boda spokesperson Abubakar Abdalla said the business has offered employment to hundreds and rescued scores from the life of crime and drugs. “Whoever says we must go must remember that the peace and safety experienced now including low crime rates is because the criminals and drug addicts have now found employment in this boda boda business,” he said. Lamu county chief officer for transport Atwa Salim said the boda bodas have been allowed to operate under certain strict rules. In February, the county banned hooting and installation of music systems on motorbikes as part of regulating the boda boda business. Riders are required to maintain a speed limit of less than 20km per hour. “It’s a crime to operate within the town area. Those doing this are being deliberately provocative,” Salim said.  Edited by P.O