A former lawmaker was the talk amongst dignitaries during the visit to the Lake Region by President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The ex-Honourable member joined the President’s team — in one of the numerous stopovers the head of state made — highly inebriated and smelling of the traditional liquor popular in the region. He caused drama when he insisted on hugging the President, while those in charge of protocol thought otherwise, given his condition. A senior leader from the region was heard pleading with him to have some milk and "join us in Kisumu." *** A senior officer of a Nyanza county assembly crafted dubious means to mint cash from the public coffers through fake court cases. The high-ranking official who runs the assembly as his personal property, directing staff and MCAs alike, is known to author demand letters to various groups to threaten them with non-existent legal action. He then pens responses purported to originate from the respondents' advocates. These imaginary legal tussles between the assemblies are amongst his shadowy schemes hatched by the corrupt and arrogant officer to loot from unsuspecting taxpayers. Residents now want EACC and DCI detectives to smoke him out before the public is milked dry. The chairman of a parastatal in one of the ministries is fighting to ensure he extends his control by having a girlfriend be a proxy head of the procurement department. The chairman’s tenure ends in June when he will have served a two-year non-renewable term. He is afraid that when he exits, his tribesmen who occupy key positions in the parastatal may be orphaned. The man has vowed to ensure the parastatal CEO is axed before he exits. However, instead of silently exiting the parastatal helm, he has been lobbying State House to appoint him as the chairman of any other parastatal. He has also been lobbying the appointing authority to extend his second term, saying Covid-19 has prevented him from delivering. *** A regional commissioner who recently hinted he may join politics and vie for a gubernatorial seat in a Rift Valley has been campaigning alone. Recently, the MP wept during an event and pleaded with the residents not to vote to elect the commissioner come 2022. The MP went berserk and insulted local leaders and the CS using foul language. He blamed the CS whom he said was supporting the commissioner. However, the CS asked the residents to support the commissioner and not the MP. The residents have also vowed to support the commissioner.