About five million vaccines will be wired to Africa to curb the spread of Covid-19, the United States has said. In a statement on Monday, US President Joe Biden said the vaccines will be shared with countries that will be selected in coordination with the African Union. "The sharing of millions of US vaccines with other countries signals a major commitment by the US government.  Just like in the United States, we will move as expeditiously as possible, while abiding by U.S. and host country regulatory and legal requirements, to facilitate the safe and secure transport of vaccines across international borders," Biden said. Biden directed the Administration to use all the levers of the US government to protect individuals from the virus as quickly as possible. "The specific vaccines and amounts will be determined and shared as the Administration works through the logistical, regulatory and other parameters particular to each region and country. ," he said. The US said they are sharing part of 75 per cent of their vaccines through Covax. Biden said they will share 25 per cent for immediate needs and to help with surges around the world. "This will maximize the number of vaccines available equitably for the greatest number of countries and for those most at-risk within countries.  For doses shared through COVAX, the United States will prioritize Latin America and the Caribbean, South and Southeast Asia, and Africa, in coordination with the African Union," he said. Kenya has only vaccinated about one million people but targets at least 25 million people by end of next year to achieve herd immunity. According to the head of the vaccine rollout task force, Dr Willis Akhwale, Kenya has revised its vaccination plan and aims to cover 60 per cent of the population by the end of next year. Also, plans are in place to procure seven million doses of Pfizer and another 10 million Johnson & Johnson vaccine doses through the African Union platform. The doses would vaccinate 13.5 million Kenyans. The Pfizer vaccines are expected to arrive in June according to the schedule by the ministry, with the Johnson and Johnson expected in August. This will be in addition to the 20 million expected from the Covax facility. Another 11 million doses will be acquired through Covax to ensure the entire Kenyan adult population is fully vaccinated by the end of June 2022.