The thinking behind the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga had no other agenda than to frustrate and eventually stop Deputy President William Ruto. With the Building Bridges Initiative — a product of the handshake having failed — the forces behind the Stop Ruto machinations have resorted to handing over Jubilee Party to ODM . I am deliberate in using the word “handing over” because Jubilee is currently a shell. Members left that party long ago and have found a home in UDA. It is clear that the powers that be only wanted to use DP Ruto to ensure that Uhuru gets his second term in office, then lock him out of the succession plans. Their plan has failed miserably and they are now clutching at straws. The Deputy President and several elected leaders warned long time ago that a section of Jubilee officials were working with external forces to kill Jubilee. It has come to pass. The signs that the ruling party was headed in the wrong direction emerged the day the party leader avoided to call meetings for members to iron out issues and plan for the future. Then we had the wrongful purge of leaders in the Senate and the National Assembly who were perceived to be allied to the DP. That was the lowest moment of the Jubilee Party. However, the DP, as has always been, was foresighted and that is why he had UDA as a standby party within Jubilee. That was a stroke of genius. Raila Odinga has had the longest history in the country of successfully pushing for the merger of political parties in his attempt to ascend to power but none of which has worked out for him. His National Development Party went into bed with Kanu in 2002 only for him to realise it was a raw deal. History is repeating itself and Raila is entering into an alliance with Jubilee, a party that has ruined the economy just like Kanu did. Raila will inherit the bad and ugly of the Jubilee administration, more so in its second term which has been the most painful for Kenyans. The Chinga Ward MCA in Nyeri county spoke to the Star