Kenyatta National Hospital could delay closure of walk-in patients due to incomplete renovations in the Level 5 hospitals. Nairobi Metropolitan Service boss Mohammed Badi while appearing before the Senate Health committee on Wednesday said the scheduled closure due next month might be postponed. “We are deliberating with MOH until and unless we have all the health systems running in Nairobi, it will be unfair to close KNH,” he said. Badi said that the July 1, date was not cast on stone and might be postponed if the Level 5 hospitals are not completed by then. On May 12, NMS announced that KNH will close its doors to walk-in patients and only handle referrals from next month. This was resolved during a meeting on the transformation of Nairobi county health care referral system where the strategy of referral systems within Kenya was reviewed. Currently, Mama Lucy hospital is being upgraded to a Level 5 hospital. It is the main health facility in the populated Eastlands area. Level-5 health facilities are known as county referral hospitals. The Mathare- Korogocho hospital which is also being renovated will be a Level 5 facility set to decongest Mama Lucy. The facility is set to be opened next month if  Treasury releases Sh200 million which NMS is requesting to have the hospital opened. Badi said that the Ministry of health has come up with a policy of referrals which is being finalized and will be presented at the National Assembly for approval. “There are a lot of issues when it comes to referral systems but the MOH has a policy on it. As NMS we contributed and gave our recommendations, hoping they will be considered and factored in,” he said. For close to three years, the government has been planning on how to decongest the country's biggest health facility, KNH. Nairobi contributes to 47 per cent of walk-in patients at KNH which overwhelms the facility. This has necessitated a change of use of hospitals, increase in the number of hospitals and a review of the scope of services in some hospitals. To implement these plans, President Uhuru Kenyatta in August last year directed NMS to set up 24 hospitals across Nairobi's informal settlements at a cost of Sh2 billion. The 24 hospitals will be set up in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. 19 out of the 24 health facilities will be built from scratch while five will be rehabilitated. 10 out of the facilities to be built will be Level 2 hospitals while nine will be Level 3. The reason why they are situated in slums is because quality and accessible healthcare has become a luxury often beyond the reach of those who live there. 65 percent of Nairobi's population, 3.2 million people live in informal settlements. NMS were to ensure that all 24 hospitals were operational by July because a strong health referral system cannot exist in isolation of well-functioning healthcare facilities. However, up to date, only four out of the 24 hospitals have been opened to be public. The four hospitals commissioned by  President Kenyatta in February include Uthiru-Muthua Hospital which is a Level 3 while Kiamaiko, Soweto and Ushirika dispensaries are Level 2 facilities. Last week, Badi disclosed that 12 hospitals are complete, already equipped and awaiting commissioning. “We are hoping in the next two weeks His Excellency the President will give us guidance on opening them,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)