Thousands of Coast residents who rely on fishing activities for a living now have a reason to smile after President Uhuru Kenyatta launched a Sh10 billion project. Kenya Marine Fisheries Socio-Economic Development Project aims to improve incomes of fishing communities, create jobs, increase tax revenues and sustainably improve locals livelihoods. “Once successfully completed, we expect this project to contribute to sustainable exploitation of Kenya’s marine fisheries,” the President said when he launched the project on Saturday. The project targets local fishermen, households and rural communities that directly or indirectly depend on fishing activities for a living. KEMFSED, which has several components, seeks to strengthen livelihoods through provision of both technical and financial support, improvement of management of priority fisheries and increase access to complementary livelihood activities in coastal communities. "This represents a new dawn in the development of the coastal region and is a key pillar in my administration’s job and wealth creation agenda,” the President said. It is funded by the World Bank and aims to create over 60,000 new jobs in the fishing sector over the next decade and will benefit 19 sub-counties in Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu counties. It will be implemented over a period of five years ending August 2025. In addition, it will strengthen coastal households’ access to complementary livelihood activities towards diversifying sources of household income to reduce dependence on capture fisheries. Currently, there are more than 24,000 fishermen in the Indian Ocean but they do not go into the deep waters beyond the reef due to poor fishing technology and low skills. This has led to depletion of the mature fish. The fishermen have been forced to encroach on the breeding ground and other critical habitats, use illegal fishing gears with low returns, hence high poverty levels among the small scale fishers. Uhuru said he has created a dedicated office to deal with oceans and blue economy, the revival of Liwatoni fish Port and in addition to government's plan to set a fish processing factory in Lamu. The initiatives are aimed at turning around the fisheries sector, the main economic activity for the coastal people. On capacity building in the sector, the President said the government had designated the Bandari Maritime Academy to be the centre of excellence in training of seafarers and fisherfolk. “Building the capacity of our fishers to world standards is an essential part of this effort. "The enhanced management framework, under the Oceans and Blue Economy Office should ensure that fishing vessels licensed to operate in our waters provide job and training opportunities for our fishers and young people,” the President said. The Head of State said the project is part of the government’s post Covid-19 recovery efforts, adding that the initiative will lead to sustainable utilisation of Kenya's marine fisheries resources. Coast Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa), Salim Mvurya (Kwale), Amason Kingi (Kilifi), Dhadho Godhana (Tana River) and Fahim Twaha (Lamu) hailed the project. They termed the project a new frontier in improving the livelihoods of fishing communities and spurring growth of related industries in the region. Joho said the lives of people living at the Kenyan Coast were closely intertwined with fishing and called for investments and policy reforms to ensure the sector benefits more people. Mvurya, who is also the chairman of Jumuiya ya Pwani-a regional grouping of the six coastal counties, called for the integrated development and exploitation of the blue economy and other sectors such as agribusiness, infrastructure, tourism, education and training. Agriculture CS Peter Munya, his Treasury counterpart Ukur Yattani, Blue Economy Initiative chairman Gen (Rtd) Samson Mwathethe attended the event. -Edited by SKanyara