Former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka has said it is very unlikely that he will support former Prime Minister Raila Odinga for president again. Speaking on Wednesday during an interview with NTV, the Wiper party leader said he would rather retire, than support Raila. "I will be the most stupid fellow under earth to support for the third time, a presidential candidate without a measure of reciprocity," Kalonzo said. He went on to blame ODM for the collapse of the National Super Alliance, insisting that it will take a miracle to rebuild the alliance. Kalonzo said that ODM killed Nasa after its Secretary General, Edwin Sifuna announced that the alliance was dead, during the Kibra by-election. "When you have breach of trust at that level where leaders cannot meet, where leaders are calling each other names as if they are children, then clearly it would require a miracle" "When you are walking a bitten trail and you know the pitfalls, the insincerity, bad mouthing and bad faith, you rather think very strategically. So, for us, One Kenya Alliance is ready to take off," he said. Asked about reports of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s call for a Nasa unity, the Wiper leader said he could not remember the president saying he would endorse a Nasa presidential candidate in 2022 during the meeting with Kamba leaders at State House, on Monday. During the meeting, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared that he will pick his 2022 successor from among the Nasa principals if they unite and agree on a single candidate. "Steve (Kalonzo), listen to your people and what they are saying. Unite in Nasa then we shall see what will happen. Whatever you will agree on is what I will go with," Uhuru said. Raila and the other Nasa principals—Kalonzo, Mudavadi, and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula—have been pulling in different directions since 2018 following the handshake between the former prime minister and Uhuru. Chama Cha Mashinani party leader Isaac Ruto, who was also part of the team, is now with Deputy President William Ruto.