The National Environment Management Authority has put Kilifi county on notice over poor waste management. The authority has since given restoration orders for the Mayungu dumpsite in the Malindi subcounty. Director general Mamo Mamo said the dumpsite has failed to put in place the 10 minimum points issued by the authority for any disposal site. The 10 minimum points include fencing, security at the gate, weighing of the incoming waste, motorable roads to and within the dumpsite, personal protective equipment for the staff, controlled entry and tipping of waste. He said the dumpsite has not been demarcated and has no beacons showing its boundaries. Mamo also raised concerns about how waste was being handled within the dumpsite. He said there was no bulldozer on site to push the waste to the desired areas and cover it with soil. “There were many scavenging families living around and within the site. Families lit fires in the dumpsite to enable them to recover scrap metal, which causes pollution to the neighbouring community and environment at large,” he said. “Majority of the vehicles dumping waste at the site belong to the county government  with a few vehicles coming from the private companies.” Mamo said most of the dumping done is for domestic waste, industrial and hazardous materials, including some medical waste, adding that wind was scattering waste outside the designated area into the adjacent private land. Mamo said the move is against the Environment Management and Coordination Act, No 8 of 1999. Section 3 (1) of the Act states that every person in Kenya is entitled to a clean and healthy environment and has a duty to safeguard and enhance the environment. Mamo said when an offence is committed against the Act by a corporate, the corporate and every director or officer who had prior knowledge of the commission of the offence and who did not exercise due diligence, efficiency and economy to ensure compliance, is guilty of an offence. “You are, therefore, directed to undertake a survey of the dumpsite and designate the area as waste management site,” he said. Mamo said the 10 minimum points issued by the authority must be implemented. He said families scavenging at the dumpsite must be regulated and fires managed. The official said waste encroaching on private land must be controlled by the use of a wall and the county should ensure waste is not dumped in non-designated areas. Other demands include the provision of staff with adequate personal protective equipment and the development of a compliance plan that will be shared with the authority for approval. Mamo warned against non-compliance with the orders saying it is an offence punishable upon conviction to imprisonment for a term not less than one year but not more than four years, or a fine not less than Sh2 million and not more than Sh4 million, or to both. He said the county has a right to appeal the order with the National Environment Tribunal if aggrieved. -Edited by SKanyara