Kenya and the United Kingdom are working to raise Sh500 billion to support education programmes in developing countries in the next five years. The campaign, through the Global Partnership for Education, was launched in October last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. Partners hope to raise the cash ahead of the Global Partnership for Education  Summit scheduled for July 28 to 29 in the UK. The funds would be crucial to supporting the education sector, which is facing a shakeup in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on Tuesday said the ministry received Sh22.5 billion from the programme from 2005 to 2020. The funds have been spent on buying 10.5 million textbooks, training 102,000 teachers for Grade 1, 2, and 3 and teaching mathematics under the Competency-Based Curriculum. Part of the money was used to improve education infrastructure. Magoha spoke on Tuesday during an event to launch the commitment to education financing plan and outline the country’s role as the co-host of the Global Partnership for Education 2021-25 in Nairobi. The Cabinet secretary credited the programme with developing curriculum designs for the CBC in primary teacher education and enhanced remote learning interventions. “All tutors in primary teacher training colleges have been retooled to be able to effectively implement the CBC,” Magoha said. The funds also helped in the inception of the Teacher Performance and Appraisal System, which has was opposed by some unions and supported by others. “This has helped to enhance the teacher-pupil contact hours due to reduced absenteeism of teachers,” Magoha said. The online National Education Management Information System, which is now the source of data on schools and enrolment, was also built through the programme. This has enabled financial management and procurement processes in the education sector, Magoha said. Deputy chief of staff in the Office of President Ruth Kagia said Kenya and the UK have raised $3 billion and urged all stakeholders to join hands and support the programme. “We have two billion more dollars to raise before the summit, which is a few weeks away and it is upon all of us to support this noble cause,” Kagia said. (edited by o. owino)