A land housing project launched in Ruiru Town, Kiambu County, is still on course, officials say. National Co-operatives Housing Union (NACHU) chairman Eng Francis Kamande on Friday dispelled claims there were differences on the project progress and assured investors the project is genuine and solid. “We are very sure of our project and it is on course. Ignore any lies being peddled by our competitors.” “It is expected when a project like Riverline Ridges is progressing so well and as much as we welcome healthy competition in this field, I encourage those behind it to do it with integrity," he said. The union runs Riverline Ridges in Ruiru as one of its prime projects marketed by Finsco Africa. NACHU is a leading affordable housing provider in Kenya, delivering strong growth in housing solutions to transform people’s lives. Kamande said it is nestled in tranquil, serene, secure and evergreen leafy suburbs of Ruiru in the proposed gated development, project intended to offer a quality yet reasonable and affordable lifestyle. Riverline Ridges boasts of an expansive prime land of 428 acres of land carefully subdivided into various acreage ready for immediate development. “Our mandate is in facilitating members' access to decent, adequate and affordable shelter by exploring alternative building technologies, appropriate financial solutions and advocacy for the benefit of her members and any other potential clients.” He further argued it is home to Kenya’s legendary coffee estate, situated in close proximity to Tatu City, Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA), Runda Estate, Kenyatta University, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology(JKUAT), UniCity, Thika Super-Highway, the Northern, Western and Eastern bypasses. “Riverline Ridges is located in the fastest growing location in Kiambu County. Additionally, we have obtained change of use of title from agricultural to mixed-use development,” he said. Kamande further thanked the stakeholders of the project for their support and engagement with the Riverline Ridges project. "We have the most supportive clients, and we could not make such great steps without their support. We assure them that we will continue working closely with them as we actualize their dreams of accessing affordable housing.” He said they will deliver on time for those investing.