Embu parents have been asked to follow Education CS George Magoha directive and pay school fees. On Monday, Magoha asked headteachers not to let in students with third term arrears. Embu Parents Association chairman John Kathangu on Wednesday said many parents are able to pay but are simply suffering from dependency syndrome which is causing laxity. He urged parents to try and settle their arrears or consult school heads on an agreement to pay in instalments. He asked Magoha to give firm directives in future to avoid getting parents by surprise. “We know we should be responsible for our children's education. Many parents who had planned to pay a little amount did not expect to be pushed this hard,” Kathangu said. Students returned to school this week after their mid-term break. Schools face growing debts after the CS announced last year no children should be sent home for failure to pay fees. Kenya National Union of Teachers Embu branch executive secretary Josphat Kathumi urged parents to understand that their children have to be taken care of while in school. He urged parents to consider offering enough facilitation through fee payment so as to give school heads and teachers easy time. "Children need to eat and use electricity among other provisions which have to be paid for. I request parents to facilitate their children's quality education," he said. Kathumi urged headteachers not to send children home but instead take whatever little amount parents offer. He asked teachers to listen to parents and make arrangements on how to settle the balances. Embu North subcounty education director Evans Ogamba told parents that this is the shortest term and allowing children to remain at home will disadvantage them. Ogamba urged the parents to first let their children report back to school as the government programme indicates. They should then consult with the head teachers and agree on how to pay their fee arrears. “I also request the parents to consider engaging area banks to facilitate loans for their children’s education. They can settle the loans later as their children resume learning,” he said Parents requested CS Magoha to consider allowing them to pay in instalments other than directing head teachers to demand full fees. The parents cited tough economic crisis and blamed the Covid-19 pandemic for their woes. Magoha ordered the head teachers to ask for third term fee and send home children of the parents who will fail to pay. Parents accuse the government of doublespeak saying it had assured them that no student will be sent home since resumption of classes late last year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)  