The wait by Kirinyaga Central small-scale traders hawking on the streets for lack of market stalls and space will finally end next month. The national government is set to complete the construction of a modern market in Ngaru area. The Sh47 million facility will accommodate more than 300 traders. Infrastructure Principal Secretary Paul Maringa said the market will be handed over to the county government to manage. He was joined by area Governor Anne Waiguru in inspecting construction works. Waiguru described the project as an economic game-changer and an infrastructural masterpiece that will help open up rural areas and set the standards for infrastructural projects in other towns. “We want all our towns to have at least one modern facility. My administration is committed to fulfilling that desire. So far we have put up 11 modern markets within the county and our target is adding four more,” she said. She said the national government has also promised to construct about seven more markets, of which about four will be based close to the Kenol-Sagana –Marua dual carriageway to improve trade with travellers. Waiguru also said her administration is in the process of constructing a modern maternity ward in the neighbouring Ngaru Dispensary. Earlier, she visited Ngaru Girls. She said the county government will help the school buy six large water tanks and intal roof gutters to fix its water problem. She said they will also renovate ECDE classrooms. And weighing in on Mashujaa Day celebrations to be held at Wang'uru Stadium on October 20, the county chief expressed excitement over the national government's decision to settle on Kirinyaga county as the host. She said the event will leave an economic and infrastructural impression on the entire county. Waiguru urged local leaders to set aside their political differences and unite to organise a successful event. Wang’uru Stadium's upgrade is underway and is due for completion in August. President Uhuru Kenyatta will lead the nation in marking the historic day. The county technical committee has teamed up with the national government to prepare the ground for the event. Waiguru joined other governors in piling pressure on the National Treasury to release devolved funds. She said many counties are struggling to pay salaries and pending bills and implement development projects, hence the national government should release the money before June 20. “In Kirinyaga, we are short of about Sh1.6 billion from March to date. Thank God we have been able to pay salaries all that while. However, moving forward from this month, we might not be able to pay if we fail to receive the funds,” she said.  Edited by F'Orieny