Residents of Manda Island in Lamu West have accused the government of discrimination and refusal to issue them with national identification cards. The island is home to over 2,000 people, most of them stone miners, who settled on the island from other parts of the country in the 1980s. Manda island is known for its high-quality building blocks which are transported across the country. Residents however said area chiefs and their assistants have made it impossible for their children to acquire IDs and always ask them to go back to where they came from to acquire the document from there. Manda is cosmopolitan with the majority of residents being from Kisii, Nyanza,Western and Kilifi. Elder Enos Muyale says administrators demand unnecessary documentation just to frustrate their efforts to get IDs. “Normally, all you need is a birth certificate for the child, a letter from the area chief and the parents' ID.  But the chiefs here ask for more documentation which they know we don’t have. I came here in 1982 but when my son wanted an ID they demanded that I produce a letter from the chief of the area I originally came from in Western. That is impossible because I live here now,”said Muyale. Residents said many of their children who have attained 18 years and above do not have IDs and have been unable to secure jobs as a result. “Our children were born here. Their birth certificates were acquired here. How then do you tell us that they can't get IDs here. That is unfair,” he said. Evans Okundo said youths have been unable to secure jobs at the new Lamu port and other companies as employers insist on IDs which they don’t have. Julius Ireri said they have been accused of being criminals by security agencies whenever they fail to produce their IDs. “Travelling for us is a nightmare. Our young men and women have been arrested by security agencies on suspicion of being terrorists just because they couldn’t prove their citizenship by producing IDs,” said Ireri. In his response, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia denied that the islanders have been denied IDs and instead said the government was doing its best to clear any ID registration backlog in the county. “Statistics indicate very good progress. However, collection of IDs has been slow. Our national administrative officers are working closely with Nairobi and Huduma centre in ensuring deserving Kenyans are vetted on time and get their IDs and Huduma Namba. Those alleging denial should provide statistics.  Numbers don't lie,” said Macharia. -Edited by SKanyara