Governors in the North Rift region have agreed to prioritise peace, security and unity to prepare for the 2022 General Election. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, who is the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), says authorities will not allow election campaigns or activities to disrupt peace and unity. Mandago, who spoke in Soy subcounty on Sunday, cautioned all political aspirants to avoid incitement and use peaceful means to prepare for the polls. He said all Kenyans have the democratic right to participate in politics and vie for seats but they must be peaceful. Lawbreakers and troublemakers would be punished in Rift Valley and elsewhere, he said. "Elections or politics should not be used to disrupt our development programmes as in the past," Mandago said. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos also agreed to focus on sensitising residents of the largely cosmopolitan region to maintain harmony. He said economic development should be sustained and only peace can make that possible. The National Cohesion and Integration commission is already assessing the political situation and stability in all 47 counties to prepare for the general election. The commission is implementing a 2022 road map called Elections Bila Noma or Elections Without Chaos. It aims to ensure the election environment is calm and potential trouble spots are identified. The commission will meet leaders, community representatives, elders and peace campaigners to discuss peace, security and cohesion among all communities in all counties. Commissioners Abdulaziz Farah and Danvas Makori led the NCIC team to tour Uasin Gishu. “We want to be pro-active and not reactive. We want to deal with all emerging or critical issues instead of waiting for election time," Farah said. Farah said it was unfortunate a few leaders in the country were the main cause of chaos during elections and said they must take a new approach to safeguard stability countrywide. The NCIC, he said, had identified underlying issues such as land disputes that frequently trigger animosity during elections. "A majority of our leaders are good and want peace but a few exploit issues to cause problems for personal benefits," he said. Farah said the commission was concerned with rising political temperatures in most parts of the country and urged leaders to exercise caution. Elders in Rift Valley led by Major (Rtd) John Seii have also called for peace and agreed to work with NCIC and other agencies to ensure amity prevails.  (Edited by V. Graham)