Wading into the confusion at the Nairobi County Assembly, Speaker Benson Mutura has settled the dust regarding the occupancy of the clerk's office. This comes after confusion that rocked the Nairobi County Assembly on Monday as two deputy clerks as in the run of occupying the office of the clerk in an acting capacity Stamping authority and giving clarity, Mutura on Tuesday indicated that Deputy Clerk in charge of Legislative services, Adah Onyango will occupy the clerk's office in an acting capacity. This comes after an appellate court last Friday ordered assembly clerk Edward Gichana to vacate office pending the determination of a lawsuit against him "For clarity and any avoidance of doubt, the acting clerk of the county assembly is Adah Onyango," Mutura said. Mutura also noted that his office and the county assembly service board are working to ensure there is a seamless continuation of assembly services. He said that the court issued an injunction against Gichana from exercising the power, privileges, and responsibilities of the clerk, pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal this creating a vacuum in the office of the clerk The Speaker also did an internal communication to the assembly staff. "Please accord Adah Onyango all the support necessary to ensure continuity of the assembly," read the memo. Clerk Gichana on Monday in another letter directed Deputy Clerk in charge of Administration Pauline Akuku to take over his office in an acting capacity. He also went ahead and handed over vital documents to Akuku which was to symbolize her taking over the office. Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo accused the Gichana of insubordination and breaching of law for purporting to hand over his office. “How can a barred clerk write a letter on June 7th despite a clear court ruling on June 4th  and a decision of the board and a communication from the Speaker ?’ he questioned. He condemned Gichana’s action to write a letter after being barred by the court brought confusion and contradicted the decisions made by Speaker and the County Assembly Service Board. Guyo recommended that action should be taken against Gichana for going against the Speaker’s communication and resolution of the Board. “Action should be instituted to one Edward Gichana  and anyone who is purporting to act as a clerk  who is clearly breaching  the board’s decision.,” he added Responding to his query, Speaker Mutura emphasised that the assembly was an institution where the law has to be followed. “This being an institution, I have made it clear and for the avoidance of doubt that no one is above the law and If you don’t follow consequences will be followed,” he said. Confusion has characterised the occupancy of the clerk’s office since 2019 after the former office holder, Jacob Ngwele, and former speaker Beatrice Elachi fell out. Last July, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Maureen Onyango stayed orders on Ngwele as the clerk and gave the assembly 45 days to recruit a clerk. The assembly’s board declared the vacancy and 11 people were interviewed, including Gichana. On July 24, Gichana was sworn in as the new clerk but a few days later the court suspended the gazettement of his appointment. On August 5, Justice Onyango ordered Ngwele to step aside pending the hearing and determination of his case this month. “It was the court’s view that even though Ngwele is the current clerk of the assembly, he should step aside until the case is concluded. “In the meantime, the deputy clerk currently in office will take over the functions of the clerk until the petition is determined,” the court ruled. At this point, despite both Akuku and Adah being deputy clerks, Akuku took over in acting capacity.. In November, Justice Onyango ruled that Ngwele’s appointment to the clerk’s office was shrouded in irregularities. This paved way for Gichana to take over the office as the substantive clerk. However, former clerk Jacob Ngwele moved to the court of Appeal to challenge the Labour court ruling that had declared him as being illegally in office, thus paving way for the appointment of Gichana to the position.