The fight against corruption received a major boost on Thursday after the National Treasury allocated Sh20 billion to investigative agencies. In the budget estimates unveiled by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, the Directorate of Criminal Investigation got the lion’s share of Sh7.6 billion in the 2021-22 budget to fight crime. The DCI has been an integral part of the fight against graft and other criminal activities. The agency has investigated high-profile corruption cases such as the multibillion-shilling Arror and Kimwarer dams scandal. Yatani allocated the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) Sh3.3 billion to boost its work of combating corruption and improving governance in public service. “To enhance good governance and scale up fight against corruption, I have set aside Sh3.3 billion for the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission,” the CS said. The EACC has investigated mega cases, recovered billions of shillings of stolen public assets and stopped theft of public resources. Two week ago, EACC chairman Eliud Wabukala told a Senate committee that they have recovered stolen public assets worth Sh25 billion and averted loss of Sh30.4 billion in the last five years. Over the period, the commission investigated 1,000 cases. Out of which, 275 were concluded in court, with 169 resulting in convictions. In 2019-20, the commission forwarded 163 files to the Office of Director of Public Prosecutions and undertook 31 proactive investigations. The EACC has investigated corruption cases worth Sh1.2 billion involving nine current and former governors. They are from Tharaka Nithi, Nairobi, Kiambu, Garissa, Samburu, Busia, Migori and Nyandarua counties. The commission also investigated the Sh7.6 billion Kemsa scandal. The office of the Director of Public Prosecution got Sh3.2 billion. The office, led by DPP Noordin Haji, is currently prosecuting mega graft cases in courts. The office of the Auditor General received Sh5.9 billion in the next financial year. Yatani allocated the Judiciary Sh17.6 billion to fast-track the hearing and determination of cases.