Is it time to break up the Gikuyu, Embu, Meru Association, which was created to presumably advance the social and political needs of the Mt Kenya region? That’s the proposal some leaders from Embu and Meru are mulling over. They complain that member minority communities, now called Mt Kenya East, have always played second fiddle to the Kikuyu. The proposal is strongly being considered after some ‘elders’ purportedly cleansed the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine just because National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi (pictured) was coronated at the shrine. Mt Kenya East leaders say the cleansing ceremony was an insult to them. ****** Judiciary staff members were among Kenyans who sent congratulatory messages to Martha Koome for becoming the 15th Chief Justice and the first female in the country's history to occupy the position. Koome received accolades for her tremendous contribution to the justice system, but barely a month after her swearing-in, anxiety has gripped the judicature. A bird whispered to Corridors that Koome, in a bid to enhance service delivery, is working on a major reshuffle that will see some staff moved to new stations. Particularly worried are those who have over-stayed in one station and those who have been linked to cartels hindering dispensation of justice. ****** A female legislator from Western who was hoping to be governor next year has found herself between a rock and a hard place. This is after it became apparent that the exiting county boss will not support her. The county boss had initially shown signs of supporting her but has since gone silent. The legislator, realising that her chances of becoming governor were becoming slim by the day, has opted to take a low profile. She is said to have thought her closeness with the governor would earn her an endorsement, but the likelihood of it happening seems to be fading fast as he appears to have another preferred candidate. ****** Trouble is brewing in one of the security agencies based in a county in the Rift Valley. It is said procurement department officials have gone completely rogue. An insider in the critical agency told Corridors of Power that senior staff in the department are operating on their own terms and have devised ways of extorting millions of shillings from suppliers in the name of securing them opportunities to do business with the organisation. The ruthless employees have worked at the station for many years and operate an elaborate scheme of fleecing suppliers using the names of their seniors all the way to the top echelons of the agency. 