The Ministry of Transport has asked the Nairobi Expressway contractor to designate lanes, provide alternative routes and seek police help in managing traffic congestion. The directives are to help minimise inconvenience and enhance safety as construction works continue. They are part of a traffic management plan designed by the Transport ministry to guarantee the smooth flow of both motorised and non-motorised traffic. Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the plan is designed to facilitate access to nearby property and is updated regularly as the project proceeds. In a memorandum to the Senate Committee on Roads, Macharia said the expressway is complex and will disrupt businesses located along the road's corridor. He said entrances to some businesses will have to be closed for some time as construction progresses. “We have instructed the contractor to minimise such disruptions and ensure that whenever access to a business is closed, construction is expedited,” he said. The 27.1-kilometre expressway starts from Mlolongo through Uhuru Highway and terminates at James Gichuru Road in Westlands. Macharia said the contractor is required to maintain at least two lanes for passage of traffic throughout the road corridor. The contractor is also required to provide deviations or alternative routes with appropriate signs at road sections that have been closed. The management of traffic throughout the corridor will be carried out in collaboration with the Traffic Police. “In addition, the contractor will carry out most of the construction works at night to reduce disruptions,” he said. Last month, Kenya National Highways Authority said it was working closely with the traffic police to manage the situation and minimise the inconveniences. The authority said ongoing rains had created further inconveniences as works interfered with side drainage causing ponding of water in some parts of the road. Macharia noted that there are numerous alternative routes that could be used, especially during peak hours. “These include newly launched ICD Road A to the Southern Bypass, the Eastern and Southern Bypasses, the new link roads in Upper Hill, Enterprise Road and the newly expanded Outering Road amongst others,” he said. He said if it is necessary to close some sections of the corridor, the public will be informed in advance through newspaper advertisements and on social media. “Whenever sections of the road are closed, the contractor is instructed to expedite works so as to ensure that such sections as reopened as soon as possible,” he said. A section of Uhuru Highway and Mombasa Road was last month closed for 21 days to facilitate construction. Macharia urged those affected by the construction works to bear with the discomfort as the project will be completed soon. (edited by o. owino)