A family in Masinga subcounty, Machakos, is pleading for justice after their 13-year-old daughter was allegedly defiled by a neighbour. The Standard 6 pupil said she was looking after the family's cattle on May 22 at around 2pm when a man known to her grabbed her, removed all her clothes and defiled her. "The man threatened to kill me and dump my body in a nearby man-made dam if I told my parents," she said in tears. She said her attacker put Sh100 in her pocket before he left. The girl did not disclose her ordeal to anyone, including her mother. A day later, her mother found the Sh100 note in the pocket as she washed the girl's clothes. She demanded to know where the girl got the money from, and that's when she opened up. It was around 8pm. The following morning, they reported the matter to the police before proceeding to hospital. After recording a statement at the police station, the man was hunted down by villagers. Police were called in and they arrested him, the girl's father said. The suspect was later taken to court, but he was not presented before a magistrate, according to the girl's father. The girl's father said after inquiring, the prosecutor said the files had been incorrectly filled out and the family would receive communication once the files had been corrected. The girl's father said he later sought help from different organisations but because of lack of funds he could not travel every time he was needed. He said his daughter has been taken to hospital several times as she keeps complaining of pain in her lower abdomen. The father said she sought help from Woman Representative Kameme Kasimbi who directed him to go to Masinga and inquire from the police boss about the case. "The OCPD told me the case lacked evidence and produced a letter he said was from the court," the father said. He is now pleading with the government to intervene as the issue has adversely affected his daughter. "My daughter is still unwell, and we keep taking her for treatment. This has affected me financially, as I only do odd jobs to survive," he pleaded. A village elder urged the government to address the matter. "We hear the man was set free and this is not only dangerous for our daughters, sisters and mothers but also to the entire community. We do not know what he might do next, bearing in mind that his family is well-off," the elder said. The findings in the P3 form indicated there was no discharge, tear, bleeding, scratches or cuts. 