Churches in Kisii’s Nyaribari Chache subcounty were Friday ordered to shut for two weeks as the county monitors Covid-19 infections in the region. Authorities say the move will help them monitor a sudden increase of infections in the area. County secretary Patrick Lumumba said the spiralling infections are a result of the recent Madaraka Day celebrations in the neighbouring Kisumu county. “We are wary the situation may run out of control if the infections keep climbing,” Lumumba said during a journalist’s briefing at his office. The county has since ordered many of its staff to work from home. At least 10 officers in the Finance department are said to have contracted teh virus. Nyaribari Chache alone has registered more than 140 infections in the last one month. Public Health officer Florence Tirimba cited  Kisii Central and Birongo wards as the hardest hit. “We have noted a swell for the last few days, which informed the temporary halt in church attendance.  We have also had consultations with the Ministry of Health, which advised so,” Tirimba said in a statement. She said they have registered a number of deaths related to  the disease in the last few weeks. She advised residents to observe social distance and  wear face masks . A letter notifying of the closure of churches was copied to the clerics and chiefs. The administrators were told to ensure the order is obeyed and where it is contravened, arrests be made. Separately, more than 20 revellers were arrested and locked up in a crackdown on bars in Kisii town. County Commissioner Alan Macharia said there will be more swoops aimed at ensuring compliance among bar owners. “We have just begun and are not going to slow down until the proprietors comply with the guidelines spelt out by the Ministry of Health,” he said during a briefing at his office. The administrator said they are mulling withdrawing licenses from obstinate bar owners. “We still have it as an option if they still remain stubborn,” he said at his office on Friday.