Leading telecommunication company Safaricom Wednesday launched the M-Pesa Super App, to enhance customers’ experience every time they use the service. The app will provide customers with a simple, fun, secure and convenient digital solution. During the virtual launch, Safaricom CEO Peter Ndegwa said the company is introducing a Mini-App functionality, which means businesses will have apps where they can renew licences, manage and pay their bills, interact with suppliers, and much more. "The M-Pesa business app will enable and empower them with powerful tools to manage and grow their businesses. Ultimately, our aim is that for every Sh1 a business collects on M-Pesa, they should be able to make an extra Sh5," Ndegwa said. The Telco is now taking a strong focus on apps, building a strong Digital Ecosystem for their customers. Ndegwa said that beyond simply collecting payments, businesses can pay for supplies, pay wages, buy from other businesses and can use the money a customer pays immediately; they do not have to wait days or hours for payments to settle. "We recognised that there was a need to go beyond just payment collections for our business customers. The first thing we did was introduce an online portal where customers could apply for Lipa Na M-Pesa Tills and Paybills," Ndegwa said. "We are excited about these innovations that will help us become a customer-obsessed, digital-first organization in order for us to create a purpose-led technology company." Over the last few months, we have been testing the new M-Pesa app with over 1 million customers who have been using this service. I would like to sincerely thank them because they have given us feedback on what to improve on. M-Pesa Africa CEO, Sitoyo Lopokoiyit, stated that over the last few months they have been testing the new M-Pesa App with over 1 million customers who have been using this service. He added that the M-Pesa app empowers the customer to accomplish much more in their hustle, at home or from whatever place they are, from a point of convenience. "We have designed the M-Pesa app to offer a modern, fun and intuitive design that maximizes convenience and security. The fresh design eliminates error and enables us to add a host of new features. "We have added security measures without sacrificing convenience. You can now choose how you wish to unlock the app either through your pin, facial recognition, or your fingerprint," Sitoyo said. A key benefit of using the app is that it allows one to confirm all their transactions before completion, providing you with increased accuracy, ensuring that your transactions reach the intended recipient. Customers will also enjoy customisable options such as adding a profile picture that will be visible to the individuals you transact with on the app. It will also be possible to send personalised descriptions and GIFs along with the transactions you perform. "More than five million businesses that receive payments through the ‘Send Money’ option on M-Pesa, will be able to leverage on these descriptions to identify the individuals who have made the payments to them," Sitoyo stated. The new M-Pesa app will also empower small businesses and app users with the ability to send money to multiple people using only one authentication. The app will be zero-rated, and our customers will be able to use the App in ‘Offline’ mode even when they do not have data. To celebrate today’s launch, Safaricom will be awarding their customers with 500MB FREE data for downloading the app, and Sh500 to every 10th customer who downloads the M-Pesa app for the next three days. "I encourage all our customers to download the new M-Pesa App to unravel a new world of convenience, that will surely transform their lives by connecting them to new opportunities every day," Sitoyo concluded.