Private insurers will pay first whenever a member is hospitalised, in a plan to reduce the burden on the National Hospital Insurance Fund. Currently,  NHIF act as the primary insurer for co-insured members, thereby bearing the biggest burden of medical bills. NHIF boss Peter Kamunyo said the fund currently caters for between 70 and 100 per cent of most hospital bills irrespective of whether the patient is also covered by private insurance. He explained that the standard practice globally is that private health insurer is the primary payer while social health insurer becomes the secondary payer for packages such as radiology, surgical and dialysis. “This concept is practised world over where the principal of social insurance operates on the philosophy of social solidarity where individuals who can pay more, do so to support and uplift those who cannot,” he said. The proposal is contained in the NHIF Act (Amendment) Bill 2021, introduced in the National Assembly on May 13. The reforms are expected to strengthen the fund to deliver UHC before President Uhuru leaves office next year. Kamunyo said if this bill is passed, more funds would be available for NHIF to expand its benefit package. NHIF has been catering for people with chronic and pre-existing conditions, which most private insurers exclude. These include dialysis, cancers, surgeries and specialised imaging like MRI, CT Scan and Pet CT Scan. Last week, Uhuru asked MPs to consider fast-tracking the passage of bill to help the country achieve UHC. The bill introduces three categories of contributions. These are: statutory contributions for the formal sector, mandatory contribution for the informal sector and sponsored programmes for the vulnerable populations. “The bill proposes that employers match the employees’ contributions by remitting the same amount the employee is deducted every month without removing the same from their salaries,” Kamunyo said. The bill also makes it mandatory for every household to be covered by NHIF by paying Sh17 per day or Sh500 a month. Central Organisation of Trade Unions opposes this. "What is it that the bill want NHIF to do with the money they are seeking to collect from any Kenyan above the age of 18 years?" posed Cotu boss Francis Atwoli. However, the mandatory contribution is not for everyone above 18 years. In a family, only one partner must pay, and this covers the other partner and their children. Kenyans who cannot pay will be identified and supported, the bill says. “The national government in collaboration with the county government have already made headway in identifying and supporting one million households to benefit from the initial scale-up exercise that targets poor and vulnerable population spread across all the 47 counties,” Kamunyo said. Currently, NHIF has a membership of 9.96 million principal members drawn from both the employed (formal sector) and voluntary contributors (informal sector). Cumulatively, this covers about 23.06 million beneficiaries. Formal sector members are 4.51 million, which is 45.3 per cent of total membership, while the informal sector members are 5.45 million, which is 54.7 per cent. Last year, active members were 5.12 million translating to 51.4 per cent of total membership. Of the active members,  3.26 million (63.7 per cent) were from the formal sector and 1.86 million (36.3 per cent) from the informal sector. “Most members in the informal sector only pay for their medical insurance when they have a healthcare need and will often drop off once their health need has been met,” Kamunyo said. Those who remain consistent contributors are mostly those with terminal or chronic illnesses requiring sustained treatment. -Edited by SKanyara