MPs are investigating a multi-million procurement mess that has rocked the Kenya Leather Development Council. Kajiado North MP Joseph Manje has petitioned the National Assembly to probe irregular procurement and alleged nepotism by top managers at the state-funded institution. The state corporation is also faulted for breaching Public Procurement and Disposal Regulations by engaging companies not listed in their prequalified list. For instance, the Leather Council requested quotations from three companies for the supply of HP Laserjet Pro M426FDW printer and 10 colour soft 26X toners, all the firms were not on the prequalified list. The petition also raised alarm over questionable construction of four warehouses in Kinanie, Machakos under the Kenya Leather Industrial Park Programme for Sh1.2 billion on a site yet to be surveyed. The site belongs to the Export Processing Zones Authority. The Council is also under scrutiny over recent appointments of board members and top council managers, which the petitioner argued favoured one particular region of the country. “The recent appointments of board members and the Council’s senior management have been unfairly skewed towards a particular region of the country, which has shifted the Council’s focus from the promotion of leather and leather products manufacturing to hides and skins improvement, which is essentially a devolved function,” the petitioner said. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi referred the petition to the Committee on Trade, Industry and Cooperatives chaired by Mandera South MP Adan Haji. “The Council’s senior management has been undertaking unauthorised recruitment of staff, and has presided over the closure of three tanneries, the massive decline in industry exports earnings, the increase of imported footwear deliberately mislabeled as second-hand footwear, the shrinking of the market for semi-processed leather and the general marketing and growth crisis currently facing the leather industry in the country,” Manje said. In their prayers, the petitioners want the Haji led committee to recommend the transfer of the oversight of KLDC from the Department of Livestock where it is currently domiciled to the State Department of Industrialisation. It further seeks that the Committee ascertain qualifications of board members and KLDC  senior staff as well as their commitment towards the improvement of the leather industry. Issack Noor is the current CEO of the troubled government agency. The Committee investigates the controversial construction of warehouses on over 100 acres of land belonging to the Export Processing Zones Authority, the possible irregular reallocation of funds meant for Common Effluent Treatment Plant towards the construction of the warehouses, and the procurement and general planning of the project. The agency is constitutionally mandated to provide advisory services on matters relating to processing and trading of hides, skins, leather and leather goods, oversees licensing in the leather subsector, enhances leather marketing strategies, and regulates, harmonises, coordinates and facilitates the growth of the leather industry in the country.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris