Kenya Women's Premier League defending champions Vihiga Queens will be banking on experience in their bid to reach the playoff final when they face Gaspo at Showground-Nakuru today. Vihiga are bidding to win their fourth unprecedented title and face a daunting semi-final task against a confident Gaspo team who were a cut above Wadadia-hammering the Mumias side 5-0 in the knockout rounds. The Alex Alumira-coached side has beaten Gaspo in their past four encounters. In 2019, they beat the Gatundu-based side 2-1 away and 3-1 in Mumias while 2-0 and 3-0 scorelines saw them emerge tops in 2018. Alumira, who has led Queens to three titles, has urged his players to use their experience bravely while cautioning them not to think about their superior head-to-head record. "It's a fact Gaspo has not beaten us but this is a different match altogether. We have to prepare for any eventuality. Past records won't count here. It will be how we will maximise on our experience. We won't tinker with our formation. In as much as we know our opponents, there's nothing special," he said. He added that the unavailability of top scorer Tereza Engesha through injury won't be a big blow to the record champions. Vihiga are prepared to give the star forward enough time to recover with eyes on the FKF Women's Cup in August as well as the CECAFA region CAF Women's Champions League qualifiers next month. "Engesha is not match ready and we won't risk her. We are looking at the bigger picture and her health comes first. She's not such a big loss because we have won matches without her starting. Even though there's no like for like replacement, other players can complement," Alumira said. Engesha has scored 15 goals and has established herself as an important member of the team for the past seasons-even bagging Kenya Footballers Welfare Association KEFWA award in 2019 after finding the back of the net 36 times. Elsewhere, Thika Queens who are looking to reclaim the title from Vihiga-having won silverware in 2016 face a tricky outing against the hosts Nakuru West Queens. Newbies Nakuru beat Ulinzi in post-match penalties 5-4 after a 2-2 all draw.  Thika on the other hand are unbeaten and remain favorites alongside Vihiga. The winners will square it out on Sunday to determine the 2021 champion.  