Residents of Cheptais in Mt Elgon, Bungoma county, almost lynched an assistant chief after he was allegedly caught in bed with a Form 2 student. Residents said they were alerted by a guest house owner who informed them that he suspected the girl his client was with was a student. They descended on the administrator and started beating him, but officers from Cheptais police station rescued him. Mt Elgon subcounty police commander Stephen Muoni said they received information on Monday at 2pm that a man had been caught in a lodging with a student. He said they rushed to the scene and arrested the suspect and the girl. The assistant chief and the student were taken to Cheptais Subcounty Hospital to be examined. Muoni said they interrogated the two, and it was established that the man was an administration officer. "We have started investigations into the incident and once we are done, we shall arraign the suspect in court," he said. "I want to warn members of the public who prey on our schoolgirls that their days are numbered. We shall arrest and jail them." Cheptais subcounty children's officer Henry Bigoro said they have picked up the matter and will ensure justice prevails. "We had the culprit arrested and medical reports have shown that the girl was penetrated," he said. Bigoro said he was only waiting for the girl's birth certificate to ascertain her age Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Mt Elgon chapter chairperson Eunice Chepchumba, who is also the director of Dynamic Rights Care Centre, condemned the incident and promised to follow up on the matter. She said cases of minors being defiled by administration officers, police officers, teachers, boda boda riders, politicians and relatives in Bungoma have been on the rise. “We can’t sit down and watch leaders ruin the future of innocent girls, especially students. The administrator will serve as an example. We will not condone teenage sex and girls are not sex tools. They need space to get an education,” Chepchumba said. Bungoma county has been on the spot over an increase in cases of teen pregnancy that has contributed to low performance in national exams.  Edited by A.N