Somalia has urged Kenya to reopen its embassy in the country following rebuilding of ties. Somalia said it would also reopen its embassy in Kenya. In a communique dated June 12, Somalia's Foreign Affairs ministry said, "The resumption of full diplomatic relations will be a positive start to the commencement of bilateral discussions." This comes as Somalia last week welcomed Kenya's move to lift the ban on flights to and from the country. In a statement dated June 10, 2021, Mogadjshu termed the move as an important step in the process of enhancing bilateral trade, communications and movement of citizens between the two countries. On Thursday, Kenya said through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the change of heart was necessitated by mutual interests of the two countries, in the hope that full normalisation of bilateral relations will occur. "The Government of Kenya has taken due consideration of intercessions made and has decided to re-open Kenya's airspace to all flights originating from Somalia and emanating from Kenya to Somalia," the statement said. Kenya had suspended flights originating from Somalia for almost a month as relations between the two countries became frostier. Somalia, while welcoming the resumption of flights, affirmed its commitment to restore and accelerate diplomatic, trade, and people-to-people relations for the prosperity of Somalia and Kenya. “The Federal Government of Somalia, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation avails itself at the earliest opportunity and proposes formation for a joint committee with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the Government of Kenya to come up with modalities leading to full restoration of diplomatic ties between the two nations,” Somalia said through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It added that the positive gesture from Kenya is a starting point to commence negotiations aimed at full normalisation of diplomatic relations. “The two brotherly nations have always collaborated in security, trade and mutual cultural relations which are based on common interests, good neighborliness, respect for sovereignty and political indolence.”