The Government has listed six priority areas under the Rapid Results Initiative drive for citizenship and permanent residence services for Kenyans. Speaking over the weekend, Directorate of Immigration Services director Alexander Muteshi said regaining Kenya citizenship, citizenship for spouses, children, widows and widowers of Kenya citizens and citizenship for lawful residents (investors) will be prioritized. He said permanent residence for spouses and children of Kenya citizens, permanent residence for ex-Kenyans and permanent residence for lawful residents (investors) will follow. “During this period, the directorate will focus on clearing the backlog and establishing a framework for speedy processing and issuance of these vital documents,” he said. Muteshi said the exercise runs from June 2 to July 31. Kenyans in diaspora can present their applications to the nearest mission abroad for onward transmission to Nairobi. The initiative was on May 26 launched by Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i who said Kenyans who lost their citizenship under the old Constitution will now regain their status. They are however required to lodge applications at Nyayo House in Nairobi or the Kenyan embassies. So far, more than 25,000 applications are pending at the Immigration offices. Matiang’i has written to the Attorney General to simplify the application process. He said Kenya is keen to reunite families as most of these Kenyans have to apply for visas and cannot engage in gainful employment unless they are issued with permits and passes. Matiang’i said the government is aware that Kenyans who lost their citizenship during the dispensation of the old constitution are eager to regain Kenya Citizenship, which is their birthright. The group is expected to abide by the restrictions that apply to foreign nationals. “The government is also aware of the importance of supporting the family unit as an important pillar of the society and the nation,” he said. The CS said they will prioritize the processing of pending citizenship application for the spouses of Kenya citizens. “The government is aware that there are stateless persons who are descendants of Kenya Citizens,” he said. “Being a stateless person denies you documents of identity such as national ID cards and passports, without which you miss education opportunity and gainful employment. During this RRI Program applications for citizenship for this category will be expedited.” However, the application process will continue beyond the RRI period. The ministry has also identified citizenship applications from investors for fast-tracking during the programme. The director general of Immigration was directed to relook at the regulatory framework and the internal processes for the issuance of citizenship and permanent residence and make proposals for the necessary changes that would ensure speedy processing and issuance of the documents. The processing of the two services is associated with long processes and delays. The delay is attributed to mandatory security checks, as well as slow and cumbersome internal processes, which has caused a huge backlog of applications that are waiting to be processed. He said the purpose of this RRI program is to re-engineer the processes used to issue Citizenship and Permanent Residence, clear the current backlog, and put in place a framework that will ensure speedy processing and issuance of these services. He said the ministry has prioritized the improvement of Immigration Services. These milestones, he said have come as a result of investing in ICT technologies, innovation to overcome the challenges presented by the Covid-19 pandemic, and the culture of continuously improving our Immigration Services. Similar innovations and business process improvements were introduced to our Visa services. Tourists apply and are issued visas at the comfort of their homes and offices. The same applies to the application, processing and issuance of Permits and Passes. These services are paperless.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris