A journalists' organisation has urged the county governments to provide information to the media to ease transmission to the public. Kenya Correspondents Association says that would keep Kenyans informed of the progress at the grassroots and strengthen devolution. Through its chairperson William Oloo Janak, the association said access to counties-held information by journalists has become difficult, thus hindering their work. “It is a constitutional right for the media to be furnished with information by these units without being intimidated or threatened," Janak said. "The public has a right to know how their leaders are using resources allocated to them so that they can hold them accountable. That can only be achieved through independent media—thriving on democracy and armed with information." Janak spoke in Nyeri during a two-day workshop that brought together media professionals, among them Central correspondents, editors, media lecturers and financial experts. Digital media expert Grace Githaiga urged journalists to employ professional ethics while publishing or broadcasting their content to the public. She said this is critical in this era of citizen journalism. She noted that the mainstream media have a role to verify any information they feed to the public and should not fall prey to content on blogs and social media. “The media is governed by the code of ethics and that is what distinguishes it from other sources of information. The public trusts what is aired through mainstream media because they believe it has been processed professionally. "The practitioners, therefore, should embrace high levels of professionalism, lest a legal action is taken against them,” Githaiga said. She at the same time urged the media to adopt digital platforms in disseminating their content. “Equip yourself with the necessary information pertaining digitisation of information, what the law states about the use of digital information dissemination, digital security safety and cyberbullying, among others.” Her sentiments were shared by veteran newspaper editor Owino Opondo, who further appealed to journalists to apply professional skills and creativity while crafting their stories. He also challenged them to read widely, understand their workstations and strive to make follow up on the stories they have previously worked on. Janak at the same time condemned the rising cases of attack on journalists while in the line of duty, terming it criminal. He noted that over the past year, more than 50 journalists at the grassroots level have suffered physical abuse and threats for exposing the rot in society. “Journalists ought to work in an environment free from harm. It is through them that the public get enlightened with the events of the day and of the present administration's progress,” he said. In addition, journalists were encouraged to espouse financial discipline and have the purpose to invest in worthy causes that help into retirement. Rose Mwangi, a financial expert, emphasised the culture of saving through financial institutions so that they get value for money. “There is no money that is too little to be saved. Each month, be sure to save at least 20 per cent of your salary. Invest that amount in worthy projects, it could be land, government bills and bonds and other uses that will guarantee you financial security,” she said. 