ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has maintained that there are no plans for a reunion of National Super Alliance principals. Mudavadi appeared to contradict ODM leader Raila Odinga and his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka who seem keen to revive NASA ahead of next year's general election. Raila and the other NASA principals—Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula—have been pulling in different directions since 2018 following the handshake between the former prime minister and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Chama Cha Mashinani party leader Isaac Ruto, who was also part of the team, is now with Deputy President William Ruto. Mudavadi accused Raila of creating a narrative to insinuate there is a possibility of NASA coming back together ahead of the August 2022 polls. “Leaders should stop sending conflicting signals and messages. When you send conflicting messages, you discourage people,” he said. Kalonzo at the weekend appeared to be warming up to Raila. The Wiper leader pledged unity ahead of next year's polls. Raila hinted at collaborating with his former running mate in a bid for the country’s top job. Kalonzo has been working under the One Kenya Alliance (OKA) whose other principals also include Mudavadi, Wetang'ula and Gideon Moi (Kanu). Raila, speaking at the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile, said he was ready to work with the Wiper party boss. “Mimi na Kalonzo hatuwezi kosana. (Kalonzo and I cannot disagree),” he said. Mudavadi has twice rallied behind Raila in his 2007 and 2017 bids but said never again will he repeat that. He is keen on taking a second stab at the presidency. Mudavadi, speaking after a tour of the Coast, said Raila should stop creating the impression that they are eager to work with him again. “Why push a narrative that so and so cannot achieve anything unless they work with you?” he explained. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and former Speaker of the National Assembly Kenneth Marende accompanied him. Mudavadi recalled that he was the brain behind NASA but said the alliance collapsed because of mistrust. “There is a serious trust deficit in NASA. In fact, NASA is irredeemable. If you want to take us back, you must accept there is a trust deficit. How do you expect us to trust you when you say you want to be in a coalition with us?” he told Raila. Efforts to reach Kalonzo and Wetang'ula for comment were fruitless as they did not pick calls. In February, Kalonzo and Mudavadi hit back at former Raila over claims that they were waiting for his endorsement to vie for the presidency. Raila's comments at the weekend were supported by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu who said the ODM leader and Kalonzo should work together to reduce Ruto's prospects of becoming president next year. If Kalonzo and Raila run separately, Ruto would have a field day in the 2022 presidential election, Ngilu said. But Ruto, speaking in Tala, Makueni county, said he would beat Raila and Kalonzo even if they team up to face him. He said politicians should not just unite merely because they want to defeat someone but should first have an agenda for the people. Ngilu also urged governors Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) to agree to come to the negotiation table with Raila. Kalonzo was Raila's running mate in 2013 under the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy and 2017 under Nasa. In April, the One Kenya Alliance ruled out a reunion with the ODM leader ahead of next year's election. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula said Raila could not be trusted in future coalitions, even as OKA welcomed other like-minded individuals and parties to join the formation.