Close to 400 athletes have registered for Sunday's Re-Discover Nandi Road Race in Kapsabet town. Hosea Sanga, chair of the Local Organising Committee, said they are looking forward to an intense battle in the men's and women's categories during the 12th edition of the competition. "All the preparations are 80 percent ready including the logistics. Registration is ongoing at Nandi county sports office everyday from 8 am to 5 pm in the evening up to Sunday morning for the few who might be coming from far-flung. The first race will kick off at exactly 7.30 am, which is the 10 km race for women," Sanga, also the Nandi County Athletics Kenya vice chair,  said. Also included is a 2km race for families and corporates, which may wish to participate. The event will seek to raise awareness of the importance of conserving water towers and wetlands to create sustainable water resources. Sanga announced that the road races will be preceded by the planting of approximately 500 trees at Kapsabet High School on Saturday. " I wish to invite all the athletes for this road race whose theme is preservation and conservation of water towers and wet lands for sustainable water resources. we need to do this for our future generations. The start point will be  Kapsasur /danger forest through Kapsabet town before finishing at Namgoi High School in  Chesumei sub-county," he said. He further assured all participants that the laid-out Covid-19 protocols will be strictly adhered to in addition to tight security measures. Sanga thanked betting firm Mozzart Bet, Kenya Forest Service and National Health Insurance Fund, among other partners for supporting the event  to make it a success. "We are happy and thankful to our race director, Fred Kiptanui, for the effort to make sure the day succeeds. Special thanks to our main sponsor Mozzart Bet, Communication Authority, NSSF, NHIF, Forest Service, Kenya Power, CPF, AK among others for their financial support. There will be prize money for winners in both categories of the  10km  race."