Non-communicable diseases including hypertension, diabetes, cancers and mental health conditions are on the increase in Lamu. Because of Lamu’s climate, malaria used to be the top cause of illness and deaths in the region, according to health experts. Other diseases were pneumonia, typhoid, diarrhoea and bilharzia. However, these diseases no longer feature among the 10 common diseases in the region. Dr Kombo Mohammed, a general practitioner at Lamu County Referral Hospital famously known as King Fahad, said currently diet-related diseases top the list. “The causes of outpatient morbidity for residents include diabetes, hypertension, obesity, peptic ulcers, cancers, mental health conditions, respiratory tract infections, skin diseases, intestinal illness among other diet-related diseases,” said Mohammed. He said the eating habits of the majority of the Lamu residents are to blame for the rise in the non-communicable diseases. “The majority of the locals eat foods spiced with coconut oil and deep-fried foods and do not exercise regularly. This is the reason behind obesity in the region,” he said. The prevalence of overweight and obese persons aged 15-69 years is high, especially women. It reported that 17.5 per cent of men and 38.4 per cent of women are either overweight or obese. Also, approximately 2.4 per cent of children below five years are overweight. Recently, with the completion of the roads in the region and introduction of motorbikes in Lamu Island, the number of road accidents has also increased. “Previously, we used to attend to patients with injuries inflicted by wild animals, but currently we are receiving more patients with injuries sustained from road accidents,” said Mohammed. On Saturday, the Kenya Ports Authority organised a medical camp at Hindi Primary School targeting patients who are suffering from all kinds of diseases. KPA chief pharmacist Dr Jao Majimbo said annually they set aside resources to buy medicines for rotational medical camps at the Coast. For the Lamu medical camp, they were able to mobilise about 37 doctors and health workers to help patients. Over 1,000 patients were attended. KPA head of corporate communication Bernard Osero said the medical camps are part of their annual corporate social responsibility activities. “KPA has invested heavily in education and health services,” said Osero. KPA has invested billions of shillings in construction of the port, which was commissioned on May 20 by President Uhuru Kenyatta. During the medical camp, it emerged that the region’s health facilities are in a dire state and they are under-staffed. 