Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has claimed there is a secret plot to interfere with the outcome of the 2022 general election. Mutua said some people want to weaken the functioning of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct malpractices in the next voting exercise. "By IEBC complaining that it has no money means it is either disorganised or there is a possible plan to paralyse the institution for fraud to occur in the election," he said. He spoke on Thursday in Ukunda, Kwale county. Mutua said the country needs an empowered electoral commission that can deliver its mandate freely. He said the government should be organised and furnish IEBC with enough resources to execute its function appropriately. The presidential aspirant questioned why the commission is still understaffed. "For a long time, the commission has not been properly formulated, so there are no sufficient workers. Why should people wait until the last minute?" he posed. The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader said the gaps are likely to bring about a conspiracy to interfere with the IEBC mandate of conducting a free and fair election. Mutua also criticised the move by some of the political parties wanting to form coalitions. He emphasised on the formation of coalitions based on ideology rather than  what he termed as tribal outfits, adding that the major problem facing Kenya is tribal politics. Mutua said leading Kenyans on tribal grounds is primitive and should be discouraged. The former government spokesperson said political parties are running to merge just to obtain presidential powers but not to bring about development. He said the Jubilee party is breaking apart because it was not formed on ideology but designed to benefit a few selfish individuals. Mutua who was on a Coast region campaign tour met with some grassroots party leaders to plan ahead of the 2022 politics. He said once elected, he will create jobs for million of youth by ensuring each sub-county has an industry. -Edited by SKanyara