The Nubian community in the country has petitioned the National Assembly to secure their recognition as a marginalised and minority community in Kenya. They further want the House to secure the granting of citizenship status to the members of the community in transparent and non-discriminatory processes. In a petition presented to the House by Kibra MP Bernard Okoth, members of the community said despite being bona fide citizens of Kenya, they have continuously faced discrimination regarding the legitimacy of their citizenry. They noted that their woes commenced when the British colonial government failed to legitimise their existence as a community, “despite granting this recognition to railway labourers shipped from India” “Successive governments since independence have adopted the same policy of denying the Nubians citizenship status and treating them as aliens, thereby hampering access to national identity cards and passports that subsequently restrict their access to public services, employment, education, business and involvement in political processes,” they said. The 2019 National Population Census revealed a total Nubian population of 21,319 persons countrywide. The community claimed Nubian students are unable to access government funding through the Higher Education Loans Board and other platforms due to restrictions, and delays in accessing and issuance of national identity cards. “Despite the Nubian Community being a marginalised and a minority community, the government has failed to implement any affirmative action or policy to ensure their active participation in employment under the Public Service Commission, access to water, health, education and infrastructure as well as public participation in social, economic and political matters,” they added. They further said Nubians are discriminated against along ethnicity and religious lines with regard to accessing identification documentation as exemplified by the fact that they are required to provide additional documents in support of their claims of Kenyan nationality. “The Nubians’ right to Kenyan nationality has been acknowledged by the African Committee of Experts on the Rights of the Child as well as the African Commission on Human and People’s Rights, and hence the Kenyan government needs to likewise acknowledge this right particularly in view of the fact that Kenya has already ratified several international and regional instruments addressing the rights to nationality,” the petition added. The community said their efforts to have the matter addressed by the relevant government authorities have been futile. House Speaker Justin Muturi referred the petition to the Departmental Committee on Administration and National Security. Members of the Nubian minority have lived in Kibra since at least the early 20th century, but have faced the growing threat of evictions in recent years. The land was originally part of a military reserve established by the colonial British, who initially conscripted Nubians from the Upper Nile region into their forces in Kenya. The Nubian people were known to be fearsome warriors and the British recruited them in large numbers in the military to help protect the newly acquired territories leading to the source of the Nile. The legendary kingdom of Nubia (also referred to as the kingdom of Kush) was situated in what is today’s Northern Sudan, near the border with Egypt. After independence in 1963, the lack of formal title to the land where they settled under the British also contributed to the unwillingness of the government to recognise the Nubians as citizens of Kenya, leaving the community at risk of statelessness. -Edited by SKanyara