Team Kenya captain Mercy Moim has tipped the Tokyo-bound contigent to rise above complications occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic and charge effectively for medals at the forthcoming Games. Moim made the remarks during an exclusive interview with the Star on the sidelines of the "Stakeholders Engagement Workshop For Team Kenya Women Athletes" at a Nairobi hotel on Thursday. Malkia Strikers have been training in a bubble camp, which Moim said had helped in providing a perfect platform to focus more on the task ahead despite most of them missing out on tournaments they could have used to sharpen their claws even more. “You realise most of the teams, for instance, Malkia Strikers couldn't make crucial trips to Brazil and Turkey due to rising Covid-19 caseloads. Our tacticians are using this moment to push us to the required standards so that we can be at par with our opponents at the Games," said Moim. Moim said the inclusion of the Brazilian coaches in the technical bench had refined Malkia Strikers and made them more competitive. “The Brazilian coaches use the same schemes as our local coaches but insist on more repetition. They also start from the basics just to ensure we don't miss out on any important techniques we may need to perform well," said Moim. However, Moim was quick to point out the accompanying demerits of the bubble camp, saying long spells away from their families was gradually weighing down on them. “Being restricted to the precincts of the camp has taken a huge toll on us psychologically. We miss our families, we are unable to lead normal lives and we are generally homesick,” said Moim. “We are, however, encouraged by the fact that we have some task to do for our great nation and we are working extremely hard to achieve the kind of success expected of us.” During the event, Rose Wacuka, Policy Advisor and Chief of Staff, Ministry of Sports, urged more Kenyan corporates to emulate the noble gesture exhibited by East African Breweries Limited in sponsoring Team Kenya. “In the USA, sports sponsorship amounts to 17.71 billion dollars has been invested, which is 70 percent of the total sponsorship market in the entire world," she said. “The sponsorship money that has gone into the English Premier League this year is £4.32 billion. Kit sponsorship accounts for £300 million. The largest beneficiaries are Manchester United with £50million. Kenyan corporate firms should contemplate borrowing a leaf from these statistics." “It's incredible that when the rest of the corporate world appears to be scaling back, EABL has shown a big heart to sponsor Team Kenya," added Wacuka. Ann Joy Michira, Head of Marketing Beers, East African Breweries Limited called on Team Kenya members to make the country proud with a medal swoop, adding it was impressive that Kenya was now in a position to deploy female boxers to the coveted Games. “Years after Robert Napunyi Wangila won a gold medal at the Seoul Olympics, Kenya is today sending two female boxers to Tokyo," said Michira. Also in attendance was, Parvi Rawel, the Women’s Representative, National Olympic Committee of Kenya.