Religious leaders at the Coast have embarked on advocacy for communities to accept back ex-convicts to achieve their successful reintegration. The Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics trust said that it has been a challenge for many individuals, who are now out after serving time in prison, to be embraced by the community because they are still viewed as criminals. On Monday, CICC held a meeting with a group of ex-Shimo la Tewa convicts at their Nyali offices in Mombasa county. During a meeting with the group, the clerics said the move will play a pivotal role in ensuring that former inmates have a sense of belonging within the community. They donated food to the group, which has been offering paralegal training to other inmates and community organisations on criminal justice. Led by the trust’s chief executive officer Steven Anyenda, the clerics stated that they were planning a series of meetings in all houses of worship to sensitise the faithful to embrace all people who have been released from jail. “Plans are already under way to form a working partnership with prison heads to give us data of all inmates expected to be released, so that we can prepare the community to welcome them back,” said Anyenda. They urged the government, through the office of the Attorney General, to issue ex-inmates with certificates of good conduct. Most former inmates face the challenge of getting employment as their prison history casts a shadow over their credibility to gain meaningful employment. The paralegal training for the inmates was made possible by the Kituo cha Sheria organisation. Zeddekiah Adika, a lawyer with the organisation, said they started training them in 2007 at the Shimo la Tewa Prison targeting death row inmates and those serving a life sentence. Over the years, many of them have been released and have gone back to assist other inmates appeal their sentences. However, with the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, they have been facing a myriad of challenges, on top of their inability to gain meaningful employment. “Since Covid struck, most of them have suffered and others have reverted to their criminal life. We thought it wise to support them as we reintegrate them back to society and that is why we approached CICC to help,” said Adika.