Kenya ‘Hit Squad’ Tokyo Olympics-bound welterweight battler Elizabeth Akinyi says she has completely healed from a nasty scratch in her gums on the opening day of the invitational Konstantin Korotkov Memorial Boxing championship in Moscow, Russia last Month. Akinyi was forced to abandon her 69kg bout against Dominican Republic’s Maronta Hernandec in the second round after sustaining the injury. “I've already recovered fully. I ought to have undergone a procedure to rectify the wound but I was exposed to alternative treatment and everything is going well now,” Akinyi said. The pugilist also said she was working on her weight to ensure it doesn't compromise her quest for a medal when she ultimately steps in the ring at the Tokyo Olympics from July 23-August 8. During the Africa Zone 3 Championship in Kinshasa, DRC, where she settled for a bronze medal, Akinyi said her enormous weight slowed her down in her bouts and handed her opponents the edge to beat her. “I have been working on my size and I have the right weight now. I wouldn't want to gain any more mass and go through the same ordeal I experienced in Kinshasa,” she said. Akinyi added she gathered  vital lessons in Russia, which she will employ against her opponents in Tokyo. “I stole some useful techniques for the entire nine days we were in Russia. I'm convinced the brief experience I had in the ring in Russia has made me a better boxer,” she said. Boxing Federation of Kenya communications director, Duncan Kuria, revealed  Akinyi wore a new mouthguard that tore into her skin and left her bleeding profusely. Mouth guards — also called mouth protectors — help cushion a blow to the face, minimising the risk of broken teeth and injuries to the lips, tongue, face or jaw. They typically cover the upper teeth and are a great way to protect the soft tissues of the tongue, lips and cheek lining. “It was the first time she was using the mouthguard and she had a problem fitting it properly in her mouth,” said Kuria, adding that plans had been mooted to acquire better mouth guards, but that would take a while given their enormous price. “You recall even during the African Qualifiers in Senegal when Nick Okoth was battling with an Egyptian opponent, his mouthguard fell off twice and he was consequently deducted some points. We are planning to get quality mouth guards but getting them here might take a little bit longer because they are not cheap,” he said. Head coach Benjamin Musa told the local media upon the team's return a week ago that they had to stop the fight in the second round to protect Akinyi from aggravating her injury.