Kirinyaga BT cotton farmers have urged the government to buy their genetically modified produce at a higher price They praised the high-yield, drought and pest-resistant cotton but said seeds are expensive and they are not making much money They say better prices will motivate them to farm more cotton and revive the textile industry. Speaking in Kimbimbi, Mwea, on Thursday, said the farmers said they have been pouring their energy into farming the new variety. But from the produce sold, their efforts have not paid off. They were led by chairman Mugo Magondu The GMO BT cotton is resistant to the the bollworm among other pests and diseases. “I started farming the new variety in October last year. Though it is  advanced and more advantageous than the conventional type, the produce is still fetching a low price of Sh50 per kilogramme. "If this isn't checked, it will demotivate many farmers who will opt for alternative crops fetching higher prices," Magonduaid He said farmers are buying the new genetically modified seeds at an expensive rate of Sh4,500 for an acre  but said it sells at throw-away prices. "We urge the state to come up with a minimum gate price in consultation with all stakeholders that will help dictate the market value," the spokesman said.. In addition, the chairman urged the government through its research institutes to do further analysis enabling replication of cotton seeds lined with BT genes. He said this will ensure continuity of the seed species used by local farmers. “The BT cotton species  which we now plant is imported and we cannot extract the seedlings for planting in another season from the hybrid. "We therefore want an advanced local species that has the BT genes and whose seeds can be recycled by farmers." He praised the new variety for its high yields, drought-, disease-and pest resistance. Cultivating the ordinary type in the early 90’s,  he said, he had to spray as any as 12 times per season, compared to only six times for the new variety. “The new type  I have cultivated in my half acre is time saving and grows at a shorter period of four months compared to the other variety. It is not susceptible to bollworms and cotton diseases that infest the conventional type.” Cotton farmer Munene Kamau, another cotton farmer backed his sentiments. He is hopeful of a bountiful harvest from his three acres. He said he took advantage of the long rainy season and planted the new variety, which is currently in the flowering stage. Though currently constrained by water shortage, experts advised him it will do well owing to its strong inbuilt genes. Kamau urged the government to formulate policies that would help protect farmers from unscrupulous traders intending to package and sell them poor-quality and low-yield seeds. He urged the  county government to get the Mwea ginnery as that's where farmers will take be taking their produce after harvest. This will enable faster processing farmers produce before it is transported to various textile firms in the country. Kamau he urged his fellow farmers to redouble their efforts to  help the country realise its goal of high garment production. “The more we produce cotton, the better for us because we will be able to feed textile processing plants with the necessary raw material. "Currently, Kenya does not produce sufficient cotton and as a result the country sources much of its cotton  from the neighboring Uganda and Tanzania.” With sufficient cotton production, he said, the country will at last free itself from the yoke of second-hand clothes . “Second hand clothes degrade us .I look forward to the day when we will produce our local garments and that day will inch closer if the government, farmers and other stakeholders cooperate," he said. Julius Macharia, a researcher at Kenya Agriculture and livestock Research Organisation (Kalro) said the crop was doing fairly well in the Central and Eastern regions . He said proper production analysis of the two regions will be known over a short period of observing how the crop does. Macharia said both regions received 16.8 metric tons of free BT cotton from the national government last October which were sufficient for planting 10,000 acres. (Edited by V. Graham)