IEBC and credible elections are what stands between the country and madness, Jubilee Secretary-General Raphael Tuju has said. Tuju spoke at the Bomas of Kenya on Tuesday during the launch of the IEBC  Strategic Plan (2020-2024), Elections Operations Plan (EOP) and Boundaries Review Operations Plan (BROP) ahead of 2022. "Every five years, this country gets into madness and the country disappears while the tribes emerge which sometimes leads to death like in 2007, 2017 so really there is a madness which engulfs Kenya every five years," he said. Tuju said Kenyans think that the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is all about elections. "It is about elections but more. We have this madness every five years. Kenyans have the fear of exclusion in that if their tribe doesn’t get a seat at the table, they are done," he said. "And it is the fear with merit and it is around the world." The JP secretary-general said in a country where one is a minister, they try to make their tribesmen, heads of parastatals under them. "They then select a chairman who will, in turn, select procurement committees of those parastatals, it means when your tribe is out you cannot supply even stationery to government," he said. "What is at stake is the fear of being out of government. Let it not be only about elections but of Kenya as a whole." IEBC Chair Wafula Chebukati said the documents launched contain a road map of electoral activities as well as key timelines and milestones to be achieved. On Monday, Chebukati said over four million votes will be up for grabs as the electoral body sets out to register youths who are now eligible to elect their leaders. Chebukati said the youths being targeted in the latest registration campaign were not eligible to vote during the 2017 General Election. Politicians are now expected to retreat to their strongholds to urge the young Kenyans to register as voters in order to claim a share of the huge bloc. Chebukati noted that the number of registered voters stands at 19,687,885, as of May 2021. He pointed out that a total of 149,600 Kenyans enlisted as voters across the country after the last elections.