June 20, a day set aside by United Nations as International Fathers Day, is commemorated annually by communities of UN member states. As Kenya commemorated the day last Sunday, a cleric at a Nairobi church launched a book which seeks to address challenges facing fathers. Kasarani Deliverance Church Pastor Charles Sikuku's book 'Where Are The Fathers?' notes that fathers' absenteeism has led to the collapse of the society's moral fabric. Sikuku said increased cases of electoral violence, defilement, rape and incest in the family motivated him to write the book. The book provides a roadmap on how to tackle some of the common mistakes committed by errant fathers. Quoting from the books of Revelation 10:5-6, and Leviticus 18:24-25, Pastor Sikuku said it is time to rescue all absent, drunk and irresponsible fathers back into homes, so as to save the family and in turn make the country better. "The church should not abdicate its responsibility of guiding our youth on how to be responsible fathers/mothers in future. In the past, family values were in place as grandparents and aunties used to enforce society norms to ensure deviant behaviours were handled,’’ he stressed. The church’s bishop Dr Jimmy Kimani challenged the government to partner with the church to ensure fathers are sensitised on their role and do not abdicate their duties. This he said will address increasing cases of gender violence, defilement, stress in the family and teenage pregnancies, among others. "True fathers are providers, a blessings in the family, they provide hope to the community and are a source of stability of any nation,’’ said Bishop Kimani. He added, absent fathers have impacted negatively on the growth of the family, hence increased cases of rape, defilement, incest, broken marriages and drunkenness. Former Thika Town MP Alice Wahome, who also graced the occasion, lauded the author for coming up with a book that addresses the challenges facing a modern day father. Sikuku is a registered quantity surveyor, who is working with the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development. He is currently seconded to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, as director of housing. He has written nine other books, with a strong emphasis on the family. The books include 'The Fall', 'The Rise', 'A small Cloud of Abundance 'and Stories in My Story'. -Edited by SKanyara 