Huawei has opened a modern training centre in Nairobi to boost the country's human resource base in ICT. The centre will help build capacity, increase the human resource base and bridge the gap in digital talent. The centre is set to train between 1,000 and 2,000 people each year. ICT Principal Secretary Jerome Ochieng said the centre comes at a time when the country is ready to become a regional digital hub. "It will go a long way in supporting the technology and innovation ecosystem in the country," he said. The PS said there are changing trends and demand in technology in the country and professionals in the ICT sector need to up their game. "Training and capacity building will have to take centre stage in organisations," he said, noting the Covid-19 pandemic pushed most services online. The PS cited learning, entertainment, church and news as some of the services that have moved to online platforms as a result of the pandemic. "Frameworks, infrastructure and reforms are being developed. More Kenyans are set to go digital in sectors such as finance, education and entertainment," Ochieng said. The PS said the government is in the process of moving most of its services online and the infrastructure requires people to maintain them. He challenged institutions of higher learning to align their courses with new and emerging technologies. University Education and Research PS Simon Nabukwesi said the ICT industry was transforming and there is a need for professionals to keep abreast of the changes. Nabukwesi said the centre will enable Kenya's ICT experts to compete globally in the job market. "Universities and other institutions of higher learning will be supported to embrace digital literacy for them to be well-rounded," he said. Unesco regional representative Ann Therese said sectors such as education, communication, agriculture and finance are set to benefit immensely from the centre. She said technology in education will enhance intelligence and competence and show that education is lifelong.