The IEBC Selection Panel has been forced to review its timelines after receiving 669 applications for the four vacant slots at the electoral agency. Previously, there has been apathy for top Independent and Electoral Boundaries Commission slots, considering the risks and pressure that comes with the job. Selection panel chairperson Elizabeth Muli on Monday told the Star they will announce new timelines by the end of the week. She attributed the change of plan to the large volumes of applications. “We will be able to determine the timelines by the end of the week. Check them. We are dealing with a large number of applicants,” Muli said. Initially, the panel was working with June 9 date to settle on successful candidates and forward the names to President Uhuru Kenyatta for appointment. “The selection panel reiterates that the timelines it has provided are provisional and ambitious but are also achievable,” Muli said. Just a day to the initial deadline, the panel is still holed up trying to shortlist candidates ahead of interviews. It published the names and qualifications of applicants on May 24. This was to be followed by the publication of shortlists. According to the initial timeline, interviews for shortlisted candidates were to be conducted for five days from May 31 to June 4. Applicants include former MPs, human rights defenders, former and serving members of constitutional commissions and university dons. Among those who have declared interest are former Gem MP Joe Donde, former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mong’are, former KNCHR chairperson Florence Jaoko, Koki Muli, former NCIC commissioners Gitile Naituli and Milly Lwanga, ex-Vetting Board member Justus Munyithya, NGO veteran Justus Nyang'anya and former KNCHR chair Kagwiria Mbogori. Others are former Transitional Authority chairman Kinuthia wa Mwangi, former Police Commission member Murshid Abdalla and former Judges and Magistrates Vetting Board vice chairperson Roseline Odede. Nasa chief executive officer Norman Magaya, ex-NLC vice-chair Abigael Magaya and IEBC communications manager Tabitha Mutemi have also applied. The selection panel is searching for replacements for Roselyn Akombe, Paul Kurgat, Margaret Mwachanya and Connie Maina who resigned after the 2017 General Election.