Slack contractors handling water-related projects across the country have been put on notice and risk being blacklisted should they not deliver on time. Water CS Sicily Kariuki on Friday said all national government water projects must be completed within the required time frame. She spoke in Kutus, Kirinyaga county, during an inspection tour of the Kerugoya-Kutus sewer system project that started in 2018. An unimpressed Kariuki expressed her dissatisfaction with the progress of the project. She gave the contractor up to end year to have completed the project. “We understand that a part of the project has stalled because it is exposed to land issues as it passes through private land, which requires negotiations between the government and land owners. However, where there are no such challenges like the discharge point, the contractor has achieved very little,” CS Kariuki said. Kariuki directed the local administration in collaboration with Tana Water Works Agency to lead negotiations on the accessibility of private land where the 33km sewer system passes through to hasten the construction of the project. Once complete, the Sh500 million plant is set to benefit 10,000 Kerugoya and Kutus household residents. Later in the day, CS Kariuki proceeded to supervise the progress of the Kerugoya- Kutus bulk water supply plant in Gichugu near Mt Kenya forest. When complete, the project will provide clean water to over 350,000 households across the county . Kariuki described the Sh1.2 billion project as a game changer to the water sector and to the economy of the country. “The project will not only help county residents access clean water but will also help counter the spread of waterborne disease brought about by lack of clean water.” She noted that the two national government projects are closely being monitored and their successful completion by December will be necessary as they will be in conformity with the  pledge made by the Jubilee administration. Gichugu MP Gichimu Githinji thanked the national government for showing interest towards the quick completion of the project. He, however, expressed concerns over the clean water supply plant for leaving out his constituents despite the plant being located in the constituency. “I raised the concern through a letter to the CS which she confirmed receipt. As designed, the project will target all major towns in the three constituencies apart from Gichugu, where it is based. We hope through my petition, we will be incorporated into the project so that it benefit us as well,”the MP said. hem however, promised to support the government in accomplishing the project. County assembly Majority leader and Kerugoya Central MCA James Murango said  both water projects will help alleviate shortage and raise cleanliness standards  in institutions, markets and homes . “The sewer system in Kutus in particular will lift a huge burden off our shoulders as it has been an expensive activity to rent sewer exhausters to get rid of sewerage and other discharge off the markets and other public places. “We pay hefty amount to have Kerugoya town clean  because for each service, we part with Sh20,000. Therefore, the sewer system will help us a great deal as there will be no more expenses incurred in getting rid of the effluents,” Murango said. His Kabare colleague Chomba Nyaga praised the government for establishing a life transformative project in his ward. He said through the project, many youths in the ward and county have secured  jobs thus reducing financial dependence, idleness  and crime-related activities .