 Kiambu county government has signed a deal with a non-state organisation to help youths make soap, detergents, cakes, honey, peanut butter and beauty products for sale. The partnership with Somo Productions aims at helping youths to beat unemployment and keep off alcohol and drug abuse. The training will also include knitting and milling to equip them with hands-on skills that will enable them secure jobs or start own businesses. Somo Productions CEO Amelia Philips on Wednesday said, “The partnership is aimed at empowering our youths by imparting requisite knowledge and skills as well as financial support. This will help them make a decent living as well as free them from the shackles of poverty.” She said that the NGO will help the youths to brand and market their products as well as assist those in large scale production with the same services. Kiambu Youth Affairs executive Eric Kiriko was present at the training for some 600 youths in Githurai, Ruiru subcounty. “We are determined to nurture, bake and actualise ideas from our youths that will in turn empower them economically. We are still courting more partners to join the programme so that we can reach out to many youths across the county,” Kiriko said. He said that the programme will be rolled out in all the 60 wards within Kiambu county, adding that upon training the county will offer the youths loans at a subsidised rate. The county is in partnership with KCB to help the youths access loans to expand their ventures at lower rates. "Instead of getting a loan of between Sh5,000 to Sh1,000,000 at 13 per cent per annum, they will receive it at a reduced rate of 7 per cent per annum so that they can grow their businesses at a faster rate," Kiriko said. The beneficiaries praised the county government for the initiative, saying that it will help them grow economically, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic period. “This is a great initiative and it was long overdue. Most of us had given up and got lost into alcohol, drugs and crime due to frustrations by the pandemic. At least we will have something to do that will help us put food on the table for our families,”  Francis Kimani said. Kiriko urged the youths to form groups to enable them access more funds and engage in mass production of the products. (Edited by Bilha Makokha )  