The Kenya Scouts Association (KSA) has launched a Sh1 million program in Kisumu county to mitigate Covid-19 within the county. Kisumu has been one of the hot spot counties as Covid-19 infections continue to increase within the Lake Region. According to the Association CEO, Moses Danda, the program entails distribution of water tanks, face mask, hand washing soaps and even distribution of food to the vulnerable communities. He said the distributed materials will help scale up the ward against Covid-19 situation in the county which is alarming and also help in sanitation. Danda said they usually have some small allocation within the association and decided to support the Kisumu residents in the fight against the spread of Covid 19. "For us scouts, this is an educational thing and it's something we have being doing at the same time educating our youths and young people to be useful and be ready to help anytime," Danda said. Chief Commissioner KSA Victor Radido, noted that residents have been suffering with the third wave of Covid-19 being witnessed across the country with some not able to access some of the basic items currently such as mask, washing soaps and even foodstuffs. Radido said they intend to reach out to about 2000 households. "We have involved our young people who will be attached to different wards for purpose of distribution of the water tanks, face marks and even hand washing soaps,' Radido said. Adding, "We are also doing our best to reach out to the most vulnerable groups and give them foodstuffs to cushion them during this period." However, Anthony Gitonga, a board member at KSA, noted that they have done similar programs in Siaya, Nyeri, Mombasa, Kajiado and will still move to other counties. The Association CEO Moses said Sh1 million has been set aside to aid the process during this Covid-19 period. There has been an increase in the number of Covid-19 infections for the last few weeks with authorities calling for adherence to the laid down protocol.