Residents of Kodumo village in Kabondo Kasipul have asked the police to help them retrieve the body of an unknown man trapped in River Miriu for five days. They have been unable to remove the decomposing body held between rocks and the stench has made water unsuitable for domestic use. On Thursday the residents from Atela location asked the government through the police to come to their aid. Residents Philip Owiti and Mercy Achieng’ said water from a section of the river has started producing a pungent smell and is decolourised. “Many residents here cannot draw water from that section of the river because it smells and is dirty. It’s important for the government to retrieve the body as soon as possible to help us,” Owiti said. River Miriu, which pours its water into Lake Victoria, separates Homa Bay and Kisumu counties. On Tuesday, there was confusion as some local divers made attempts to retrieve the body. Some residents said the body was trapped on the side of Kisumu and wanted Kisumu government to retrieve it. Owiti said they reported the matter to the police but the body had not been removed. “The body was adrift towards Homa Bay side hence we appeal for help from the police and other authorities,” he added. Achieng said their children cannot water animals at the river as they fear they will be traumatised when they see a floating body. “Parts of the flesh are peeling off and get swept down-steam. We can’t fetch water here because it’s unsafe for human consumption,” Achieng said. Rachuonyo East deputy county commissioner Kiprotich Rop said police officers have been directed to get ways of removing the body from the water. He said they are collaborating with local divers to retrieve the body. Kiprop asked people whose relatives are missing to report and help them identify the body. He said the man might have died elsewhere before the body was swept downstream. “We expect the police to remove the body from water by today. Let residents work with the officers closely to ensure we help the situation,” Kiprop said.  (edited by o. owino)