The Kenya National Highways Authority has urged motorists to be extra careful while driving near wildlife corridors. The appeal comes days after scores of animals were knocked down by speeding cars along the Nairobi-Namanga highway. Kenha board chair Wangai Ndirangu said the authority has improved signages in areas that are traditionally used by animals to cross the road. "Animals, I'm told, have a pattern of moving around. The road signs will help motorists be aware as they approach the area. Drivers should also play their part in exercising good traffic discipline," Wangai said. Wangai spoke with the Star on Thursday last week at Nairobi Arboretum where the Kenya Forest Service and the authority signed an agreement to enhance tree cover. Arsher Limo, a cyclist, documented all the wildlife killed on the Nairobi-Namanga highway last week. "I cycled over the weekend using the highway and I had to stop and document wildlife that had been killed by speeding cars," he told the Star by phone. Limo, who took over 20 photographs, spotted a hyena, white-tailed mongoose, common genet and civet. "All had died, while others had crashed, but I managed to take photos and shared with experts for identification," he said. A source within KWS told the Star that they do not have scientific records of road kills. "We do not keep a record because they are erratic, cannot be predicted. It can only happen by chance," the source said, requesting anonymity. KWS is grappling with few rangers and as such, cannot dedicate somebody to be checking road kills. Conservationists said the Kenha should erect road signs. A recent report showed that the global population of mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and fish have declined by two-thirds in less than 50 years. This is due to environmental destruction, according to the World Wide Fund for Nature Living Planet Report 2020. The WWF report presents a comprehensive overview of the state of the natural world through the Living Planet Index—an indicator of the health of the planet. It shows an average 68 per cent decrease in population sizes of mammals, birds, amphibians, reptiles and fish between 1970 and 2016. The report shows that factors believed to increase the planet’s vulnerability to pandemics include land-use change and the use of and trade in wildlife. Wildlife populations found in freshwater habitats have suffered the greatest decline of 84 per cent, the starkest average population decline in any biome, equivalent to four per cent loss per year since 1970. The report further underscores how humanity’s increasing destruction of nature is having catastrophic impacts not only on wildlife populations but also on human health and all aspects of lives. The report also includes pioneering modelling, which shows that without further efforts to counteract habitat loss and degradation, global biodiversity will continue to decline. 