At least 97 people have been arrested and arraigned in court for operating illegal pharmacies in the central region. One hundred and eighteen illegal pharmacies were shut and 149 cartons of assorted medicines seized in an operation conducted by inspectorate officials from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board in conjunction with the National Police Service. The crackdown on illegal pharmaceutical outlets in central region has been ongoing in the counties of Kiambu, Murang'a, Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Nyandarua since May 31. “The list of targeted illegal chemists was arrived at following a surveillance and mapping exercise carried out by PPB officers,” deputy director inspectorate Dr Domic Kariuki said. “All the seized medicines have been handed over to Pharmacy and Poisons Board for necessary tests to be carried out and for safe disposal,” he added. Those arraigned were charged with being in possession of part 1 poisons contrary to section 26(1) of the Pharmacy and Poisons Act and carrying on the business of a pharmacist/pharmaceutical technologist while not registered as a pharmacist/ pharmaceutical technologist contrary to the law. They were also charged with carrying on the business of a pharmacist/ pharmaceutical technologist in premises not registered. Those who pleaded guilty were given fines of up to Sh250,000 or jail time of 18 months. “PPB wishes to thank the police service and Judiciary for enhancing the fines on those found guilty of malpractices. These enhanced fines will act as a deterrent for those who engage in illegal activities as they are a danger to public health,” Kariuki said. Details of all the non-compliant outlets were shared with the regional commissioner for enforcement of closure. The officials raised alarm over drug wholesalers who are supplying illegal chemists, adding that the information had been obtained from invoices seized during the inspection. “Those professionals who have been identified engaging in these illegalities have been summoned for necessary disciplinary actions,” he said. The board has called on all those who wish to engage in the business of pharmacy to first inform PPB before they putting up the premises to get advised on the suitability of the location. All pharmacy outlets and hospitals with expired drugs have also been directed to safely quarantine them and get in touch with the regional inspectors of PPB for safe disposal. The guidelines on safe disposal of pharmaceutical waste are available to the public on www.pharmacyboardkenya.org. The board has distributed mini labs to its regional offices for random sampling and testing of medicines in the market to ensure that medicines in the Kenyan market are of good quality, safe and efficacious. Members of the public have been advised to use health safety codes displayed in registered pharmacy outlets to verify legality of the premises by sending an SMS to 21031 free of charge. -Edited by SKanyara