Employment and Labour Relations Court in Nakuru has ordered the re-opening of Nyandarua County Assembly premise for normal business to resume. Lady justice Hellen Wasilwa ordered respondents in the matter who include Nyandarua County Assembly, acting Speaker Zachary Njeru and three MCAs to give access to all MCAs and the Public Service Board. “All staff at the assembly and the relevant members of the public should also be allowed access for normal business to resume,” she ordered. The three MCAs listed as respondents in a case filed by Nyandarua County Assembly board and acting Clerk Mukiri Muchiri are Samuel Rimui (Gathabai ward), his Shamata counterpart Reuben Gitau and Elizabeth Wanjiku (nominated). Government Press, Attorney General and the Inspector General of Police are also listed as respondents. Njeru and Gitau were to replace two interested parties in the case, Kieru Wambui and Kariuki Muchiri from the Public Service Board. Njeru, Rimui and Gitau were stopped from acting as members of the board with specific orders to Njeru stopping him from chairing any Public Service Board meetings. The judge further issued a temporary order staying the replacement of the Kieru and Muchiri with Njeru and Rimui as Members of the board until the matter is heard and determined. “An order has also been issued stopping Nyandarua County Assembly from replacing the interested parties with any other member of the assembly until the case is concluded,” said Justice Wasilwa. The order issued last Friday restrained the assembly, three MCAs on the list of respondents, Government Printer- Government Press and their agents from degazetting the interested parties. In her ruling, Wasilwa directed that Wanjiku should not assume the office of acting Clerk of the County Assembly of Nyandarua pending hearing of the matter. The County Assembly, the respondent MCAs and Government Press were further restrained from degazetting Muchiri as the acting Clerk or gazetting Wanjiku for the position. “This court issues interim orders suspending any decisions or resolutions of Njeru, Rimui and Gitau made while purporting to be members of county public service board,” said Justice Wasilwa. Operations at the County Assembly have been paralysed since late last year with suits and counter-suits, impeachments, public demonstrations and insubordination. Assembly Speaker has been impeached four times now with each impeachment being overturned by the courts. However, some MCAs have been defiant and even dared to impeach him despite a court order barring them from moving such a motion against him. When he was reinstated again, the MCAs opted to shut the assembly and stop all operations to keep him out. At one point, the mace was stolen from the chambers as a way of baring House business. On Friday, Wasilwa barred the four MCAs from interfering with  operations at the assembly particularly appointing, redesigning, intimidating, victimising or taking any disciplinary action against members of the board. Nyandarua County Police Commander and Critical Infrastructure Police Unit  were ordered to ensure compliance with the court directives. -Edited by SKanyara