13-time Kenyan champions AFC Leopards will look to bounce back from their shock 1-0 loss to bottom-placed Mathare United when they play away to Wazito in a Round of 22 Football Kenya Federation Premier League fixture at Ruaraka grounds on Saturday. Leopards suffered a huge setback in their quest to lay claim to the top-flight title for the first time since 1998 after falling to the Slum Boys. Another defeat might see them slump down further the standings given they are now fourth on the log with 37 points,  seven adrift of leaders Tusker. As they cross their fingers hoping for the best, they may not be entirely happy if arch-rivals Gor Mahia, who are ahead of them by a point, manage to run over struggling Western Stima given such an eventuality might make it harder for them. Gor, who are third on the log with 38 points squandered a perfect opportunity to close gap on Tusker after faltering at Thika in their last encounter against Wazito, who held them to a barren draw. They approach their next match against Western Stima with a lot of caution in the knowledge that anything short of a win might greatly compromise their dreams for a fifth consecutive title. Nzoia Sugar will look to disentangle themselves from relegation worries when they come up against a more organised Nairobi City Stars at Narok Stadium on Friday. City have maintained a good run in their recent outings which has left them sixth with 29 points. Surprise package, Bidco United, host Vihiga United at Thika Stadium as Bandari and Kariobangi Sharks lock horns at Mbaraki Stadium on Friday. On Saturday, Mathare United will head into their match against Posta Rangers high on confidence after flooring Ingwe at Ruaraka last Wednesday. However, they may not find the going easy against a side that stunned leaders Tusker in their last match at Ruaraka grounds where they pulled off a 1-0 upset. KCB will look to topple Tusker at the summit when they flex muscles with Kakamega Homeboyz at Nakuru A.S.K grounds on Saturday. The bankers are second with42 points.