Thierry Neuville still leads the WRC Safari Rally after completion of the Saturday morning loop. The Belgian after a trouble-free ride was fastest on the opener and managed to maintain a 28.1 seconds advantage over Takamoto Katsuta. Ott Tänak is 28.1 seconds behind in third but is facing pressure from a charging Sébastien Ogier. Ogier took back-to-back wins on SS9 and SS10. He pulled back almost 15 seconds from Tänak over the morning and now trails the i20 pilot by 37.6 seconds. Next, the crews will head back to service before doing it all again. The SS11, Elmenteita 2, gets going at 2.05 pm. Quotes from top drivers SS10: NEUVILLE A slightly cautious approach from the Belgian sees him give away 10.1sec to Ogier. His advantage at the top is still healthy at 28.1sec. "It went okay. I had a clean run - a lot of stones are moving, so a couple of times I had to slow down. I had a clean stage and took it maybe a little bit too careful on the last part." S1: KATSUTA Some more time dropped to Tänak on this one. Taka's advantage over his Hyundai rival is down to 28.1sec heading into the afternoon loop. "Maybe enjoying, but maybe not! It's very difficult and demanding. There are so many changes, and in some sections, you don't know where you are. It's hard." SS10: TÄNAK The Estonian battles his way across some pretty big rocks towards the end and completes in second so far. "It's difficult with these artificial stones, and it's very different from the recce. The last part is rough but the rest of it is okay." SS10: OGIER On a roll! Quickest by a huge 17.4sec and the split times are looking good to the drivers behind. "It was okay. I was pretty happy with my notes. I was a bit worried about this one because it's difficult to see the stones, but I was comfortable." SS10: GREENSMITH Another good stage for Gus - he's well in the mix with second so far. "I don't want to pick up any more punctures or anything like that. Just keep it clean - no issues." SS10: FOURMAUX The roof vent on his Fiesta machine has come off, so there's a lot of dust finding its way into the cockpit! Third, so far, 22.7sec down on the leading time. "It was really difficult with the dust inside the car. It was difficult to see where the road was."