Governors could soon have to consult senators, members of the National Assembly and women representatives before deciding on development projects if a new bill is enacted. County chiefs currently seek approval of the assemblies for projects, but the County Government (Amendment) Bill, 2021, establishes a leaders' forum for further checks. “The Bill proposes a platform through which leaders at the two levels of government can meet and deliberate on the legislative and development agenda of the respective county government,” it reads in part. The leaders' forum shall be chaired by the governor who will be deputised by the senator. Woman representative, MPs, county assembly speaker and both leaders of the majority and minority parties in the county assembly will be members. County commissioner, county attorney and chairperson of the County Public Service Board shall also sit in the forum as ex-officio members. The county secretary shall be the secretary to the forum. The Bill comes barely two years after the Court of Appeal outlawed legislation that created county development board chaired by senator. The governors challenged the law in court, saying it was meant to weaken their powers and hamper development projects in the counties. In the bill sponsored by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang, the forum will determine issues of engagement between the national and county governments and propose a common legislative and development agenda. In addition, it will consider and advise on any issues of concern that may arise within the county and that may require cooperation, consultation and coordination with the national government. "The Bill seeks to provide a framework for consultation between members of Parliament, the county executive, county assembly and the national executive." The forum shall also consider the views of the county government on the Budget Policy Statement, the revenue allocation formula and the Annual Division of Revenue Bill and County Allocation of Revenue Bills before adoption by Parliament. It will also seek the views of the county government on the Equalisation Fund before adoption by Parliament in line with Article 204 of the Constitution. The forum shall convene at least twice in every year with the first meeting being held within 60 days following a General Election. The office of the governor shall provide administrative support to the forum. Further, the Bill prohibits deputy speakers from taking over as chair of County Assembly Public Service Board in a case of a vacancy in the office of the speaker. Instead, the vice-chairperson of the board, shall take over until the vacancy in the office of the speaker is filled. Section 12(3) of the County Governments Act provides that the speaker of the county assembly shall serve as the chairperson of the board, with a vice-chairperson being elected by the board from the members. (edited by o. owino)