The family of a man whose body has been lying in the morgue for more than eight years got a reprieve after a Kisumu court ruled in their favour in a case over disputed land. Barack Ogada Ouko died in May 2014. He was a tea picker in Tinderet, Nandi. The family's woes began the same month when they tried to bury him in their ancestral land in Tieng're K'oranda village. The burial was stopped by one James Onunga accompanied by police officers claiming the parcel of land was his. The body was returned to the morgue. However, in 2017, the family received a court order and went ahead to bury their kin in the same land. But two months later, Onunga in the company of police officers armed with a court order visited the home and exhumed the body, saying he would not allow anybody to be buried in his alleged land. On Wednesday last week, senior resident magistrate Winfred Onkunya ruled in favour of the deceased's family. Onkunya noted that the plaintiff had failed to prove his case. “An order is hereby issued directing the land register to cancel the title deed in respect of L.R. NO Kisumu/Korando/822 registered on the names of the plaintiff James Onunga and instead register the title in the name of Francis Ago (deceased)”, the ruling said. The family expressed joy over the decision, saying the long court battle had caused them a lot of emotional trauma. Despite the joy, the family said the mortuary bill stood at Sh 800,000, which they want Onunga together with the cost of construction of houses that were demolished when the body of their kin was being exhumed. During the exhumation, police engaged members of the public in running battles as they hurled tear gas canisters to execute the order. Some of the youths demolished houses in the area after the body was exhumed, leaving one of the roofs that had been an attraction along the Kisumu-Busia highway. In 2019, the widow of the deceased, Jessica Ogada, asked senior principal magistrate Winfred Onkunya to allow them to bury the body in the land being fought over. She told the court the land belongs to her husband's family where they lived until 1983 when they moved to Nandi. She said in 2014 the family brought Ogada's body for burial but Onunga came with policemen and stopped the event and the body was returned to the mortuary. The widow said they later got a court order allowing them to bury her husband in the same piece of land but Onunga came back again with police officers, exhumed the body and returned it to the mortuary. Jessica spent a month at Kodiaga Prison following the dispute. Thomas Ago and the deceased's nephew Stephen Ogallo said the land belongs to their family but they only came to realize it was transferred when the matter came to court. Onunga had sued the deceased relatives,  Jessica Ogada, Oliech Ogola, Thomas Ago and Jagero Ogalo. Onunga wanted an order of permanent injunction restraining the defendants by themselves, agents or anybody from burying the body of Ogada Ouko on the parcel of land. He also wanted a declaration that he is the rightful owner of the suit land, which he bought in 1986 from Francis Agoo, the grandfather to the deceased, at Sh 8,000 and later became the registered owner in 1990 after receiving the title.