A Nairobi court has set July 27 as the date to deliver the findings of its inquest into the death of 29 people at Nakumatt Downtown supermarket 12 years ago. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi was supposed to deliver the findings on Wednesday but they were not ready. Five Nakummatt employees were among the 29 who died during the January 28, 2009 fire. Detective Emmanuel Ngetich, who is currently attached to the Nairobi Area DCI, recommended a public inquest be conducted in an open court. During the last hearing, a senior officer from the electrical engineering department of the then-Ministry of Public Works completed his testimony. In his evidence in chief, Danson Kimathi told then-trial magistrate Kiarie Waweru that the fire may have originated from fuel vapours or gas coming in contact with a hot exhaust pipe of a generator, or sparks emanating from contacts during a changeover from DC to AC. Waweru is now a High Court judge. The witness told the court that on January 29, 2009, his boss instructed him and his colleagues to proceed to the scene at the junction of Kenyatta Avenue and Kimathi Street, Nairobi. They started investigating and later prepared the findings. Kimathi said he recommended that all building occupants should be trained on how to prevent or fight fires and vacate in case of emergencies. Other recommendations included providing and appropriately stationing fire fighting equipment and advising security guards to make frequent visits to all places, and not sitting at one place. The report also says fire alarm systems should be put in place to alert the occupants in case of an emergency. Lastly, all exit doors should be locked in the open position and kept clear. Eleven witnesses, including Nakumatt Downtown director Atul Maganial Shah, have testified. The prosecution said smoke was seen emanating from the generator room on the ground floor near the stairs which lead to a mezzanine floor on the day of the fire. Witnesses told the court that the supermarket was a single-storey building. They said an explosion was heard, followed by a blackout within the entire building. The court heard that workers made efforts to extinguish the fire but they were overwhelmed. During the evacuation, customers and employees who were on the ground floor managed to escape using the entrance and exit doors. The fate of those who were upstairs on the mezzanine floor could not be immediately established. The supermarket management contacted the city fire brigade who responded immediately. The court heard that the combined force of 10 fire engines from the defunct Nairobi City Council, the Kenya Air Force, the Kenya Airports Authority, Nairobi Fire Services and the G.4.S Security firm did little to contain the inferno. Nearby streets were engulfed in the smoke, hence blurring vision. The fire fighting went on for three consecutive days. The 29 people were burnt and found upstairs on the mezzanine floor trapped in the debris.