Nairobi’s Finance Chief Officer Halkano Waqo was a no-show up at the Integrity Centre on Wednesday morning. This comes as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) launches investigations into City Hall’s controversial Sh84 million Covid-19 feeding programme. In a letter by the Commission’s Deputy Director of Forensic Investigations John Lolkoloi, EACC dated June 28, 2021, Waqo had been summoned to record a statement over the programme. The food and non-food items were to be supplied to 127,500 households in Nairobi’s informal settlements, as part of measures to cushion them from the challenging economic situation brought by the Covid-19 pandemic. Lolkoloi noted that the anti-graft agency is undertaking investigations into allegations of irregular award of tenders by the Nairobi City County government for supply and delivery of food and non-food items for disaster emergencies to ease the effects of Covid-19 among households in informal settlements within Nairobi. “To facilitate our investigation, kindly inform Halkano Diida Waqo, Chief Officer Finance to avail himself at Integrity Centre on June 30, 2021, at 9am for the interview and statement recording on the matter,” read the letter addressed to Nairobi County Secretary Jairus Musumba. EACC officers David Changkwony and Jeremiah Buchianga were to be available to assist the chief officer with the recording statement. However, The Star has established that Waqo did not show up at EACC as he had another engagement and requested to be given a new date. The Sh84 million feeding programme was to benefit 127,500 most vulnerable people in Nairobi’s informal settlements with foodstuff to cushion them against the negative effects of the pandemic. The programme was to run for three months between April and June 2021, with distribution done every week across Nairobi’s 17 sub-counties. The investigations come to the open after a letter by Nairobi County Assembly Minority Whip Peter Imwatok wrote to the anti-graft Commission claiming that the payment of the goods was illegal and asked them to investigate. According to documents, the seven companies were given contracts worth between Sh3 million and Sh22 million to supply the items. Payment vouchers indicated that the companies supplied food and non-food items including, rice, flour, maize, sugar, water, bread, blankets, and mattresses In his letter dated April 24, 2021, Imwatok called for the investigation and alleged EACC that payments were made although no food was ever supplied to the county and no food was ever distributed to anyone. “I not only have the contract but the invoice, the payment transaction, the CR12 of the companies and I have forwarded all to EACC. I am questioning the procurement process and I have evidence of procurement officers saying the processes were done without their consent,” the letter read. This even as he claimed that payment vouchers indicate the profiled firms supplied foodstuffs to the Nairobi County notably; rice, sugar, maize and wheat flour, bread, mineral water, sanitary towels, blankets, mattresses and basins. The letter was copied to the Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji, and Director of Criminal Investigations (DCI) George Kinoti.