An anti-tobacco lobby group wants the government to raise the minimum legal sale age of tobacco products from 18 years to 21 years. African Centre for Corrective and Preventive Action said most young adults are exposed to smoking when they are not fully aware of its dangers. Executive director John Macharia said while thousands die from tobacco-related illnesses each year, more explorative youths continue to be initiated into smoking. “Smoking is directly linked to the deaths of over 8,000 people in the country each year. Globally, over eight million people are lost annually to tobacco products,” he said. Macharia, who spoke at Kenol in Murang’a on Monday, said although tobacco products rake in revenue for the government, the illnesses end up using more resources in treatment. He said tobacco products are said to cause at least 16 illnesses, including cancer. This is further worsened by high nicotine addiction levels that condemn users to life-long dependency on the products. The organisation wants the government to strictly enforce laws controlling usage of tobacco products, especially smoking, in the country. Macharia said as the world commemorates World No Tobacco Day, his organisation intends to file a memorandum in both the Senate and the National Assembly seeking to have the law reviewed and the age of smoking increased. He said the majority of adult smokers start the habit before the age of 21 and that raising the legal sale age of tobacco products would reduce the number of youths exposed and subsequently hooked on the products. The lobby group has been engaging stakeholders and hopes to have the memorandum presented to Parliament in the next two weeks to have the Tobacco Control Act 2007 amended. Among the amendments proposed is a requirement for all tobacco traders to acquire special licences from the public health department before engaging or continuing with the business. The revenue collected from the licenses should be used to cover licensing administration costs, education and training, retail inspections and impromptu compliance checks. The amendments will also see retailers compelled to display signs indicating that the sale of tobacco products to persons below 21 years is prohibited. Should the amendments be passed in Parliament, Macharia said they would help to further discourage Kenyans from smoking and save them from potential illnesses. “The magnitude of the epidemic that we are dealing with at the global, local and community level is immense and has to be dealt with urgently. Over 80 per cent of all global smokers are in developing nations. This greatly burdens their health systems,” he said. Macharia said the organisation has been engaging in numerous media campaigns to discourage as many people as possible from smoking. Dr Inyathio Kibe, a member of the lobby group, said a cigarette contains over 247 chemicals that penetrate all body organs. He said smoking can cause women to give birth to children with congenital disorders while men father children with prostrate issues. Kibe said tobacco contributes to oesophageal, prostate, kidney and colon cancers and should be discouraged. He said most smokers have gone back to smoking in public places, exposing non-smokers to secondary smoke that he said is even more dangerous. The Tobacco Control Act 2007 that was formulated to protect public health, provides for the establishment of smoking zones aimed at ensuring non-smokers live in a smoke-free environment. It also requires traders to sell cigarettes in packets with no less than 10 cigarettes or face a six-month jail term or a fine of Sh50,000, or both. It also prohibits advertisements for tobacco products. “I'm especially unhappy with men who play with their children while smoking. They expose their children to diseases at a tender age,” he said. 