Kenya’s commitment to multilateral environmental agreements has won the admiration of the United Nations. The 75th session UN Assembly president Volkan Bozkir said Kenya’s commitment is unmatched. “Kenya is fully committed to multilateral environmental agreements,” he said. Bozkir said Kenya has the biggest UN presence in the world. He made his remarks at the rehabilitated John Michuki Memorial Park, which was once a dumpsite. He toured the park before visiting the National Museums of Kenya. Bozkir also praised the government’s dedication to increase forest cover, saying that this will help in addressing the impacts of climate change as well as meeting sustainable development goals. Kenya's forest cover is 7.2 per cent. The government wants to increase it to 10 per cent by next year. To achieve this target, the Kenya Forest Service needs Sh48 billion. Kenya needs to plant over one billion seedlings to meet the target. Bozkir said there is a need for countries to invest in the restoration of the environment even as they navigate the Covid-19 pandemic. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, Housing PS Charles Hinga, Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohammed Badi, UN-Habitat ambassador and permanent representative Jean Kimani, Kenya Forest Chief Conservator Julius Kamau and National Environment Management Authority director general Mamo Mamo were present. Tobiko said Michuki Park is part of the government’s wider agenda of recognising Kenyans who have made positive contributions. “Environment is life and universal. Every country has the responsibility to protect it. The UN-Habitat has helped us map out green spaces, making our work easier,” the CS said. Hinga said the youth have contributed positively to the greening agenda as they have planted more than seven million trees through Kazi Kwa Vijana. “We have over 14 million tree seedlings that need to be planted,” Hinga said. The United Nations Strategic Plan for Forests 2017-30 was created with a mission to promote sustainable forest management and enhance the contribution of trees to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The first global forest goal provides for increasing the forest area by three per cent by 2030. Others include enhanced forest-based economic, social and environmental benefits. 