Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o is pushing for a tough proposal to curb misuse of public funds. The new regulations contained in the Controller of Budget Regulations, 2021, will not only ring-fence use of public funds but also ensure government ministries, departments and agencies adhere to the directive on pending bills. The measures will also ensure all withdrawals from public coffers are approved by relevant authorities to enhance accountability at every stage. No public cash will leave the accounts without the express permission of the CoB, who will only grant such approvals after getting satisfied with the intent of the transaction. The conditions apply to the Consolidated Fund, the Equalisation Fund, the County Revenue Fund and any other public fund. For instance, for any withdrawal request touching on the Consolidated Fund, the Treasury will furnish the CoB with a withdrawal request, exchequer account balances and reconciled exchequer schedule, among other requisites. Such approvals—according to the regulations—will be valid for 14 days. The Treasury will also provide a detailed record from the Central Bank of payments pending approval and up-to-date exchequer account statements. “To ensure the Consolidated Fund, the Equalisation Fund, the County Revenue Fund and any other public funds are not overdrawn, the Central Bank of Kenya shall issue to the Controller of Budget real-time viewer to verify the exchequer account balances,” the regulations read. “Where the Controller of Budget is not satisfied that the request for approval of withdrawal of funds complies with the law, he or she may decline to approve the requests and give reasons thereof.” The measures even become more stringent for development expenditure withdrawal where mandatory requirements include an up-to-date schedule of pending bills and plans. “A request for approval of withdrawal for development expenditure shall be supported with project implementation status report, including ongoing and stalled projects, an up-to-date schedule of pending bills and payment plan,” read part of the regulations. The issue of stalled projects has been a headache to the government, with about Sh365.9 billion said to be sunk into 545 stalled projects across the country. As a deterrent, Parliament last week recommended that ministries and agencies initiating new projects before completion of existing ones face stern action, including budget cuts. According to the lawmakers, the move is meant to stem the wastage of billions of shillings sunk into stalled projects. In a report of the Budget and Appropriations Committee, the National Assembly has raised the alarm over government institutions' spending on incomplete projects. "Sanctions should be instituted to MDAs that introduce new projects before completion of existing projects,” the committee recommended. 