The electoral agency has exposed the deficiencies that if unresolved may jeopardise its vision for free and fair polls next year. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission says it faces financial constraints and lack of a legal legal framework as among the biggest hurdles that could throw the 2022 General Election into disarray. Appearing before the Senate Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs on Wednesday, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and acting CEO Hussein Marjan said limited budget allocations have stalled activities crucial for elections. They include the audit of its technology, voter registration, update of the voter register, as well as the delimitation of constituency boundaries. The commission seeks to procure an independent firm to audit the system that was largely blamed for the disarray in the 2017 polls. The commission has started procurement of software to integrate the Kenya Integrated Election Management System (Kiems) and the biometric voter register so that it can register voters, generate a register and transmit election results. “For three years, we have been asking for funds to audit the technology. We are supposed to engage an international firm to audit the technology but we have not got the money,” Chebukati said. As a result of the lack of funds, the commission decided through its internal auditor and the IT ministry, to audit the system, Marjan said. He said, however, the commission is currently tendering for the audit of the system, a process that might end in May next year, barely three months to the polls. The commission also blamed lack of funds for the slow registration of new voters. During the meeting, the commission disclosed that compared to 2013 to 2017 when the commission registered five million voters, since 2017 the commission has only registered 140,000 voters. “Without resources, we cannot conduct voter registration and sensitise Kenyans to come out to vote in large numbers as we did in 2017," Chebukati said. He said the IEBC had asked Parliament to allocate them at least Sh40 billion for the 2022 General Election but the budget was slashed to Sh33.01 billion, leaving a deficit of Sh7 million. He said the money was to be allocated in two financial years, 2020-21 2021-22 to facilitate audit of the ICT systems, mass voter registration and boundary delimitation. In the new financial year 2021-22 the commission was allocated Sh14.95 billion for the elections. This includes Sh2.7 billion for mass voter registration, which should be launched nationwide this December. “Voter certification will be done after mass voter registration around May next year before we embark on the process of weeding out dead voters and other anomalies,” Chebukati said. “After that, we shall map polling stations and we expect number will be increase to roughly 10,000 more polling stations," he said. Without resources, it will be difficult to undertake the process. Chebukati ruled out the possibility of completing the constituency delimitation  and having new constituencies before the next polls. The chairman said the process has delayed because of lack of funds, adding it will be concluded by March 2023. The commission has conducted data analysis of the 2019 National Population and Housing Census published by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. A pilot study for the review and update of the Boundaries Geo-database and  data collection has commenced," Chebukati said. He said budgetary deficits have not allowed the commission to undertake institutional reforms that could allow a smooth election in 2022. Marjan Hussein said the commission was also choked with Sh2.7 billion pending bills. This include Sh1.6 billion owed to  legal firms and Sh1.03 billion owed to ICT service providers. He said some vendors are bashing the commission and others are threatening to withhold services. “We are told by the National Treasury to clear pending bills by June 30, 2021, but we don’t have the funds. We need these resources if we are to deliver a fair, transparent and credible election,” Marjan said. Chebukati took issues with the National Assembly for failing to pass the amendments to the campaign financing law and the accompanying regulations to cap the cash splurge in the campaigns. “For a start, the Act cannot be enforced unless the National Assembly passes the amendments and the regulations,” he said. The chairman maintained that the commission will enforce the requirement for degrees for all aspirants in the upcoming polls. The commission will also ensure that all the civil servants seeking to enter politics resign by February 9, 2022 – six months to the elections – as provided for in law. (Edited by V. Graham)