A Nakuru resident has threatened to sue Water Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki over irregular and excessive appointments of members to the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority board. James Ayuya, in a letter to the CS, is questioning why the latter has failed to correct an anomaly committed by her predecessor Simon Chelugui in the said appointments. Chelugui appointed seven members to the NWHSA board contrary to the Water Act, 2016, which provides that the Cabinet Secretary shall appoint only five members. The former CS appointed Bernard Otieno Okebe, Geoffrey Gitau, Banticha Jaldesa, Monica Cherutich, Waningilo Walubengo, Jane Mwikali, and Abdi Dara. The gazette notice dated February 8, 2019, stated that the lot would serve as members of the board for three years, breaking the cap of nine members set by the Mwongozo – Kenya’s code of governance. The Auditor-General, in a management letter to the authority last year, flagged the anomaly after it was revealed that the board is composed of 11 members. “There is a risk that these appointments were done contrary to the law,” the auditor said. Ayuya’s concern is that the current CS has failed to correct the anomaly despite having been at the helm of the Water ministry for over 18 months. “You (Sicily) were appointed to head the ministry in January 2020…and yet that anomaly and those irregular appointments still stand,” he says in the letter seen by the Star. He argues that the excess appointments to the NWHSA board fall within the purview and scope of the CS’ authority hence is a matter that ought to concern her. “The consequence is that public funds have been, and continue being expended to fund an excessively constituted board, placing the entity in conflict with the law,” Ayuya letter reads in part. “Please note that should you elect to ignore this letter, I will in the next seven days proceed to institute public interest litigation to remedy the contravention of the law cited in this letter.” The letter has been copied to the NWHSA chairman Eric Okeyo, Water PS Joseph Njoroge, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, and the chairman Environment committee of the National Assembly. He further argues that the board undertakes various public responsibilities on behalf of the authority including managing and maintaining public waterworks infrastructure. “The allowances paid to the board members as well as any other financial benefits that they derive on account of their appointments is a charge on public resources for which you (CS) are expected to protect and avoid wastage,” the petition reads. Ayuya says the CS is under the obligation of the law to take immediate remedial steps to ensure that the board is properly constituted – by de-gazetting two members or appointing five new ones. He is seeking to establish from the CS “if her continued silence on the matter is an oversight on her part or a stamp of approval of the contravention of the law.” “More importantly, I would like to establish when you intend to remedy this breach so as to comply with the Water Act, and Cap Six of the Constitution so as to save the public from unnecessary expenses.” The Star has established that the EACC had seized of the matter and wrote to the ministry in April seeking answers on the same, but the situation is yet to change. Owing to the bloated numbers, the costs of a full board are to the tune of between Sh600,000 and Sh1.4 million, with committees spending up to Sh300,000 of the authority’s funds.