They say life begins at 40, and for one Tobbias Ngala, his perspective about life changed when he turned 41 recently. Like anybody else, he would have chosen to mark the day in pomp and colour, but Ngala chose a completely different route. The father of two, who is currently residing in Nakuru after he got transferred from Mombasa, embarked on a 645km run from Nakuru to Mombasa to raise funds for children suffering from cancer. Ngala says he is targeting to raise Sh1,000 for every kilometre he will run to get Sh645,000 that he will channel to the Crafts for Cure Programme by Faraja Cancer Support Trust at the Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi. The church leader says he was touched by the plight of a single mother living in his apartment block who was nursing her sick son. Ngala says he would often hear the boy cry late at night, and upon inquiring, he found out that the boy had cancer and the pain was keeping him up. “I was moved by the boy’s plight and decided to dedicate my 41st birthday to raising funds for children with cancer so that they would not suffer like my neighbour’s son,” he said. Ngala began his 645km run from Nakuru on June 17 and by Wednesday June 23, he had already reached Voi town in Taita Taveta county. He is expected in Mombasa on Sunday. Speaking to the Star on phone, while attending a physiotherapy session in Voi, Ngala said he decided to celebrate his birthday by challenging himself to do something for humanity. “I wanted to do something humanly challenging for my birthday and also use it as a way of helping somebody who was going through pain to at least get some comfort,” said Ngala. His wife and two daughters, he said, have been supportive although they were a bit skeptical when he first shared with them the idea of running from Nakuru to Mombasa. Ngala said he injured his back three times in the recent past and the pain  he underwent before he recovered, propelled and motivated him to undertake the run. The Faraja Cancer Support Centre is a Nairobi based non-governmental organisation that seeks funds from well-wishers to support cancer patients, their families and care givers. Every Friday, members visit children at the KNH’s paediatric oncology wards and use art and music to help the children relieve their pain and anxiety. By Friday last week, Ngala had managed to raise Sh91,600. He said he hopes to surpass the Sh200,000 mark by Friday and hit the target after he completes the race. “Small businesses and well-wishers have been supporting the cause, with much of the funding coming from friends and relatives. I am hopeful more people will come in and support me,” he said. His clarion call is that people should live a life of compassion by remembering all those who are suffering and going through any kind of pain. He called for more well-wishers to come in and support his noble course. -Edited by SKanyara