Deputy President William Ruto will not beat Raila Odinga in the 2022 presidential election unless he changes tack. He wants to run on a party, which cannot win an election. It has to be in a coalition. And for a coalition, one invites partners, but Ruto wants subjects who cannot deliver the vote ultimately. Kenyans still believe they belong to communities. Even Ruto came from a tribal coalition. Why is he now thinking he can get power without going through a tribal coalition? He negotiated with President Uhuru Kenyatta and was given half of the government. Why doesn’t he want other people to negotiate in that manner? In the 1992 and 1997 elections, there were no coalitions and Kanu won. In 2002 and 2007, there was Narc and PNU that respectively won. In 2013, Uhuru and Ruto won in a coalition. In 2017, they successfully ran as Jubilee – which was technically a coalition. Without a coalition, there was no way they would have won. DP Ruto is going to be the common enemy, the position Raila was in 2007, 2013, and 2017. At the same time, this is a transitional election, which is very tricky. Kenyans are tired and fatigued. He will try to run away from the mess, but what is he still doing in government? Even if he resigns, he will not be absolved from the mess having claimed he was the one running the show in the first five years of Jubilee. The other problem is with the numbers. When Uhuru realised he cannot win the mountain, he has split it into bits and pieces. These guys barely went through in 2013. In 2017, they had slightly 54 per cent, which was also questioned. If you split the mountain and then Musalia Mudavadi and Mukhisa Kituyi insist on vying, Raila will deliver 95 per cent of the Luo vote, while Kalonzo Musyoka will have his Ukambani since there is no much Ruto presence there. So, where does Ruto get these numbers that will give him 50+1 per cent? Gideon Moi will be running to break the Rift Valley from him. In a runoff, they will all gang up and sort him out. The only way he would have succeeded is by winning round one, which he can't do. The political analyst spoke to the Star