The battle for dominance between President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto will play out in Murang'a county's race for governor. A host of candidates who have declared interest in the seat will have to scramble for parties led by the two nemeses. Campaigns have begun in earnest to succeed outgoing Governor Mwangi Wa Iria who has declared that he will vie for presidency and has registered his own party, Usawa Kwa Wote. Wa Iria’s party has embarked on a recruitment drive to register more than four million voters. Though Wa Iria’s influence may sway residents, the battle is likely to come down to Uhuru and Ruto and their choices. Uhuru is fighting to maintain his support base while Ruto strives to cut the ground from under his feet. The President's close ally, former Kigumo MP Jamleck Kamau, is expected to launch his second bid for the governor's seat. Kamau vied in 2017 against Wa Iria. The former Nairobi Metropolitan Development minister in retired President Kibaki’s regime opted out after losing the Jubilee Party nomination. Kamau is the chairman of the Tana and Athi River Development Authority after appointment by Uhuru. In Ruto's camp, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata is said to be warming up to the idea of becoming governor. The vocal MP has had several verbal run-ins with Wa Iria. In May, the senator threatened to sue the county government for suspending medical camps he had been sponsoring over Covid-19. The county administration sent him a letter saying the camps had been halted until further notice. Kang’ata demanded the county withdrew the suspension letter, threatening to sue and seek compensation for two camps he had scheduled for July. However, on Monday, he announced the camps had been cancelled and instead he would donate drugs to Gacharage Catholic Church for a similar event. Two weeks ago, Woman Rep Sabina Chege formally announced that she would vie for the seat at Kenya Njeru ACK church in Kangema. Chege said it was time for the county to be led by a woman, expressing confidence that she had demonstrated leadership in her two terms as an MP. The former journalist who serves as the chairperson of the Health Committee in the National Assembly said she hoped to join the league of the new Chief Justice Martha Koome as women serving in powerful positions in the country. In her last term, Chege served as the chairperson of the Education Committee. Chege has been strong supporter of the President and a major proponent of the Building Bridges Initiative. Other candidates who have expressed interest include Water PS Joseph Wairagu who has previously also faced off with Governor Wa Iria over water projects in the county. Wa Iria accused the PS of blocking residents' access to Ndaka-ini dam water and instead sinking boreholes that he said had contaminated water. He accused the PS of campaigning using public projects. The PS however dismissed Wa Iria’s sentiments saying the boreholes project was being spearheaded by a team of engineers. Should Wairagu vie, he will have to quit his position in the civil service as required by the electoral commission to focus on the campaigns. Two-time candidate Moses Mwangi is said to be preparing to launch his campaign next week while Ahadi Kenya CEO Stanley Kamau is seeking support in the grassroots. Long-serving civil servant engineer Henry Gaate has also declared his interest and believes a technocrat is best suited to run the county affairs. Though the candidates are yet to declare their preferred parties, it is expected that they will consider the political affiliation of Murang’a people before settling on one. Murang’a, previously the bedrock of Jubilee Party, has in recent years had a change of heart and has been seen to publicly revolt against the outfit. Kang’ata earlier in the year wrote a letter to the President informing him that the BBI had fallen out of favour with most residents who preferred that the government focused on rejuvenating agriculture. The county is also home to two ardent pro-Ruto MPs, Alice Wahome (Kandara) and Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu) who have publicly challenged the current regime. -Edited by SKanyara