Mombasa hospitals will no longer use incinerators to dispose medical waste after acquiring microwave equipment. The Ministry of Health has rolled out a project of providing medical waste management machines. So far 10 counties have received the machines in phase one of the project. The machine uses non-combustion technology to destroy medical waste with minimal effect on the environment. It has the capacity to shred and reduce the volume of the waste and to treat it so that the waste is safe to be disposed together with other municipal garbage. The machine will also be used to recycle organic waste which will be used to make fertiliser. Speaking during the handing over of the machine to Mombasa county government at Port Reitz Subcounty Hospital, head of public health in the Ministry of Health Francis Kuria said that the project started in 2013 with the aim of protecting the environment. “This machine is important because it will help us to manage the medical waste properly. The value of this sustainable equipment is high because it will also protect our people from the risk of medical waste in the propagation of diseases like HIV, TB, hepatitis and Covid-19,” he said. Kuria said the machine is a high volume equipment with up to 4.8 tonnes. Mombasa acting health executive Godfrey Nato said the county has 330 health facilities which generate between three and five tonnes of medical waste. “Medical waste in Mombasa has always been managed through incineration, and what could not be managed used to be taken to the dumpsite by municipal without treatment,” Nato said. He said the process of incineration releases unintended persistent organic pollutants, which are dangerous to the health of people around the incinerators. He said when the waste finds its way out, the dumpsite has a lot of persistent fire so it also releases the same pollutants which are dangerous to people. “The equipment will solve many problems we have been facing as a county as far as waste disposal is concerned by ensuring that all waste is treated and is not dangerous to people,” he said. Kuria said the equipment has a microwave where the processing and disinfection will be happening. “The microwaves need a lot of maintenance because the output of the whole equipment will be determined by how well they are maintained. If not maintained, the waste will not be disinfected as required,” he said. The equipment was installed in eight health facilities in different counties and two national hospitals in the first phase of the project. Fifteen more counties are yet to benefit in the second phase of the project which will be rolled out after two years. Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret and Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi are among the hospitals which have received the equipment. Other counties which received the equipment in the first phase are Mombasa, Machakos, Kisii, Embu, Kakamega, Nyeri and Nakuru.