After all the hype and bubble, the much anticipated Safari Rally Kenya finally comes alive this morning. The legendary event returns to the FIA World Rally Championship calendar for the first time since 2002. While touring KICC on Wednesday morning to inspect the venue where the cars will be flagged off, Sports CS Amina Mohammed, said she was satisfied with the level of preparations thus far. And true to Amina's words, a spot check by the Star both at KICC and Kasarani revealed that the organisers were polishing their final act, with personnel busy on the ground putting final touches to all the essential structures including platforms, spectators' stands and ramps. “You probably all know by now - because we have been anticipating this for a long time - that the Safari Rally officially begins tomorrow (Thursday), but we also have many activities happening today,” said Amina. “Today we have the shakedown in Naivasha, which is basically a period when the drivers are preparing themselves psychologically and physically for the race." “Tomorrow, we have the flag off from right here at KICC, and then move to Kasarani at the Super Spectators' Stage. That activity is going to be at 2 pm. The one here begins at 11 o'clock in the morning. The first car rolls out at about 12:46 pm.” “On Friday, we begin the rally itself. And that begins at the Service Park in Naivasha. The Service Park is at the Kenya Wildlife Training Institute which has been very kind to us. The action continues on Saturday and ends on Sunday.” The CS called upon Kenyans to come and catch a glimpse of action but reminded them of the importance of observing the Covid-19 protocols. “The Ministry of Health has not suspended Covid-19 protocols. The protocols are still in place. Whether it's protocols with respect to wearing of masks and social distancing or protocols that relate to curfew.” “So we are asking everyone to be on their best behaviour. Of course, we expect fans to come and watch the rally. That's what it's all about. This is a Kenyan event and we want people to come and enjoy themselves.” “There will be spaces designated for the spectators and we expect groups of not more than 20 and they must maintain the one-metre social distance.” The CS warned residents of Naivasha to avoid congregating unnecessarily at night. “The rally takes place during the day. We don't expect to see multitudes of people congregating in Naivasha at night,” she said. Amina appealed to those involved in the event to be in their best behaviour too, adding that the organisers had already designated special spaces for spectators. Moffat Kangi, the Principal Administrative Secretary in the Ministry of Interior and National Coordination said adequate measures had been put in place to guarantee safety and security during the entire duration of the event. “The Inspector General has put measures in place to ensure there is safety and security for everyone along the Nairobi-Nakuru road via Kiambu County. We issued a gazette notice on Wednesday describing the routes that will be followed,” said Kangi.  Thursday Autograph Session VIP Speeches and flag-off by President Uhuru Kenyatta at KICC Super Special Stage SSS 1 at Kasarani (Section 1)  Friday Sections 2 and 3-Service Park Naivasha (Chui Lodge 1 and 2, Kedong 1 and 2 and Oserian 1 and 2) Opening of Media Centre Service Park Naivasha Publication of start list for Section 4  Saturday Sections 4 and 5 -Service Park Naivasha (Elementaita 1 and 2, Soysambu 1 and 2 and Sleeping Warrior 1 and 2) Publication of start list for Section 6  Sunday Section 6-Loldia 1 & Hell's Gate 1 Section 7-Malewa, Loldia 2 Section 8- Hell's Gate 2 (Wolf Power Stage) Power Stage Finish Podium Ceremony Final Scruneering