President Uhuru Kenyatta's Party and ODM will field one presidential candidate in next year's polls, Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju has said. Tuju said the two parties are keen to formalize their handshake relationship in a coalition deal. Speaking on Friday morning, the SG said having the two parties work together is in the best interest of the country. "If we reach an agreement in terms of coming up with alliance, which is on the table, then we should have one presidential candidate," Tuju said. Tuju was speaking ahead of his 60-kilometre Charity walk to Kijabe Mission Hospital. The Jubilee leader also said they are open to including other political parties only if they expressed interest. Apart from Kanu which had signed a coalition agreement with Jubilee, Kalonzo Musyoka's Wiper party has also expressed interest to work with Jubilee. Wiper has also entered into a cooperation agreement with Jubilee. "In terms of an alliance, it must be an alliance of the willing. If other parties express interest we will have them on the table," Tuju said. The Jubilee SG was rushed to Karen Hospital on February 12 after a near-fatal accident where a life-saving first aid was administered to him. "The act of doing a sponsored charity walk to Kijabe Mission Hospital is an act of paying tribute to tens of people who contributed to the miracle of my survival and the consequent recovery. This walk is turning pain into purpose," Tuju said. A crucial meeting bringing together Jubilee and ODM officials was held on Thursday where a deal was formally struck to start talks for a 2022 pre-coalition agreement. Once the officials agree, they will then engage relevant organs for adoption and ratification. Uhuru and Raila will witness the signing of the coalition agreement that will be deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties. Thursday's meeting was attended by Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju and his ODM counterpart Edwin Sifuna. ODM chairman John Mbadi and Jubilee vice-chairman David Murathe also attended the talks at a Nairobi Hotel. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed was also present.