Some 10,000 students from Thika Town constituency have received Sh35 million bursary cheques from the NG-CDF kitty. The cash comes as reprieve to cash-strained parents who are struggling to raise third-term fees for their children in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina, while issuing the cheques at Jamuhuri Primary School, said the money will benefit parents whose jobs or sources of income have been adversely affected by the pandemic. “Covid-19 has put many parents in a fix and most of them cannot raise school fees, leave alone put food on the table for their families,” Wainaina said. The MP, however, noted that the cash was too meagre to offset arrears owed to schools, noting that the students received between Sh3,500 and Sh5,000. “Even though the money will help offset some of the fee arrears, it’s too little compared to what the schools are demanding from parents. You’ll find a student has a fees arrears of close to Sh40,000 and we just give them Sh3,500, it won’t be of much help,” he said. On Monday, Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha told parents across the country to clear third term fee arrears, failing which their children will be sent home. The CS spoke at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology in Juja.. The government released Sh9.3 billion capitation funds for schools, out of which Sh2.8 billion went to primary schools and the rest to secondary schools. Another Sh6.5 billion will be released soon. Wainaina said that should the constituency be split into two, Thika Town East and West, as proposed in the constitutional amendments by the Building Bridges Initiative, Thika students will receive enough money to settle their fee arrears. He said students from some constituencies receive huge amounts of bursary funds from the NG-CDF despite the regions contributing "very little in taxes". He termed this unfair to students from regions who contribute a lion's share of the budget but receive meagre bursary funds. “In other constituencies, students are getting close to Sh50,000, yet they contribute very little in taxes. These are some of the issues and imbalances that the constitutional changes proposed by the BBI sought to streamline,” he said. The lawmaker called on the Court of Appeal to consider the merits of the BBI document, which he said is of high interest to Kenyans in terms of their livelihoods and well-being. He said the document should be subjected to a referendum. “It’s not about leadership or positions. I personally care less about that. What matters most are the clauses touching on money coming from the national government coffers to the grassroots. The letter and spirit of the BBI are about bringing resources to the grassroots level,” Wainaina said. Parents thanked the CDF office for the cash, with one of them terming it "a shot in the arm" after many of them were rendered jobless by the Covid-19 pandemic. “Nowadays our concern and stress are about feeding our families. Raising school fees has become a mammoth task for most of us. We are grateful for what we have received,” Phyllis Njeri said. The parents urged the government to seek ways of increasing the CDF allocation so that their children can get enough bursaries to relieve them of the burden of paying hefty school fees. “The leaders might be seeking positions through the BBI and they will always do so even if the BBI flops. But what is important to us is the money that is trickling down to us,” James Mwaniki said.