The July 15 Kiambaa MP by-election will serve as an acid test for President Uhuru Kenyatta's popularity in his Central backyard. The competition has narrowed down to a two-horse race between Kariri Njama of Jubilee and UDA candidate Njuguna Wanjiku. Factions of Kiambu leaders, with the help of other legislators from other counties, have been campaigning for the candidates. UDA is leaving nothing to chance and has been on the ground campaigning for Njuguna. Last week, Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba, an ally of Uhuru, joined Deputy President William Ruto's camp. However, a section of Kiambu county women took to the streets to demonstrate against Wamuchomba, saying her decision was driven by self-interest. They dismissed the decamping of Wamuchomba and other leaders from the Central region as insignificant. The women maintained that Uhuru's Jubilee is still popular in the area and Njama will win the by-election. Politicians who have been campaigning vigorously for Njuguna include Moses Kuria (Gatundu South MP) and Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa. On the other hand, Governor James Nyoro, his deputy Joyce Ngugi, Kiambu MP Jude Njomo, Limuru MP Peter Mwathi and Nyoro's political adviser Kariuki Ngare, alias Gakuyo, have been drumming up support for Njama. Gakuyo has warned that Jubilee risks losing the seat to the UDA candidate unless local leaders join hands on the campaign trail. "We should storm Kiambaa and campaign for our candidate. People want to see Jubilee leaders campaigning for Njama. If indeed you support President Uhuru Kenyatta, elected leaders should ensure we recapture the seat," he said. Gakuyo urged area MPs to stop internal fights, saying some are claiming they have yet to receive campaign funds, hence their decision to give the campaigns a wide berth. "We are seeing other MPs campaigning for their candidate. We should not repeat the mistakes we made in Juja. Saying that you haven't been given money is neither here nor there," he said. PNU candidate Lucy Wanjiru said she reached out to the Jubilee candidate so that they could work as a team and deliver the seat to the President. She elaborated that she is still on the ballot and working together to ensure that they deliver the seat to Jubilee. Njomo said there are a lot of problems within the Jubilee Party leadership, but "the party will not be burnt because there are rats". The MP said traps will be laid to ensnare and eradicate the 'rats' in Jubilee so that  the party can be made strong. Senator Kimani Wamatangi said the government is in control and the Central region is not divided. He said the region does not need politics but development projects to uplift the lives of residents. Edited by A.N 