Health workers in Murang’a county have threatened to go on strike should the county government not pay them by mid week. The workers said they have gone for three months without pay, adding that they are struggling to fend for their families. The health workers said they have written to the county government several times seeking to have their plight addressed to no avail. Health workers’ unions officials said the county government should emulate other counties and seek ways of paying them. Billy Muriuki, an official, said counties such as Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Kiambu and Nyandarua had paid their workers despite suffering from a cash crunch. “We have been wondering why our county government cannot adopt similar measures to ensure its workers are remunerated,” Muriuki said. He accused the county government of ignoring their plight despite their role in delivery of health care, especially with the on-going Covid-19 pandemic, and ignoring their letters. Raising money for basic needs such as food and school fees for their children has become a struggle for health workers, he said. Muriuki further noted that the county government has failed to remit statutory deductions, causing them to be penalised. Clinical Officers Union chairperson Wangai Kahando said those with bank loans are facing penalties over the local administration’s failure to remit deductions. Kahando said one of his members is being detained at a health facility after falling ill and failing to clear the bill. "The member’s NHIF card did not help due to the failure by the County government to remit statutory deductions," he said. He however expressed optimism that they would be able to meet county government officials before downing their tools. The county lab technicians’ union secretary general Fredrick Kibe said they do not wish to  go on strike but have been pushed to a corner by the delayed payments. Most of the workers, Kibe said, had rent arrears ad were struggling to put food on their tables. “We have also noticed that the county government pays some workers before others. Such disparities need to be addressed,” he said. The National Treasury late last week disbursed Sh43.5 billion to County governments to help them clear their pending bills. This followed threats by Council of Governors  chairperson Martin Wambora that county governments would shut down operations if Treasury failed to disburse Sh102.6 billion owed to them. -Edited by SKanyara