The government has renewed its efforts in supporting the growth of Kenyan startups, with a focus on linking them to international investors. This is through the 'Startup Savanna' programme being driven by the Ministry of Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development. This is an international business acceleration programme that will link Kenyan startups to global angel investors and business support resource networks, the ministry notes. Startup Savanna, a Kenya Industry and Entrepreneurship Project (KIEP) initiative opens a platform where local startups can be facilitated to access a global network of events, accelerators, and incubators, mentors, investors, and corporate partners. It will help in attracting the much-needed technical expertise and funds to enable them to scale their operations within and beyond Kenya, CS Betty Maina notes. The CS has expressed confidence in the programme saying that it creates a reliable government-bank pipeline where local startups and SMEs with proven viable projects can access business training and equity funds. “Through Startup Savanna, Kenyan startups will gain access and linkage to international events and conferences to market their innovations as well as compete globally for partnerships with global industries and business experts for mentorship programmes and training," she said. Startup Savanna which targets early-stage startups, growth stage enterprises and mature ventures poised for international expansion is expected to expose an estimated 1,000 Kenyan startups to global networks. It is further poised to match approximately 175 Kenyan startups to mentors, investors, international accelerators, and corporates. "Startup Savanna seeks to continuously deepen the support government is providing to startups and SMEs, Startup Savanna Team Leader, Manasseh Miruka, said in a statement yesterday. "Through the project, we will showcase Kenyan innovation and entrepreneurial spirit globally through interactions with global peers, investors, support partners, and entrepreneurship ecosystems,"Miruka added. The establishment of a ready training and funding pool is expected to ignite interest in entrepreneurship appetite for innovation and technology absorption among major employment generating sectors such as agriculture, manufacturing, and traditional companies while facilitating commercial relationships with startups. It will also strengthen access to international resources for Kenyan startups and support women entrepreneurs. The Economic Survey 2020 showcases startups as the bedrock of Kenya’s Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector which plays an important role in job creation, value addition, income generation, linkages with large firms, industrial development, and overall economic growth. It is estimated that the MSE sector employed 15 million (or 83 per cent) people out of the total of 18.1 million jobs created in Kenya in 2019. Kenya’s nascent startups scene has suffered sluggish growth with many startups closing shop within two years due to lack of funds and business skills to help their founders access patient capital, as well as wade through legal challenges that are a major impediment to business success. Nairobi is an attractive destination for angel investor funds channeled through incubation hubs mostly targeting information technology startups in various economic sectors. Startup Savanna is the brand name for the International Acceleration Process, a sub-component of the Kenya Industry and Entrepreneurship Project (KIEP). It is being implemented through a consortium led by Growth Africa, in collaboration with Nairobi Garage and Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs on behalf of the ministry. KIEP is a $50 million (Sh5.4 billion) project that will be implemented by the Ministry of Industrialization and Enterprise Development, with support from the World Bank Group over the next six years, between 2019-2024. KIEP aims to increase innovation and productivity in select private sector firms in Kenya by strengthening the private sector (including startups, SMEs, incubators, accelerators, technology bootcamp providers among others), through financial grants and technical assistance.