Kwale County government is seeking to identify more historical sites to boost the area's tourism sector. The region has mainly been depending on the white sandy beaches, wildlife parks and the historical caves in Shimoni as major attraction sites. County Executive for Tourism Nasib Nyahi said the process of improving the old and mapping out other new potential historical sites has already begun. “We are trying to explore some of these sites, to protect, beautify and conserve them for our tourism growth,” he said. Nyahi said the county is currently rehabilitating the Majimoto Eco-Resort in Shimba Hills where high-end restaurants and swimming pools are being constructed to attract tourists. The executive said other sites that are yet to be discovered and established are the war zone areas, monuments and cultural places. Some of these areas are the Liwayo La Mlungu in Lunga-Lunga, old facilities like the Kongo mosque in Diani believed to have been built in the 14 century by Arabs who toured the Coast. Nyahi said the county targets to have a variety of tourist attraction sites that attract even locals and stop relying much on foreign tourism. When the Covid-19 pandemic broke out, the tourism industry was the hardest hit with many hotels closing down at the Coast leaving thousands jobless. Nyahi said they also want to elevate the Kwale beach to have a more appealing influence to both foreigners and the locals. Diani is a renowned beach destination and has won many trophies for being among the best beaches in Africa. The executive said they aim at maintaining the reputation by decorating and creating a conducive environment for tourism to thrive. Currently, Kwale government has embarked on beautifying the county and infrastructure improvement such as  streetlights, increasing access to beach roads and improving water supply. Nyahi said once the new sites are identified they will provide employment opportunities for youth. He said more tour guides, guards, chefs, cleaners among others would be required. “A lot of jobs will be created because historical sites must have different players to keep them running,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara 