Governor Stephen Sang aims to complete mega projects and enhance recovery from effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. The budget. which focuses on projects with huge impact on the lives of residents. was on Thursday tabled at the county assembly for debate and approval by MCAs. The total anticipated revenue for the year stands at Sh8.9 billion out of which Sh6.9 billion (78.7 per cent) is the national government transfers as shareable revenue. Another Sh387.1 million (4.4 per  cent) is projected own source revenue (OSR) while Sh975. 8 million (11 per cent) will be from the  County Revenue Fund balances brought forward from the last financial year. Sh524.8 million (5.9 per cent) will be conditional allocations from development partners. The budget increased from 2020-2021 Sh7.5 billion. Finance executive Alex Lagat said. "Covid-19 has had very severe effects on our people, justs like all Kenyans .and we will focus on key projects that will improve livelihoods through vibrant economic activities.” He said emphasis has been given to completion, equipping and starting operations of ongoing capital projects. Focus will be on infrastructure projects with high impact on poverty reduction, equity and employment creation. Some of the projects include a hospital complex with a mother and baby unit at Kapsabet County Referral Hospital, the Nandi Cooperative Creameries at Kabiyet, Nandi Textile unit in Mosoriot and Eliud Kipchoge Modern Athletics Training Camp in Kapsabet. The county will also complete and equip major health facilities, ECDE centres, water projects, with distribution lines, power and water connections for residents. Lagat said the budget carefully reflects the county's strategies to protect lives and livelihoods during the Covid-19 pandemic. It will cushion the vulnerable and support economic recovery through employment creation and poverty reduction. “The strategic priorities of the FY 2021-2022 budget will ensure a resilient and sustainable economic recovery through the areas of focus,”Lagat said. On Post-Covid-19 Recovery, Lagat said consideration had been given to disaster and emergency preparedness, youth and vulnerable empowerment programmes such as the Nandi County Youth service. Governor Sang’s administration will also give priority to settling pending bills amounting to more than sh1 billion. “Delays in payment of pending bills to businesses who provide services to the county have affected liquidity and operations of these entities. In a number of cases, this has led to closure of businesses and affected livelihoods of suppliers,” Lagat said. He said though progress has been made in settlement of the pending bills, the county still owes a significant amount to suppliers. “In this regard, the county government anticipates settling the pending bills accrued, bringing them to minimum levels,” Lagat said. The county will also have strategic policy interventions with priority social equity, socio-economic wellbeing. especially for special interest groups and environmental conservation. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)