A 65-year-old granny from Kihingo village in Kiambu town is seeking justice after she was evicted from the land she has lived in for 40 years. Annah Wanjira said on Tuesday that her two-bedroom house was brought down following a court order issued on Monday, June 7 by a Kiambu court chief magistrate  Stella Atambo. The court ordered that the officer commanding Kiambu police station provide security during the process of demolition property and evicting Wanjira from land L.R Ndumberi/Riabai/5622. Wanjira who is a widow with four children and grandchildren said that while inside her house she heard people outside and knocked on her door saying they were police officers. She said that when she came out she saw seven police officers with full uniform carrying guns accompanied by other men who she did not recognize. “The officers told me that they have come to evict me since there is a court order for her to vacate the land,” Wanjira said. She said the officers gave her a court order which she read and could not understand since she knew nothing of such an order. “I have no court case and by reading the court order it says that I should have vacated since February,” Wanjira said. “I have not been served with any court document since then and now I get an eviction order which also I do not know.” She said the officers told her that it was their duty to give security for her house to be brought down and ensure she vacates. “The men started demolishing my house, crops planted and trees slashed to the ground as I watched helplessly,”  Wanjira said. The widow who is now being hosted by a neighbour said that justice could have been served and be given time as she did not understand why she was evicted from the land as there was no court case of the land which she still holds the original title. “The land belonged to my husband after inheriting from his grandfather, I have the original title deed with me. We had a court case in 2007  but that was resolved where I remained the owner of the land,” Wanjira said. Efforts to get a comment from John Ruthuku who through the court order claims ownership of the land was not forthcoming saying ownership details of the land are in court and only acted as per the court orders. Wanjira warned that her life could be in danger since she still holds crucial land documents. “If someone can demolish a house so that they can get my land since I am poor. I fear for my life,” she said. Wanjira called on the government to provide her with a lawyer to fight for her justice since she cannot afford to hire one.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris