Security chiefs will intensify efforts to dismantle kidnapping rings and reduce the threat posed by rogue boda boda riders ahead of next year’s general election. Police have identified boda boda operators as key enablers of crimes including robbery and poll violence. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Wednesday met regional and county commissioners in Nairobi to begin plans to ensure free and fair elections and avert poll violence next year. Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho told the meeting that some boda boda riders are hired and protected by politicians and operate with impunity. “Apart from them being enablers of crime, they are a menace to security at large and must be reined in at all costs if we intend to have a peaceful pre and post-election period,” Kibicho said. The administrators cited terrorism, clan conflicts, hate speech, cattle rustling and criminal gangs as other potential security threats in various regions. Matiang’i said the government is determined to conduct violence-free polls and sought cooperation from all stakeholders. “We must change how elections are held in this country. We must not have demonstrations before or after the polls and this is achievable,” he said. Matiang’i said elections provide an opportunity for citizens to choose leaders they are persuaded will change their lives. “Elections are not a moment to perpetuate ethnic politics, hatred and to champion personal differences. All peace-loving Kenyans desire to participate in mature politics that are development-driven,” he said. He said Kenyans want leaders who inspire conversations that deepen their confidence in the government of the day. The CS said it is a shame that ethnic tensions, hate speech, voter bribery and intimidation often mar polls, culminating in electoral violence. “A closer review of the political dynamics in the country, mirrored by the previous by-elections, points to possible conflict and electoral violence in 2022, which calls for all to ensure this does not come to pass,” he said. Matiang’i told the administrators to prioritise peace initiatives, including monitoring signs of conflict early to help provide real-time response whenever needed. The CS said a multi-agency team will develop procedures to ensure peace and guide the management of the 2022 General Election. He told the security chiefs to begin educating the masses on their role in peaceful elections and rights to choose the representatives. “This political education is aimed at not only bringing about the change of attitudes towards candidates but also enhancing capacity of our people to interpret Kenya’s objective reality,” he said. This process will assist the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to deliver a free, fair, efficient and cost-effective election, he said. The civic education will include basic voter information, sensitisation on the importance of participating in elections and the tenets of electoral democracy. Matiang’i said Kenyans are looking up to the security chiefs as the last line of defence for the country. He directed the administrators to engage the public through barazas to exchange and disseminate electoral information. The CS called for more work to mitigate against hate speech and told administrators to collaborate with other agencies to monitor inciting talk. “Regulation of political activities should be enhanced to minimise hate speech and propaganda,” he said. The county and regional commissioners were ordered to step up co-ordination of all national government projects. They must also expedite resolution of inter-communal conflicts and disaster response and coordination, intensify the war on drugs and promote inter-governmental relations. The security chiefs must also coordinate border security, security of critical infrastructure, war on terrorism and violent extremism and organised criminal gangs. Matiang’i told the officials to take responsibility for the various decisions they make to avoid unnecessary escalation of issues to the national level.  (edited by o. owino) 