Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu has advised warring ODM leader Raila Odinga and his Wiper party counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka to unite for either of them to win the presidency in next year's general election. Ngilu already made the call two weeks ago during the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile in Makueni and has since reiterated her view. At Kalembe's burial, Kalonzo and Raila expressed willingness to work together and assured Ngilu they will unite. But they have since differed in public, with Kalonzo giving conditions. The Wiper leader, who was Raila's running mate in 2013 and 2017 said he was not ready to play second fiddle to Raila again. But Ngilu says the two leaders must remain united or risk losing again in 2022. “I won’t tire in telling them the truth. They are about to repeat the blunders we committed in the 1992 and 1997 general elections in which we lost to late President Daniel Moi. But we managed to defeat him after forging a united front in 2002,” Ngilu said. She said she was confident that a united opposition stands a better chance of winning the 2022 presidential election. Last week, Kalonzo said, "I would be stupid to support his [Raila] bid without any form of reciprocity.” Raila responded by asking his Wiper colleague to stop panicking and barking since "I am yet to declare I will run." But Ngilu warned against such exchange of words, saying it will jeopardise any unity talks. The governor spoke on Monday when she launched the Sh180 million Kitui County Empowerment Fund at Kyuso Stadium in Mwingi North. She said the revolving fund will be loaned to organised groups of youth, women and persons living with disabilities so they can invest in business ventures. The aim is to eradicate poverty and spur the local economy. “I urge the groups that have benefitted from the kitty to repay within stipulated timelines so as to enable others to access the revolving funds," Ngilu said. The loan is repaid with a five per cent interest after a grace period of six months. Groups in all Kitui's 40 wards will benefit.  Edited by P.O