Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader are among the leaders present at the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu for the 58th Madaraka Day celebrations. Ruto, accompanied by his wife Rachael, arrived at the stadium at 11.21 am. He welcomed President Uhuru Kenyatta to lead the nation in marking the celebrations. This is the second time Uhuru and Ruto are meeting face to face this month. Last week, the two leaders met during the 18th National prayer breakfast meeting. They met twice face to face this year – on February 15 during the burial of former Cabinet minister Simeon Nyachae in Kisii and February 25 during a Cabinet meeting at State House, Nairobi. Uhuru and Ruto have fallen out over 2022 succession politics and the Building Bridges Initiative. The two no longer read from the same script in the running of government affairs. Uhuru, who has edged Ruto out of the government in what is seen as a move to cut DP’s influence in government circles, has chosen to concentrate on legacy projects and BBI-driven constitutional amendment. On the other hand, Ruto, who is opposed to the push to amend the Constitution in the wake of an economic meltdown caused by the effects of Covid-19, is crafting his 2022 game plan. During the prayers, Uhuru urged Kenyans to unite for a prosperous country, while Ruto called for national dialogue to end political antagonism pitting proponents of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) and his Tangatanga camp. The push to amend the 2010 Constitution has split the country into two rival camps, with Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga leading the BBI proponents, while DP Ruto and his allies are on the opposing side. Burundi President Everiste Ndayishimiye is among the State guests invited for the celebrations. Ndayishimiye who landed in Kisumu on Monday graced the occasion as the chief guest. Other dignitaries present include National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Senate Speaker Ken Lusaka and Chief Justice Martha Koome. Other leaders include ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o, Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti. Senators James Orengo (Siaya) and Gideon Moi (Baringo) also are at the stadium for the celebrations. Kenya Defense Forces Chief of Staff Lt General Robert Kibochi among other top military officers are also present.