The Nairobi Metropolitan Service is set to conduct a third test run at Green Park Terminus which is set to accommodate PSVs from different routes. It will run from 6am to 8am on Wednesday. Matatus plying Langata,  Ngong, Rongai, Kibra , Kawagware, Kikuyu, Highrise, Ngumo, Kiserian, Otiende, Madaraka and Nairobi West routes will be involved in the test run. All PSVs operating from Moi Avenue service lane, outside Development, AGHRO and Gill house, Hataki stage, Ambassador, Mfangano street, Kencom and the Railways station bus terminus will also be involved in the exercise. The two-hour test run will involve drop-off and pick-up of passengers. NMS director general Mohammed Badi said the morning test run will help engineers implement decongesting strategies of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan. NMS has directed Machakos and Kitengela matatus operating from the Railway station bus terminus to use Lusaka road from Nyayo Stadium roundabout to Hakati bus terminus where Langata and Nairobi West vehicles operate. After the test run, the matatus will resume operations from the Nairobi Railway station frontage until further notice. Badi said that the process was entering the transition phase of commissioning the terminus and all stakeholders will assess their preparedness for commissioning. The Green Park Terminus, former Lunar Park, will be the drop-off and pick-up points for matatus plying Ngong and Lang’ata routes once the decongestion plan is fully implemented. One strategy of the plan is to construct public service transport terminals. The third test run notice has been issued a week earlier due to complaints of short notice by pedestrians. City residents had accused NMS of poor communication and being ambushed as they were not aware of the previous two test runs. Most commuters appeared confused and disoriented. While some commuters said they were not aware of the test run. The first test run conducted on April 27, was filled with confusion and public  frustrations. The aim was to observe how the matatus will drop-off commuters at the terminal. The second one took place on May 28, it tested improvements made on the drop-off and pick up of commuters. NMS was put to task to establish ways in which the Green Park Terminus will accommodate all matatus plying Ngong route. The Sh250 million Green Park Terminus is one of six termini NMS is setting up for Sh350 million in a plan to decongest the CBD. It is the biggest drop-off and pick-up point for matatus on the Ngong' and Lang’ata routes. NMS transport director Engineer Michael Ochieng' said the test run will be carried out in four phases including drop-off, use of the electronic app systems, pick-up and enforcement. “Testing is a signal the park is operating and as NMS we want to ensure it is safe, works well and addresses the concerns of the matatu operators as well as commuters,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)