Transportation platform, Bolt, has introduced electric tuk tuks, and e-bicycles on its platform as the company expands its greener transport options in Kenya in the food category. The initiative serves toward eliminating the challenges associated with constant fluctuating fuel prices which currently form the most significant operating cost for drivers and couriers. These Electric, bicycles and tuk tuks will currently be used by Bolt Food couriers only as the company plans to  include them into the ride-hailing business as well. The food delivery segment has been lucrative in Kenya due to the Covid-19 situation, the high fuel prices however have seen couriers shying away from it as the pay is less in consideration with distance covered. The electric bikes and tuktuks will therefore reduce the cost of shipment The inititaive is also geared towards reducing Bolt’s environmental footprints, at the same time fulfilling the demand for light, smart and green modes of transport. “This is a great step towards realizing environmentally conscious ways for people to move around in the city, reduce our ecological footprint, decrease air pollution and increase access to clean transportation modes,” said Hillary Miller-Wise, Regional Director, Bolt Africa. Bolt tapped into Food delivery business in March 2021 during the rise of the third wave of the Covid–19 pandemic and has since witnessed a great reception and tremendous growth within Nairobi. The new e-bikes and e-tuk tuks will also expand options for Bolt delivery business thereby creating more economic opportunities for couriers and providing Bolt’s customers with more options to choose from. The company offers the widest array of ride-hailing options at the most affordable prices in the market and continues to have steady growth in operations driven by the demand for its quality services. Bolt was also the first to launch electric bike-sharing service in Europe, becoming the first on-demand transportation platform to have electric bikes, scooters, and ride-hailing under a single brand in one app. Kenya becomes the first African market where Bolt has introduced electric bikes, electric tuk tuks and e-bicycles with plans to launch similar services in other African markets.