The electoral commission has unveiled three documents or tools that will guide its operations as it prepares for next year’s elections and boundary review. They are the strategic plan, the election operations plan and the boundaries operations plan. These are very important tools. For the strategic plan, it gives the plan for the commission — what it intends to achieve — for the next three years (2021-22, 2022-23 and 2023-24). The election operations plan actually sets timeframe for preparations for elections up to August 2022, when the elections will be held. That is, it gives the road map of activities, including the statutory timelines towards the general election. And this time, the commission also has a boundaries review to carry out. So it also unveiled the boundaries operations plan towards that end. The EOP (election operations plan) gives a roadmap towards the elections. They are working documents. We must remember that anything could happen between now and the next elections — a law could change, something could happen which would compel the commission to change something. So these are living documents that can be reviewed depending on circumstances. However, they take into account statutory timelines within which certain activities that are stipulated in the Constitution and the Acts are supposed to be carried out. So, these are documents that are subject to review depending on what is at hand at that time. They help the commission to prepare. Right now, what we heard chairman Wafula Chebukati say is that at least for preparing for the next general election, the first chunk of the budget will be released by the National Treasury. The funds will enable the commission to prepare by putting in place necessary materials and prepare for its activities. The activities are supposed to be carried out following the electoral calendar and as per the Constitution and the relevant laws that guide the elections in the country.  The former IEBC vice chairperson spoke to the Star on phone