The government has upscaled contact tracing and testing in the country to determine the level of spread of the Indian variant in the community. The first case of the Indian variant was detected in the country on May 5 with data from the World Health Organisation showing the variant has now spread to at least 50 countries. The Health Ministry now says increased testing and genomic sequencing of a significant number of people will help determine the extent of spread, and inform whether tougher measures can be taken especially in the Lake region where the first five cases were reported. However, the ongoing genomic surveillance has revealed early and established community transmission, of both UK and Indian variants of concern in Kisumu, Mombasa and Kilifi. At least 20 cases of the Indian variant have been recorded in the country to date. “The belief is that the actual Indian variant that we have noticed in the country actually came with some Indians at some point but that was before the travel limitations that we have already put in place,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. “We are discussing and we will continue to discuss measures depending on the evidence we get in terms of the seriousness and number of cases that continue to go into hospitals.” The greatest fear is the Madaraka Day celebrations held in Kisumu on Tuesday could fuel the spread of the virus in the region and the country in general with experts warning the country could experience a possible fourth wave in June. Kisumu has been alternating with Nairobi in the top spot in recording new Covid-19 infections for the last two weeks. Even with the promise by the government that the day will be marked in strict adherence to the virus containment measures, that was not the case. Similarly, experts have already expressed concern that the strain in the country might be mysterious as it has shown to have characteristics of both the Indian (B.1.617) and the UK (B.1.1.7) variants. The variant is still being investigated to determine its genetic composition with the results expected in a month. “This new variant still needs further characterization and therefore our scientists are still sequencing to find out whether it truly falls under the variants concern,” Director public health Francis Kuria said. “We always take measures per the evidence that we have. Currently, it is something we are studying. We only did the sequencing on May 17, we have to carry on more tests and more sequencing to see whether it was isolated cases or whether it is a serious spread.” Researchers from the International Livestock Research Institute who have been conducting the sequencing for the ministry have already detected three of the variants of concern in the country. Only the Brazilian variant has not yet been detected in Kenya. The CS has however emphasized that behaviour change, masking and keeping social distance are the greatest weapons that can be used in fighting the disease. He said the government can impose lockdowns but at the end of the day cannot police every person. “When you are dealing with an imported case that you can be able to isolate and deal with, when you are dealing with community spread that is the people who have no history of travel it means that the variant is in the community and we have to deal with it,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris