Eleven-year-old Priscilla Naserian was walking from her grandparents' to her mother's home on April 14 when she disappeared. It was only a kilometre and she took a shortcut through a thicket. On Tuesday her skeleton, a bashed skull and clothing was found  a half kilometre from home and half a kilometre from her grandmother's house. It was discovered by her uncle, James Kake, who stumbled on her basket while he was harvesting honey in Maili Saba, Kajiado Central subcounty on Tuesday. The Grade 4 pupil at Engaboli Primary School was reported missing while on her way to her parents’ home in Maili Tisa. She had left her grandmother’s home at Ole Maa village near Namanga/Tanzania border. Kajiado Central subcounty police commander Daudi Loronyokwe called on the residents to remain calm as police investigated the cause of death. Police, family and friends even searched in Tanzania. The Maasai community blamed the murder on non-residents who, they claim, fled their villages after committing the crime. There was no proof. They said she was probably raped before she was murdered. “We have today found the skeleton of a child who lost in April. We struggled everywhere, including going outside the country to search for her in vain. We later gave up and returned to our homes, hopeless,” Samson Ole Mwanana told reporters at the scene where the skeleton was found. Ole Mwanana continued, “Yesterday evening, the deceased’s uncle came to this tree to harvest honey. By good luck he stumbled on a basket which the child was carrying. "It contained milk, Maasai cloth and other items given by her granny for her parents." This morning people gathered at the scene and searched the thicket, he said. "We found her skull without part of the face," Mwanana said. "Then we found her panties and her dress, plus more bones and teeth." Police collected the skeleton. Residents said it was rare for mysterious murders to happen in their formerly safe and peaceful village. The residents said they suspected someone was living in the thicket where there is a shortcut connecting the grandmother’s home to her parents' house. She might have been using the route when she was attacked and murdered, they said. “We suspect a person living around here lured her. It must have been a stranger, it's against our Maasai culture," Dickson Ogilisa said. Residents in Kajiado have been complaining about surging cases of insecurity. Several people have disappeared from their homes, only for their bodies to be found later. Eight-year-old Shantel Nzembi’s body was recently found dumped in a trench in Kitengela town after she went missing for 48 hours. Four people have been arraigned at Kajiado law courts in connection to the death. She was buried on June 12. (Edited by V. Graham) 