A man was burnt to death, another was slashed and robbed and yet another was stabbed to death with a screwdriver, a nurse was found dead in her house. A four-year-old girl was rescued from FGM. These are just a few of the crime cases spiralling out of control in Embu county. Security heads and church leaders have requested residents to take full responsibility and join the police and administration in restoring law and order. On June 10, at 2am, Barnabas Njama was attacked and injured by robbers in his home in Kandete village, Karurumo, in Embu East. They slashed him and stole Sh50,000. Other cases include a lynching in Makengi in Embu West subcounty where a theft suspect was burnt to death by a mob, subcounty commissioner Abukarr Mohamed Noor said. Another man was stabbed to death by another man during a fight and a screwdriver was driven into his head. The victim was recently released from prison. The suspect was rescued from a lynch mob by police. He is hospitalised. “I highly plead with residents not to take such matters to their own hands and instead inform the police to arrest suspects immediately and take lawful action under the Constitution. And then there's FGM. On Thursday last week  a 10-year-old girl was rescued from FGM and three women were arrested. The girl was rescued by assistant chiefs who were informed by residents. Chiefs recovered scissors, a razor blade, disinfectant and fodder. “I warn the parents who intend to perform the act on their children that you will face a tough action from the government since that is against the law," Jeremiah Tumo, Embu North subcounty commissioner, said.  On the same day, the people of Kithimu found 38-year-old nurse Wawira Nyaga, dead in her house. She worked at Kithimu Centre. The cause of death was not immediately established. Bishop Eric Ngwere of Blessed Kingsway Assembly Githurai has urged residents to ensure they maintain a good relationship with the administration so that security of people and their property is secured. “If we leave everything for the police to handle, we will be missing a point. We need to take part in ensuring our areas are secure from all malice," he said. "We are facing a battle and we all can take part in eradicating crime. Let's fight for everyone' rights, from children to adults." "We have cases where rapists and other wrongdoers cooperate with residents to hide criminal acts. We must avoid this to make Embu peaceful," the bishop said. (Edited by V. Graham) 