A man accused of killing his employer’s nine-year-old son by strangling him and dumping his body in a dam in Makueni has been found guilty of murder. Wambua Musyoka, alias Kioko, was charged with murder of the minor whom he strangled when they went to look for a lost sheep on November 26, 2016, in Mtito Andei. In a judgment delivered on June 11 by Justice Hedwig Ong’undi, she ruled that from the evidence on record it was clear that the accused was the last person to be seen with the boy alive. The judge noted that in cross-examination he said he left the boy well. He did not explain where he was with the boy when he left him well and when. “From the circumstances and the evidence tendered it is clear the accused by inviting the deceased and not his elder brother to accompany him knew what he was up to. The boy was strangled on the neck and suffocated. His body was found floating in the dam,” the judge said. She added that the strangling clearly indicated that the accused knew what he was doing and what the end result would be. It was not an accident. “I find malice aforethought established as per the provisions of section 206 (b) of the Penal Code. I, accordingly, find the charge of murder proved beyond reasonable doubt and the accused is hereby convicted of the same,” the judge ruled. It was the prosecution’s case that the grandmother to the deceased had been asked by her husband Samuel Mutinda to ask their grandchildren, JM and the deceased, to take the cattle to graze . She and Mutinda then proceeded to check on their building. Kioko, their workman, arrived at 10am and asked for work but they told him to go and rest as the tractor which he used to work with was not broken down. She then saw JM taking the cattle to the river and upon asking him where his brother was, he said that the accused had taken him to go and look for sheep. When the sister to JM and the deceased arrived to ask what she would cook, she told her grandmother that the boy not returned. By 7pm, he had not returned and they started calling on their neighbours to make inquiries. Mutinda reported to the chief the next day and announcements were made. That was on November 29, 2016. The body was retrieved from a dam and taken to the mortuary. A neighbour told them that he had seen the boy and the accused at a water selling point near the dam. The accused had been with the family for about eight months. JM, aged 17, testified that he recalled that his grandfather asked him and the deceased to take the cattle for grazing at the school and while there, the accused arrived and asked the deceased to accompany him to look for the sheep. They left between 10am and 11 am and never returned. A Form 2 student testified that on the fateful day at 5pm, he was fetching water at Maanya’s when he saw the deceased and their workman Kioko. He asked the boy what they were doing there and he replied that they were looking for sheep. The next day, he heard that the deceased was missing and he told his grandmother that he had seen him and the accused on November 26, 2016. He later heard that the deceased had been thrown into the dam at Mtito Andei. Dr Esther Musyoki who conducted a postmortem found that the boy’s body had decomposed, his eyes and tongue were popping out and had strangulation marks on the neck. She concluded that there was strangulation because of the popping eyes, popping tongue and neck marks. In his defence, Kioko testified that he worked as a casual. He said that his services had been terminated on November 20, 2016, and his employer told him that he had no money to pay him, and he should look for work elsewhere.