Anxiety is already in the air with myriad pre-event activities serving up great moments ahead of the  World Rally Championship Safari Rally. The arrival of teams' equipment at the Mombasa port and the anticipated opening of the Service Park on Friday, June 11, were some of the events expected to kickstart preparations. Service Park manager Anthony Gatei is perhaps one of the busiest officials at the moment. Gatei, who has camped in Naivasha for the past few months, is overly enthusiastic about a series of upcoming events at KWS Training Institute, which is the designated area for the Service Park. “The service Park will open on June 11 for everyone who is desirous to set up early. Local teams can also come and do the same. Mind you, for the locals, coming early will mean an extra expense, which is unnecessary. The reason it shall open early is that the PI, P2 and P3 drivers have to set up their compounds and workshops in really good time,” observed Gatei. “Literally, it is because foreigners need to know the geographical locations ahead of the rally. You see, they have not competed in Africa before and these are some of the challenges they are bound to face. The Service Park at KWS Institute is the biggest ever in the history of WRC and as such, it will be quite exciting how things shall be before the action proper.” Administrative checks will begin on June 21 in Naivasha, while reconnaissance will start later that day at 11am. Reconnaissance will continue until Wednesday lunchtime. The event is anticipated to roar to life during the June 23 shakedown, which will give spectators the first glimpse of a full-speed test before start. Here drivers have an opportunity to feel the surface and the character of the stage. The competing drivers then have a chance to adjust the cars for maximum performance according to current situations within Ndulele Conservancy. The Safari Rally was supposed to make a comeback to the FIA WRC in July 2020 but was deferred to this month following the global outbreak of Covid-19. The epic and eagerly-awaited WRC event will revolve around lakes Naivasha and Elementaita within the famous Great Rift ecosystem from June 24-27. The event will feature the three WRC manufacturer teams, namely Toyota Gazoo Racing, M-Sport Ford and Hyundai Motorsport WRT. KCB Bank Kenya is the official financial partner after doling out Sh100 million towards the event. Toyota Kenya is also in the groove with a sponsorship package of Sh30 million, while the Kenyan government remains the main sponsor. The 2021 event is expected to pump Sh6 billion into the Kenyan economy through hotel occupancy by foreign teams and spectators, the transport industry and direct purchase of local products like fuel and foodstuffs. What's more, the country's tourism industry is set to benefit immensely from WRC's cumulative global TV audience, which comprises more than 800 million viewers who include on-site spectators, online video views through social media platforms like Twitter, Instagram, Facebook and YouTube. Over the first seven years, the WRC has enjoyed a sound growth trend in popularity from fans. With new TV technology, the WRC is growing its broadcast hours and TV audience year on year.