 Human rights activists and government agencies in Kwale have raised the alarm over increasing cases of teen pregnancy and gender-based violence in the region. Authorities say seven cases of girls getting pregnant are reported every month. County gender-based violence officer Nelly Amoite said the cases have become rampant despite numerous campaigns against the vice. “If we go through the gender desks at the police stations, you will realise child pregnancy is still a problem," she said. She spoke at Neptune Hotel in Diani during an equality forum. Rape and domestic violence were also cited. Kinango and Lunga-Lunga subcounties have the highest number of cases. Amoite said cases that go unreported could even be more than those recorded. Most of the incidents happen in remote areas where most people opt to resolve matters out of court. Some local administrators were accused of aiding culprits to evade justice. Amoite said administrators who encourage out-of-court settlement of such cases were derailing the fight against the vices. "Many are taken to chiefs and the issues are resolved locally through kangaroo courts, hence encouraging the immorality,” Amoite said. Last year, Kwale recorded 2,821 cases of teen pregnancy. Amoite said the fight against the evil is far from over. She said the national government has embarked on a multi-sector approach to combat child abuse. "We are bringing in youth, activists, non-governmental organisations and the rest to deal with this issue collectively," Amoite said. Some 10 cases of teen pregnancy were recently reported in Matuga. Human rights activist Wakili Mwatondo said the cases were rising. “We address at least two cases in the region daily,” Mwatondo said. Another activist Sabina Saiti said poverty was pushing more girls into sexual exploitation. With job losses due to the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic, parents were offering their daughters for sex with men who pay. "Most victims depend on the same people who exploit them. So they prefer less action against the perpetrators for fear fearing to lose their favours," Saiti said.  Edited by P.O