At least 10 Kenya Defence Forces soldiers died on Thursday morning in a helicopter crash in Ol Tepesi, Kajiado county. The soldiers were on a training mission when their Mi-171e chopper crashed  minutes after take-off from the Moi Airbase Eastleigh in Nairobi. The chopper had taken off at 8.10am and crashed about 9am in Eremet area. There were 23 soldiers on board. The soldiers were to be dropped off in Magadi for a 24-kilometre walk. Officials said 13 of those on board were saved after they jumped out as the chopper circled the area. Three of them suffered serious injuries. The survivors were admitted to Forces Memorial Hospital with multiple injuries. It is not yet clear what caused the accident. Witnesses who spoke to the Star claimed the chopper circled the area for several minutes with its nose facing down before crashing and bursting into flames. It was when it was circling with its nose facing down that some soldiers jumped out, some sustaining injuries upon landing. Those who had jumped attempted to rescue their colleagues. Witnesses said the chopper dropped like a stone and burst into flames. A statement released by the KDF said the chopper crashed while on a training mission in Ol Tepesi, Ngong. “Regrettably, following the crash, we suffered fatalities. The process of communicating with the families to relay the information and KDF condolences are underway,” spokesperson Col Zipporah Kioko said. She said experts were investigating the incident. Kenya Air Force commander Major General Francis Ogolla asked Kenyans to be patient as investigations into exactly what transpired continue. Videos captured by residents showed the chopper burning. Area deputy county commission Morekwa Morang'a confirmed 10 soldiers had perished in the accident. “At least 10 died and 13 were rescued," the DCC said. Defence Cabinet Secretary Monica Juma commended the rescue mission and wished those injured quick recovery. “I commend our forces for their swift response to the unfortunate accident today [Thursday], wish them every luck in the rescue mission and quick recovery to all those injured officers,” she said in a tweet. The chopper had dropped the first group for the training mission and was meant to drop the second lot when the accident happened. Trainees usually drop off using a rope as part of the training. The chopper involved is an advanced, multi-purpose helicopter produced by Ulan-Ude Aviation Plant, a part of Russian Helicopters. The Mi-171E helicopters can be deployed in search-and-rescue (SAR) missions, disaster response, forest firefighting and medical assistance in the field. The helicopter is designed to fly in adverse weather conditions and is also equipped for special operations during nighttime. The redundant flight controls and onboard equipment make the helicopter highly-effective during missions in mountainous regions and in hot climates. The cabin offers an internal volume and integrates an optimal seating layout for carrying up to 26 passengers. It can also be configured to accommodate up to 12 wounded personnel on stretchers attended by medical personnel. The cargo variant can transport up to four tonnes of cargo inside the cabin or on an external sling. This is the latest incident involving a military plane. In August 2020, a double engine aircraft crash-landed in southern Somalia, injuring 10 soldiers who were on board. In July 2020, two soldiers were killed when a military chopper on a training mission crashed in Masinga, Machakos county. The US-made light attack helicopter gunship MD 530F crashed at about 10am. MD 530F planes were part of the $253 million (Sh25.5 billion) arms deal that Nairobi signed with Washington, and which got the United States Congress approval in May 2017. In January 2021, Harbin Y-12 belonging to KDF crashed in Voi, Taita Taveta, killing four people on board. The plane was headed for Voi on an official mission. The military has been spending billions of shillings in modernising its equipment, including planes and choppers. In December 2020, President Uhuru Kenyatta presided over the official handover to the military the management of government civilian-owned planes in the country. He later launched the National Air Support Department (NASD) at Wilson Airport in Nairobi county. NASD is a multi-agency unit created to consolidate and ensure efficient utilisation of national aviation assets. It will see all planes owned by the Kenya Police, Kenya Wildlife Service, Kenya Forest Service, Kenya Power, Kenya Pipeline, Ketraco, among others, transferred and managed by personnel from the Kenya Air Force. Although officials said the move is aimed at only managing procurement and maintenance aspects of the planes, insiders said a military brigadier is in charge of the new outfit based at Wilson Airport, Nairobi, under the multi-agency arrangement. Brig Chrispin Odhiambo of the Kenya Air Force, formerly of the National Defence College, is the new commandant of the outfit. Edited by A.N