Nominated MP David Sankok has dared critics of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to table a motion on his impeachment. This comes amid talk of a plot to remove Muturi whose recent installation as Mt Kenya spokesman unsettled a number of politicians from Central. The legislator said on Wednesday afternoon before the House that the speaker has led them with fairness and firmness, and that such a leader should not be impeached. “And I want to dare them to try and bring such a motion into this House. Because I don't know if it is the deep state or whoever who wants to bring that motion. But they will know that they don't know,” Sankok said. Sankok added that Muturi has been a reliable resource in the Parliament where legislators seek guidance on the Constitution. “You are a constitutional mobile encyclopedia in this House. Speaker, your grasp on legal matters will disarm your enemies and friends alike.” He added that he has been keen on the House procedures recently trying to see any motion regarding the impeachment, which he said has not been brought to the House. Sankok said that in Muturi’s era, they have been able to witness transformations to the House, including the digitisation, translation of the House Standing Orders into Swahili, and training of members who have no legal background at zero cost among others. “Opening the Parliament to the media and the public…you are a non-partisan. You do not practice politics in and outside this House.” He added that,“Let them not blackmail you like the way they have been blackmailing other people. You are a mobile corruption-free zone. Whether it is the deep state, shallow state or the system, let them dare and bring.” On Sunday, Muturi appeared unmoved and fired at his critics, daring them to bring it on. He said he would be the first to sign the censure motion. Speaking in Embu, Muturi even welcomed the plot, saying he is unshaken. "Let them bring the motion and I will be the first to sign. That is a very minor thing, it cannot shake me. Whoever thinks he can approach the threshold, let him try," the Speaker said.