Federation of International Automobile president Jean Todt is happy with the standards of the organization for the ongoing WRC Safari Rally. In an interview in Naivasha, Todt said he was happy with what Kenya has achieved under the able leadership of President Uhuru Kenyatta. “ I am very happy and proud of what the Kenyan government has achieved in bringing back Safari under the WRC format,” he said. He said even more satisfying was the fact that the event is able to operate under the modern World Rally Championships regulations. “The fact that this event is operating under the modern times and keeping the flavour of Safari is a good thing. He said he was happy that the event came to fruition after he inaugurated the service park back last November. “The other day I went to the special points and I am happy we have taken off,” he noted. He, however, said he hopes the Covid-19 pandemic will clear so that things can go back to normal. “I’m happy to see fans around the streets cheering the Safari because there are none in the other parts of the world during such a sporting event,’ he added. He thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for remaining true to his promise of bringing back the Safari Rally. He also paid tribute to the Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed and Kenya Motorsport Federation (KMSF) boss Phineas Kimathi for the commitment they have shown in ensuring the country’s dream comes to pass. He, however, said that to sustain the event, the same commitment from the leaders must continue. “Nothing happens by default. To bring the rally here, it has taken strong commitment and leadership from President Kenyatta, CS Amina Mohamed, and Kimathi,” he said. Todt said that he was happy that Safari Rally comes with an initiative on road safety with the launch of locals helmet. He said Safari comes with social responsibility hence the launch of the locals' helmet. “We can not forget that every year there are people who get injured or die in road accidents and most of them are between 25 to 29. Most of them are pedestrians or bikers hence the reason for our support, “ he noted.