There were mixed reactions from members of the public after Treasury CS Ukur Yatani read the 2021-22 budget. Depending on how the allocations set and taxes introduced in the Finance Bill 2021 affect them, Kenyans had varied reactions. The winners, who include parents with small babies and those with candidates, were elated with Yatani's speech. In the 2021-22 budget, the CS announced duty free importation of inputs for manufacture of baby diapers for a further one year, meaning the cost of diaper would not increase. The CS said baby diapers were essential products therefore there was need to supply them at affordable prices. As for candidates, the CS allocated a Sh4.0 billion fee waiver for examinations for all Standard 8 and Form 4 candidates. Youth also received a huge allocation of Sh4 billion in the Kazi Mtaani programme. “I am happy with the extension of duty free on diapers, as an increase in their cost would have affected my budget bearing in mind the financial constraints occasioned by Covid-19 pandemic,” Susan Muthobi, a mother of one, said. Eric Kimani, an IT consultant said the waiver for exam fees would reduce the cost burden for parents who have candidates. On the Kazi Mtaani programme allocation, Kimani said the government was doing a good job in helping youth get skills which can in turn get them employed. Those involved in betting and those who use nicotine pouches were among those targeted by the Treasury with increased taxes. Yatani announced that the Treasury has reintroduced excise duty on betting at the rate of 20 per cent of the amount wagered, he also increased an excise duty on products containing nicotine or nicotine substitutes at a specific rate of Sh5.0 per gram. In the Finance Act 2020, the CS removed excise duty on betting, he noted that the removal generated a lot of public debate on the negative social effects of betting thus reintroduced it. “So they have decided to reintroduce the taxes on betting, ni sawa tu (it's okay), we will still continue betting,” said one Wanyama, a security guard in Westlands. Angela Muthoni, a university student said she didn't understand the taxes on the nicotine pouches as they have been banned from the Kenyan market. Overall, there are some Kenyans who felt that the Sh3.6 trillion budget was underwhelming. “Nothing for Wanjiku or business, why are things like the Nairobi Metropolitan Service getting Sh27.2 billion yet people are suffering,” said Nahashon Kimemia. Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga was also not amused. “No wonder Kenyans wanasema amalize aende (he finishes and goes), the 2021-22 budget has taken Kenya to the ICU,” she tweeted. -Edited by SKanyara 