The recent surge in environmental-related protests, together with worsening environmental degradation has created an opportunity for drastic change to environmental governance across the world. At every level of society, we have natural resource disputes that arise from the use, exploitation, and exploration of natural resources such as water, forests, pasture, minerals, and land. Studies show scarcity of agricultural land, forests, fresh water and fish contribute to the most conflicts. Globally, we have numerous treaties that guide the resolution of environmental issues. Some of these treaties include The Hague Conventions establishing the Permanent Court of Arbitration, the International Court of Justice Statute, the UN Convention for the Law of the Sea, Investment Treaties and the Investor-State Dispute Settlement, Energy Charter Treaty and the North American Free Trade Agreement. Despite this, there exists a gap in the law and legal framework governing these disputes. Hence, it is for this reason that most countries across the world are adopting public interest litigation and alternative dispute resolution as important dispute resolution techniques to help resolve environmental disputes. Moreover, these mechanisms provide key avenues for access to environmental justice and democracy. Over the years, Kenya has seen its share of environmental conflicts. There has been dispute over natural resources such as water, forests, minerals, and land, among others. For instance, we have the Mau Forest, which has been a source of livelihood for most people not only in Kenya, but also in the larger Eastern Africa. It has been a major source of environmental conflict for quite an extended period. Mau Forest is the source of water in the Mara region that feeds the many lakes in the central region, including Lake Victoria. On its own, the Mau Forest supports an entire ecosystem and a major part of the economy of the country. However, there has been massive deforestation and an acute shortage of water that has resulted in conflicts between the communities. Tension has also been on the rise due to debates raised by the government as to whether communities living around the Mau forest should vacate or not. Another major conflict in Kenya is the ongoing environmental issues in the Kenya–Tanzania maritime border. Due to its rich biodiversity in plant and animal life, including some of the Indian Ocean’s most diverse coral reefs, mangrove forests, seagrass beds, the area’s population is multiplying. Nearly 60 per cent of rural communities rely on marine and coastal resources for their livelihoods. Overfishing, illegal and destructive fishing and logging practices, unsustainable resource use patterns, pollution, increased sedimentations as a result of poor agricultural practices, and disturbance or clearance of mangroves are some of the environmental threats that have led to conflict between the two regions. The existing legal and institutional frameworks that are in place to deal with environmental conflicts have not offered much in stemming the prevalence of environmental conflicts. They are formal, inflexible, bureaucratic, and expensive to access. Consequently, the significance of PIL and ADR cannot be overstated thus considered effective tools for safeguarding sustainable development for the present and future generations. It is through PIL that most developing countries, including Kenya, have been able to use this strategy to bridge the gap on the environmental laws by informing on policy. PIL also provides an opportunity for individuals to bring an action on behalf of the community, a role the government may not play especially if there are no adequate resources to prosecute and investigate the environmental degradation cases. On the other hand, there are ADR methods that include mediation, conciliation, negotiation, and traditional/community-based dispute resolution mechanisms. This mechanism enhances access to environmental justice by all, especially the poor. It involves getting all the stakeholders involved, including communities, government agencies, national and county governments. They sit, negotiate, and agree on the best way to solve the environmental conflict. ADR also plays a crucial role in promoting the right to a clean and healthy environment as enshrined in Article 42 of the Constitution. It also ensures maximum sustainable utilisation of resources such as forests and enhances the reduction of pollution of natural resources. In addition, through afforestation and management of forests, it is possible to achieve the 10 per cent tree cover. The National Environment Complaints Committee has been at the forefront in resolving environmental conflicts in Kenya. Through the powers bestowed upon them by the Environmental Management and Coordination Act, the institution is mandated to investigate any environmental complaint made against any person, public or private institutions as well as any other body that may be degrading the environment through its/their activities. In addition, NECC also provides an economical and participatory avenue for addressing environmental degradation matters and places great emphasis on public awareness creation and voluntary conduct in environmental conservation. In conclusion, in an economy such as Kenya, the costs of monitoring all sites of potential pollution and degradation would be enormous. Therefore, through PIL the country can mobilise civil society, which can capture and transmit local information to introduce specific sites and problems selectively, into law enforcement routines and policy debates. Looking ahead, it will be important to assess what kinds of environmental problems that PIL can and cannot address and, whether there is need for ADR. Kenyans need to be involved more in environmental decision-making since the principle of environmental democracy involves public participation in environmental matters, access to information and access to justice. It is also necessary to promote public education and create awareness on environmental conservation to avoid future conflicts as well as accentuate the need to have ADR technique as an important environmental conflict resolution mechanism. Lastly, there is a need to strengthen the existing legal and institutional framework for the resolution of environmental conflicts. Institutions such as Nema and the National Environmental Complaints Committee can play a vital role in the management of environmental conflicts in Kenya. Such institutions need financial, resource support, and proper management to enable them to function effectively. Dr. John Chumo is the committee secretary, National Environmental Complaints Committee Kipkorirchumo@gmail.com 