Taxpayers will continue to foot rent for Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya who has yet to move to his substandard Sh66.6 million official residence. A new audit report has revealed that despite the house gobbling the millions, the building is still incomplete, making the governor to keep off it. The 2018-19 report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu shows this was despite the contract being varied and the completion period extended by two years to ostensibly allow for proper work. The project was initially awarded to a contractor in March 2017 for a period of 48 months from June 2017. However, it was varied several times and implementation period set at 166 weeks to August 2019, without a proper explanation for the changes. “Had the project been completed on time, the county executive would have saved Sh6.8 million incurred on housing the governor during the duration of the delay,” the report read in part. As of September 2019, the building had yet to be connected to a water supply system and there was no indication of any plans to do so. In addition, important security features, including a sentry house, were not included in the design and were therefore not constructed. The residence lacks a car park and staff quarters, while the main gate and the perimeter wall had no light as these were reportedly not been included in the original plan or the bill of quantities. The kitchen lacked important fittings, including a sink. “As at the time of the audit in August 2019, the house had, in spite of its completion, yet to be occupied and the county government was, therefore, still paying rent for the governor’s residence,” the report says. And in what could further expose public money to risk of loss, the report shows the building was constructed on land owned by the Kenya Forest Service and, therefore, the county lacked ownership documents. The parcel was part of the Mutuma Forest Block measuring 1, 577.86 hectares set for de-gazettement to enable the national government to settle informal settlers under Mutuma Central Settlement Scheme. “In addition, the expected time for de-gazettement of the land and its allocation to the county government was not known to management,” it reads. The report revealed several anomalies and irregularities in Governor Oparanya’s administration that point to plunder of public resources. The county cannot account for several expenditures amounting to millions of shillings in the Kakamega county government. For instance, the county cannot explain the expenditure of Sh103.82 million that was spent on county youth service and empowerment programme. According to records provided by the county, some Sh185.94 million was reported to have been spent under youth, development and labour sector on the programme. However, records at the Ministry of Infrastructure where the budget was assigned reflects expenditure totalling Sh217.29 million resulting in an unexplained difference of Sh31.35 million. In addition, the expenditure schedules at the Ministry of Social Services, Youth and Sports, which manages the programme, reflected expenditure of Sh144.79 million under the item. This resulted is an unexplained difference of Sh72.49 million. Gathungu also questioned the purchase of 57 parcels of land by the county valued at Sh45.24 million in the last seven years. There were no title deeds to confirm that the county acquired the parcels. Oparanya’s administration has also accumulated pending bills amounting to Sh267.17 million and did not give reasons for not clearing the bills. The auditor also flagged irregular variations of project contracts contrary to the law. Gathungu cited the construction of Khayega Modern Market whose contract cost was varied from Sh59.03 million. But the county irregularly revised the contract and pushed up the cost by Sh8.21 million, an amount paid in full to the contractor. Several projects initiated by the county government have also stalled. They include construction of houses for staff at Kakamega County Referral Hospital for Sh108.51 million and construction of Mumias West Hospital at a cost of Sh191.11 million. Other are construction of Sh8.65 million 24-bed ward at Lumakanda, Bukura market at a cost of Sh59.05 million, irregular variation and delayed completion of Malinya modern market works at a cost of Sh36.57 million. Edited by Henry Makori