DCI detectives on Sunday morning arrested two main suspects behind the kidnapping and torture of Hafsa Mohamed Lukman. Undercover teams from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau, backed up by their Special Service Unit counterparts, picked Jackson Njogu, 24 and Hafsa Abdi, 21, as they slept at Crystal view lodge in the Kinangop area. The two lovers are believed to be the masterminds behind the kidnapping of Hafsa from her shop and managed to siphon a total of Sh650,000 from the victim’s bank accounts while she was in captivity. DCI said they then escaped to Kinangop and purchased a bar, which they were operating. The Kamukunji based businesswoman was kidnapped on June 15 and was rescued last week. She was found abandoned and locked in a house in Matopeni area, Kayole by detectives. She was alone in the house when police arrived there long after her captors had left the area. The two kidnappers had demanded a ransom of Sh5 million in order to set Hafsa free. However, when the ransom wasn’t delivered, they opted to flee from our detectives who were closing in on them. "This morning was not their lucky day though. They were smoked out of room number 8 at Crystal view lodge, where they had imagined that our hawk-eyed detectives would never find them," the DCI said in a statement Sunday. The DCI reiterated they shall spare no efforts in ensuring that every kidnapper who takes hostage innocent victims leaving their families in anguish, is arrested and made to account for their actions. Police and the family said no ransom was paid. Her abductors are said to have lured her with a business deal to supply watermelons, and then demanded a Sh5 million ransom, a court was last week told. Hafsa, who went missing on June 15, was rescued from an abandoned house at Matopeni slums, Kayole, Nairobi, where she had been kept captive in a broken water tank. Police constable Mary Wandia, attached to Buruburu police station, told the court on Tuesday that a suspect, Syrus Ndung'u Njogu, called the victim on the phone. The captors had sent a video to the family showing Hafsa badly injured on her face and had her eyes covered by a piece of clothing. They sent at least three videos and messages to the family. She was heard saying the captors want money from the family as a ransom before releasing her.