Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said Kenya’s social media will not be shut down over hate speech. “However, we will be very ruthless when it comes to those who interfere with others' freedoms...we will not hesitate or be intimidated by pressures or complaints from anybody. We will protect Kenya,” he said. Speaking at the Bomas of Kenya during the launch of NCIC strategic plan on Wednesday, Matiang'i said the security sector will do its part to protect Kenya ahead of the elections. “…we will not do things like switching off internet, it will not happen here.. we will not harass people but because we are confident, we will act according to the law and call people to account,” he said. “To those who break the law, we will arrange a good meeting between you and the law. Any threats to the vision of Kenya should me met with the full force of law.. ” Matiang'i said the security agencies will do their part ahead of the elections. “I want to assure the country that we will do our part and role.. this country is a democracy. We are a democracy by choice and it was not imposed on us,” he said. “We will uphold individual and collective freedoms.. and freedom of speech..” Last month, the NCIC raised concerns about the increased cases of hate speech, incitement and political intolerance ahead of the 2022 General Elections. NCIC raised a red flag over the escalating ethnic violence in Marsabit, Turkana and West Pokot counties. Chairman  Samuel Kobia said that politicians have started beating drums of war by inciting their supporters in what he fears may spark violence. The chairman disclosed the commission has deployed a robust detection, reporting and investigation mechanism to nab hatemongers. In January, the cohesion commission unveiled a plan to curb hate speech and incitement ahead of the BBI referendum and 2022 election campaigns. The National Cohesion and Integration Commission released statistics indicating it has handled 434 hate cases since 2017. Some 185 of the total cases were reported in 2017 alone – the election year –  with 85 reported in 2018, 75 in 2019 and 86 last year.