Two key supporters of Deputy President William Ruto have said the coalition talks between the ruling Jubilee Party and the Orange Democratic Movement will flop. Soy MP Caleb Kositany and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said both parties are weak and cannot achieve their aim of stopping Ruto's march to State House. They challenged President Uhuru Kenyatta to name his preferred successor after the coalition so that they know who will challenge their candidate at the election next year. The two lawmakers said they have no problem with Jubilee entering into a coalition with ODM as the President’s party is a shell of its former self following the departure of Ruto allies for United Democratic Alliance. Kositany, who was sacked as Jubilee deputy secretary general, said the President should not interfere with Ruto's campaigns for the 2022 polls. “They have crippled Jubilee and the shell that is left is what they want to give to ODM which is also another party collapsing with time,” Kositany said in his Soy constituency. Cherargei and 32 MCAs from the North Rift, led by Gilbert Tenai of Uasin Gishu assembly, have expressed support for Kositany's remarks. Kositany said the removal of Ruto allies from Jubilee and from leadership positions in Parliament was part of a systematic plan to cut the DP's influence. “The mission failed because we have a God we serve. What we now want is for Uhuru to name his successor and go ahead to campaign for him,” Kositany said. The Ruto allies said they were ready to face off against anyone who would be supported by Uhuru during next year’s polls. At another function, Kositany said access to water remains a major challenge to communities in rural areas. Kositany said the government should work with non-governmental stakeholders to ensure all Kenyans have access to clean water. He spoke while commissioning a water project to benefit residents of Sinendet in Kipsombe location. The project is expected to benefit more than 3,000 people. It was funded by the Lion’s Club of Kansas in the United States for Sh2 million. Funding for the Sinendet Judy’s well project was coordinated by Michael Bergagnini and Simon Melly who come from the area and reside in Kansas. “We thank the donors for this project and hope to get support to have the water piped to homes in the area,” Kositany said.  (edited by o. owino)