Judicial officers in Bomet have raised concerns over worrying and rising cases of sexual offences, the majority of which involve children. More than 100 cases of sexual offences have been filed at the Bomet magistrate's court, with 95 per cent of them being defilement. Officials say cases of defilement and rape are increasing despite concerted efforts to eradicate the crimes. Bomet principal magistrate Lilian Kiniale said many people opt to have such cases settled out of court, thus denying the minors the justice they deserve. “There should be no plea bargaining or diversion on sexual offences. I know there is too much kipgaa here, but if we do this we shall be denying these children their constitutional rights… let us condemn this vice and instead act in the best interests of children,” Kiniale said. She spoke on Wednesday at Umoja children’s home in Bomet Central, where they marked the Day of the African Child. Kiniale urged parents and guardians of children affected to reports such cases to the relevant authorities, saying children are vulnerable and can easily be influenced to divert the course of justice. Law Society of Kenya chairman for Bomet branch Kadet Kiprono,  children’s services director Duncan Ngeno, probation officers and officials from I Chose Life International were present. Others were senior resident magistrate Kipkirui Kibelion. The group donated foodstuffs and clothing to the children. Kiprono said lawyers will continue providing free legal services to children. He called on parents to report cases of defilement so they are filed in court. “As lawyers, we offer free services to victims of such criminal cases and so we are asking parents not to shy away from moving to court and have the perpetrators face the law," Kiprono said. Ngeno called on the public and the community to be watchful for such cases, which he noted expose young children to vulnerability if "wrapped under the carpet". He urged stakeholders to support children's homes so beneficiaries can also live normal lives.  Edited by P.O