If you have worked long enough, you have probably experienced a micromanager. Once I reported to one, and it was exhausting, to say the least. Micromanagers want to control every business activity however small. It makes work feel like prison because you are not allowed to think or move without some annoying control. The art of micromanaging is stifling. In my view, micromanaging is a cruel art because it invades a person’s sense of dignity. It communicates to the employee that they are not trusted to express the competencies for which they were hired. It makes an employee to wonder: “Why did you hire me if you cannot trust me to do my work?” Overtime, it begins to chip away at your confidence, and if left unchecked, creates self-doubt even in the smartest professionals. In essence, this cruel management style attacks your sense of worth and peace. The author and business consultant, Marcus Buckingham said that: “People leave managers, not companies.” True words – although, some experts believe it is a myth, to this, I disagree. This is one of the main outcomes of micromanaging: people leave. The cost incurred by the organisation is not minimal or negligible–it is huge. Employee productivity decreases, trust is eroded and eventually, people get preoccupied with the thoughts and plots of leaving. Also, the financial cost of this cruel art on the business can be significant. Furthermore, micromanaging creates a toxic work environment. The boss’ need for absolute control diminishes the creative energy in the workplace and leaves employees struggling to fully engage with their work. Meanwhile, the blinding nature of this crazy art makes the manager blame the employees for poor performance and a vicious cycle is created that absolves the manager of any responsibility. Here, the combination of distrust and disrespect gives you an unhealthy workspace. Consequently, employee morale plummets and the bottom-line could dwindle. Micromanaging conveys disrespect for the professional’s skill and time. It is one reason why the employees who experience it often feel insulted, and therefore, unwilling to go above and beyond for the organisation. Overall, control works against the human design. Now, an alternative to micromanaging is inspiration, and it works better. Normally, when a boss inspires employees to give their best, there is no need for annoying supervision. Inspiration opens the door to leadership, creativity, learning and growth. Also, the inspiration approach helps leaders to achieve better and faster results. There is simply no excuse for nitpicking. Boss, you can do better. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com