More than 150 people have been arrested and charged in Kisumu for failing to wear face masks, keep social distance and other violations of Covid-19 rules. County police commander Samuel Anampiu said the arrests follow an intensified crackdown on those breaking the rules in the last two weeks. The arrests have been made in public service vehicles, bars and restaurants. A multi-agency team has been conducting swoops at bars and restaurants that have failed to comply with the 7pm closing time. Kisumu has in recent days been recording high numbers of new Covid-19 infections, with the Indian variant being reported in the county. “The violators failed to wear face masks and keep social distancing,” Anampiu said. “We are not relenting on the crackdown. Nobody will be spared. As citizens, we must all be responsible.” Anampiu said the multi-agency team has been sensitising the public on the importance of Covid-19 compliance in Kisumu Central, Seme, Nyakach, Kisumu East, Nyando, Muhoroni and Kisumu West subcounties. Some people still violate the protocols. “We have been educating residents to wear face masks, sanitise and keep social distance in the fight against the virus,” he said. In Kisumu Central, more than 60 Covid-19 rules violators were arrested and charged. They were each fined Sh2,000 or 30 days in prison. At a famous bar and restaurant in Kondele, the security team arrested 47 revellers who contravened Covid-19 protocols. One more person was arrested at another bar and restaurant. Licences for both bars' were confiscated. Another 19 defaulters were arrested by a multi-agency team comprising Kisumu Central subcounty security and intelligence committee led by John Cheruyiot. Police also arrested tuktuk and matatu drivers for carrying excess passengers In Kisumu West, eight matatu and tuktuk drivers were arrested for lack of Covid-19 compliance certificate at Kisian on the Kisumu-Busia highway. Anampiu said 16 suspects who were found without masks in public in Nyakach subcounty were arrested and charged. In the subcounty, three PSVs were found carrying excess passengers. In Nyando, eight people have been arrested and charged. They were each fined Sh2,000. Some 16 people were arrested for failing to wear face masks in Kisumu East. Offices shut Owing to the spike in infections in Kisumu, the county government offices have been closed. The administration has also suspended the provision of non-essential services until further notice. Last week, a meeting in Kisumu chaired by Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o and county commissioner Josephine Ouko announced sweeping and stringent containment measures aimed at disrupting the spread of the virus. During the meeting, all mortuaries were directed to report daily logs to the county director of public health. The morgues must further record the time each body is released to relatives and the destination. At the weekend, Health executive Boaz Nyunya said public and private hospitals in Kisumu have overstretched their capacities as more cases of Covid-19 emerge. In a statement, Nyunya said Kisumu has so far registered 5,994 accumulative Covid-19 cases from 43,000 tests. Kisumu Central remains the epicentre of the disease in the county, followed by Kisumu East and Kisumu West. All subcounties have cases. Edited by A.N