More than 1,800 farmers from Kirinyaga will get free artificial insemination services for their cattle over the next two years. The county administration on Wednesday signed a deal with the Kenya Animal Genetic Resource Centre to provide the services to Rung’eto, Podago, Kirima and Rukingu cooperatives. Some 50,000 cows will receive improved semen in the first six months and another 50,000 in the second cycle. Governor Anne Waiguru said the programme will improve the breeds of the local farmers and help them earn more from milk sales. “The semen which will be transferred to our local breeds has been extracted from improved varieties that produce up to 40 litres of milk per cow. Thus, the hybrids that will be brought forth will be more improved and that will enable farmers to increase the milk production to up to four times, up from five litres of milk per cow in a day,” Waiguru said. She said her administration’s target is to have helped all dairy farmers upgrade their breed by 2023. Currently, Kirinyaga produces 85 million litres annually, fetching an average of Sh3 billion shillings per year. “This will ultimately put Kirinyaga county on the map for being a leader in milk production. Our farmers will compete with other milk producing counties and that will empower them economically.” Waiguru said the breeding animals are also immune to many livestock diseases, hence saving farmers the trouble of frequent medication for their animals. She said that the county will add 80 more cylinders worth Sh1 million to the 20 to be provided by KAGRC. The governor said that the county extension officers will be on call to help farmers where needed. She also promised that all the dairy cooperatives will get a power generator in the next financial year. One will also get a milk bowser. The farmers have only one milk hauler. KAGRC managing director David Kios said farmers stand to benefit more by getting better returns and improved breeds. He said in October they intend to start a similar programme for farmers rearing goats. “We hope the Treasury will release the funds fast enough to enable us to commence the project,” Kios said. Waiguru also distributed fish pond liners in Kiaga to 34 farmers and 20 groups across the county. She said aquaculture will help diversify farming, boost earnings and lead to improved nutrition. The governor said the county will provide fingerlings, fish feeds for the first six months and supervision in construction of the fish ponds.  (edited by o. owino)