The National Land Commission has expressed concern over rising cases of public land grabbing in Nakuru county. The commission said it would partner with the county to recover the grabbed land in the coming months. This came as the commission moved in to assist Nakuru in replanning after it was elevated into a city last month. Commissioner Esther Murugi said the move to elevate Nakuru into a city meant more infrastructural development. She said the commission was keen to work with the county leadership in meeting the public expectations and redoing the current designs. “We have embarked on the planning project of Nakuru and the neighbouring towns so that they can be in line with city status,” she said on Thursday. Murugi at same time expressed concern over increased cases of encroachment on public land and cited KARLO as one of the affected government institutions. She said they are working closely with the county government to resettle the Isahakia community which was one of the oldest communities in Naivasha. “We will make sure we repossess all the grabbed land in Naivasha as we give justice to the Isahakia community that has suffered for long,” she said. County chief officer in charge of land Judyleah Waihenya admitted that land grabbing was affecting their development plans. She welcomed the joint partnership with NLC noting that it would help the county recover hundreds of acres. “The county has in the past released funds for development only to learn that the land in question has been grabbed or it does not have ownership documents,” she said. Waihenya added that they were working with NLC surveyors in planning to address the issue of land use. She promised the Isahakia community that they would be resettled in the coming months once an appropriate land was identified by NLC. On the 50 acres that the national government had donated to the county in the Industrial Park in Mai Mahiu, Waihenya said the process of getting mother-title was on. “We have received the tenders from investors keen on putting up investment on the land and we are evaluating the requests with a directive that works have to start within three months,” she said. Edited by SKanyara