Francis Kahata has officially parted ways with Tanzanian giants, Simba SC with an entire month still left on his two-year contract. And as he bade farewell to the club's ardent supporters, Kahata hailed head coach Didier Gomes for coming to his rescue during his final stormy months at Wekundu Wa Msimbazi. During an interview conducted in his house at Mbezi Beach, Kahata told the country's sports journal ‘Mwanaspoti’, that Simba CEO Barbara Gonzalez had made it clear they won't be extending his contract, but her words didn't shock him at all. “I had prepared myself well in advance for such an eventuality, so her message didn't catch me by surprise. Nevertheless, it's one of the worst sets of news I’ve ever received in my career as a footballer,” said Kahata dejectedly. “Barbara told me they will offset all my dues which will include the amount I ought to have received for the remaining length of my contract set to end on July 30. “Given a choice, I could have preferred to stay on, but to say the truth, my last six months at Simba have been nothing but tumultuous,” said Kahata. Kahata said he had enjoyed working with coach Gomes despite experiencing a rough patch at the club, adding the coach’s constant encouragement enabled him to rise above his challenges and deliver on the pitch beyond expectation. Kahata said when Gomes arrived at the club, they had an opportunity to discuss at length and Gomes said he was happy with his performance as a player, having known him since the days he still featured for Kenyan champions, Gor Mahia. “After a while, he was shocked to learn I was not being enlisted for league assignments and when he sought to find out, I told him I was equally at a loss. He, nonetheless, encouraged me and prepared me psychologically to an extent the situation never bothered me anymore,” said Kahata. “Gomes spent his time preparing the side for continental assignments, counseling me, and even speaking some words of encouragement. He also made efforts to include me in the lineup and yesterday as the team prepared to travel to Mwanza for their match against Ruvu Shooting, we met and talked,” said Kahata. Kahata said Gomes had promised to discuss his future with Simba's management after returning from Mwanza. All those plans were, however, ruined when he was made aware of his fate on Thursday. “I haven't found time to engage him since, and most probably, he may not be aware I've already left the club, but before I depart from Tanzania I plan to sit down with him before I take a break to have quality time with my family as I ponder my next move,” he said. Kahata, who last featured for the national team at the 2019 Afcon in Egypt, joined Simba in July and managed to find the back of the net four times last season.