Nominated MP Godfrey Osostsi is planning to ditch ANC for another party which he will use to run for senator next year in Vihiga county. He has not disclosed which party he wants to join, but he promised to declare his next political move by the end of this year. Osotsi said ANC has been very cruel to him even though he was a founder member. "I have unconditionally forgiven them because they fought me due to my support of ODM leader Raila Odinga, the handshake and the BBI, but now we are in the same boat as they are now working with the handshake team,” he said. Osotsi, who was ousted as ANC secretary general on grounds of gross misconduct, said he fought seven court cases against the party that wanted him to lose his seat. He said he won all the cases and has since forgiven his 'tormentors' in the party. "They schemed to remove me from Parliament by expulsion and court cases, but God was on my side and I won the seven cases,” the MP said. Osotsi said despite winning the court cases and forgiving the ANC party, they have refused to admit him back to the party in writing as ordered by the courts three months ago. He said he has a problem with some leaders in the ANC party. “I have decided not to go back to the court to force them to admit me back because they don't need me,” Osotsi said. Osotsi spoke to parents and teachers at Bunyore Boys Secondary School in Emuhaya subcounty. His announcement came after Vihiga county ODM chairman Zebedee Osabwa urged him to join the Orange party. Osotsi is seeking to succeed Senator George Khaniri in Vihiga in next year's general election. Khaniri has said he will not defend his seat. Sources say Khaniri is eyeing to unseat Governor Wilber Ottichilo. Ottichilo is expected to defend his seat. The governor said he will seek reelection on the ODM party ticket. “Those eyeing the gubernatorial seat should prepare for a tough war. It won’t be a walkover,” Ottichilo said recently. Osotsi also said he would push for an amendment to the Election Act when the matter comes to the floor of the House to save MCAs from the requirement to have a degree. He, however, insisted that MCA aspirants must have at least a diploma. “Why are we n​​ot questioning the same law for requiring the President, governors, deputy governors, county executives to have degrees?" he asked. Edited by A.N 