The Kenyan national boxing team lead coaches are urging the Tokyo Olympics-bound quartet to step on the gas peddle as preparations enter the final stage ahead of departure. With adrenaline levels running high and tension mounting ahead of the team's departure next month, the tacticians have moved swiftly to reassure their charges all will be well. Speaking during a pep talk held to rev up the squad at their bubble camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, the coaches urged the pugilists to prepare themselves both mentally and physically in order to translate their lifetime dreams into reality. "We have already proven our mettle as world beaters and that's precisely why we secured the slots. All we need to do now is to consider ourselves already in the finals and travel the extra mile to ensure we do things differently. This wil enhance our chances of charging for medals at the Games," said Musa. He urged the team to capitalise on the confidence that members of the Boxing Kenya Federation and the coaches had bestowed on them and the vast experience they had gathered from different competitions on their road to Tokyo. "Members of the technical bench have a lot of faith in your abilities to make the country proud and as such you too should have great belief in yourselves," he added. Assistant coach Dave Munuhe reminded the quartet of the importance of heaving their potential up to the ceiling. "The main reason why you have come this far is because you have used your hands in the right way. You now need to use your hands to attain higher levels of success in boxing," said Munuhe. Assistant coach Charles Mukula advised the pugilists to push themselves more towards their goals as opposed to relying on entirely relying on coaching tips to succeed. "If you badly need something you must put in some effort to get it. You shouldn't necessarily rely on the coaches to hold your hands towards your dreams all the time. You too can push yourself to greatness by doing something extra," said Mukula. "Wake up early enough and learn to train more than your opponents if you want to be better than them." Meanwhile, Hit Squad captain Nick Okoth says he heads to his second Olympic games more confident than in his first. "I"m no longer experiencing the butterflies I had when I went for my first Olympics. I believe I'm now more sharpened for the task ahead," said Okoth.