The Kiambu government is partnering with colleges in the county to enrol 10,000 youths for technical courses. Governor James Nyoro said 4,500 youths will be enrolled in the 39 vocational training centres while the rest will join technical colleges. They will undertake plumbing, masonry, hairdressing and beauty, tailoring, carpentry, catering, pastry, electronics, among other courses. Nyoro said the programme is aimed at imparting knowledge and skills to the youth, especially those who hail from needy backgrounds, so they can start income-generating ventures. “Most Form 4 leavers who will not join university will be the major beneficiaries of our programme. They will get hands-on skills from the training to give them a competitive edge in the job industry as well as enable them to become job creators,” he said. Nyoro spoke in Thika town during an expo organised by colleges and universities in Kiambu county. The governor said they will partner with industries within the county to give internships and job opportunities to the beneficiaries of the programme. “We have hundreds of industries in Kiambu, especially in Thika. We will reach out to the business fraternity so they can incorporate the youth who will be trained in their businesses as interns or even employees,” he said. Nyoro said the programme will help solve the unemployment crisis facing most youths in the county as well as reduce poverty. Felistas Wairimu, the convener of the expo, said the aim of the trade fair was to allow those seeking to join colleges to familiarise themselves with the courses  being taught in these institutions of higher learning. “The colleges offer diverse technical courses and our idea was to enable students to set transition to the next level, meet them, get advice and make a wise decision on the course to undertake,” Wairimu said. Cascade Institute of Hospitality, Uzuri Institute, Vera Beauty and Fashion College, County to County College, Kenya Institute of Management and Lodams Media were among colleges that participated in the expo.  Mount Kenya University (MKU) and Zetech University also participated. 