Content creator Elodie Zone says her ex-boyfriend singer Nviiri The Storyteller was violent to her. Elodie, who was recently dating the Sol Generation signee Nviiri, alleged that she has undergone physical abuse from her previous two relationships. Taking to Instagram stories, Elodie said, "Physical, mental, verbal and emotional abuse towards women is unacceptable. I want to make it clear that I am not dating Nviiri. We just met in Coast but the reason I left him is the same reason that has come up as we are 'respectful friends'." Early this year, Elodie ranted about a friend who left her stranded at night. She has opened up that the 'Pombe Sigara' hitmaker was the friend she had been hanging out with. She added that Nviiri slammed her against a table. "Yup. January 1st 2021. There are videos online of him slamming me against a table and leaving me and my baby cousins at a club past curfew. Cross-check with my 'life is good' highlights, the first video." Elodie said she had been told to stop speaking up on social media. Before she was rumoured to be dating Nviiri, the YouTuber was dating Jay Mwenda. "I've hidden bruises from my past two relationships. I've felt stupid and have been undermined. I kept quiet, I've been told to stop speaking up on social media cause I'll look like I'm 'acting out'," she said. "I've been told that depression means you overact.. etc... all are total nonsense. I want men and women in my position to raise their voices! We may be small but our voices cannot be silenced." Word Is reached out to Nviiri but she was unavailable. He posted on his Insta stories, "For everyone asking 'Niko Sawa', thank you for reaching out." Elodie recently shared an Instagram story talking about how she defended someone publicly only for him to stab her in the back. In an interview on Kiss FM with Kamene and Jalas, Nviiri was asked about the situation with him and Elodie Zone. Nviiri clarified he was not the one she was addressing on social media. "It is definitely not me because I like dealing with my issues at home, I do not know who she was talking about. The thing is we break up and makeup so it is what it is."