ANC leaders on Sunday scoffed at attempts by ODM chief Raila Odinga and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to revive Nasa. Leaders including Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, former Speaker Kenneth Marende and Hassan Dukicha from Tana River said Nasa is dead. “We started Nasa. It is no longer there. It is no longer politically viable. Nasa was an abusive marriage,” Malala said at Likoni PAG Church after a service. Mudavadi was present. The leaders were responding to efforts by Raila and Kalonzo to revive the coalition ahead of 2022. The two on Friday hinted at reuniting during the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile. Raila said he and Kalonzo have never broken ranks and would team-up to defeat people they described as "hyenas in sheep's clothing". But the ANC brigade on Sunday said the only way to revive Nasa is by ensuring Mudavadi is made the coalition’s flag-bearer. “We are no longer interested in a marriage that is abusive. However, if things are to work out, then we have only one condition. Nasa will be a viable idea if we let Musalia Mudavadi be the flag-bearer,” Malala said. Mudavadi said there was a lot of mistrust in the coalition ahead of the 2017 General Election, which probably led to a disjointed stab at the presidency. “As leaders, we must not send conflicting messages,” he said. Mudavadi said Nasa had a serious ‘deficit of trust’, with agreements not being honoured and coalition partners treated differently. The ANC leader said some Nasa members from different parties were removed from committees unfairly while others watched. “We must learn to honour commitments we make,” he said in an apparent jibe at Raila. Raila was accused of not honouring a pact that he would not vie for the Presidency again after 2013. However, the former Prime Minister’s allies defended him, saying the condition was set in case of a victory in the 2013 General Election. They lost to President Uhuru Kenyatta of Jubilee. Marende said Kenya did well during the 10th Parliament when he was the Speaker because there were leaders committed to Kenyans and the rule of law. He said at the time, leaders were visionary, leading to an economic growth of seven per cent. “We can reclaim that dream if we have a man of vision at the helm. Musalia Mudavadi is a man of vision,” he said. He said the country needs a leader who obeys the rule of law. Marende said the appointment of 34 judges, leaving out six recommended by the Judicial Service Commission, is illegal. He said the President’s mandate is to implement recommendations of the JSC and if he has doubts over the integrity of any of the recommended judges, he should point out his reservations and a tribunal will be set up to probe the issues raised. 