A rogue detective hatched a plot that has left several police officers who fell for his deception counting losses. The officer based in one of the stations in Nairobi lured over 100 unsuspecting colleagues, mainly from the regular department to join an investment scheme that never was. Each officer parted with Sh200,000 as share capital. The unsuspecting officers only realised that they had been trapped in a con game when the supposed investment bore no benefits. The trickster is now threatening the cops instead of giving refunding their investments. The victims want DCI boss George Kinoti (pictured) to intervene and have the criminal arrested. *** Talking of rogue cops, it seems problems could be brewing for a group of three traffic officers operating on the Baba Dogo Road in Nairobi. Matatu operators are plotting a huge protest march against the officers. The officers, they say, are extorting money from them every morning. Those who refuse to give are manhandled, some detained for days without being taken to court. Those who get to court face trumped-up charges. The operators are now fed up and are keen on attracting the attention of the authorities. *** A governor from Western Kenya who has been keen on running for a senatorial seat after he completes his second term, could be in trouble. Some sort of negotiated democracy threatens to blow up his plans. The governor's cousin who lost to the incumbent senator in 2017 has already made inroads. The cousin has been investing heavily in some community empowerment programmes as he endears himself to the voters. Some elders have already approached the governor to drop his 2022 ambitions for the sake of his brother. *** A bishop's old bad tricks of survival are about to be exposed. The clergyman has been described as a notorious parasite. He is now broke after a businesswoman, who has been funding his flamboyant lifestyle, closed the money taps. The lady is about to share financial records among other details showing how the cleric siphoned money from her. The man is also facing more woes with a lady with whom he sired a child. Despite the bishop residing in a posh Nairobi neighbourhood, the young member of the flock is biting her tongue as she can barely feed herself and the child. 