Kenya's representatives in the Confederations of African Football Champions League will be known this afternoon as Football Kenya Federation rush to beat the June 30 deadline set by the regional football governing body. The slot could go to Tusker, who have a date with Ulinzi Stars at ASK Grounds, Nakuru or KCB, who take on Nzoia Sugar at Ruaraka Grounds on the same day. The sides are placed first and second on the log respectively with the brewers, who have 44 points, enjoying a one-point lead. KCB must collect maximum points against Nzoia and hope that Ulinzi either beat or hold Tusker for them to lay claim to the slot. In the event that Tusker are beaten and KCB manage a draw in their encounter, the bankers will only proceed if they manage to score at least eight goals and hope Tusker come out without a single goal from their match. Such an outcome seems highly unlikely especially against a tricky millers side who beat them 2-1 in their first-round encounter at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. The two sides have been swapping the two top positions on the log since the beginning of the season with KCB proving the dominant side. No amount of miracle could deliver the Champions League slot to defending champions Gor Mahia, who shot themselves in the foot after settling for a barren draw with Wazito at Thika Stadium before their shock 2-1 defeat to minnows Western Stima at the same venue a couple of days later. However, Gor, who are fourth with 38 points can still charge effectively for their title defence if they maintain a good run in the remainder of the season. They face Bandari at Utalii Grounds Wednesday afternoon and a win can only secure them third spot, currently occupied by arch-rivals AFC Leopards, who are two points better. Leopards square it out with Kariobangi Sharks at Thika Stadium on Wednesday. They stand a chance to dislodge KCB from second but Tusker is totally out of reach for them. 2009 champions, Sofapaka, welcome Western Stima in a match that will serve as a curtain-raiser for the bankers encounter against the millers. Sofapaka, who have been blowing hot and cold this season, are 13th on the log with 24 points and a win might take them to ninth. On the other hand, Stima are a spot above the relegation zone with 16 points, five above bottom-placed Mathare United. The Slum Boys face Vihiga United in a tail-enders clash at Narok Stadium. Resurgent Nairobi City Stars will look to maintain their impressive run thus far when they flex muscles with Wazito. City are fifth on the log with 32 points and a win can only help close their gap with Gor. A win for Wazito could propel them to eighth. They are currently 10th with 27 points. In another match, giant killers Bidco United will lock horns with Kakamega Homeboyz at Thika Stadium. Bidco are eleventh with 26 points while Homeboyz are ninth with 27.