@robertomollo3 Cotton farmers in Homa Bay have acquired 1.5 acres  to build warehouse for their produce before it is processed. The acquisition is a relief to more than 400 farmers who have been facing problems of storage before transporting cotton for processing. The farmers acquired the land after National Agriculture and Rural Inclusive Growth Project (NARIGP) gave them Sh700,000. The land is in Magare village in Homa Bay Town. Homa Bay Cotton Cooperative Union chairman John Akoko said establishing a modern cotton store will enable more residents to grow the crop. “Many people have abandoned cotton farming because they are not sure of getting markets. Building a store is a sure bet their produce won’t be a waste,” Akoko said. Many of the farmers grow crops like maize, sugarcane and sorghum . Akoko said the revival of Rivatex East Africa has provided a ready  market for the cotton. Homa Bay executive for agriculture Aguko Juma said the county produces 400 tons of cotton annually and it is likely to produce more should farmers get assured of market. “People stopped growing cotton after they realised no benefit,” Juma said. Currently, the farmers have formed cooperative societies and rented a general store where members keep their produce before being sold. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, Akoko said most of the stores where the crop is kept do not have proper ventilation which affects cotton quality. “Cotton seeds are used to make manure, cooking oil, soap, animal feeds and other products. If stored in poor conditions, the quality of the final product will be compromised,” he added. The warehouse will have be able to store more than 3,000 tons of cotton. “Besides promoting quality, the new warehouse will cut post production costs in cotton,” Akoko said. Union secretary Richard Apiyo and Treasurer Michael Otieno appealed for support from the Homa Bay government. "Let’s come up with our own ginnery because we currently transport cotton to Baringo for processing. It is very expensive,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 