Kirinyaga residents could be slapped with fines of up to Sh300,000, imprisonment for over three years or both for failure to comply with the new environment management bill should it be signed into law. The fines prescribed by the county assembly could be applicable for failure to segregate solid waste and careless transportation of garbage in trucks. In a Tuesday sitting, the county legislators endorsed the Kirinyaga County Solid Waste Management Bill 2020 which proposes annual waste collection levies for clean-up. The new charges range between Sh300 for small scale traders and Sh5,000 for industries. In the bill, private hospitals and nursing homes that generate medical waste have been slapped with new levies of Sh4,000 per month in a bid to help the county in refuse management. The bill, which went into the third reading, proposes that every refuse generator must separate waste into organic, plastic, paper or metal category in containers before collection by licensed refuse transporters. “A person who commits an offence under this section shall upon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding Sh300,000 or imprisonment of a term not exceeding three years or both,” reads section 22(5) of the bill. Solid waste transporters who litter the roads on transit to dumpsites have not been spared either as the same penalties apply. The proposed law also directs the executive to provide a mechanism for the management of solid waste by ensuring the provision of contracts for waste collection and waste transportation services. In addition, the bill recognises electronic waste commonly known as e-waste as a major polluter. The waste will be categorised on its own alongside market, industrial, hazardous, plastic and biomedical wastes. Residential owners are required to maintain cleanliness for a radius of ten meters of their premises while the county government has been obligated to provide waste collection containers in streets. Moreover, solid waste transporters will be required to provide waste bags fully branded in the company’s name complete with colour codes for various wastes. Green will be used for organic waste, blue for plastic and paper waste and brown for any other waste. The MCAs overwhelmingly gave the thumbs up to the bill noting that it will help rid urban centres of waste as well as promote responsible solid waste management. While moving the second reading on behalf of the environment committee chair Elisha Mwangi, nominated MCA Rose Njeri said solid waste management is a major problem for many urban areas in Kenya. “The increase in solid waste generation is triggered by urbanisation, industrialisation and economic growth,” she said. While supporting the bill, her nominated colleague Caroline Muriithi said that it should be a collective responsibility of all members of the community to protect the environment. Kariti MCA  Joel Wagura who is also the deputy speaker applauded the bill saying it will help in addressing waste management. Gathigiriri ward representative Simon Waititu said the county is responsible for providing containers at various garbage drop-off points. “I fully support the bill as it will ensure we have a clean environment guarded under law,” he said. The bill will be submitted to Governor Ann Waiguru for ascent before it is gazetted as law.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris