A report has revealed that the number of Members of the National Assembly and Senators who did not contribute in Parliament continues to rise. The report by Mzalendo Trust titled 2020 Parliamentary Scorecard said that the number of silent MPs in the National Assembly rose by 10 and the Senate by two, compared to 2019. "In the National Assembly for instance, 31 Members failed to make any contribution in the plenary compared to 21 in 2019. In the Senate, the number of silent members rose marginally by two, to three," the report said. In the Senate, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Philip Mpaayei (Kajiado) and nominated senator Victor Prengei made zero contributions in the plenary. In the National Assembly, silent members include; Jane Chebaibai (Elgeyo Marakwet), Jane Njiru (Embu), Anab Gure (Garissa), Irene Kasalu (Kitui), Rose Mumo (Makueni), Amina Gedow (Mandera), Asha Mohammed (Mombasa), Lilian Tomitom (West Pokot), Janet Teyiaa (Kajiado), Ernest Kivai (Vihiga), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East), Imran Okoth (Kibra), George Kariuki (Ndia), Joshua Aduma Owuor (Nyakach), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Lokiru Ali Mohamed (Turkana East) Others are Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Gideon Konchella (Kilgoris), Fred Ouda (Kisumu Central), Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Mathias Robi (Kuria West), Marwa Kitayama (Kuria East), Bady Twalib (Jomvu), George Aladwa (Makadara), Abdi Shurie (Mbalambala), Maalim Kulow (Banissa), Patrick Ntwiga  Chuka/Igambang’ombe), Said Haribae (Galole), Charles Gimose (Hamisi) and Maina Kamanda (Nominated). According to the report, the number of speech count dropped in both houses of parliament. "In the National Assembly, the count, which stood at 227 in 2019, dropped significantly to 176 in 2020. In the Senate, it fell from 338 to 313," the report said. Top performing members of the National Assembly include; Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Joseph Limo (Kipkelion East), Millie Odhiambo Mabona (Suba North), David Sankok (Nominated), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) and Sabina Chege (Murang’a). In the Senate, Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, Samson Cherargei (Nandi), Moses Wetangula (Bungoma), Ledama ole Kina (Narok), Farhiya Ali Haji (Nominated) and Getrude Musuruve (Nominated) made the most contributions. The 2020 Parliamentary Scorecard noted that 175 MPs spoke less than 10 times, 128 between 10-50 times while 33 MPs spoke more than 50 times. In Senate, only four senators spoke less than four times, 19 between 10-50 times while 32 spoke over 50 times. MPs George Aladwa (Makadara), Oscar Sudi (Kipseret) Imran Okoth (Kibra), Abdi Shurie (Balambala), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East), Amina Gedow (Mandera), Gideon Konchellah (Kilgoris), Rose Mumo Museo (Makueni)appeared on the list of silent MPs for the second time.