A Kibera court has slapped an Embakasi East woman with a seven-year jail term after finding her guilty of attempted murder of her boyfriend. Ebby Khalea was convicted and sentenced by Kibera senior principal magistrate Phillip Mutua after court prosecutor Violet Ombati proved the case against her. Khalea stabbed her one-month-old boyfriend Michael Ngure Wanjeri on July 31 last year at Kisumu Ndogo within Soweto. A witness told the court that Ngure was asleep in his house when his girlfriend arrived from a drinking spree. Khalea found the door locked from the inside. She borrowed a panga from her next-door neighbour to unlock the door whose shutter was a nail on the inside frame. The woman slid the panga through a small opening and the door opened. The neighbour took back their panga and went to sleep only to be woken up again by a commotion. Ngure and Khalea were in a bitter exchange of words. Things got worse and Ngure was heard shouting for help in pain. The neighbour rushed to check what was happening and found a blood-stained knife on the floor. Ngure was holding Khalea tightly while asking her why she had stabbed him. The neighbour called other members of the community and they rushed Ngure to Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital on a boda boda. Ngure had surgery and spent a couple of days at the hospital before he was discharged. Police took up the issue after his discharge. Detectives visited the crime scene and recovered a knife. A police doctor assessed the injury and indicated that it was grievous harm. Khalea told the court in her defence that she did not stab Ngure and that they had only courted for a month. She said she got home at around 10pm on the day after a drinking spree with some men. As Ngure had locked himself, she used the panga from the neighbour to open the door. She said they then had a disagreement. Khalea said Ngure told her that he heard everything she discussed with the neighbour. She said that they fought over the knife and Ngure got stabbed during the struggle. The court analysed the evidence adduced in court and found that the prosecution had proven its case beyond a reasonable doubt. 