Thousands of Kikuyu elders gathered in Murang'a town for prayers on Friday after a select few conducted a cleansing ceremony at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine. The elders said the shrine was desecrated by the coronation of  National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on May 22 and needed to be cleansed in order to continue holding prayers and cultural ceremonies. The cleansing rituals were conducted by elders from both Kikuyu Council of Elders and Kiama Kia Ma. Kikuyu Council of Elders secretary general Peter Munga said the cleansing was conducted on behalf of the community as the shrine is believed to be its origin. It is believed that after creation, the community's founding father Gikuyu and his wife Mumbi were placed at the shrine where they begot nine daughters. Dominic Boro, an elder, said the shrine holds a great significance to the community and had to be cleansed following the numerous guests that attended the speaker's coronation. The elder said majority of the people who accessed the shrine should not have as they had not cleansed themselves. "After the cleansing, we will be able to continue with our prayers and cultural activities at the shrine without worries. We have made a sacrifice and the shrine is is now clean," he said The elders also cleansed a Mugumo tree under which the sacrifices are made. Members of the public were prohibited from accessing the shrine but were invited to prayers held by the elders at Mumbi grounds in Murang'a town. Governor Mwangi wa Iria who has publicly condemned Muturi's coronation as the spokesperson of the Mt Kenya region attended the prayers. Immediately after the coronation, Wa Iria told journalists that he would lead efforts to have the shrine cleansed and that he would bring together elders to plan the ceremony. Wa Iria is one of the leaders clamouring for the kingship of the region together with his Kirinyaga counterpart Anne Waiguru, Peter Kenneth, Agriculture CS Peter Munya, Mwangi Kiunjuri among others. Most of the candidates have dismissed the coronation saying it is meaningless and does not put the speaker at an advantage. -Edited by SKanyara