The murder of a husband by a jealous wife was described as meticulously planned, involving two drugging attempts and one of the most brutal by any standards. Former girls school principal Jane Muthoni was on Thursday sentenced to 30 years in prison for the murder of her husband, Solomon Mwingi, also a principal. She herself handled the drugging and carried the rope. Her co-accused, Isaac Ng'ang'a, was also sentenced to 30 years in prison by Nakuru High Court judge Joel Ngugi. The sentencing was virtual. Muthoni is held at Lang'ata Women's Prison and Ng'ang'a at Kamiti Maximum Security Prison. The killing occurred between November 6 and 11, 2o16. Muthoni was principal of Icaciri Girls High School in Kiambu. Mwingi was principal of Kiru Boys in Meru. She suspected he was cheating on her. Judge Ngugi described the murder as "one of the most brutal by all standards". He said Muthoni skillfully planned her husband’s murder, procured the murderers and delivered his half-dead corpse to his butcher. "I have considered all factors and found Muthoni was a depraved, vengeful person who was committed to killing her husband," the judge said. He said murder involved drugging the victim — Muthoni's first attempt failed so she tried again — to weaken him before delivering him to his killers who bludgeoned and strangled him in a forest. “By the time of death, the victim was too weak and he was robbed of his faculties and ability to even plead for mercy from his killers," the judge ruled. Ngugi said after spiking her husband's drink with a strong veterinary sedative to stupefy him, Muthoni personally delivered him to the killers. A postmortem report showed he died of asphyxia caused by neck compression due to manual and ligature strangulation. He added that a toxicology test showed the presence of xylazine, a sedative commonly used in veterinary services. During the trial, the court heard Muthoni decided to us the stronger drug after her earlier effort with another illegal drug failed. It is commonly called mchele and is used by commercial sex workers to stupefy their clients before robbing them. Mwingi's body was found in the bush at Karakuta Coffee Estate in Juja, Kiambu county. While virtually sentencing the two, Ngugi said the murder was aggravated as it involved strangulation at two stages, first inside a vehicle and again at the actual murder scene. It emerged at the trial that the rope used in the murder had been in Muthoni's hired car for several days, well-hidden. Joseph Kariuki, alias Karis, was initially charged together with Muthoni. He said the rope was purchased on November 3 and taken to Mwingi's home at the boys school when the first murder attempt occurred. But the sedative was too weak. The sentence has been backdated to November 2016 when they were arrested. They were denied bail or bond. According to the evidence adduced in court, it showed that the duo, together with Nelson Njiru who has been missing since November and Karis, had been plotting the murder for months. Justice Ngugi said Muthoni suspected infidelity and felt scorned. She was connected to the killers by Njiru. It was Karis and Gikuyu who actually killed the Mwingi by hitting him with blunt objects and strangling him with the rope brought by Muthoni when she delivered her husband. Karis admitted committing the offence, he was made a state witness and jailed for seven years. The judge also said the accused persons had numerous opportunities "to walk back from their heinous plans but they chose death". He said Mwangi's body was left tied on a tree with the hands tied together and covered with gunny bags in the hope it would never be found. Ngugi said although the prosecution had wanted the ultimate death sentence for the two, he had considered the mitigating factors as pleaded by Muthoni’s children who have been left destitute . He also considered that Ng'ang'a was the sole breadwinner for his young family, elderly mother and a sister. (Edited by V. Graham)