Leaders KCB will face off with tail-enders Mathare United at Ruaraka grounds in one of the Round 21 Football Kenya Federation Premier league fixtures set for this weekend. The bankers dislodged Tusker from the apex o f the log after labouring to overcome Bidco United 1-0 at Thika Stadium on Wednesday. They now sit pretty at the summit of the log with 41 points, two above Tusker and will be keen to bag maximum points to open the gap even further. Coach Robert Matano charges lost grip of the command centre after suffering a 1-0 upset against Posta Rangers at their own backyard on Tuesday. They are anticipating a vital win over Kariobangi Sharks to fire themselves back to the top. Sharks may be low on confidence after two successive defeats including one in the quarters of the domestic cup against Gor Mahia, and a 2-0 debacle against Wazito in their top flight tie at Utalii on Wednesday. The William Muluya-led side slumped to fifth on the log after the loss but still stand a chance to reclaim their position if they beat Tusker by any decent margin. Nairobi City Stars will host Kakamega Homeboyz at Ruaraka Grounds on Saturday in a match expected to produce a lot of fireworks. City are rooted in eighth with 28 points after their last encounter where they pipped Western Stima 1-0 at Utalii grounds on Tuesday. They are likely to scale to sixth if they manage maximum points, a feat that might not be easy to achieve against a Homeboyz side that stand right behind them on the log with the same points but with an inferior goal difference. And after crushing to City on Tuesday, Western Stima will look to redeem themselves against Nzoia Sugar who suffered a similar fate at the hands of Vihiga United at Mumias Complex on Tuesday. The millers, who are in an unimpressive 14th slot on the log with 17 points, might nonetheless experience a tough ride against a Stima side currently placed second-last on the log with 13 points and keen to salvage themselves from the jaws of relegation. On Sunday, Posta Rangers will flex muscles with Bidco United at Ruaraka grounds. The mailmen are definitely high on confidence having pulled off a major 1-0 upset on the more fancied Tusker at the same venue on Tuesday. Bidco will have to plug the loopholes that made them vulnerable to KCB who stunned them 1-0 at home on Tuesday and hope to overcome Posta who have proved a hard nut to crack since the appointment of Stanley Okumbi as head coach. Gor Mahia and Sofapaka lock horns at Thika Stadium on Sunday. A win over Sofapaka will propel the defending champions to third on the log and reduce the gap between them and leaders KCB to within three points. Vihiga United will host Bandari at Mumias Complex on Sunday. The dockers crushed 3-1 to Ulinzi Stars in their last encounter whereas Vihiga picked a win over Nzoia Sugar at home.