The government has begun construction of Sh25 million new bridge connecting villages in Thika and Gatanga constituencies. The old bridge on the dangerous Thika River collapsed seven months ago. People still pick their way across on the debris, which is risky. Residents have strung wires and ropes cross the river and a 'boatman' hauls a boats with passengers, goats and other cargo. Fare for adults is Sh50, schoolchildren pay Sh20 per trip. The bridge connected Ngoliba village in Thika and Soy village in Gathanga. The Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRa)is expected to complete the bridge in a few months. “Currently foundation works are being done. The bridge will be fully fledged and will be able to handle a seven-ton truck," Thika MP Patrick Wainaina said. “The money is intact and the project is underway. I urge residents to be patient," he said,” he said. The bridge severed transport between the two villages in Murang'a and Kiangu counties and the debris has been a death trap. Residents who spoke to journalists on Wednesday said trade between the two villages has suffered after the bridge collapsed. Some students from Murang’a would still cross the river on the old bridge every morning and evening to go to school. The bridge was also used by workers in the nearby Kakuzi farms. "It’s a disaster in waiting and we fear crossing the river using what's left of the bridge,"  esident Martin Njoroge said. “We thank God the situation will be saved soon." “We risk our lives and spend a lot crossing the river using the boat because it’s the only and easiest way. Otherwise, you have to pay more than Sh500 to be ferried  30km by a motorcycle," he said. Area chief Alice Njoki cautioned residents against using the collapsed bridge and advised boda boda riders to use different routes because the bridge is weak and might cause a disaster. “Water levels in the river are still high and the situation is dangerous. I urge everyone to use a safe means to go to either side to avoid any disaster,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham) 