Athletics Kenya have concluded the World Under-20 pre-trials following the conclusion of activities in five regions this weekend including North Rift, Eastern, Western, Eastern and Nyanza North. To reiterate the importance of the pre-trial exercise, AK top brass graced the various trials across the country. At the Lorna Kiplagat Sports Academy Stadium in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet County, AK president Lt Gen (Rtd) Jackson Tuwei was the Chief guest alongside the County Governor Alex Tolgos. At the western region meet staged at the Mumias Sports Complex in Kakamega County  Public Relations Officer Evans Bosire was the chief guest as AK senior vice president Paul Mutwii together with treasurer David Miano oversaw the Central regional pre-trials at the Thika stadium. At the Moi Stadium in Kisumu, regional chairman Joseph Ochieng oversaw the Nyanza North selection while AK Youth and Development chairman Barnaba Korir joined  Eastern regional chairman Ainsworth Maragara at the University of Embu for the Eastern region event. Athletes drawn from five counties Meru, Isiolo,Tharaka Ninthi, Marsabit and Embu competed in the Eastern region event where a team of 21 athletes was picked for next month's national trials. “As the hosts of the championships, we shall have more athletes participating in various field events which includes hammer, pole vault, triple jump and high jump events. I was particularly impressed by javelin thrower Fredrick Wamutu who had an impressive throw of 61.28m,” said Korir. Wamutu, who trains at Embu High Altitude Training Camp finished fourth during the U20 mini-trials last November in Nairobi with a throw of 54m, represents the hunger and raw talent exhibited by many junior athletes who are striving to improve. Wamutu a Form Three student said: “I have been training seriously in school and I’m focused on doing better than the 61m. Here we didn’t have a proper runway, I would have done better. My target is to have a throw of 70m.” Boniface Kimani, who clinched the 5, 000m title is yearning to make his international bow in the track event. “I am facing a lot challenges which include lack of facilities at the local stadium and poor diet,” said Kimani, a student at Embu Technical Training School undertaking a diploma course in plumbing. Korir added: “I believe the pre-trials have presented us with an opportunity to identify some of the best athletes who will be heading to Nairobi for trials and eventually the World Under-20 Championships on July 17-22.” In Nyanza North, 20 athletes were selected for the national trials during a low key event at Moi Stadium. Most schools did not release their athletes due to the Covid-19 situation in Kisumu County. The region mainly focuses on sprints and field events. “Most school principals did not release their athletes because of the increasing numbers of coronavirus cases  Kisumu. I understand their fears but I’m happy that we held the competition despite the no-shows from some schools,” said Ochieng, the regional AK chairman. In Nyanza South, a team of 37 athletes was selected during the championships held at Kisii University. The event was graced by AK youth committee acting secretary Joseph Ilovi and Eliud Wambua, a member of the committee. International athlete Linda Kageha was the stand out performer, winning the shot put and discus events. She was, however, beaten to second place in the 400m by national secondary schools champion Mercy Oketch. Oketch said: “I have been training in Nairobi for the World Under 20 event. I want to make my international debut in Nairobi because I’m following in the footsteps of my former school mate, Mary Moraa,” said the former Mogonga PAG High School student. Ilovi said: “Athletes will be allowed at the stadium for the pre trials on the day they are competing and there will be no fans because of the Covid-19 pandemic.” Wambua warned coaches and games teachers against age cheating. “Age cheating is a very serious offence just like doping. Any teacher who participates in falsifying a student’s age will be dealt with by the law. Let students be students and the culture of recycling students stop,” said Wambua, Ministry of Education Deputy Director Quality Assurance and Standards.