In remote counties, many residents still live from hand to mouth and depend on a single breadwinner. As these counties struggle to fight poverty, most youths still aspire to white-collar jobs that have declined dramatically since the Covid-19 pandemic hit. They're out of luck. The situation is similar in Vihiga county that has turned to agribusiness to improve incomes in the face of dwindling jobs. But poor planning, lack of funds and lack of structures in rural areas remain a big problem. Vihiga agriculture executive Geoffrey Vukaya says most graduates leave universities in hopes of getting office jobs, instead of taking advantage of their knowledge to create jobs. They regard blue-collar jobs with distaste, as beneath them. “If we get youths who are ready to invest in the agricultural sector, it will be easier for us to suppress the poverty index in remote counties,” Vukaya said. “Of the few we have tried, some are trying while others are rebelling, yet we are using county resources to empower them." Vihiga's poverty gap was at 11.5 per cent as per county statistics of the year 2015-16. The same year, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics put the severity of poverty at 4.6 per cent. However, the number might be higher following the Covid-19 crisis that has ruined the world, national and local economies. Many businesses have collapsed and more continue to close up shop. This has left many young people jobless. Some companies resorted to layoffs to reduce their wage bill in the wake of reduced revenues. The situation was worsened by the Covid-19 containment measures. Not all companies have been able to allow their employees to work from home. The crisis further led to food insecurity not only countrywide but globally, with the majority grappling with rising prices of the available food. Against this backdrop of diminished jobs, Vihiga has heightened its war on poverty by turning to agribusiness to empower its women, men and youths. Some of the projects the county has focused on are dairy, fish, poultry and vegetable farming. Dairy farming The county is pumping millions of shillings into the dairy sector to create livelihoods and boost residents' incomes. Alex Havad, a resident of Vihiga subcounty, said the project is slowly picking up. He said many farmers are slowly shifting from indigenous animals to dairy ones for better yields. Havad said the productivity of the local breeds is way lower than that of exotic breeds they are currently receiving from the county government. "For instance, I had these local animals—six of them. Their productivity could not be compared to what I'm getting from one dairy animal," he said. Havad said the six local animals were giving him mostly a total of six litres a day or eight at most. He said the milk yield kept fluctuating and was unreliable. “For the dairy animals, you can easily tell what you will get depending on how you feed the animal. Ever since receiving the dairy animal from the county, I had to do away with the local ones,” he said. “The animal is giving me 17-19 litres per day, excluding what I use at home.” Margaret Ahuga is also a beneficiary of the dairy farming project. "Once my animal is well fed, I'm sure of 15 litres of milk, excluding milk for calf and home use," she said. The two, speaking separately to the Star, said they have benefitted from the project and it has stabilised their financial status. Some 245 farmers have benefitted from the project. Executive Vukaya said about 10 animals had died from poor environmental conditions and seven were in a bad state of health as they were left under the custodian of aged people. “We had agreed with farmers that they will take care of the animals on matters of health and feeding as well, but for the seven, we're still deliberating to see how we can salvage the situation at hand—milk production and value addition," he said. The project was started by Governor Wilber Ottichilo's administration. Initially, with only 75 dairy animals, it had not achieved the envisaged impact on the community. Vukaya said the project aims at increasing milk production across the county. Before the project was initiated, local farmers produced 25 per cent of the milk that was consumed in the county. The rest was from outside. "We know most counties depend on each other, but there are other things we can empower our farmers to do so that we benefit as a county," he said. Long term projects Governor Ottichilo said dairy farming is a long-term project that can empower many families and sustain them financially. He said the project needs pro-active youths who can run it successfully to achieve its goals. “Unfortunately, a majority want to venture into politics; they think politics is the best place to be,” he said. “Politics is a short-term job and it has more demerits than merits.” Ottichilo said youths should first build up their profession and make money before joining active politics. “As a government, we realised building these youths to stand firm on their own was to initiate projects that will economically uplift them,” he said. The county chief said a number of projects have created jobs for the youth. Through the dairy animals, farmers also harvest cow dung that can be used to make organic manure used for crop farming. This is part of value addition. The families sell milk to get cash to meet their needs. Ottichilo said others use milk to produce other products to boost incomes. “On value addition, we can produce cheese, yoghurt, mala, and we can further brand our milk as well,” Ottichilo said. “Cow dung can be used for plastering our houses for those who haven’t cemented the floors and organic fertilisers, too.” Indigenous vegetables grown on a large scale with organic fertiliser are sold in the market for income generation. "When the two are on market, we, as the county government, are also generating income tax via our local revenue collection," the county boss said. "When our revenue collection is high we won't be affected by this fund delay from the national government." The governor said the county is producing about 3,000 litres but targets more than 5,000 litres as they intensify the programme. With access to coolants enhanced across the county, farmers can easily store their milk. “A private Investor from Germany has promised to pump in more money once we reach 5000 litres per day which will be a great impact to us as the county,” Ottichilo said. Hurdles One of the biggest challenges is feeding the animals. Some farmers have, however, come up with measures to tackle the problem. Margaret Ahuga urged other farmers to plan properly and produce feed so that they can feed their cattle to get maximum returns. “I have developed a silage feeding programme under which I plant maize and I harvest them at a stage of produce and store for my animals,” Ahuga said. She said once a farmer has silage, feeding plans will not be as hectic as many farmers think. The two farmers also decried security, saying sometime back their silage were poisoned. On the same note, Governor Ottichilo said in efforts to curb feeding hiccups, they have provided seeds of modern grass varieties to help farmers sustain their animals even during droughts that farmers should plant, harvest and store to help them during the droughts. “We have further revived our milk cooperatives in the county to ensure all farmers are not strained while searching for a market,” Ottichilo said. (Edited by V. Graham)