Two politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) are going for each other in a bid to be his running mate in next year's polls. The contest to show who is 'boss' has been taken to a constituency in Central Kenya. The two have turned a political event in the constituency into their own supremacy war. It is not just a show of financial war chest but also who has the people. The tight competition to outdo each other has seen the two politicians employ dirty moves, including negative propaganda and destruction of campaign materials. It's whispered that these groups also get fidgety every time the DP engages some political heavyweights. Why? They fear the Johnny-come-lately could displace them from the power equation. *** A vulnerable group of citizens is up in arms over the long wait to receive money meant for them to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus. A source tells Corridors that the group has been pestering the government entity that was to pay out the money that President Uhuru Kenyatta last year directed to be given to the vulnerable group. However, it is said the Sh10 billion kitty was transferred from the initial paying entity to another docket that claimed it had a robust channel to reach the group. Months down the line, the majority of the members have yet to receive the money, while others received far less than promised. *** Is an MP running the show at one of the 47 counties? A small bird says the lawmaker, who was previously accused of being too close to the governor's wife, has overshadowed the leadership and is literally calling the shots. Known for his extortionist tactics, the MP has forced the county boss to rent his house as the governor's official residence at an exorbitant price. Curiously, the payment will be backdated as the governor has been homeless and renting a hotel room since 2017. The first payment of some recurrent expenditure went to the politician just to service the new residence. Already, the MP and the governor have hatched a plan to share some money released by a roads agency without implementing any project. A chief officer whom the MCAs complained about was transferred to the lucrative roads department in a mini-reshuffle. *** As the appeal case on the Building Bridges Initiative enters Day Three at the Court of Appeal, some people are understood to be orchestrating public pressure on the judges through press conferences, peaceful demonstrations and opinion polls. The target is to sway the court. The planners seem to be aware perceptions are more important than reality. (Edited by V. Graham)