Efforts by the government to increase the forest cover in the country has received a major boost after Equity bank partnered with Road Agencies. The bank partnered with the Kenya National Highways Authority, Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Kenya Rural Roads Authority. On Thursday, Kenha received 5,000 tree seedlings as a donation towards environmental conservation by the Equity Group. The current forest cover is 7.2 per cent but the state wants it increased to 10 per cent by 2022. At least two billion trees will be planted and nurtured at Sh48 billion to meet the target. To attain the 10 per cent tree cover as envisioned, the government has been calling for partnerships with both state and non-state actors. The trees received by Kenha will be distributed and planted along with road projects like the Eldoret Bypass and the Juja weighbridge. The Kenya Forest Service and Kenha have also signed a framework for collaboration towards tree growing and forest conservation. Aware of the impact road construction has on the environment especially trees, Kenha committed to supporting the development of a modern tree nursery for Sh20 million. The deal was signed on June 6 at Nairobi Arboretum. Kenha board chairman Wangai Ndirangu said the Authority is keen on restoring the sites they have worked on. “We have 21,500km of roads with reserves that can take trees,” he said. The occasion was graced by KFS board chair Peter Kinyua KFS chief conservator of forests Julius Kamau and Kenha director general Peter Mundinia. The tree nursery establishment seeks to generate and supply quality seedlings to the Nairobi county residents and its environs. It will also supply seedlings that will be used for roadside enrichment especially along with project areas where Kenha will be developing infrastructures such as highways and other urban roads. Wangai said floods in some of the roads were getting out of hand due to interference of vegetation cover. He cited Mahi Mahiu, Turkana and West Pokot where incidences of road destruction by floodwater have been noted in the past. The chairman said Kenha, KFS and Narok government will have a joint activity in August to restore the water catchment in Narok that has been leading to road siltation. Wangai said the collaboration with KFS and counties will also involve raising public awareness on the need to protect water catchment areas. He said West Pokot has been having landslides due to human settlements as a result of catchment degradation. Wangai said West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet will also be given the attention as it has been having challenges. The chair said the authority will be among the users of the tree nursery set to be put up at the Arboretum as several ongoing road projects will be restored with trees. Wangai said the collaboration with KFS will help Kenha get the right species to beautify roadsides. “In all our roads projects, wherever they happen, we have a component of environmental restoration and Nairobi expressway is also in our plan,” he said. Wangai said there is a budget in place to restore the road site by planting trees. He said Kenha has tree nurseries across the country to help with restoration. On his part, Kamau said KFS and Environment Ministry has been working with several partners to support the government's agenda of increasing the tree cover. “Approximately 25,000 hectares of degraded forest areas have been adopted for rehabilitation by both state and non-state actors,” he said. Kamau said about 30 ministries, departments and agencies have adopted a total of 2,500 hectares of forest areas across the country. “For non-state actors, about 26 organisations have adopted a total of 22,500 hectares of various forest areas across the country,” he said. Kinyua on his part said the collaboration was critical in enhancing the country's forest cover. Mundinia said road construction can be disruptive and sometimes the authority is called up to remove trees despite their will. He said the several trees cut needs to be replaced. “We are experts in road construction and not tree planting and that is why we are partnering with KFS,” Mundinia said. “Enhancing forest cover is everyone’s responsibility.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris