Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has urged residents to volunteer information that will help detectives find the killers of a boda boda rider in Limuru. Albert Njenga's body was found decomposing in a shallow grave behind a butchery in Nderu shopping centre. He was 22. Njenga's stolen motorcycle was recovered in Namanga. Nyoro said his administration is not taking the issue lightly, adding that he has instructed the county solicitor to represent the Kiambu government in the proceedings as a friend of the court. The governor said he will not stop following up with the case until justice is served for Albert Njenga. He spoke at Nderu public cemetery in Ndeiya ward where he had attended Njenga’s send-off on Friday. “This young man was an orphan. Who shall help him apart from us? I plead with everyone here who has some information regarding his death to tell the police or if you fear the police, just come to my office and I will know how to handle it,” he said. Lawyer Robert Githire, who was present at the funeral, pledged to partner with the county solicitor to assist the state counsel to prosecute the case. “I will become the boda boda’s lawyer and for this reason, I will offer my free service to assist the state counsel to prosecute the case. We shall ensure every detail has been considered by the court to convict the suspects so that justice is done,” Githire said. Suspects Toni Saitoti and John Laisa were arraigned before Limuru resident magistrate Fred Koome on May 26 in connection with Njenga's disappearance four days earlier. They did not answer the charges after the investigating officer Rose Lwambi said police needed 14 days to finalise investigations. Lwambi told the court that Njenga disappeared on May 22, but the two suspects were arrested at Namanga near the Kenya - Tanzania border on May 26. Koome ordered the two be detained at Tigoni police station and scheduled the case for mentioning on June 10. Former Ndeiya MCA Nelson Munga said the two should thank God that they were not arrested by the public, since they would have meted their anger against them. “Let us remain calm, let the justice system handle the issue but if the two were arrested by the public, justice would have been done without so many questions,” Munga said.  