Governors from the Lake Region Economic Bloc want the government to allow them to directly import rapid testing kits amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the area. Bloc chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the pandemic has continued to ravaged the region, which requires intensified testing. Oparanya, who is the Kakamega governor, said the rapid tests in the Covid-19 hotspot will boost the fight against the virus. The counties, Oparanya said, have also called on the development partners to support the LREB response strategy by increasing rapid testing kits by one million. “We are appealing to them to avail a total of 500,000 rapid test kits for the residents in the bloc region,” Oparanya said. Bloc member counties are Kisumu, Migori, Nandi, Kakamega, Bomet, Siaya, Busia, Homa Bay, Kisii, Vihiga, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kericho and Nyamira. Oparanya, who was accompanied by bloc vice chairman and Kisii Governor James Ongwae and Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o, spoke during the LREB governors’ summit on the Covid-19 pandemic status in Kisumu on Tuesday. He said there was a need to adopt rapid testing which is more cost effective to improve case detection and focus on the border and hotspot counties of Busia, Migori, Kisumu, Kisii, Kericho and Siaya. “We should decentralise rapid testing to subcounties and harmonise enforcement of public health measures such as hand washing, masking and social distancing,” he said. Oparanya also urged the national government to allow the hard-hit counties to directly import Covid-19 vaccines as part of wider measures to contain spread of the virus. The county chiefs said the Ministry of Health should provide a comprehensive plan on how the counties can realise rapid tests and vaccination of Covid-19 to flatten the curve of the pandemic in the region. The governors decried insufficient oxygen in the hardest hit counties. Oparanya cited Kakamega, Kisii and Kisumu as having overstretched oxygen supplies to patients. The three currently have oxygen capacity of 300 litres per minute. According to Ongwae, a patient requires oxygen provision of 50 litres per minute. The governors, however, assured the residents that the three counties with referral hospitals will soon instal additional oxygen plants. The counties will receive an oxygen plant by the end of the month. Kakamega will get a plant with a production capacity 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. Oparanya said Covid-19 cases are exponentially rising beyond the capacity of the health system to manage. In the last one week, new cases in the region stood at 2,171 from 1,589 the previous week. Total cases as at June 20 in LREB stood at 28,866, accounting for 16.1 per cent of the total confirmed cases nationally. Oparanya called for fast-tracking of money to counties from the National Treasury to help fight the pandemic. In mitigating the spread of the virus, the governors called for operationalisation of the health infrastructure – ICUs, coordination and optimisation sharing of specialised skills and services. Oparanya said counties should optimise available oxygen capacity in the region through sharing and procurement arrangements. “We have to establish and harmonise referral mechanisms between counties and cascade the isolation system to subcounties and strengthen home-based care and monitoring at community level through capacity building of community health workers,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori