The Teachers Service Commission will hire 5,000 teachers starting next month. Some 6,000 intern teachers will also be recruited in the 2021/22 financial year. In a communication on Wednesday, CEO Nancy Macharia said the Treasury has allocated Sh2.5 billion for the recruitment of the teachers. “This is to ease the teachers load in handling the increased enrollment. Qualified unemployed and registered teachers to look out for advertisements for applications next month,” she said. Macharia said they have trained more than 100,000 teachers in readiness for CBC implementation in Grade 5 in July. The Treasury had allocated Sh1 billion for the CBC teacher training in the next financial year. “So far we have trained 156,000 teachers in primary schools on CBC,” she added. A total of Sh202.8 billion was set aside for the education sector recovery programmes following lost time since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country in March 2020. The outbreak led to the closure of learning institutions for nine months. Treasury CS Ukur Yattani also said Sh12 billion will cater for free primary education, Sh2.5 billion for recruitment of teachers and Sh62.2 billion for the free day- secondary education including insurance for learners. "Sh4 billion is for the examination fee waiver for all class eight and form four candidates and Sh1 billion for the school feeding program," Yattani said. In addition, the Treasury has allocated Sh420 million for the digital literacy programmes and ICT integration in secondary schools. Last week, the Teachers Service Commission spent Sh206 billion on compensation to employees in the first nine months of the current financial year to become the highest spender among government ministries, departments and agencies. An analysis of recurrent expenditure shows a total of Sh354.45 billion was spent by government ministries, departments and agencies. According to a report by the Controller of Budget Margaret NTarusyakang’o on the National Government Budget Implementation Review for the financial year 2020-21, compensation to teachers stood at 57.3 per cent of total expenditure on payouts to employees by the national government. The report is an analysis of the first nine months of the current financial year.