The Kenya Defence Forces have confirmed some of its personnel perished after a military chopper crashed in Kajiado West County. KDF, however, did not mention the number of those killed in their statement. KDF said all the passengers on board the Kenya Air Force helicopter Mi171E which crashed upon landing at Ol Tepesi are accounted for and have been moved to safety. "Regrettably, following the crash, we suffered casualties. The process of communicating with the families to relay the informational KDF condolences are underway," the statement read. The area DC Morekwa Morang'a said at least 10 of those who were on board are feared dead. He said that as the chopper prepared to land, a large whirlwind occurred causing the pilot not to see the ground. The DC said the chopper was on its regular and normal exercises when the accident happened after takeoff from the Eastleigh Airbase on Thursday morning. KDF said those injured were airlifted and are at the Defence Forces Memorial Hospital, Nairobi. Aircraft accident investigators are at the site to establish the cause of the crash. Kajiado County Police Commander Muthuri Mwongera said the accident happened at about 8 am. The police commander confirmed that it is an Army chopper that crashed 60 km south of Oloopolos. Such choppers, they say, can carry a maximum of 26 passengers. Kajiado West OCPD Vincent Kitili said 13 passengers were rescued and flown to Forces Memorial Hospital in Nairobi. "This a military operation and we are not supposed to share the information from the ground. The military has taken over. Our duty is to file a signal later," Kajiado Kitili said. Mwongera disclosed that there were 23 passengers including the pilots in the army chopper that crashed in Oltinga and already 13 have been rescued from the wreck. "The accident scene has been taken over by the military police and officers from the scenes of crime unit. They are retrieving the and accounting for the dead," said Mwongera. One of the people on the ground said the chopper burst into flames as soon as it came down.