A timber dealer in Kisumu fears for his life over a Sh3 million business dispute with the county commissioner. Maurice Ochieng Oyier says he hired out construction materials worth Sh520,000 at Sh60,000 a month to Kisumu county commissioner Josephine Ouko in 2018. He claims she has refused to pay and has neither returned the goods. In a press briefing in Kisumu on Monday, he said Ouko has resorted to threats every time he demands his assets or the money owed. But when contacted, the county commissioner in a text message denied the allegations. "I'm not aware of such a thing. Does he want to extort [money from] me?" Ouko said. She said she hires plates from various places and they are returned. "I cannot and will not hold on to anybody's property, maybe he wants to extort [money from] me, times are hard. When was this? Where is the evidence? I cannot relate to all my M-Pesa transactions, let him give evidence of hiring or go to court," the commissioner said. Ochieng maintained that he hired out 9,200 feet of timber (3 by 2 and 6 by 1), 650 pieces of round poles and 84 pieces of construction plates worth Sh520,000. The Sh3 million has accrued for three years. Ochieng is also suing for damages due to loss of business. He said he delivered the materials to a construction site in Otonglo along the Kisumu-Busia road, where Ouko was putting up a commercial building in 2018. At the time, Ouko was Kisumu East deputy county commissioner. “We used a police truck which had been sourced from Maseno police station, courtesy of Ouko, to ferry the materials,” Ochieng said. He said Ouko paid him Sh60,000 via M-Pesa and he has statements to prove the transactions on different dates in 2018. “The materials were hired out on December 12, 2018, and were supposed to be returned on January 12, 2019, but I was later shocked that the items were not on-site,” Ochieng said. The agreement was verbal as he trusted the commissioner given his position as a senior government official, he said. Ochieng said efforts to reach Ouko to have his payments have been futile. “I have tried in vain to reach her on the phone. I also wrote a letter to her but she has not honoured such,” he said. Ochieng reported the incident at Kondele police station, but no action has been taken. He lodged complaints through letters to President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai. Ochieng also wrote to then-Chief Justice David Maraga, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, the Kisumu county commander and the office of the Ombudsman. Despite his complaints, he has not gotten justice. Ochieng said one of Ouko’s relatives bragged to him that there is nothing he can do as the commissioner is well-connected. Ouko’s sister allegedly works in the Office of the President and another relative at State House, Nairobi. “She chest-thumped that even her latest transfer had been revoked because of her connections in government,” Ochieng said of the relative. Human rights defender Audi Ogada appealed to the government to help Ochieng get justice. “The victim has suffered and walked a lot in vain in search of justice,” he said. Ogada said the state should ensure maximum security for the victim whose life is now in danger. He said nobody is above the law and the commissioner should pay the money she owes Ochieng. Ogada noted that the commissioner, as Kisumu county security team chair, must also guarantee security of the complainant and ensure he is protected and safe. Human rights activists in Kisumu have received numerous complaints about Ouko’s alleged high-handedness, he said. Some people have accused her of conflicts of interest and impunity. Ogada demanded that the allegations be promptly investigated. “As a civil servant, her conduct must always conform to the law and in strict adherence to Chapter Six of the Constitution. You must serve the public diligently and not take advantage of them,” he said. Ogada further said the public has lost trust and confidence in the commissioner, hence she should not continue serving in Kisumu. “We started losing trust in her when she led a demolition at Kibos in which a minor was killed during the night operation.” Ogada at the same time told Ouko to come clean on the controversy surrounding the publicised list of beneficiaries of the Sh350 million Uhuru Business Park, a national government funded project. “The stalls are supposed to accommodate 10,000 traders, but the commissioner published the names of 2,000 people only,” he said. Traders who were affected by the demolition in Kisumu have alleged that some of the beneficiaries are Ouko’s cronies, thereby raising the issue of conflict of interest. Recently, activist Boniface Akatch fled after the commissioner summoned him over an unknown issue. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 