@ppcheti Men in Lamu have been warned against marrying girls young enough to be their daughters and granddaughters and instead encourage a culture of education for girls and women. The warning was issued on Thursday by the Lamu Council of Elders. The elders said the number of young girls marrying or being married off to older men in the region had increased, especially during the Covid-19 period. Council chairperson Sharif Salim said there should be no fun in a man marrying a young girl instead of letting her pursue her education and make something meaningful out of her life. He said at some point, the older men cannot fulfil their conjugal obligations towards their young wives, leading to a lot of promiscuity and immorality as the girls seek sexual gratification outside their marital homes. Schoolgirls as young as 15 are being taken in as second, third, or even fourth wives by men who are as old as 70. Salim noted that many men had taken advantage of the harsh economic times occasioned by Covid-19 to lure girls from poor backgrounds into marrying them with promises of a good life and comfort. The council has called on the office of the county commissioner to have such men arrested to deter the escalation of immorality. “It is very disrespectful for old men to disregard their age and insist on marrying young women, knowing very well that they have no physical or financial stamina to sustain such unions. They have refused to accept that age has caught up with them and they think marrying small girls will change that,” Salim said. The men who wish to add more wives should go for mature women instead of imprisoning young, naive girls. “Young girls should be left to stay in school and make something out of their lives before they marry. I hope my fellow elder will heed to this,” he added. County commissioner Irungu Macharia said such practices are retrogressive and can only drag communities behind. He said his office will not hesitate to use such men as an example by having them prosecuted and jailed for marrying children. “As long as that girl is not yet 18 years, she is a child and is protected by law. If you marry her, we lock you up,” said Macharia.