Some good news! Football fans across the country are now able to stream each and every match of the UEFA Euro 2020 on Showmax Pro. This competition will run from June 11 to July 11 2021. Following the exciting launch in 2020, Showmax Pro adds on to Showmax live sports streaming from SuperSport together with entertainment offerings of music channels and news. It is expected from tradition that the Euro will produce outstanding soccer given the many of the world's leading leagues pitted on to one grand stage. According to UEFA, there will be a "romantic gesture" that involves matches being held in 11 cities across 11 countries to celebrate the 60th birthday of the tournament. Portugal will be defending the championship, although France, Belgium and England are all rated higher, and will be playing with high expectations from fans. What else is on Showmax Pro Available on Showmax Pro are all Premier League, Serie A, La Liga and PSL games as well as a wide range of live sports events including athletics, professional boxing and the world’s biggest marathons. Showmax Pro also includes a selection of live news channels, such as Euro News, Africa News and Newzroom Afrika.Outside of sport, Showmax has its biggest slate of Originals coming up in 2021, including the first Kenyan Original, crime procedural Crime and Justice, and the first Nigerian Original, a reality series starring reality star and musician Laycon. Both of these series are available to binge-watch in their entirety. There are also sport documentaries on Showmax including HBO’s gripping golfing documentary Tiger; What’s My Name: Muhammad Ali; Klopp: The Inside Story; and SuperSport’s ground-breaking Chasing the Sun, the series about the Springboks’ inspiring victory at the 2019 Rugby World Cup. There’s also a follow-up to the very popular Tali’s Wedding Diary, Tali’s Baby Diary; the small-town psychological thriller DAM; and the Cape Flats neo-noir murder mystery Skemerdans, all currently available to stream. Coming up later in 2021 is Showmax’s latest co-production with Canal+, Blood Psalms, an epic series based on ancient African mythology, as well as Showmax’s first licensed international reality TV series format, Temptation Island South Africa. Get started today. Subscribe to Showmax Pro from just sh.1,050/= per month.