The Vihiga county government is clearing pending bills that have grounded development projects, reduced bursaries and delayed staff salaries. The total pending bill is less than Sh300 million. Speaking to the Star, Governor Wilber Ottichilo said Sh1.8 billion was inherited from the previous administration. He said his administration will clear the  balance by mid-June as it has already paid more than Sh1.5 billion. “Of this Sh1.8 billion, after engaging the auditor general, we found that Sh1.1 billion was eligible, but Sh700 million was not, though we were compelled to pay,” Ottichilo said. “The matter is worse when the head of state issues directives that county governments must settle their pending bills, so we were left with no choice but to comply," he said. Ottichilo said his administration was forced to scale-down its programmes to pass a budget to clear its bills. He said agriculture, education, sports, culture, gender, transport and infrastructure were areas where most of the money was drawn to settle the bills. The governor also said key infrastructure and county employees' salaries were also affected so the bills could be settled. “We were not able to give out subsidised seedlings and fertiliser to our ​farmers ​as we had planned. In education, we were forced to cut down the bursary fund and some projects in our learning institutions to settle those bills,” he said. “Some junior staff could not understand why their salaries were being delayed, but the budget controller pinned staff payments on pending bills. This forced us to factor in pending bills before staff payment," Ottichilo said. Finance executive Alfred Indeche said since Ottichilo assumed office in 2017, pending bills amount to less than Sh300 million. “Those [remaining bills] we shall settle in the coming 2021-22 financial year,” Indeche said. Previously, the governor said criticism of his government is accepted but that should not be a weapon to cripple his administration by civil society. He said allegations of corruption in his government are not true and he was elected on a zero-tolerance to corruption platform. The review of the County Integrated Development Plan shows what the county has achieved and what is to be done moving forward, he said. Ottichilo has realised development in keys sectors. They include equipping Vihiga County Referral Hospital and other hospitals, establishing dental units in subcounty hospitals, installing 32- and 64- slice CT scan equipment at the county referral hospital. His administration has also hired tutors for Technical and Vocational Educational Training and Early Childhood Development. Edited by Kiilu Damaris