Butere MP Honorable Tindi Mwale's elder brother Fred Mwale succumbed to Covid-19 in Uganda. The MP informed Kenyans on his official social media page that his brother Fred had succumbed. Due to strict burial protocols in Uganda, Fred will be buried this weekend on a vast family farm in Iganga district in Uganda. The family had initially discussed the possibility of burial on Fred's ancestral farmland in Butere but shelved the idea due to COVID-19 restrictions in Uganda. Fred Mwale was born in 1976 and studied for primary and secondary education in Uganda. Fred who was based in Kampala, Uganda was the East African territory manager for Reckitt Benckiser , a British multinational consumer goods company. Fred and Tindi are both sons of the late Major Abel Mwale who was born in Butere but moved to Uganda in the 1940s to study and later became an influential Military officer in Uganda after independence in 1962. He rose to the rank of a Major at 26 years in Kabaka Mutesa's government and later became the head of procurement in Uganda Army under Obote I regime. He relocated back to Butere after Idi Amin expelled foreigners from Uganda. In Butere in 1970s Major Mwale built roads, bridges, clinic, shops and brought electricity and landline telephone from Maseno to his village. He also built a market center known as Mwale/Mukawa Centre which is now part of Mwale Technocity founded by his other son and investor Julius Mwale. He was a patriarch of a large extended family and was one of the largest landowners and investors in Kakamega County with rental houses in Butere, Bungoma, Kakamega, Mombasa and Nairobi's Loresho and Ngei Estates. "Fred Mwale is part of Major Mwale's extended family in Uganda whereas the MP Tindi , Mwale City owner Julius Mwale, and many other children belong to the Kenya's side of the family," Said Martin Okutoyi an uncle to the MP who retired from Kenya Army and is now based in Butere. Fred Mwale's loss to the family comes after the death of his maternal uncle Honorable Fred Mukisa in 2019. Former Ugandan Vice President Specioza Kazibwe is chairing the funeral and burial arrangements. He joined Makerere University in 1995 where he graduated in 1998 with a Bachelors degree in marketing and public relations. He later earned an MBA from Makerere University in 2003. He was employed by Smith kline Beecham as territory head for Uganda in 1999 and later moved to Reckitt Benckiser in 2008. He was a loving father and a philanthropist.