Thirty-six people will battle it out for the four vacant positions of commissioners at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The Selection Panel for the appointment of the commissioners has shortlisted and published the names of the 36 individuals from a pool of 660 applicants who had expressed interest in the positions. “While considering the applications, the selection panel observed that there were many qualified Kenyans who expressed interest in the position in the position of commissioner of the IEBC,” the panel’s chairperson Elizabeth Muli said in a statement on Saturday. She added, “The youngest applicant was 23 years old and the eldest 73 years old,” Muli said the shortlisted candidates will to the next stage – interviews – which will run from July 7 and July 22. “A psychometric test shall be administered on Wednesday, June 30, 2021 at 11am at the KICC. Oral interviews, incorporating a case study shall be conducted between July 7 and 22 at the KICC,” Muli said. The panel invited members of the public to submit written memoranda or any information of interest with respect to the suitability of the shortlisted applicants. The memoranda should be receive by June 25, 2021 to enable the panel scrutinise them. “It is notified that the selection panel may interview any member of the public who submits a memorandum on any of the applicants,” Muli added. Human rights defenders, former members of the constitutional commissions and university dons are among those shortlisted for interviews to fill the vacant four positions at the electoral agency. The positions fell vacant following the resignations of Roselyn Akombe, Paul Kurgat, Margaret Mwanchanya and Connie Maina after the 2017 general elections. They former national police service commission member Abdalla Mohamed (Nairobi), former judges and magistrates vetting board vice chairperson Roseline Doreen Adhiambo Odhiambo Odede (Siaya) and former KNCHR chairperson Kagwigira Mbogori (Meru). Former KNCHR chairperson Florence Shimbiri-Jaoko (Nairobi), Koki Muli and former NCIC commissioner Joseph Gitile Naituli (Meru) are also on the shortlist. Others are Abdirizak Arae Nunow (Garissa), Anne Mwikali Kiusya (Machakos), Caroline Njeri Ng’ang’a (Muranga), Catherine Muchiru Kamindo (Nyeri), Cecilia Ngoyoni (Marsabit), Con Omore Osendo (Kisumu),Dinah Jeruto Kipkebut (Nakuru), and Felix Useru Nyauchi (Homa Bay). Others are Francis Wanderi (Nyeri), Harriette Igonanga Chiggai (Kakamega), Irene Cherop Masit (Elegeyo Marakwet), Irene keino (Uasin Gishu) and Joseph Kang’ethe Ng’ang’a (Kiambu). Also shortlisted for interviews are Juliana Whonge Cherera (Mombasa), Julius Kiplagat Rotich (Nandi), Justus Abonyo Nyang’aya (Homa Bay), Justus Maithya Munyithya (Kitui), Koli Muli Grognon (Kitui), Lucy Jebet Chelimo (Baringo) and Maurice Amutabi (Vihiga). Others are Michael Napoo Ilukwol Lokuruka (Turkana), Murshid Abdalla Mohammed (Mombasa), Naisiae Poloshe Tobiko (Kajiado), Richard Okoth Oduor (Siaya), Rose Mumbua Musyoka (Makueni) and Roseline Doreen Adhiambo Odhiambo Odede (Siaya). Saeed Khamees Saeed (Mombasa), Salim Ndemo (Kisii), Sellestine Anna Mbii-Kiuluku (Makueni), Simeon Pkiyach Pkatey Muket (West Pokot), Tomothy Tipila Ole Naeku (Narok) and Zippy Nzisa Musyimi also made it to the list. Muli assured Kenyans that he panel will discharge its mandate with utmost fidelity to the constitution, warning any candidate who will attempt to influence the process will be disqualified. “Any attempt by a candidate to canvas or otherwise influence the selection process will automatically disqualify the candidate from the process,” she warned.