Candidates who sat their 2020 KCPE exams have until Tuesday to secure transfers to secondary schools of their choice The Star has established that at least 40,000 students will be admitted to secondary schools they did not pick, should they fail to secure transfers to their preferred institutions of learning. A huge number of parents have shunned the Education ministry's allotment in the selection exercise and are looking for slots in schools of their choice. A parent, who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity, said he secured a slot for his son at his preferred school after parting with Sh10,000. “When they asked me for cash I did not hesitate and have no guilty conscience about it because my son needs to go to school and if that money gets him a place, so be it,” the parent said. While making public the Form One placement data, Education CS George Magoha said poor selection guidance has caused many of the candidates to miss slots in their preferred schools. The struggle to join the so-called top-ranking secondary schools while shunning other institutions disadvantaged candidates, pushing the ministry to place them randomly in schools with available slots, Magoha said. The CS faulted parents and schools for failing to provide proper guidance to the pupils on the selection of schools. "This act made many of the candidates miss their preferred schools because it is impossible to select more than five learners from the same primary school," Magoha said. He called on headteachers and parents to help learners in the selection process. On Sunday, Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said most pupils did not secure places in their first choice schools. “This is bound to be very disappointing for the families concerned, leading to a huge number of parents seeking transfers to other institutions,” Maiyo said. Form 1 students are expected to report to secondary schools on August 2. Of the 1,179,192 candidates who sat the KCPE exam, 1,171,265 have been placed in secondary schools. National schools will admit 36,254 candidates, an increase from 33,000 that joined schools in the national category last year. Extra county schools will admit 201,077 students, 213,591 will join county schools, while 718,516 will join subcounty schools. Special needs schools will enrol 1827 students. Edited by A.N