Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s daughter Saumu Mbuvi has opened up about being diagnosed with bipolar and how she manages the mood-changing condition. Speaking to vlogger Sharon Mwangi, Saumu said she did not know she had bipolar. "I had a breakdown and I had to be taken to hospital, and that is when I was diagnosed. That was eight years ago," she said. "I was completely sick, I guess I had a trigger. I did not know I had bipolar for a long time. The minute I had a trigger, that completely broke me down. I would be rushed to the hospital. That is when I was diagnosed." Saumu explained how she is managing the diagnosis. "I did a self-discovery journey and I went to therapy. I cannot use certain drugs like weed. Also, I had to set boundaries against people who stress me. I cut off people and relationships. Now I’m at a good place." Saumu said her recent ex-boyfriend Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip was a huge trigger. "For me, relationships have not been working out because of the type of partners I have been choosing. I have been going for narcissists who have been dragging me down. They are the worst people to deal with if you have bipolar," she said. "I would wind up in hospital every two months. I was having hypomania episodes. I was not okay and this person would drag me down." Saumu said when she had hypomania, she would be hyperactive and could not sleep for four days. "For me when I break down, I start reading the Bible like the whole day. I get super spiritual." She narrated how her ex would ridicule her when she was not feeling well. "In my past relationship, any time I would break down, the person would call me crazy and that I’m mad, and those things would really hurt me. This is something I never wished for. I have learned to manage and live with it. It has not stopped me from being my best." In a past interview with Word Is, Anwar said he broke up with her for having bipolar. "She has a mental psychiatric problem called bipolar. That’s why we never stayed together. She breaks things, shouts and loses memory for even a week," he said. "Imagine, and all the Kenyans and media houses don’t know. I always hide this from people."