The construction of Nyanchwa-Falcon link road to bitumen standard is almost complete. The construction of the road was launched by Kisii Governor James Ongwae seven months ago. During the launch, Governor Ongwae said the road would ease congestion within Kisii town and relieve traffic to Suneka. “Once complete, the project is expected to be the shortest link to the CBD compared to the current distance through the stadium road," he said. Ongwae said apart from increased connectivity and reduced travel time, the project would trigger growth in the area and transform Nyanchwa estate into a mixed-use estate. Investor Finley Nyasani, who is constructing storey residential buildings at Nyanchwa estate, recalled how underdeveloped the place was in 2015 when he purchased land. “It was very difficult to transport materials to the site since the area was bushy and a hideout for criminals. I lost thousands of shillings to thieves who made away with construction materials, a move that delayed the project,” he said. Nyasani said he was contemplating disposing of the land until Governor Ongwae launched the road in October last year. “Although my project is underway, several people are inquiring and requesting reservation of rooms as the area has opened up and it is near town centre,” he said. Resident Alice Nyakweba said she differed with her spouse when he bought land in the area in 2014. “I begged him to look for alternative land because the place was inaccessible, but I am glad he bought it. I thank Governor Ongwae for bringing life to this area," she said. Project manager Haron Oyaro said Nyanchwa link road was funded by the World Bank through the Kenya Urban Support Programme. “We intend to instal street lights along the road before handing it over for public use,” he said. Municipal manager Nahashon Ongeri said they are building another access road from Nyanchwa car wash to Daraja Mbili market. “We call on residents and other stakeholders to cooperate as we implement the county programmes,” he said.