Vihiga Queens forwards will have to be sharp and convert their chances if they intend to retain the Women's Premier League title, coach Alex Alumira has said. Despite finishing the league unbeaten and topping Zone A  with 40 points, Queens have failed to turn their dominance into goals. They have so far scored 38 goals and conceded nine. In their ultimate match against tough-to -break down Trans-Nzoia Falcons on Saturday, the defending champions won 3-2 despite enjoying 79 percent possession. The team's profligacy in front of goal was evident as Queens who are hopeful of winning the title for a fourth consecutive time,  registered 20 shots but with only 11 on target hence leaving Alumira worried ahead of playoffs starting this weekend. "Our ball possession is not yielding commensurate results. We are not converting our chances and my strikers sometimes are guilty of squandering clear cut chances," he admitted. "The strikers lack the much needed sharpness and predatory instinct. We are going to amend this in the training sessions considering the playoffs  are just around the corner," said the serial winning tactician. Striker Jentrix Shikangwa looks formidable since she returned to the side after sitting for her KCSE exams. She has scored in all the three appearance— a much needed boost to the county- sponsored team in the absence of the indispensable Tereza Engesha. Engesha missed matches against Kisumu All Starlets and Trans-Nzoia with an injury and faces a race against time to be fit for the playoffs. It will be a big blow if she misses the playoffs since she's been a star performer throughout the season scoring 15 goals. In the 2019 season, she was KEFWA'S player of the year after bagging 36 goals. Alumira is happy with Shikangwa's progress having been out of action for two years. "Engesha is working with the physios at the moment and we can only wait and see how she responds. Shikangwa is slowly fitting in once again because she has been out of the game for close to two years. Seeing her name on the scoring chart makes me happy," he said. Vihiga will meet the winner pitting Wadadia against Gaspo in the playoffs.