Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka now denies reports that President Uhuru Kenyatta said he will support the National Super Alliance candidate in next year’s general election. This comes days after the Head of State in a meeting with Ukambani leaders was reported to have said he will pick his 2022 successor from among the Nasa principals if they unite and agree on a single candidate. "We were shocked to hear other people making issues out of it. I cannot remember President Uhuru Kenyatta saying he will back a Nasa presidential candidate," Kalonzo said in an interview with NTV on Wednesday evening. His words followed a series of tweets by Deputy President William Ruto, on Tuesday asking if Uhuru had destroyed Jubilee, a national party to pave way for tribal parties in Nasa. "EUCHO!!NGAI FAFA MWATHANI!! So, what happens to the Thurakus, the kumìrà kùmèrà contingent, the 8 million of us? None, no youth, no woman, no man of the 8M who woke up early and voted three times for UK/WsR ticket merit support? Sawa tu! Tutajipanga na support ya MUNGU," Ruto said. DP Ruto had on Saturday last week hit back at Raila and Kalonzo for plotting to unite against his 2022 bid, instead of presenting their agenda for the country. The two had hinted at reuniting ahead of the polls to defeat ‘thieves' during the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile. "I heard them saying that they want to unite so that they can beat Ruto. I want to tell them, let them look for policies and development agenda to sell to Kenyans. Uniting to beat someone cannot help anyone," DP Ruto said on Saturday. According to Kalonzo, however, a Ruto led administration would be full of graft. "It will be a corruption led administration for sure and we are going to tell Kenyans a lot more," Kalonzo said. Uhuru on Monday declared that he will pick his 2022 successor from among the Nasa principals if they unite and agree on a single candidate. Speaking at State House, Nairobi, Uhuru said the unity of the Nasa chiefs will determine if they will form the next government. "Steve (Kalonzo), listen to your people and what they are saying. Unite in Nasa then we shall see what will happen. Whatever you will agree on is what I will go with," Uhuru said. In the interview, Kalonzo also insisted that there is no way he will support Raila Odinga for presidency for the third time and that the One Kenya Alliance is ready to go all the way to the ballot.