Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has dismissed the possibility of the National Super Alliance (Nasa) co-principals reuniting ahead of the 2022 elections. Mudavadi said that the betrayal that rocked the Nasa coalition since its formation in January 2017 is beyond repair, as leaders from the coalition’s constitutes are sending conflicting messages. “When you send conflicting messages, you discourage people. As leaders, we must not send conflicting messages. I was the founder of Nasa, and we really pushed…but I wasn’t Kenyans to know there is a serious deficit of trust in Nasa,” Musalia said. The ANC leader was addressing the congregation on Sunday at Likoni PAG church during his two-day visit to the Coastal region. Musalia started his tour to the region on Saturday accompanied by a number of leaders from the ANC party, including the former National Assembly Speaker Kenneth Marende. Marende described Mudavadi as the solution to the economical challenges that the country is facing. His remarks come days after ODM leader Raila Odinga and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka hinted at the possibility of reuniting. Speaking on Friday during the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile, Raila said he and Kalonzo have never broken ranks, adding that they would team up to defeat people they described as hyenas in sheep’s clothing. “Mimi na Kalonzo hatuwezi kosana. Mimi na Kalonzo tutashikana tutoe hawa wezi, fisi waliovalia ngozi ya kondoo,” Raila said. The DP has also challenged Raila and Kalonzo over their plot to form a coalition ahead of 2022, saying that they should prioritise the agenda that they have for Kenyans before talking about forming coalitions. “I heard them saying that they want to unite so that they can beat Ruto. I want to tell them, let them look for policies and development agenda to sell to Kenyans. Uniting to beat someone cannot help anyone,” DP Ruto said on Saturday. Nasa coalition brought together Raila Odinga (ODM), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka, (Wiper), Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya), and Isaac Ruto of Chama Cha Mashinani (CCM). Since the 2017 elections which the coalition lost to the ruling Jubilee Party, all the co-principles have differed over who should be backed as the flag bearer in 2022. Earlier this year, ODM chairperson John Mbadi fired a salvo at the three principals – Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka, and Moses Wetangula – describing them as "incoherent cowards" who depend on endorsements but cannot stand to be counted. Mbadi told the trio to forget Raila’s endorsement ahead of the 2022 elections.