Kenya Wildlife Service rangers were deployed on Tuesday to rescue a Form 3 student who had been forced into marriage in Mosiro village, Kajiado. The man, who has three other wives, took the child from school to Ewuaso Kidong in Kajiado West where her parents forced her into marriage. He later moved her to Ilturot Barrikon village in Mosiro to avoid the law. The man is on the run. Kajiado West deputy county commissioner Morang'a Morekwa said the student was rescued by rangers from Barrikon. “We have no police officers around the area and it was only important that we could use government officers around the area. They went there armed with guns as our agents from local non-governmental organisations made calls to the victim,” Morekwa said. On Sunday night, the student tried to reach a human rights activist in Kiserian but was spotted and the phone taken away. “She was living like a kidnapped person and was being monitored round the clock to ensure she could not escape,” Morekwa said. The rescue team was led by senior chief Simon Kesheko who took the KWS rangers to the home after the girl's phone signals were tracked. Assistant county commissioner Janet Chirchir helped transfer the girl to a home in Ntulele as she awaited evacuation on Wednesday morning. Ngong police boss Philip Olekidi on Tuesday night dispatched four armed police officers to Ntulele in Narok to pick the student. “The student is already here and we are going to hand her over to Kajiado West DCC for further action,” Olekidi said. Morekwa said the student will be taken to the hospital for a medical check-up before she is handed over to her school. “I am going to have a meeting with the principal of her school this morning in a bid to make arrangements for the student to resume classes,”  he said. He has ordered the arrest of the father of the student. “The two families must feel the pain of their actions. I want this to be a good example to others who are still marrying off their children after forcing them out of school,” Morekwa said. Kajiado Woman Representative Janet Teyiaa said she will pay the student’s fees until she completes her education.