More than 200,000 farmers in Kiambu have benefitted from training in seed selection and proper agronomic practices to improve their yields. The farmers received support to test agrotechnology from selected growers who have been trained in the Village Based Agricultural Advisory methodology. The programme supported by the Alliance for the Green Revolution in Africa selected 50 farmers in six wards at first and has signed up 950 more to offer their services. Farmers on the Village Based Agricultural Advisory methodology complement the work of county extension officers by targeting their peers with information on practices that boost production. While visiting Kiambu farmers, AGRA board chair and former Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn called on African counties to embrace Village Based Agricultural Advisory methodology to enhance food security. Desalegn was in Kiambu to witness how the VBA concept is being implemented. He said the methodology has helped farmers adopt good farming practices in Kiambu and will serve as a benchmark for the other 12 countries targeted. "Leadership is important in agriculture and all African leaders should understand that even with the Covid-19 pandemic we have been tested simply because some of us ignored agriculture and food as an essential thing for our society," Desalegn said. He urged leaders to prioritise agriculture in budgetary allocations and support smallholders to reach markets. "We in AGRA work on a systemic approach, where we address systemic bottlenecks and binding constraints that need to be unlocked so that farmers can produce and increase their productivity and get appropriate value and price for their produce and also nutritious food," Desalegn said. The AGRA board chair also met various beneficiaries of the programme that is supported by the Kiambu administration, Local Development Research Institute and private sector seed companies. The firms provide seeds and fertiliser to the VBAs for demonstrations. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro said the VBA methodology is a revolution that has changed the lives of many farmers across the county. "As a result, the county has seen increased incomes and improved food security for our farmers," said Nyoro. He chairs the Agriculture committee at the Council of Governors. Nyoro said some farming technologies are not expensive but are not reaching the farmers through extension services. The county government is committed to making sure there are linkages between developers and users to boost agricultural output, he said. "We identified farmers who are willing to test different agriculture technologies but they are also willing to teach and demonstrate to other farmers. We started with 50 farmers in six wards and now we have 1,000 farmers working closely with other 200,000 farmers in the county," Nyoro said. The county boss said that agricultural extension officers serve over 4,500 farmers but their work has been made easier by the VBAs who serves 500 farmers. Nyoro said the extension officers and VBA working together have been able to improve the uptake of better maize and beans varieties and fertiliser use to increase yields. Nyoro said he is engaging other governors to adopt the VBA methodology in their counties to address food security. He said the concept will be discussed in the next devolution conference.  (edited by o. owino)