Acting Health director general Patrick Amoth, the new chairman of the WHO board, on Wednesday pledged to rally member states to end Covid-19  pandemic. Dr Amoth was Wednesday elected chairman of the World Health Organization Executive Board for the next one year. The announcement was made during the board meeting in Geneva. In his acceptance speech, Amoth called on member states to to utilise all available tools and remain committed to the founding WHO principles of seeking the highest possible level of health by all people. “The Executive Board has a huge task ahead to repair the fault lines that have emerged as we have battled the greatest health challenge humanity has  faced in the past century," Amoth said. During his term, he will preside over the election of WHO's director general. Amoth said the Covid-19 pandemic has strained health systems, which have triggered a deep economic as well as a social crisis. The pandemic has tested the limits of multilateralism, exposing  its weaknesses, and WHO has not been left behind, he said. The Executive Board consists of 34 members who elect a chairperson. He takes over from Dr Harsh Vadhan from India. “This is not an honour  the Republic of Kenya takes lightly and I commit, on behalf of the Government of Kenya, to undertake the duties and responsibilities entrusted to this office with utmost commitment and humility,” Amoth said. Kenya was elected to the Executive Board in 2019, and was previously represented by Dr Masasabi John until January 2020, when Dr Amoth was appointed as the substantive member. Kenya’s ambassador to UN and international organisations, Dr Cleopa Mailu, is the alternate member. They are elected for three years and may be reelected. The Executive Board meets at least twice a year; its functions are coordinated by a secretariat at WHO headquarters in Geneva. “The opportunity to serve humanity in this way is also a deeply personal privilege, which I will cherish for years to come,” Amoth said. (Edited by V. Graham) 