The Kenya Medical Research Institute  has developed a virus transport media  for Covid-19 materials to the lab for people who require to be tested for the virus. Initially, the VTM was not available in Kenya and it was impossible to import from other countries as no one was exporting it due to the nature of the global pandemic. Kilifi KEMRI Centre Ag deputy director  Joseph Mwangangi said most people are willing to export vaccines for Covid-19 because their countries have problems and want to first deal with their populations. In an interview, Mwangangi said since it was difficult to get the VTM, they had to innovate their own transport media which is now being exported to countries in the region. “This is an achievement for KEMRI. This pandemic has taught us to create solutions locally for our problems,” he said. Mwangangi said they have also developed a PCR kit for detecting Covid-19 which is similar to the one being imported. He said by utilising the PCR kit, the country will be able to cut the costs by nearly 50 per cent. “It was within our power to do this but I think our mindset has always been going the easier way where we buy products but now we have our own,” he said. Currently, he said, they want to develop it to commercial level and will partner with the Ministry of Health so that as they roll it out, the ministry helps them produce it in mass. He said since 1974, KEMRI has established seven research programmes that provide oversight about areas that the institute must be able to address as priority areas. Initially, he said, they had five centres and now have 14 of them which are all working on research for both communicable and non-communicable diseases. “We have successfully been able to provide treatment for malaria including making treated bed nets and have started reducing cases of malaria now by nearly 45 per cent with other places reaching 50 per cent," he said. On tuberculosis, he said, they have made treatment success saying it used to take one year but now takes only four months for treatment. Mwangangi said they have launched a clinical trial for schistosomiasis a disease for children commonly known as Kichocho in Swahili, which they now have treatment appropriate for children. “We have a clinical trial for a vaccine in malaria which will reduce malaria by around 55 per cent for those that receive the jab,” he said. The official said there is a new but slow pandemic of cancer with so many types of cancers being reported. He said they have begun to do research to understand the genetics background of the cancers and are using other tools for other diseases to get treatment of the disease. “We want to use what we call genomics or genetics of cancer to look for biomarkers that once we identify those biomarkers in a human host, we can use those biomarkers to diagnose certain cancers,” he said. He said for cancer treatment, the most important thing is early detection and diagnosis to be done at stage one. By using the biomarkers, he said, they will be able to know whether to do radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or both to the patient, adding that they are working together with the cancer institute to achieve that. The other area he said is for the treatment of infectious diseases. He said there is a problem with diseases that are not responding to treatment commonly known as drug-resistant such as cholera or diarrhoea. He said up to 60 per cent of such diseases do not respond to treatment and normally the problem is caused by abuse of antibiotics and counterfeits being brought to the country illegally. Currently, KEMRI, he said, has a project that is targeting major referral hospitals in the country which aims at building capacity on human resources to do surveillance and detect disease-resistant drugs. -Edited by SKanyara 