Petroleum and Mining CAS John Mosonik has finally broken his silence and said he is ready to quit his government job before the end of the year to vie for Bomet governor. Mosonik now joins the long list of civil servants intending to vie for elective seats in the upcoming election. His declaration complicates the maths for two contenders - current Governor Hillary Barchok and Chama Cha Mashinani party leader Isaac Rutto - who have already declared their interest to defend and reclaim the seat respectively. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has already set February 9 next year as the last date for all civil servants aspiring for seats to resign from their positions. Speaking during a function at Bukunya in Bomet East, Mosonik said he has the ability to transform the county and ensure the electorate get value for their money on service delivery. “I have served the nation since 2013 and it is now my time to come home and serve my people. It is good when I am retiring I will be counting my achievements even here at home,” said the CAS. Mosonik used the opportunity to call on the residents to be cautious when selecting leaders in the next election, saying the mistakes that have happened should not be repeated. “Going into the next election, let us make the right decisions, let us be keen and not be duped by individuals who are after their own interests,” he noted. While shying off from criticising the current county leadership, Mosonik instead told the residents to scrutinise their score cards saying those who have failed to perform to the expectation must be rejected. The Chief Administrative Secretary claimed some of the current leaders have misused their opportunities by enriching themselves at the expense of Kenyans hence need to vote them out. The CAS was accompanied by former MCAs Julius Korir (Kembu) and Samuel Bor (Chemaner). He challenged the residents to hold the county leadership accountable saying five years was enough for an administration to prove its worth. “Let us all hold the current leaders responsible. They gave us their manifesto and we have to mark for them to see if they delivered or lied,” he remarked. He questioned the unfair distribution of resources in the county, saying it was sad that residents were suffering yet billions of shillings are being allocated yearly. Edited by Henry Makori