The development of any country is dependent on the implementation of the various policies that are put in place by the government. Broad-based economic development is only achieved when progress is made across the economic, social, and political pillars of the economy. Vision 2030 has clearly enumerated the three pillars and envisages that Kenya will have made great strides by 2030 across all three pillars. On the economic front, the government has over the past few years increased its focus on developing the infrastructure network of the country. This has come at an immense cost since it requires heavy capital expenditure investment which cannot be met purely through tax collections. In a bid to streamline the management of the public debt and entrench prudent fiscal management practices the Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy was commissioned by the National Treasury. The overarching objective is achieving fiscal consolidation. It envisages a reduction in the fiscal deficits to reduce the overall cost of debt on the economy and ensure debt sustainability. The government has, however, not enumerated how it will achieve fiscal consolidation over the medium term. One of the notable proposals is the issuance of part of the external debt in local currency to mitigate the impact of exchange rate risk and change the currency composition of Kenya’s debt portfolio. It is, however, likely to face implementation challenges owing to reluctance by international lenders. International commercial and concessional lenders consider the United States Dollar to be a safe haven that allows them to mitigate against fluctuation in local currencies. It is commonplace to experience capital flight whenever the local currency experiences volatility. The depreciation of most African countries’ currencies in the past few years has seen them shed considerable value and this indirectly impacts the intrinsic value of any external loans which are dominated in the local currencies. This volatility in local currencies is the key deterrent to these lenders. This is coupled by the fact that in the event that such a government paper was to be floated to external lenders it would be highly priced to factor in the perceived risk. The government projects that the budget deficit will reduce to 5.4% in FY 2020/21 from 7.6% in FY 2019/20. This will be achieved through a reduction in the development expenditure by a whooping Sh143.5 billion to Sh587.3 billion while the recurrent expenditure will slightly increase by Sh21 billion. The total expenditure is estimated at Sh2.7 trillion which is 23.6 per cent of the GDP. It is thus clear that fiscal consolidation will no doubt come at a cost to the economy since a reduction in the development expenditure could lead to unprecedented delays in ongoing projects as well as an increase of the stalled projects. There is, however, very minimal room to adjust recurrent expenditure owing to increased interest payments, pensions payments, and fixed wages & salaries. The composition of the public debt has on the other hand been changing slowly since FY 2018/19 in a clear policy shift with a preference for domestic debt being evident in the past few years. This trend seems to have been broken by the Covid-19 pandemic which has forced the government to seek external funding to support the economy. It is notable that the external debt that the government has taken up recently is largely financed by concessional loans and government-to-government lending. The uptake of commercial debt prior to the Covid-19 pandemic is however likely to hamper the achievement of the medium-term debt objectives. There is the often-ignored risk of publicly guaranteed debt mainly to public institutions. This has grown to Sh158.1 billion as of December 2019 just Sh41 billion off the current ceiling of Sh200 billion. This remains a key challenge that the government must address since we’ve experienced circumstances where the government has had to take over these loans. Public Private Partnership’s (PPP’s) provide an avenue of reducing the debt intake by the government but it is important to ensure that the returns on such projects and the benefits to the citizenry exceed their costs. Public debt has been growing over the years with the national debt ceiling of Sh9 trillion set to be raised to accommodate the growing needs of the government. As the government forges forward with fiscal consolidation it must be alive to the fact that it will be a tough balancing act to ensure that it does not abdicate its responsibility of implementing development projects, while at the same time managing our debt level and risks. Robert Maina is a Senior Tax Manager at EY. The views expressed herein are not necessarily those of EY.