Thika Queens are the new Kenya Women's Premier League champions after thumping  Gaspo Women 3-0 in the finals at ASK Grounds, Nakuru on Sunday. Queens made light work of the Gatundu-based side, with Rachael Muema's 38th-minute strike and Essie Akida's brace in the 57th and 65th minute proving enough to deliver the team's third title. They had won the title in 2015 and 2016 before  Vihiga Queens took command of the proceedings in 2017, 2018 and 2019. The win also saw Thika own the Kiambu derby bragging rights. After the match, Thika coach Benta Achieng admitted she was surprised by the full-time scoreline but acknowledged her charges played according to script. "I did not expect to win the match 3-0, to be honest.  But the victory is deserving. Our strategy of playing ground ball worked well and all departments really functioned properly," she said. "Team work and discipline has been our secret. Akida and Mwanahalima Adam have shown why they deserve playing for Harambee Starlets. This trophy is a result of their sterling efforts," Achieng said. On his part, Ayub Nziani, the Gaspo coach, bemoaned the wastefulness of his charges in front of goal and registered his disappointment at the manner in which his team was torn apart by a rampant Thika, who are unbeaten in 15 previous matches prior to the final. "We wasted three glorious chances in the first half which was a real letdown. Our mission was to win the league but it has escaped us. We will recollect ourselves and bounce back stronger than before," he said. "I have taken charge for about eight matches but the transformation is evident. We need to sign new players to be more competitive next season," he said. Thika Queens goalkeeper Monica Karambu won the golden gloves award after her unrivalled performance in goal. 23-year old forward Mwanahalima Dogo Adam claimed both the top scorer and the Most Valuable Player awards. Dogo has been inspirational for Thika, scoring 21 goals. She scored twice in the semifinal against Nakuru Queens and also created the assist that saw Muema give Thika the lead in the final. Dogo was a thorn to opposition defences, bagging hattricks against Kibera Soccer, Kayole Starlets and Mathare United. Victory in the final saw Thika finish the season unbeaten, scoring 56 goals and conceding just 11 times.