The government has directed all boda boda riders in Kirinyaga county to form and register groups before the end of the month. County commissioner Jim Njoka on Tuesday said this is one of the strategies the government intends to adopt to curb crime. He said boda bodas are one of the most vulnerable groups and are easily lured into crime, hence the rise in insecurity. He regretted that they allow themselves to be used by politicians to cause mayhem during the electioneering. Njoka lauded security officers for their efforts in suppressing crime. He cited the ‘Wesami’ gang that was gradually sprouting in Kutus but was snipped, thanks to the speedy action by security agents. Eight members of the group, among them boda boda riders, were arrested and prosecuted. “Through the groups, we want to establish where they stay, who their local administrators are and where they operate. Moreover, we want to help them engage in other income-generating projects. “I also want to warn individuals intending to initiate gang groups and people intending to join them as members. Those who have joined, your days are numbered. We are hawk-eyed and we will come for you,” Njoka warned. The county administrator spoke at Wang’uru deputy county commissioner’s office where he led a security meeting that brought on board all security officers and local administrators in Mwea East. After the meeting, Njoka led the team in torching 13 gambling machines that were nabbed on Monday evening in various bars across the subcounty. He regretted that the betting machines had made a comeback even after the local administrators invested so much energy and time in eradicating them. He warned those possessing similar machines to surrender them to their local chiefs or assistant chiefs. “The situation is so dire that some residents are operating them from their homes. I want to give them one week to surrender them. I have also instructed the chiefs and sub-chiefs to go round the villages and confiscate them after which we will burn them. “We have also closed down various bars where we have found the machines and will close many more that will be caught operating them,” Njoka said. He also further appealed to members of the public to cooperate with local leaders in getting rid of the gaming machines, which he blamed for broken families. He, however, denied claims that a suicide case due to gambling had been reported. “Many of our youths are spending too much of their time in gambling rather than engaging in productive work. This has caused untold suffering as they are losing their families.” Residents were also urged to strictly observe Covid-19 control directives. Njoka said many residents have ceased to comply with the directives, a situation that puts them in danger of contracting the disease. He said in May alone, 2,322 people across the county were punished for violating the directives. Some 53 bar licences were also revoked and the premises shut down for operating during prohibited hours. "The presidential guidelines are still much in use. Let us not push you to obey them. Make our work easier by adhering to them as you protect yourself and others. The fourth wave is predicted to be deadly and as such, everyone should take personal responsibility," he said.