Education CS George Magoha has been urged to let KCPE pupils review the choice of secondary schools they were selected to join. Embu Catholic Diocese Bishop Paul Kariuki said there are widespread complaints that learners with good marks were selected to join schools they consider inferior, and which they did not choose. For instance, private schools in Embu have complained many of their pupils who scored more than 300 marks were placed in day schools. Speaking on Saturday at Consolata hospital-Kyeni, Bishop Kariuki said pupils admitted to schools they do not like are likely to resort to ill behaviour out of frustration. "Every student should be placed according to merit and choice, not by their background. I would like the ministry to respond to these complaints so that parents can feel considered, some have serious claims that require ministry's attention," Kariuki said. At the same time, the cleric, who also chairs the education services in Embu, said the Ministry of Education should consider revising the qualifications for one to join teacher training colleges. The ministry raised the overall grades to C, with C grade on maths, languages, sciences and humanities. He praised Consolata Hospital health workers for their commitment to the war on Covid-19. "I am happy to see everybody uniting in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. It has been a combined effort from Embu residents, health workers and well-wishers," he added. The event was to celebrate family day at the mission hospital, which received assorted PPE from Equity Bank. The bank was represented by Runyenjes branch manager Peter Njoroge, Embu town branch manager Teresia Migua and Equity health relations officer Kepha Waweru. Peter Njoroge said the bank is aiming at supporting the health sector in the county to ensure the people of Embu county are safe from the pandemic. "Health workers has been in forefront in fighting the corona virus and we felt empowering them will be protecting our people. We are aiming at partnering with all health facilities in the county to contain the pandemic," Njoroge said. Consolata Hospital director Fr Dominic Muriuki said the facility has had Covid-19 patients treated and sent back home. He expressed his joy that they have not lost any of the facility workers to the pandemic. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)