Kenya Under 23 head coach Stanley Okumbi has urged top-flight clubs to stop clinging onto players drafted into the Emerging Stars provisional squad for the 2021 Cecafa Senior Championships in Ethiopia. Okumbi expressed concern after it emerged that a good number of players handed call-ups were yet to show up on the second day of residential training camp on Monday morning. “We are missing a couple of players who are active for their clubs in the Football Kenya Federation leagues, hopefully, we will have a full house by the time we travel to Ethiopia. We still stand a chance, nonetheless. We are not there yet but I’m confident the players we have at our disposal are up to task,” said Coach Okumbi. Previously, the tournament featured senior players but with the new format, it has now been reserved for u23 players with an allowance of only three senior players. Okumbi thanked coaches and clubs who had already set their players free for national duty despite their busy schedules. Benson Omalla is among the experienced players making a return to the side after arriving in the country a fortnight ago following a botched attempt at turning professional in Sweden. The lethal striker has reportedly linked up with Kenyan champions Gor Mahia, although the side's head coach Vaz Pinto said he might have to wait a little longer before he can be cleared to play. "I'd wish to draft him up for duty but his international transfer certificate is still in Sweden," said Pinto. Tusker sensation, Henry meja has also been included in the squad. The team hit camp on Sunday, to prepare for the tourney that will take place in Ethiopia’s Northern City of Bahir Dar. Goalkeepers: Brian Bwire (Kariobangi Sharks), Caleb Otieno (Gor Mahia), Dolph Junior Owino (Nairobi Stima); Defenders: Jimmy Ndungi (Tusker), Portipher Odhiambo (Vihiga Bullets), Silvester Owino (Kakamega Homeboyz), Moses Mudavadi (Nzoia), Collins Shichenje (AFC Leopards), Boniface Mwangemi (Kariobangi Sharks), Yussuf Mainge (AFC Leopards), Fredrick Alushula (Kariobangi Sharks), Brian Wepo (KCB); Midfielders: Joshua Nyatini (Posta Rangers), Marvin Nabwire (AFC Leopards), Sven Yidah (Nairobi City Stars), Vincent Wasambo (KCB), Faraj Ominde (Tusker), Reagan Otieno (KCB), Oliver Maloba (Nairobi City Stars), Peter Thiong’o (AFC Leopards), Francis Mwangi (Mwatate United), Ambrose Sifuna (Sofapaka), Josephat Lopaga (Posta Rangers), Steiner Musasia (Posta Rangers), John Njuguna (Ulinzi Stars), Dennis Musamali (Nzoia Sugar), Elisha Wekesa (Nzoia Sugar); Forwards: Benson Omalla (Gor Mahia), Henry Meja (Tusker), Sydney Lokale (Kariobangi Sharks), Ken Wanyonyi (Bungoma Superstars), Alfred Tanui (Kisumu All-Stars) 