The Geothermal Development Company will integrate industrial heat parks at its Baringo Silali project for optimal utilisation of green energy. “Heat parks will transform the county and the country. A heat park offering reliable and affordable energy will create more employment and boost the economic well-being of the people here,” GDC managing director and CEO Jared Othieno said. He said they are already changing the lives of residents through the provision of purified fresh water. "So far, our freshwater pipeline for the community is 160 kilometres long. We have 20 water purification points where residents draw water for domestic use. We have also provided water troughs for cattle use. We are planning to expand the water line as the project progresses,” he said. GDC recently struck a huge well at Paka Hills. The well is a big boost to the company in its quest to develop geothermal energy in the country. “This is an impressive well. It is huge and a pointer to a great resource around here,” Othieno said. “We’re delighted. Such a high-yielding well gives us a lot of hope in this field. Our strategic projections are to ensure optimal utilisation of geothermal resources beyond generation of electricity. There is so much that geothermal has to offer and that is what we are working on.” The GDC boss spoke during a tour of the project. He was accompanied by KFW-German Development Bank officials. KFW is financing the first phase of the Baringo-Silali Geothermal project at a cost of €80 million. The KFW mission was led by Kenya and Somalia country director Oska von Maltazan.  “The progress so far is impressive,” Maltazan said. “There are many highlights in this project. I think the most exciting one was to see that huge well discharging steam and demonstrating the power of the earth. When fully harnessed, this energy will support major economic development for this country.” The KFW boss said the current financing is ending in August 2022. The Baringo-Silali block is estimated to have a potential of 3,000MW. For the first phase, GDC is targeting to develop 300MW by 2030 from Paka, Korosi and Silali fields.  