Kenya Lionesses camp will receive a major boost when USA-based star forward Felmas Koranga arrives in the country this weekend. Assistant coach Tony Ochieng said the Troy University star player, who has had a storming college year, is eager to join the team ahead of the FIBA Africa AfroBasket Zone Five Qualifiers slated for Cairo, Egypt from July 5-10. Koranga, sister to Moran's Ariel Okal was named the best re-bounder during the FIBA Africa Zone Five women qualifiers in Kampala, Uganda in 2019. She will be the third diaspora-based player to come home after the arrival of Victoria Wanjara also from USA and Mercy Wanyama from Spain. The pro players, Ochieng noted, know exactly what to do and will be expected to carry the national side. Lionesses will shift gears when Mombasa-based players join in this weekend. The zonal qualifier is slated for Cairo, Egypt from July 5-10. "From the few sessions that we have had at Nyayo Stadium, the team spirit is sky high and the girls are peaking well," Ochieng said. "We have had encouraging sessions and with about 20 days left, we will double our efforts as soon as we start camping." Ochieng said Wanjara, who arrived in the country last week has already shown her true qualities. "She is good and can comfortably and effectively cover four positions which is also an added advantage to the team. It's a blessing to have her in the team and the fact that she can play in all positions but centre is an added advantage," he noted. Ochieng said all they are waiting for is the green light from the government to assemble the team for more serious training. Four coaches are handling the team in the absence of head coach, George Mayienga, who is yet to arrive from his base in Kampala, Uganda. They include Mike Opel, Eunice Ouma as well as team manager Sylvia Kamau-Ocholla — who is also an accomplished coach. Kenya will face stiff competition from champions Egypt, Uganda, Rwanda and debutants South Sudan. The winner will secure a ticket to the women AfroBasket.