A lead investigator in a case revolving around a letter that purported to expose a plot to assassinate Deputy President William Ruto, has denied claims that he listed Interior PS Karanja Kibicho as one of the witnesses. In cross-examination on Tuesday, investigator Isaac Ruto said he did not probe whether the President received the letter as it was not necessary because it was a fake letter. He was testifying against former State House digital strategist Dennis Itumbi and Samuel Gateri who have been accused of publishing a false statement. It is alleged that they published a letter dated May 30, 2019, with the intent to cause anxiety to the public peace. Gateri is alleged to have made a letter dated May 30 purporting it had been signed by a Cabinet Secretary in the conspiracy to assassinate the DP. In the cross-examination led by Itumbi's lawyer Katwa Kigen, Ruto confirmed to court that he did not investigate where the meeting with the DP was held. When asked by Kigen if he investigated whether the letter had been written by a Cabinet secretary, the investigating officer said he did not. Kigen, however, told court that the investigating officer had not provided any evidence in court to have the CSs confirm that they did not author the letter. “None of the CSs wrote the letter as it was Itumbi who composed the letter,” the investigator told court. Ruto told Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku that the investigating team made the determination that the letter was fake. “I did not seek the forensic expert to tell if the letter was fake. The expert was to retrieve information and not to determine the authentication of the letter,” the officer added. Ruto said he sent the mobile phones to a forensic expert since he wanted to know who the originator of the letter was. He denied participating in the making of the expert report which is filed in court as an exhibit. “I gave two mobile phones belonging to Itumbi to retrieve information about the alleged fake letter,” he said. The court heard Itumbi was arrested in town and not at DP Ruto's office. The officer added that at the time of his arrest, Itumbi had deleted details in his phone. Ruto said he did not retrieve any information at the forensic expert because it was already tampered with. He had formatted the phones. On June 16, the officer told the court that after he received intelligence information from his boss Peter Maina, he proceeded to Embu where he found Gateri and gained access to his mobile phone. He confiscated his phones and his national identity card. “Particular information that made me arrest him was because of the information he had posted on his Facebook page and later pulled down,” he said. The court also heard that no meeting took place at La Mada Hotel where the question of Ruto’s assassination is alleged to have been raised. The officer said they never bothered to check with the management of the hotel whether such a meeting took place. -Edited by SKanyara 