More than 100 members of a family in Ngelani village, Mavoko, Machakos, spent Tuesday night in the cold after their houses were demolished over a land dispute. They included children, daughters-in-law, grandchildren and great-grandchildren of 80-year-old Mary Muli. Mary is the widow of Charles Muli. Athi River subcounty police commander Anderson Njagi said an individual claiming ownership of the 67 acres hired some men to demolish over 20 structures belonging to the family and ejected them on Madaraka Day at 5am. He said the evictions were illegal. Njagi said the authenticity of an eviction order produced by the unnamed individual claiming the land had yet to be verified. “The evictions were conducted by hired men. They were illegal. I have summoned the person who claims ownership of that land. There was a court eviction order whose authenticity had yet to be verified by the OCS,” Njagi told the Star on Tuesday. The land in dispute was fenced off by the individual a month ago, leading to confrontations between the family and the demolition crew. The hired men were beaten during the confrontation and had to be rescued by police officers. One of Mary’s son, Joseph Muli, and daughter-in-law Winfred Kivulu, were later arrested. Joseph has been held at Athi River police station for more than a week now.  Kivulu was arrested last Friday. Njagi said the two arrests were not related to the land issue. He said the two had been charged at a Mavoko court with assault and were being detained following a court order. The evictees claimed that despite being thrown out of the land, they are still being threatened with more arrests. Despite Njagi denying that police officers were not involved in the eviction, family members maintained that some officers accompanied the men hired to evict them. They were armed with crude weapons as they demolished houses at 5am on Tuesday. “We were asleep when one of my sons woke me up at 5am shouting, ‘mama amka, nje kumeharibika’. Armed police officers in uniform went to my son’s house as I ran away. They wanted to arrest me,” narrated Agnes Kioko, who is Mary's daughter-in-law. Agnes said their household items, including utensils, electronics and food, were also destroyed. “I have taken my belongings to a church. I don’t have anywhere to go with my six children and grandchildren. Those who demolished our houses were baying for our blood, hence we had to flee. We are calling on the government to intervene.” Agnes’s daughter-in-law Faith Mwikali, 22, has a four-month-old baby and has not eaten anything, meaning breastfeeding is a problem. “I haven’t eaten and the child needs to breastfeed. I don’t know what to do. They have destroyed everything, including cooking flour.” Their uncle Charles Munyau said they settled on the land in 1965 after acquiring it in 1963. He said they had all the documents to prove ownership. They questioned why their houses were demolished, yet there was an active land case at the High Court in Machakos. Athi River deputy county commissioner Charles Wambugu had earlier condemned a failed eviction of the family from the land by the same individual. Wambugu said court orders must be respected, noting that the claimed court eviction order would be investigated to determine its authenticity. He said all court orders must be effected by relevant officers commanding stations. Edited by A.N