Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has told off President Uhuru Kenyatta's supporters who claim he is too young to retire next year. He said that Uhuru should prepare to go home after his second terms is over next year August. “President Uhuru Kenyatta is going home and there is no debate about that. Kama anataka kurudia na huku kuna watu wao aende amwambie haitawezekana.(If he wants to come for another term and his people here, go tell him it is not possible),” he said. Kabogo, while speaking at a family function at Ruiru on Monday, noted that the current Constitution indicates that the President cannot hold office after two terms. “The present katiba inasema aende nyumbani ( The current Constitution says that Uhuru should go home after 2022)," he added. Article 142 (2) of the Constitution of Kenya 2010, states that a person shall not hold office as president for more than two terms. At the same time , the former governor poked holes into the decision that recently saw National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi being coronated as the spokesman of Mt Kenya. Kabogo alluded that the event was President Uhuru indirectly telling Central that Muturi will lead them into the 202 General Election. “The step he (Uhuru) has taken to tell us who will lead us we cannot accept. Everyone should carry his own cross. (hatutakubali . Kila mtu ajibebee msalaba yake) ,”he added. Kabogo said that he will be the one taking Uhuru's place come next year. Division has sparked Central region after the coronation of Muturi. The National Assembly Speaker said he is ready to serve the people of Mt Kenya region after being coronated as the region’s spokesman. Muturi was coronated last month at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a County, an event that was attended by hundreds of elders. Governor Mwangi wa Iria organised a cleansing ceremony of Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine. Last week, elders from the Kikuyu Council of Elders and Kiama Kia Ma said they have nullified the elevation of Muturi as spokesman for the Mt Kenya region. The elders who spoke after a cleansing ceremony said their prayers had invalidated the coronation.