Women leaders have dismissed claims that Jubilee party is losing popularity in Central region. They said the challenges facing the party were issues that can be solved and will be dealt with in due course. The women led by elected leaders asked Kiambaa residents to support Jubilee candidate Kariri Njama in the by-election set for July 15. Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe said every party has its share of challenges which only come out in the open when members start to disagree. “We know there are challenges, just like any other party. Jubilee is the best political party in the country so far. However, people counter the challenges once they come up them. Those facing our party will be resolved soon,” she said. Former Nyeri Woman Rep Priscilla Nyokabi urged residents not to read too much into some legislators moving to other parties, saying they have not resigned from Jubilee. “We cannot allow our people to be lied to, to move to another direction. These legislators were elected on Jubilee ticket and if they want to decamp, they can write a letter to the party secretary general and follow the due process for decamping. They are still our members,” she said. Nyokabi told residents that those campaigning for other political parties to clinch the seat were elected on Jubilee which means the party is popular. “Do not be the first constituency to take to Parliament a candidate of a new and unpopular party. Vote for the Jubilee candidate,” Nyokabi said. They were speaking at Ruaka town on Saturday, where Jubilee women MPs were campaigning for Njama. Those present included Nyokabi, Kibe, Kiambu deputy governor Joyce Ngugi, Maragua MP Mary Wamaua, former Nairobi assembly speaker Beatrice Elachi, Lena Koinange among others. Njama is facing off with UDA candidate Njuguna wa Wanjiku for the  seat left vacant after the death of area MP Paul Koinange on March 31. Last week, legislators including Kiambu Woman Rep Gathoni Wamuchomba, Githunguri MP Gabriel Kago, Nakuru West MP David Gikaria among others joined hustler movement camp which is pro Deputy President William Ruto. -Edited by SKanyara