A proposal by the Teachers Service Commission to reform teacher training will limit trainees to undergraduate courses that match subjects taught in secondary schools. The popular Bachelor of Education will be abolished and replaced with a four-year rigorous teacher training programme. Under the proposal, secondary school graduates who qualify to join university will do basic degrees in either science or arts before proceeding for a one-year postgraduate diploma training. The TSC will only enrol them as teachers after successful completion of a professional postgraduate diploma. However, analysis of the proposal reveals that some graduates will be barred despite attaining the two levels of certification. This will affect those who’ll pursue degree programmes that do not match the subjects taught in secondary schools. “Persons whose training is in subjects that are not in the curriculum irrespective of a postgraduate diploma in education do not qualify for registration and employment,” the proposal reads. The secondary school subjects are classified into five categories and include compulsory subjects of English, Swahili, and Mathematics as the first group. Group two subjects include science subjects of Biology, Physics, and Chemistry. Group three subjects are History and Government, Geography, Christian Religious Education, Islamic Religious Education, and Hindu Religious Education. Group four subjects include Home Science, Art and Design, Agriculture, Computer Studies, Aviation, Electricity, Power Mechanics, and Woodwork. Group five subjects include French, German, Arabic, Music and Business Studies. This means, despite a student attaining a postgraduate diploma, they may be disqualified from teaching, employment in the changes if their undergraduate degree is not in one of the subject areas taught. Among those disqualified for teacher training include graduates who will have pursued a degree in natural resources, journalism, Kiswahili and communication, business management / administration, banking and finance. Others include biotechnology and agriculture, engineering, industrial chemistry, hospitality and tourism, foods, nutrition and dietetics among others. The new teaching programme seeks to prepare educators' public personalities and teaching styles as well as develop their classroom interaction skills. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association  chairman Indimuli Kahi terms "shallow" the current training programme for teachers. "As it is currently, teachers graduate when they do not know what to achieve. The current training is shallow and leaves key aspects such as teaching the graduates how to behave like teachers, how to manage your emotions, how to treat male students in the case a teacher is female and vice versa," Kahi told the Star. He argued that the current B.Ed training fails to factor in proper behavioural skills required of a teacher such as anger management. -Edited by SKanyara