Newly appointed Shabana FC coach Robert Ojienda says today’s (Tuesday) game against Murang’a Seal will determine their season. “This is a very important game for us. It will determine whether we are in the promotion race or not. Shabana should be a force to reckon with not just in the National Super League but also in the Kenya Premier League,” said Ojienda. Ojienda, who spoke to the Star on Monday morning before the team departed to Murang’a, said despite Shabana being 8th on the log, the promotion race is still open. “We must work hard and remain focused. All our remaining games will be taken as finals because we have a very good chance of gaining promotion to the KPL,” added the tactician. In Ojienda’s first game in charge, the team drew 2-2 with Mully Children’s Family (MCF) and edged Kibera Black Stars 1-0 in the second game. “In the game against MCF, we conceded the two goals due to lack of concentration but we improved against Kibera Black Stars. I hope the boys will keep fighting,” he noted. Commenting on the game, Murang’a Seal coach Vincent Nyaberi said he is targeting a win against his former employers. “Shabana are a team I love but I’m targeting maximum points against them,” said a confident Nyaberi who played for Shabana and coached the Kisii-based side. He has guided the team from bottom of the log to 15th since he took over. So far he was won two games and lost one since the league resumed. Nyaberi said his initial target was to ensure the team survives relegation and he is now hoping a top 10 finish. On Wednesday, top of the log Talanta FC will seek to seek to return to winning ways when they return to winning ways when they face Kisumu All Stars at Moi Stadium in Kisumu with second placed Kenya Police also hoping to bounce back when they host Mt Kenya United. At Bomet Stadium, APS Bomet welcomes Modern Coast Rangers at Bomet Stadium as Vihiga Bullets entertain Mwatate United at Bukhungu Stadium. At Sony Stadium in Awendo, Gusii FC will play Nairobi Stima whereas at Ligi Ndogo grounds Kibera Black Stars will battle it out with Soy United. Migori Youth and Kisumu Hot Stars will face off at Migori Stadium. Silibwet face Fortune Sacco in Bomet and MCF entertain Coast Stima at Ruaraka grounds. 