Gusii Sports Legends Association are set to stage three events to honour pioneer Kenyan athlete Nyantika Maiyoro and Olympians Robert Ouko and Naltali Temu in Kisii and Nyamira counties. The Robert Ouko Memorial, Naftali Temu Memorial and Nyantika Maiyoro Memorial races will be held on the dates the legends died. “The races will be conducted in the grassroots targeting primary and secondary school pupils. This is one way to revive athletics standards in the region — which has produced several world-beating athletes,” said the association’s secretary Edwin Nyakeriga. Nyakeriga said they want to hold cross country races featuring races from 2km to 10km. “We shall form a technical committee to work on the finer details including venues but we want to have the events at schools near the legends' homes,” said Nyakeriga. He added that they are keen to partner with the Gusii counties to revamp athletics in the region. During their latest meeting in Nakuru, Nyamira County Sports, Culture and Social Services minister Grace Nyamongo promised to work closely with the association in developing talents. “We want to meet Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo and his Kisii counterpart James Ongwae to discuss how we can partner to revive athletics standards in Gusii,” added Nyakeriga. Gusii Sports Legends Association director Alfred Momanyi said plans to establish two camps in Kisii and Nyamira counties are underway. “We are in the process of identifying two secondary schools which will double up as our camps to tap and develop athletes,” said the veteran coach and former Nyamira Athletics Kenya chairman. The association brings together former and current athletes and is chaired by former marathoner Gladys Asiba, deputised by another former marathoner Sammy Nyangicha. Isabella Ochichi deputises Nyakeriga while the treasurer is Jackline Maranga. US-based director is deputised by Peter Oenga. Nyameru High School principal and coach Haron Onchonga, Pacifica Monda, Josephat Machuka and Sammy Nyamongo are the committee members.