Poland is seeking to share its technological expertise and knowhow and modernization of the economy and economic reforms with African states. Poland undersecretary of State for Economic and Development Cooperation for Africa and Middle East Pawel Jablovski said this will make institutions sustainable and reduce inequalities. He spoke at an interview in Nairobi on Friday during a one-day working visit in Kenya on Friday, June 25. “We see it as our historical duty, because we managed to do it and we can now share it. If we don’t, it will mean growing inequalities and tumorous situations. We want to work with African governments working towards stability,” Jablonski said. He said they are working with Kenyan, Rwandan and Tanzania governments through development cooperation and promotion of businesses to develop links between Poland and the respective states. “We have been discussing the use of certain elements of technology to provide solutions, for instance in building smart cities that are sustainable for people to live in.” “Another area potentially very significant is cyber security because as we get into digitalizing the economy, we need to be resilient from terrorist attacks and hackers. In Europe we suffer from it as well and have neighbours who are very aggressive in this field of cyber space,” he said. He noted that Polish banking system is considered among the top three in the world in terms of digitilisation and they are sharing their solutions abroad. During the visit, Jablovski met Foreign Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Ababu Namwamba at the ministry headquarters where they discussed areas of cooperation and enhancing bilateral ties. He also met Transport CAS Chris Obure and Kenya Civil Aviation Authority chairman Joseph Nkadayo to discuss drone technology use, before visiting Nairobi National Museum. He was accompanied by Poland Ambassador to Kenya Jacek Bazański and officials from Polish Foreign Affairs ministry. At the museum, he announced that Poland will organize an exhibition to commemorate the Polish refugees who were hosted by Kenya between 1944-49 following the Second World War. Jablovski also visited Kiambu Fire Fighting Academy, which was built with funding from the Polish Centre for International Aid. It is the first of its kind in East Africa! And has trained 60 per cent of firefighters in Kenya. It has also developed the first firefighting curriculum for certification. “This is how building the image of Poland and relations looks like for years. Beyond anything else I have experienced today, this is the most impressive thing. We will continue to support the institute to continue improving the safety of Kenyans,” Jablovski said in Kiambu. For four years, Polish Centre for International Aid (PCPM) has been conducted the largest firefighter training programme in Kenya. Polish instructors, among them Wojtek Wilk, have trained fire fighters from across the country. “From 2014 when PCPM started training and retrofitting fire brigades in Kenya, the number of fire brigades and firefighters increased by 150 per cent Progress achieved thanks to Polish support,” Wilk said. Jablovski  said the institute is a good result for development cooperation between the two states.