DCI on Monday arrested a Ghanaian national believed to have obtained Sh9 Million from a senior manager at a money lending agency. The detectives raided the suspect’s house where paraphernalia related to witchcraft was recovered. The senior manager at Tala agencies, a popular mobile money lending firm, that advances instant short term loans to applicants, met the Ghanaian national Victor Anane, on an online dating site, the DCI boss George Kinoti said. Anane introduced himself as a preacher who performs miracles and who would help the senior manager get promoted at her work place instantly. "Further, he also promised to help in turning her fortunes around, if she fell in love with him. Wowed by the man’s overtures, the lady was swept off her feet and fell for him," Kinoti said. DCI further stated that the two dated for a while and as their love blossomed, the lady was invited to the man’s residence at Transview estate in Athi River. By this time, she had already given her new boyfriend Sh9 Million, in unclear circumstances. "Some of the money she is believed to have given him had been obtained from accounts belonging to Tala agencies," DCI said. Kinoti added that it was during the lady's visit to the self confessed preacher’s house, that she was shocked to find paraphernalia associated with witchcraft and magical rituals. "What was meant to be a romantic date turned ugly, as the woman demanded to know how the man of the cloth she had fallen in love with, possessed paraphernalia associated with dark powers. "Their relationship immediately collapsed, as the victim discovered that she had been conned," DCI said. Also recovered from Anane's house was Sh76,000 in fake currency and other materials used in the printing of fake notes. "The investigators further established that the suspect who masquerades as a preacher, approaches innocent women looking for love and affection online, with promises of making their lives better before fraudulently obtaining money from them," the DCI boss said. The suspect is currently in custody and shall be presented in court on charges obtaining money by false pretenses.