North Rift counties will from this week table their annual budgets expected to focus on recovering from Covid-19 effects. Estimates from the counties under the North Rift Economic Bloc (NOREB) indicate they have budgets amounting to a total of more than Sh50 billion. Turkana will table a budget of more than Sh15 billion which is the highest in the region followed by Uasin Gishu Sh11 billion. Trans Nzoia will have a budget of about Sh8 billion while Elgeyo Marakwet will have the least budget in the region at about Sh5 billion. “The Covid-19 pandemic has negatively affected the performance of the economy and counties have been heavily affected but we are working on recovery strategies,” Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said. His county will have a budget of more than Sh8.5 billion. The Uasin Gishu Finance and Economic Planning executive Julius Ruto said they are ready to table the budget statement for the 2021/2022 Financial Year. Ruto said the budget statement is expected to be tabled at the Uasin Gishu County Assembly next week. “We have already submitted the budget estimates to the county assembly as per the law requirement,” he said. “The budget statement for this financial year will focus on upscaling the lives of residents and absorbing challenges that have been occasioned by the ongoing pandemic.” Ruto said the statement will indicate the main focus of the budget considering the situation that has prevailed since last year. He said the pandemic had affected internal revenues for counties. “Our economical livelihoods have been affected negatively because of Covid-19 restrictions and dependency on local revenue has also been on limited areas,” Ruto said. Some of the key areas that the county will be focusing on, according to Ruto is increasing bursary allocation from Sh90 million to Sh120 million. The county will also increase funding for the Inua Biashara Fund to support economic entities for small traders as well as allocation of more funds to support youths and women in agri-business through Inua Mama na Kuku and also the Inua Kijana na Acre Initiative. “We are also looking at finalizing all our mega projects that were classified as midterm expenditure plan projects where we will allocate more resources,” Ruto said. The Uasin Gishu budget statement will also have more resources allocated towards the completion of Ziwa Level 5 Hospital which is at 50 per cent completion and Kesses Sub County Hospital which is at 60 per cent completion. To ensure farmers can take their produce to the markets easily, Ruto revealed that at least Sh400 million will be allocated towards supporting the infrastructure improvement. “We will also be giving more support to responding to Covid-19 issues and the big four agenda - universal health care, and sustainable food production, among others,” he said. Provision of clean water to households across the county will also get a share of the budget.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris