Governors have hit out at the National Treasury for delayed release of county cash and threatened to shut down the devolved units next Thursday if the funds are not in the county accounts by Friday. Through Council of Governors, the county chiefs lamented frequent delays  to disburse the cash in what they say has crippled operations and delivery of critical services to residents. The county bosses said Treasury has not released the cash for up to six months now to counties like Nairobi. CoG chairman Martin Wambora (Embu) said the Treasury is yet to release Sh102.6 billion to the 47 devolved units, with only two weeks left to the end of the financial year. As such, they have given an ultimatum to the Treasury to release the cash by Friday or they shut down the counties next week. “Unfortunately, if the National Treasury fails to release the funds, counties will not be able to offer basic services thereby forcing suspension of services or total shutdown by June 24," Wambora said. Wambora addressed a press conference at Delta House on Monday. He was flanked by the council's vice chairman James Ongwae (Kisii) and Kiambu Governor James Nyoro. “The Treasury has not only failed to comply with the Constitution but also with its own document, the Cash Disbursement Schedule, 2020,” Wambora said. He added, “This has seen counties stigmatised for failing to offer critical services especially now in the time of Covid-19 pandemic, for what is beyond them.” The Constitution and Public Finance Management Act, 2012 require the Treasury to release cash to counties by 15th of every month. However, the Treasury has often delayed to disburse the funds, citing cash flow challenges caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. According to Wambora, Nairobi has not received money from the Treasury since January. Some 25 counties are yet to receive disbursement for March. None of the 47 counties has received cash for April, May and June. Consequently, the counties are unable to meet statutory obligations, ensure timely payment of pending bills, implement projects and sustain critical services and the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “The continued delay in the disbursement is eroding gains made in devolved governance and affecting the economic growth in the counties,” Wambora said. He added, “While Kenyans continue to demand services from the county governments, operations at the national government continue uninterrupted owing to timely financing from the National Treasury while those in the counties are slowly grinding to a halt.” Wambora took issue with Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, accusing him of issuing ultimatums and threatening to deny county funds for failing to clear pending bills yet it is his ministry that has failed to release money to pay bills. “Out of the verified pending bills by Office of the Auditor General, county governments have outstanding eligible pending bills amounting to Sh11.5 billion. “If the National Treasury released the resources outstanding, county governments will be able to clear most of the eligible pending bills, pay salaries on time and remit statutory deductions,” the Embu governor said.  Edited by Henry Makori