Confusion has rocked the Nairobi County Assembly as two deputy clerks are in the running to occupy the office of the clerk in an acting capacity This comes after an appellate court last Friday ordered assembly clerk Edward Gichana to vacate office pending the determination of a lawsuit against him. The court ruled that the court also stayed an order on October 16, 2020, ruling by the Employment and Labour Relations court that saw Jacob Ngwele kicked out of the office. “… the application dated 5th November 2020 is allowed and we hereby order that there shall be a stay of execution of the judgment of the Employment and Labour Relations Court (Hon. Lady Justice M. Onyango) dated 16th October 2020 pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal to this Court against the said judgment,” reads the ruling in part. County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura on Monday morning appointed Deputy Clerk in charge of legislative, Adah Onyango to take over from Gichana in an acting capacity. In a letter addressed to Adah, the Speaker said the appointment was in compliance with the said court decision. “In compliance with the said court decision and considering the prevailing administrative circumstances in the County Assembly and the critical functions of the Office of the Clerk in the day to day running of the County Assembly, I wish to inform you the decision if the board in a meeting held on June 7, 2021, to appoint you as the Acting Clerk as we wait for the court verdict,” reads the letter in part. Mutura noted that the court issued an injunction against Gichana from exercising the power, privileges and responsibilities of the clerk, pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal this creating a vacuum in the office of the clerk. At the same time, Clerk Gichana in another letter directed Deputy Clerk in charge of Administration Pauline Akuku to take over his office in an acting capacity. He also went ahead and handed over vital documents to Akuku which was to symbolize her taking over the office. “I wish to inform you that during the period of my absence, you shall pursuant to the provisions of section 21 of the County Assembly Service Act, 2017 take over and perform the functions, duties and responsibilities of the office of the clerk of Nairobi county assembly in acting capacity with effective from June 7 until hearing and determination of the intended appeal,” reads the letter in part. The letter was copied to the Speaker and Director of Human Resource Management. Confusion has characterised the occupancy of the clerk’s office since 2019 after the former office holder, Jacob Ngwele, and former speaker Beatrice Elachi fell out. Last July, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Maureen Onyango stayed orders on Ngwele as the clerk and gave the assembly 45 days to recruit a clerk. The assembly’s board declared the vacancy and 11 people were interviewed, including Gichana. On July 24, Gichana was sworn in as the new clerk but a few days later the court suspended the gazettement of his appointment. Mutura noted that the court issued an injunction against Gichana from exercising the power, privileges and responsibilities of the clerk, pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal this creating a vacuum in the office of the clerk. Ngwele was to step aside pending the hearing and determination of his case this month. “It was the court’s view that even though Ngwele is the current clerk of the assembly, he should step aside until the case is concluded. “In the meantime, the deputy clerk currently in office will take over the functions of the clerk until the petition is determined,” the court ruled. At this point, despite both Akuku and Adah being deputy clerks, the former took over in acting capacity. In November, Justice Onyango ruled that Ngwele’s appointment to the clerk’s office was shrouded in irregularities. This paved way for Gichana to take over the office as the substantive clerk. However, former clerk Jacob Ngwele moved to the court of Appeal to challenge the Labour court ruling that had declared him as being illegally in office, thus paving way for the appointment of Gichana to the position The courts last Friday then issued orders prohibiting both Ngwele and Gichana from acting as Clerk, Nairobi County Assembly. “For clarity both Mr Edward Gichana Ombwori and Jacob Muvengei Ngwele are hereby injuncted from exercising the powers, privileges and responsibilities of the office, Clerk, Nairobi County Assembly pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal,” reads the ruling.