Some 32,718 students who sat the 2020 KCSE and qualified for the university under government sponsorship failed to take part in the revision exercise subsequently missing out on enrollment. The students now have until July 5 to consider putting in an application so that they can qualify for university placement as the placement agency opens the second revision exercise on Tuesday. In the 2020 KCSE examination, some 142,540 candidates obtained the minimum university entry mean grade of C+ plus and above. Data from the Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service indicates that 131,833 of them were placed in private, public universities and technical colleges under government sponsorship. Out of this, Mercy Wahome, KUCCPS Chief Executive Officer on Monday, said 94,275 will pursue degree courses they selected. "All applicants who have secured a program will be notified through their student portals on June 22," the statement reads The placement exercise closes but will give way to the second selection exercise set to begin Tuesday and give a chance to those not placed on the first selection. "The agency will from, Tuesday, reopen the application portal to allow 32,718 candidates with C+ (Plus) and above who missed out on their degree choices to reapply," the statement reads. She also called upon 10,707 candidates with C + and above from the KCSE class of 2020 who did not submit an application to do so. KUCCPS chief executive Mercy Wahome in May said the placement will be done based on a candidate's choice of institution, availability of places, and cut-off points. Education CS George Magoha in May opened the revision of the candidates' choices to give them a chance to align their choices with their grades and cut-off points. Some 160,000 places have been identified in public and private universities, making available more places than the number of candidates who cut degree slots. This means all candidates who scored C+ and above will proceed to a university. For those who seek to proceed to technical colleges, the placement agency says 331,045 slots will be allotted. A total of 747,161 sat the test, with 143,140 candidates making the cut-off mark of C+ (plus) and above and are eligible for government sponsorship.