Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has distanced Jubilee party from National Assembly Majority Leader Amos Kimunya's comments that the government will not allocate development funds to Kiambaa constituency should the electorate not elect its candidate . Waiguru noted that Kenyans have a right to make independent choices without being intimidated as the government has a duty to serve all Kenyans . "While we call upon the Kiambaa electorate to elect the Jubilee candidate, the party has disassociated itself from the sentiments made," she said on Tuesday. "We know President (Uhuru) Kenyatta has initiated development projects across the country even where he was not supported in the 2017 elections." Waiguru noted that Kimunya's sentiments were personal and didn't represent the position of the Jubilee party. "Such utterances are meant to ruin the good reputation of the party which was formed on the basis of equity leadership and efficient service to the all Kenyans." Waiguru spoke when she hosted her Machakos counterpart Alfred Mutua, who called on her at her official residence in Kagio. The two governors deliberated on a range of issues to enhance trade partnership between the two counties. "We wish to boost trade by way of collaborating between the two counties in areas of farming and livestock rearing. Kirinyaga is rich in coffee while Machakos produces a high quantity of cereals like green grams and groundnuts and also livestock," Mutua said. He further called on counties to open up their borders, work together and enhance intra-trade to lift the lives of citizens. He added that such partnerships are crucial as counties can learn from each other and adopt ways of bettering their services to the public. Waiguru hailed Mutua for his consistency in improving the lives of his county residents through efficient services delivery. "In agriculture and livestock sectors, Machakos is at the top of its game. In central we don't produce some cereals like green grams which are a key source of nutrition and which our people consume greatly." Waiguru also lauded Mutua for his flexibility and willingness to form coalitions with like minded political parties. "Kenyans should be very careful while electing their leaders come 2022. I would advise them to go for focused leaders who have plans to change their lives."