A man suspected to have defiled his four and six year old daughters has been arrested in Iten, Elgeyo Marakwet county. Luka Rutto alias Cherambach, 49, was arrested on Thursday night. "Rutto is believed to have committed the heinous act while living alone with the minors, after separating with their mother," DCI director George Kinoti said on Friday. Kinoti said a PP1 teacher at the local school where the girls attend, noticed something unusual, in how the six-year-old was behaving. "The minor experienced difficulties in walking and was often crying," Kinoti said. Attempts by the teacher to get more information from the little girl turned futile. However, this  prompted her to summon her four-year-old sister also attending the same school, in a bid to figure out what the problem was. "Shockingly, she too exhibited difficulty in walking. The teacher immediately informed the school's headteacher," Kinoti said. After talking to the little girls, they said that they only lived with their father, after their mother left their home. The area assistant chief confirmed these claims. Without hesitation, the head teacher informed officers who immediately swung into action. "They escorted the minors to Iten County Referral Hospital for medical examination, where the doctors established that the little angels had been defiled," he said. The children’s father was immediately apprehended and placed in Police custody, pending further investigations. A day earlier, ODM leader Raila Odinga asked Kenyans to report suspicious activities early and immediately. “Let’s end this sad trend. Let us look towards children's health and safety concerns and away from a policy of reuniting children with their birth parents without regard to prior abusiveness,” he said. There have been many cases of children missing while others are being kidnapped never to return to their homes. Last month, a father in Mwingi was accused of defiling his 15-year-old daughter. The girl said her mother had left home for her maternal place in preparation for her younger sister’s wedding. She said her father came home at around 10pm on April 10 and she served him food. It is after retiring to her bed that the father allegedly defiled her at an unknown time. She ran to her neighbour’s house and called her mother informing her of what had happened.