Police are in the spotlight, accused of protecting officially favoured meetings and cracking down on those considered anti-establishment. In recent months, the police under IG Hillary Mutyambai have been criticised for allowing themselves to be involved in political affairs, in which they are supposed to be neutral. Last month, ODM leader Raila Odinga was forced to condemn police interference in the recent by-elections in Bonchari and Juja constituencies as well as in Rurii ward in Nyandarua county. Various political leaders on Sunday complained police are taking sides in what they said is a clear indication that they are taking instructions from higher offices. The Police Service has a history of being accused of overstepping its mandate under the Jubilee administration. On Saturday, the police disrupted a meeting organised by The Service Party in Embu county. A contingent of armed police officers fired tear gas to disperse the meeting attended by TSP party leader and former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri. He was kicked out of the Cabinet, he said, for speaking out about Mt Kenya issues that displeased President Uhuru Kenyatta. The organisers of the Embu event brought a host of aspirants from the county. They said they strictly observed all Covid-19 protocols. Kiunjuri condemned the interruption and accused the government of what he termed political intolerance. Speaking to the Star during a phone interview, the former CS said the government is taking advantage of the coronavirus pandemic to crackdown on opponents. “Yes, Covid- is here with us and as long as we do not have medicine to cure it, we must learn to live with it. Life must continue and it is unfair on the side of government to excessively interfere with our constitutional liberties,” he said. He added, “For now, we have agreed that we stop huge political rallies. "It is wrong for the police to disrupt well-organised meetings held under the Ministry of Health guidelines,” he said. On Thursday last week, police disrupted a meeting organised by the United Democratic Alliance at Terrace Villas Resort in Mombasa. The party is linked to Deputy President William Ruto. On May 31, police also disrupted and dispersed yet another meeting of prospective aspirants for the UDA Party at a Meru hotel. The area police boss said the aspirants had no permit to hold a town hall meeting. On Saturday, police also stopped a fundraiser at Rwanyambo Secondary School in Nyandarua county which Wiper Democratic Movement boss Kalonzo Musyoka was attending. The former Vice President was forced to postpone the funds drive after the venue was cordoned off by ant-riot police. Governor Francis Kimemia, Senator Mwangi Githiomi and Nyakio MCA Zachary Mwangi said the interference was instigated by "political opponents for political reasons". The fundraiser had been convened by the senator and was being hosted by the MCA. Kalonzo later led a smaller harambee in the school's boardroom that raised Sh2 million for the construction of the a dining hall and a kitchen. He promised that the team will return to the school for a bigger event. “I only agreed to come for this now-canceled fundraiser after the convener Senator Githiomi assured me that all Covid-19 protocols were in place. I have seen the field and I think they were ready. We will come back in a bigger way," Kalonnzo said. An angry Kimemia said county commissioner and other security agencies had given him the green light for the event on Friday but informed him on Saturday e morning about the sudden changes. Githiomi said they will not allow any form of intimidation from any quarters promising that the embarrassment caused will be avenged politically. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua said the unfortunate turn of events was shameful. He said those who orchestrated the cancellation of the funds drive should know that the students who were to be assisted will eventually be in the position of leadership. “When these students we are trying to assist get to the seats of leadership later, we hope they will make better sound decisions than those in the positions now," Wambua said.   Ironically, the police on Friday allowed a huge gathering of elders from Mt Kenya and attended by Murang’a governor Mwangi Wa Iria to proceed. The elders met at Mumbi grounds after performing a ritual at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine ostensibly to “to cleanse it and nullify the elevation of National Assembly spokesman Justin Muturi as spokesman for the Mt Kenya region”. During the Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu, event attended by President Uhuru Kenyatta, hundreds of members of the public were allowed into the venue despite earlier announcement that a third would only be allowed in. Prio to the celebrations at Jomo Kenyatta stadium, Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong’o during a press briefing in Nairobi said the stadium has a maximum capacity of 30,00 and only 3,000 would be allowed so as to ensure there is social distancing. On May 28, Uhuru, at State House, Nairobi hosted over 45 elected leaders from Luo Nyanza. UDA chairman Johnson Muthama said Kenyans should be allowed to conduct their affairs as long as they have followed the covid-19 protocols. Speaking to the Star, the former Machokos senator said “Kenyans are aware of the existence coronavirus and they would not deliberately disregard the protocols”. “The Constitution of Kenya protects the right to freed of assembly and the state should respect that. Police should not be misused for political purposes in the name of implementing the protocols," he said. "IG Mutyambai should stop taking instructions from government officers cum politicians who want to derail others when their plans have failed,” he said.  Mutyambai however dismissed the claims that his officers are biased saying organisers of events should inform police well in advance to provide security. Speaking to the Star on phone, the police boss said they are a discipline force and they respect the Constitution in discharge of their mandate. “We don’t have such a policy. We enforce the law equally. Police are professional and always there for all Kenyans. The organizers of such meetings know what they are supposed to do in terms of informing local authorities of any plans to hold such gatherings for their safety and others,” he said. He added, “There is also the issue of Covid-19 pandemic that must be taken to account. There is no bias at all. We are serving Kenyans equally.” 