Most of the country will be warmer than usual until September, a new prediction shows. Only western Kenya will have rain, with the rest of the country being cool and dry. The report, issued by the Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre, means the ongoing drought in many parts of Northeastern and Ukambani might continue. Dry weather between July and September is not unusual because although it’s a cool season, most parts of Kenya do not receive rains. In a separate one-week forecast, the Kenya Meteorological Department said the next one week will be cold. “Keep yourself warm and avoid coldness....we are expecting minimum temperatures,” Met director Stella Aura said. The Icpac three-month prediction is of concern because most parts of Kenya have remained dry since rains ended last month. Marsabit, Mandera and Turkana counties are suffering an alarming drought. The National Drought Management Authority in its early warning bulletin recently said the 'alarming category' means immediate action is needed to ensure counties do not reach the emergency level and require humanitarian aid. The Famine Early Warning System Network said the situation is expected to get worse. It called on governments, agencies and NGOs to scale up and sustain interventions to support food and livelihood security, nutrition and health and access to water through late 2021 and possibly early 2022. It warned of lower household incomes from failed crops and dying livestock. Wajir, Tana River, Samburu, Garissa and Isiolo counties are in drought alert status. West Pokot, Tharaka Nithi, Taita Taveta, Narok and Kajiado are in normal drought status, owing to substantial rains received in April. In April, the government warned of looming drought in parts of Marsabit, Tana River, Isiolo and Turkana counties. Government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said more than 1.4 million Kenyans are at risk of hunger and starvation due to poor rains during long rains season. The Meteorological Department confirmed that expected rainfall is likely to be depressed. Only a few areas in Nyanza, Western, Central, parts of Rift Valley and Eastern are likely to receive above average rainfall. “Other regions are expected to receive below average rainfall or none. These include Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Marsabit and Tana River counties,” the Met said. The Famine Early Warning System Network also warned of persistent drought in Ethiopia and Somalia. The alert, released on May 19, showed that food assistance needs are sharply increasing in the Horn of Africa, driven by consecutive below-average rainfall seasons in late 2020 and early 2021. Given the imminent end of the season and vulnerability of the horn to crop failure and livestock losses, the recent increase in rainfall in late April and early May is likely inadequate to prevent acute food insecurity. The FEWS NET report said satellite reports show vegetation is under severe stress  in many parts of the region. “Long-range forecasts indicate La Niña-like conditions are highly likely to re-emerge in late 2021, raising the likelihood of a third consecutive season of below-average rainfall,” it said. Edited by A.N