Upstarts Mercy Kipchumba and Victor Kipchirchir were crowned the Eldoret City Marathon after winning their respective men and women and men's races on the streets of Eldoret on Sunday. Making her debut in the marathon, Kipchumba was dominant in the women’s race, edging out Venice marathon champion and training mate Judy Korir on the home-straight. The Kapsait-based runner, who trains under Erick Kimaiyo, said she has been training for the race despite the biting coronavirus pandemic that saw many events canceled or postponed. “I am very happy to win in my first marathon after doing well in half marathons.  Since the beginning of the year, I have been training for such big event and a win is a good consolation for my hard work,” said Kipchumba. The Elgeyo Marakwet based runner won the title in 2:28:10 ahead of Korir’s 2:28:31 and Jackline Chelal completing the podium in 2:29:47. “I had a good start but I lost pace at the finish line but it is something that I will be working on to ensure that I get best results in future races,” said Korir, who has a  personal best time of 2:26 from the 2021 Ismir Marathon. Returning from a three-year injury spell, Victor Kipchirchir won the men’s title when he timed 2:08:56, beating Nakuru’s Leonard Lagat to second in 2:10:49 while Nandi’s Emmanuel Bor completed the top three in 2:11:10. “I got an injury three years ago following a road accident at Chepkanga and I was operated on my shoulder and leg. After healing, I decided to train specifically for this marathon,” said the Rosa Associati runner. “It has not been easy and a win did not come easily." Sunday’s race achieved its expectations after becoming the first physical marathon in Kenya during the coronavirus period. However, controlling crowds was the organisers' biggest nightmare as they fought to ensure all the set Covid-19 protocols were observed. As early as 6 am, athletics enthusiasts were already on the street as they wanted to witness the runners battle for the Sh3.5m winner’s prize. Race director and two-time Boston Marathon champion Moses Tanui said: “As organisers, we managed to meet our expectations in hosting this race. We must thank the government for allowing us to continue with the event, under difficult circumstances. We tried our best in controlling the crowds, especially at the finishing line.” “I am happy that these athletes will take home some money. It has been long since they earned anything this significant due to coronavirus,” he added. Among those in attendance were legendary Kipchoge Keino, Eliud Kipchoge, Patrick Sang, Lawrence Cherono as well as host Governor Jackson Mandago, Member of Parliament Caleb Kositany. Results Women Men