West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo was on Wednesday put to task over 23 projects valued at Sh545.76 million that have stalled since 2016. Lonyangapuo was also questioned why his administration has put at risk county assets worth billions of shillings that the county inherited from the defunct council. The county boss appeared before the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments committee to respond to 2018-19 audit queries by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. According to the report, 23 projects worth Sh545.76 million initiated by the county government in 2016-17 have stalled. They include rollout of ERP system, renovation of Makutano stadium, construction of a subcounty office block at Kapenguria and an ECD college and hostel. Others are construction of hostel block and dining hall for Athletics Training Camp at Kapenguria and a conference and library facility for Pokot Cultural Centre at Kapenguria. The report shows that the county government has paid Sh79.58 million for three of the stalled projects. “There was no evidence of management follow up of the contractor to complete or deliver the projects as per the contract,” the report reads. “Also, there were no budgetary allocations to the projects in the financial years 2017/2018 and 2018/2019.” “In the circumstances, the residents of West Pokot county have not realised value for money from the expenditure of Sh545.76 million on the stalled projects,” Gathungu concludes in her report. The governor said the projects delayed because of cash flow challenges from the Treasury and IFMIS  downtime. He however told the nine-member committee chaired by Migori senator Ochillo Ayacko, that most of the projects have been revived and are now on course. “On the matter of stalled projects, I wish to state that most of these projects are currently either complete and operational or on-going. There was a significant progress the status reported during our appearance last year,” he told the panel. He provided a status report of each of the projects, indicating that most of them are either complete or have been revived and are now on course. But while lauding him for reviving the projects, the committee demanded to know whether the county government pumped in some money over and above the initial project costs. “We commend you for the work, especially reviving projects that were initiated by your predecessor. Most governors leave those projects to die. But did we put in extra or did the public lose any money?” Taita Taveta senator Johannes Mwaruma posed. The governor said no extra money has been incurred as a result of the delayed completion of the projects. Lonyangapuo was also hard pressed to explain why his administration has not captured assets inherited from the defunct county council of Kapenguria in the fixed assets register. According to the report, the county government had declared owing assets worth Sh1.14 billion where the closing balance was Sh5.23 billion. However, in the financial statement, the county captured Sh2.31 billion thus resulting into an explained difference of Sh4.08 billion. “Further, the register did not include the values of the fixed assets inherited from the defunct local authorities in the county which were handed over to the county government," the report says. The county chief explained that the unexplained difference resulted from failure to incorporate the assets bought in prior year of Sh5.23 billion. “Management will do a post audit adjustment of the financial statements to include these assets,” he said. He said that the county inherited some assets from the defunct local authorities and that a register has been filed and sent to Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee in 2017 for verification. The items are yet to be verified. The committee said the delayed verification of the assets register put the assets at risk and gave the governor two months to ensure the register is in place to secure the county properties. -Edited by SKanyara