Kalenjin elders have installed Benjamin Kitur as their new chairman. Kitur from Nandi who was installed at a ceremony in Eldoret, will be chairman of  the Myot Council of Elders. About 120 elders from the 10 sub-tribes in the Kalenjin community took part in the elaborate ceremony. The representatives were from the sub-tribes of Nandi, Keiyo, Sabaot, Tugen, Kipsigis, Marakwet and Pokot among others. Kitur said the elders will play a non-partisan role as the country heads to next year's polls. He urged Kenyans and particularly residents of the Rift Valley region, to ensure peace and unity prevails before, during and after the elections. “Over the past years we have had problems including clashes during election time. However we are telling communities in Rift Valley to remain united and peaceful as we head to the general election,” said Kitur. He said the elders will preaching peace within and outside the Rift Valley region.  He asked leaders across the country to also ensure they do not cause divisions among Kenyans because of political interests. “We all live together as brothers and sisters and even inter-marry, go to the same churches, weddings and other activities. But I don’t know what happens to cause  divisions during the electioneering period. We don’t want to see that again,” said the chairman. The chairmanship of the Myot Council of elders is usually rotational among the Kalenjin sub-tribes. Former chairman of the elders Major (Rtd) John Seii said the elders will focus on  guiding the community on mostly cultural and other internal matters. Seii noted that they were saddened by splits among elders from some of the communities in the country because of politics. “We would want the elders to remain united and avoid situations where they end up being part of problems within their communities,” he said. There have also been splits among the Kalenjin elders with some supporting DP William Ruto while others back Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. A few month ago, some of the elders from the Talai clan in Nandi installed Ruto as spokesman of the Kalenjin community while a splinter group did the same for Gideon sparking bitter rivalry. Major Seii however, said the Myot Council of Elders was overall within the region, and would not promote divisions among residents of the region.  He said they will also work closely within the National Council of Elders to ensure peace and cohesion among all communities. -Edited by SKanyara