Fresh infighting between National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya and a section of leaders from Central could dampen the campaigns for the Jubilee candidate in the Kiambaa parliamentary by-elections. The by-election is scheduled for July 15 to fill a vacancy that occurred following the death of Jubilee MP Paul Koinange in March. Over the weekend, during the launch of the Jubilee campaigns, Kimunya remarked that the state will not allocate development funds to Kiambaa constituency should the electorate not elect the ruling party candidate Karanja Kariri. The Kipipiri lawmaker said that even Juja MP George Koimburi who was recently elected on the PEP ticket will not be appointed to any House committee. The remarks which were seen as threats to the people of Kiambaa rattled some of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s allies including governors Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and James Nyoro (Kiambu). Nyoro on Monday castigated Kimunya, saying his remarks amounted to threats and it is against the Jubilee administration to discriminate against any part of the country in development. In a clear statement of dissatisfaction of how the Jubilee campaigns are being conducted, Nyoro said he had been locked out of the campaigns command centre. Nyoro was withMachakos Governor Alfred Mutua who was on a tour of Mt Kenya counties. The Kiambu governor warned Jubilee Party that the campaigns are disorganised and could tilt the scales in favour of UDA’s Njuguna Wanjiku. "We want to have one command centre and you cannot exclude the governor from the command centre. I want to be very categorical and state that the things we have started seeing are not something we can encourage. I appeal to the party that as they are organising the campaigns, we should be involved," he said at the county headquarters. Waiguru who spoke on Tuesday afternoon after meeting Mutua in her office dismissed Kimunya, noting that Kenyans have a right to make independent choices without being intimidated as the government has a duty to serve all. Expressing fears that Kimunya's sentiments could have political implications on the voters, Waiguru said his remarks were personal and didn't represent the position of the Jubilee Party. "Such utterances are meant to ruin the good reputation of the party which was formed on the basis of equity leadership and efficient service to the all Kenyans." Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua who is among the leaders of the UDA campaigns termed Kimunya’s remarks as “a true depiction of arrogance and self-entitlement.” Gachagua is a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto. He said the era of intimidation and coercion is long gone and expressed confidence that UDA will replicate the sweet victory in Juja and Rurii ward by-elections. Gachagua said all MPs be they from small parties or independent are entitled to membership to committees, saying the appointment of Koimburi is not a favour they expect from Kimunya. “Kimunya’s remarks are erroneous and misleading. I pity him because he is still new and naïve in the position of the majority leader. But at least by now he should have acquainted himself with communication from Speaker Justin Muturi in regards to allocation of committees in the case of Ugenya MP David Ochieng vs ODM,” he said. But in a rejoinder, Kimunya said the people of Kiambaa understood the message he was passing to them. Kimunya who spoke to the Star said the governors are blowing his remarks out of proportion. “I do not want to comment on the governors’ accusations. They do not understand the context. Kiambaa people understand my message,” he said.  Edited by Henry Makori