Director of public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has said allegations aimed at questioning the integrity of the Judiciary should not be entertained. Haji made the remark shortly after LSK president Nelson Havi said there is a widely held view that the Court of Appeal is mapped by the executive. Havi claimed that until the swearing in of the seven judges of the court last week, five of the judges were categorised as "available for Executive bidding". He said four were classified as approachable if needed and one was unavailable. "It is hoped that the mapping will not extend to the new seven. My Lord, Solve this problem internally," said Havi. He spoke on Friday during the swearing-in of Daniel Musinga as the Appeals court president. However, Haji said the country must be careful about making allegations of mapping by the Executive. "We must be careful on how we propagate this," he said. He said Kenya is a democratic country which has a right to criticize but it must be done so constructively. The DPP, while congratulating Musinga, hoped he will be able to overcome the challenges that they are all faced with. With regard to corruption, the DPP said the vice continues to be the biggest challenge as a nation, as well as one of the cases that pose the greatest challenges to the criminal justice actors. He said the complexity and the numerous applications made by parties that delay the cases, ought to be aggressively addressed through devising mechanisms for their quick disposal. "We urge you to develop Guidelines on Quick Disposal of Criminal Appeals and Applications to enhance the confidence in the criminal justice sector." As the country moves towards the election period, Haji said it is important that all be aware that electoral violence and malpractice are always possibilities. "There is a need to ensure that there is a plan to expedite those cases from the Magistrate Courts to the Court of Appeal," said Haji. The DPP further urged Musinga to consider developing rules of Empanelment of benches at the Court of Appeal to enhance accountability and efficiency in the disposal of cases.