Government houses on two estates in Kakamega town will be demolished to make way for a Sh6 billion urban renewal project. About 4,000 residences will sell for Sh1 million to Sh3 million under a tenant purchase scheme. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the project starting next month is expected to be completed in  eight to nine months. The country government has already issued vacate notices to tenants on Amalemba scheme and Otiende estates. Those living in Mudiri ‘A’ estate have also been served with vacate notices. Houses on the two estates were built by the old Kakamega municipality financed by the National Housing Corporation. Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said the county plans to construct modern storied houses in Kakamega and Mumias municipalities. They will be sold to staff and others under a tenant purchase scheme. He said occupants of the houses to be demolished will be given priority in allocation of new houses once the project is completed. He said staff from the national government, county or any other organisations will be eligible to purchase the houses and the county will not discriminate against staff. He said staff will be required to pay 20 per cent of the required price for the house, then the balance will be deducted from their pay slips. "We have already identified a developer who will bring in a contractor to set up 3,000 houses in the first phase of the scheme," Oparanya said. He added that a contract for construction of another 1,000 houses in the second phase will be given to the private sector. Speaking to the press on Monday, Oparanya said the vacate notice dated May 25 requires the occupants to leave by July 31. He urged tenants to cooperate. "We are going to use modern technology so that the project can be completed within eight to nine months. This will be some of the retirement benefits for staff. I urge them to save money and buy the houses," Oparanya said. The governor added that the project will change the face of the two municipalities and reduce the housing shortage. He said the project will help the county meet some of the requirements needed to qualify for city status. The governor said the housing scheme will also help the municipalities avoid slums that mushroom because of a lack of affordable housing. (Edited by V. Graham)