Kigumo MP Wangari Mwaniki has supported the ban on hiring of school buses for private events by Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha. On June 15, Magoha said school buses are only meant to ferry children. He said action would be taken against anybody found using the buses for any other purpose. The CS said the government will not allow facilities meant for children to be misused. Many Kenyans opined that the school buses are purchased through contributions by members of the public and that they should be allowed to use them at a fee. While voicing her support for Magoha’s directive, Wangari said on Saturday that limiting the use of school buses by the public would help protect children from exposure to Covid-19. The MP said although the directive does not entirely prohibit the hiring of buses by members of the public, there is a need to streamline their management to ensure they are only used for the intended purpose. “The CS only wants to ensure that the proper guidelines are followed in the usage of the buses and local ministry officials notified,” she said. The directive will further ensure that buses ferry only the required number of passengers and discourage misuse of school vehicles, the MP said. She said the National Government Constituency Development Fund in her area has supported about five schools to acquire buses since she became MP in 2017. More schools will benefit before the end of next year, the MP said. Wangari, who spoke in her constituency, said the NGCDF had disbursed bursaries worth Sh35 million. All 10,000 students from secondary schools and universities who applied for the bursaries benefited. Each university student received Sh10,000, while secondary school students each received between Sh3,000 and Sh10,000. The MP said more bursaries worth Sh5 million will be issued to needy students joining Form 1 and those with special needs. The MP urged the government to support schools’ expansion noting that 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary schools has led to high populations in some institutions. Edited by A.N  