The buck stops with ODM leader Raila Odinga if he wants Nasa to rise again, political scientist Prof Amukowa Anangwe has said. Anangwe said Raila should offer a public apology to his co-principals and fulfill the Nasa's agreement to demonstrate his sincerity to his partners. “The talk about the revival of Nasa underscores the fact that there are competing interests that have to be reconciled at one point or the other in the public interest,” Anangwe said in a telephone interview on Saturday. He said that Raila has behaved badly in coalitions starting from CORD, where he partnered with Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang’ula of Ford Kenya. Raila's ODM has opened talks with Jubilee, likely to culminate in an alliance ahead of 2022 polls. He said the former prime minister must offer a public apology to fellow Nasa principals as a sign of good faith and persuade President Uhuru Kenyatta to broaden the handshake to take care of diverse interests including those of his co-principals in Nasa. “Raila jumped into the handshake without consulting fellow Nasa co-principals and reneged on the coalition agreement that provided for equal sharing of parliamentary slots. When you turn back and say you want to come back, you don’t take partners for granted but remedy your mistakes,” he said. He said that Raila should share the political parties fund equally with Nasa partners, restore the parliamentary leadership slots sharing and honour the coalition agreement that required him to run once and pave the way for others. He said that Raila has behaved badly in the past and there is no doubt about it. While addressing Ukambani leaders at State House, President Uhuru Kenyatta said that he will support one of the Nasa principals if they united and agreed on one of them. He called on Nasa principals to unite if they wanted to ascend to power in 2022. This came two days after Raila indicated during the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile that Nasa could unite again. Nasa coalition brought together Raila, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Chama Cha Mashinani's Isaac Ruto. Isaac Ruto is now with Deputy President William Ruto. Mudavadi while speaking in Mombasa ruled out the possibility of reviving Nasa over what he termed “serious deficiency of trust”. Kalonzo has also ruled out the possibility of supporting Raila for the third time. Raila said on Thursday that he had not declared to run for the presidency in 2022. Anangwe said that the political situation is fluid and premature to make categorical statements as to whom to work with or not because politics is about interests. “People must strike an understanding to drive the country forward,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori