At least 8,000 teenagers in Kwale are addicted to Muguka, Teen Watch Centre, a non-governmental organisation, has warned. Another 5,000 are addicted to tobacco, it adds. Muguka, the leaves of Catha edulis, are chewed as stimulants. It is in the same family as Khat (miraa). However, muguka is cheaper than khat. Scientists say muguka chewing results in weight loss, decreased sex drive and insomnia among other long-term effects. According to the latest report from the Teens Watch Centre, the number of teenagers abusing Muguka is higher than that of those abusing other drugs in the region. At the South Coast, an Ethiopian bhang known as Shashamane was the most abused drug, however, muguka has now taken the lead. The study by Teens Watch Centre was conducted on the beaches, in cinema halls and at weddings, matatu stages and muguka bases in the streets. Teens Watch Centre director Cosmus Maina said the trend, in which muguka and tobacco are consuming young lives in the county, is alarming. He said some of the addicted children are now suffering from mental illness and the majority have been forced to quit school. “There are students who are now mentally unstable because of muguka addiction and we have since sent them to Port Reitz Mental Hospital in Mombasa for treatment,” he said. Maina said some of the addicts have contracted tuberculosis and cancer. He attributed low muguka price and availability to the rising number of its users, especially the young. At the same time, there are at least 2,500 youths who are on methadone treatment at a Teens Watch Centre and the Kombani Rehabilitation Centre. Methadone treatment is used to help heroin addicts to overcome the addition. Maina said the drug menace has largely affected students’ performance in schools, raising fears that soon the region will not have a productive population. Efforts by the Kwale county assembly to pass a bill to regulate the use of miraa and muguka have also proved futile. Assembly Majority leader James Dawa said the executive did not take the matter seriously because the bill was in conflict with the national laws, which allow consumption of miraa and muguka. However, he said necessary interventions are underway to see if muguka and miraa can be regulated. In March, some religious leaders in Kwale raised the alarm that teens of about 15 years were injecting hard drugs. They also blamed drugs for the increasing criminal activities on the Coast. Recently, some youth have been involved in crimes in Diani, Ukunda and Tiwi, with some killed by police and others by a mob as they attempted to rob people. -Edited by SKanyara