Kenya is among countries to benefit from a plan that will help cities become greener, cleaner and integrated into sustainable agri-food systems. Nairobi and Kisumu are part of the pilot phase of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations' newly launched Green Cities Regional Action Programme for Africa. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong’o said Kisumu has in the past five years put in place several initiatives towards greening the city and achieving resilient food systems. “This has been with the assistance of development partners. We are, therefore, pleased to be part of this great initiative,” he said. During the online launch on Wednesday, FAO Director-General QU Dongyu said cities can be redesigned to have affordable, healthy and sustainable food, with accessible green spaces, green lifestyles and new jobs. He said a vast majority of Africa’s cities have fewer than 300,000 inhabitants. “With the right policies and planning, combined with innovative solutions, local administrations and communities can build resilience and improve the wellbeing of urban and peri-urban dwellers,” he said. The programme aims to apply innovative solutions and turn urbanisation into an opportunity for cities to become more sustainable, resilient, provide access to healthy foods and ensure a better life for everyone. The initiative aims to scale up fast-action measures for large, medium and small cities to be more resilient, and food- and nutrition-secure, with pleasant natural environments, and more integrated nutritious food production and distribution systems benefitting residents and farmers alike. Letters of intent were signed with six African cities: Praia in Cabo Verde, Kisumu and Nairobi in Kenya, Antananarivo in Madagascar, Quelimane in Mozambique and Kigali in Rwanda. The six will be embarking on the pilot phase. The programme is designed to involve 1,000 cities worldwide by 2030. FAO’s director general called upon committed cities and mayors to engage local innovators, entrepreneurs and young people to propose new solutions, digital technologies, climate-smart practices and strategies to create green jobs, besides enriching the connections between urban settlements and their rural surroundings. He urged authorities to engage the youth, especially in places where urbanisation is in an early phase and growing rapidly. “We need to enable young people so they can define their own future city,” he said. FAO is funding the initial phase and eyeing to attract more resources and interest for the full programme. The aim is to push for key innovative “quick win” actions to develop the capacity of local stakeholders in the first cities joining the project to integrate food systems, urban and peri-urban agriculture and forestry in local planning. This requires a holistic approach to governance in the case of metropolitan areas that span several municipal jurisdictions. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)