Schools will on Monday begin receiving textbooks to be used by the pioneer class of the Competency-Based Curriculum in July when they transit to Grade 5. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi on Wednesday told the Star that the publishers have completed the printing of the 21 million textbooks. The focus now shifts to distribution that will run until the end of June, Njagi said. “We were to start distribution today (Wednesday) but most schools are currently on mid-term break so we scheduled the distribution for Monday,” Njagi told the Star on the phone. The pioneer class of the new curriculum is currently on holiday after completing Grade 4 in March. They will reopen in July when transit to Grade 5, leaving them with just one year in their primary education journey. The new curriculum rendered textbooks used in the replaced 8-4-4 education system useless. Nine publishers were contracted to produce the Grade 5 books. "We want all the books to be in place before the schools reopen in July to avoid any delays in the roll-out," Njagi said. He said publishers were required to take the textbooks to schools unlike before when they delivered to the subcounty headquarters from where headteachers would pick them. This means each publisher will be required to deliver the textbooks to the 30,000 primary schools in the country. In June last year, the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development awarded nine companies, including Kenya Literature Bureau — a government agency — tenders to supply textbooks to Grade 4 pupils under the Competency-Based Curriculum. The firms are expected to publish 12 textbooks to be supplied to schools starting July in preparation for the rollout of the new curriculum to Grade 5. KLB will supply Islamic Religious Education (IRE) and Kiswahili books; Moran Publishers will print English books, while Mountain Top will deliver Home Science and Agriculture textbooks. Mathematics course books will be distributed by Mentor Publishers, Art and Craft (Book Mark Africa), Science and Technology and Social Studies (East African Educational Publishers), Christian Religious Education (Longhorn), Music (JKF) and Physical and Health Education (Spotlight). Distribution of books in French, Arabic, Mandarin and Indigenous Languages was put on hold because they are optional subjects and there is a need to wait for schools to resume to establish the number of learners interested in those subjects.