A Sh1.8 billion textile centre of excellence is set to be established at the Kisumu National Polytechnic. The Regional Flagship TVET Institute for Textile Technology will be established through a partnership between the Ministry of Education and the World Bank. The World Bank-funded project will be the first of its kind in Kenya and East Africa, offering textile training and skills transfers. Thomas Nyang’or, the project’s implementation unit head of monitoring and evaluation, said they have received the funds and advertised for the tender.  Thirty-five local and international contractors have expressed interest. Construction of the centre starts in August. The centre will sit on 278 hectares (686 acres). It will house a factory, laboratories, tuition blocks, studios and hostels. The five-storey office block shall be fitted with a lift for ease of movement for persons living with disabilities and a breastfeeding room. “Upon completion, the facility will enrol up to 5,000 students annually from Kenya and beyond,” Nyang’or added. He said Kisumu Polytechnic is reviewing the curriculum to ensure that programmes offered at the institution fit the work environment. "The review will focus on developing industry-driven programmes to equip learners with the requisite skills to work effectively in the competitive textile, fashion and design industry," he said. This will save time and resources spent on retraining workers, Nyang’or said. He said their goal is to have all their students secure employment within six months after graduating. Training modules at the institution will require students to spend 60 per cent of their study time working at the factory to acquire skills. Nyang’or said over 30,000 farmers have been engaged and advised to plant Bt cotton, which is highly productive and profitable. He said the project will provide direct employment opportunities to over 500 individuals and 2,500 indirectly working at the factory, the institute and the cotton value chain.  Edited by A.N