The car hired by missing former soldier Mwenda Mbijiwe has been recovered at a coffee farm in Kiambu. The car was recovered on June 13, a day after he went missing. Police said the car was found vandalized within a coffee farm in Tatu City. They said Mbijiwe hired the car from a man identified as Edward Mwangi. Mwangi told police Mbijiwe had hired the Toyota Fielder registration number KCN 614K for 3 weeks. The car had a tracking device. He said he had tracked the vehicle’s location to the area and decided to visit after attempts to reach Mbijiwe on phone were futile. The vehicle’s key and Mbijiwe's personal belongings were however not recovered from the vehicle. Mwangi reported the matter to police and was subsequently allowed to repossess his vehicle. Police said more people are expected to be questioned and record statements over the incident. Mbijiwe was traveling to Meru to visit his ailing mother. According to Mwangi, Mbijiwe had expressed interest in prolonging his initial agreement on the day he was supposed to surrender the car. His sister, Tamara Mbijiwe said they filed a missing person report on June 14 at the Central police station, Nairobi after he could not be reached on his mobile phone. She said they last heard from him on June 12 and he had not expressed any fears over his life. The sister had earlier on written on Facebook that Mbijiwe reached out to one of the family members and disclosed his whereabouts. "Ever since all his phones went off, the car he was using is yet to be found. In case of any information on his whereabouts, kindly get in touch or report to the nearest police station. Kindly remember him and the family in prayers." she said. Mbijiwe is a popular TV analyst and consultant who speaks on security matters. He was the CEO of Eye On Security (K) and a former Meru governor contestant. In June 2019, he was arraigned on fraud charges. Mbijiwe was accused of fraudulently acquiring Sh150,000 from a man after convincing him that he had links and networks with the United Nation. Mbijiwe had allegedly misled the victim into believing that he was in a position to secure employment for his sister at the UN. He ran for the Meru Gubernatorial seat in 2017 on an ODM ticket but lost to incumbent Kiraitu Murungi. Mbijiwe had made a post on his Facebook page on June 11 on current political issues and especially the standoff between the executive and the judiciary. “What you are witnessing in Kenya now is the rise of judicial activism and the self-assertion of radical judges. These will in not-so-far future transform into legislators of law,” the post said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)