Tension was high after suspected armed bandits killed a couple and injure their child at Kapau village in Tiaty, Baringo county, on Wednesday morning. The scene is located a few kilometres from the volatile Lomelo and Kapedo border of Baringo and Turkana counties. Tirioko MCA Sam Lokales said the family was asleep at 3am when the bandits struck spraying them with bullets. He was backed by his Ripko-Kositei ward counterpart Daniel Tuwit who blamed the attack on an ongoing security operation. They said Lotada Loyara died on the spot while his wife died while being rushed for treatment at Chemoling’ot subcounty hospital, about 50km away. She was shot in the stomach. They left behind a two-year-old boy Musto Lotada. The killing comes amid the ongoing security operation in Kapedo and Tiaty to flush out notorious armed bandits who have been disturbing the residents. The two MCAs condemned the incident saying there was no livestock stolen during the dawn attack. They appealed to the government to quickly deploy security officers to the area to beef up security and repulse the aggressors believed to come from Lomelo in the neighbouring Turkana county. “We are calling upon our people to remain calm as we task the commanders in charge of operations to take the matter seriously and bring the killer bandits to book,” Lokales said. Tuwit called upon the government to consider launching disarmament operations in both Baringo and Turkana counties, than leaving out Tiaty subcounty. Confirming the incident, Tiaty West deputy county commissioner Jackson Orieny said the parents died while the child suffered head and right arm injuries. “At this stage, the motive of the attack has not been ascertained so I have scanty information,” Orieny said. “Drought has currently ravaged the entire place forcing herders to move from one place to another in search of water and pasture for their animals. This could be the cause of the frequent cross-border disputes and attacks.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris