The Kenya Union of Water and Sewerage Employees has called for reversion of water services to the national government for effective services. Kuwase said water services across the 47 counties are in a sorry state after being taken over by the devolved governments. The workers accused the devolved units for running down water companies and crippling services in some parts of the country. General Secretary Elijah Awach noted that it was unfortunate that some companies had accumulated huge electricity bills and salaries arrears and were in the brink of collapse. Awach attributed the situation to hiring of unqualified personnel to run the companies. "We have institutions like Sibo Water, Garissa Water, Migori Water and Sanitation companies nearly collapsing due to mismanagement and lack of transparency and accountability,” he said. Speaking after a national governing council meeting at Tom Mboya Labour College in Kisumu, the general secretary noted that it was unfortunate governors had employed their cronies and business partners in top management positions to the detriment of the public utilities. "We want to urge the Ministry of Water and Sanitation, water works agencies and other regulatory bodies to intervene and save the sector," he added. The union further claimed that the county bosses were using the water companies as conduits to siphon public funds by floating questionable tenders, which are awarded to their cronies. As the country approaches the 2022 General Election, Awach raised concerns that billions of public funds stand to be lost as governors look for cash to fund their campaigns. The unionist added that workers in the sector have been neglected, with some county governments resorting to hiring staff on a casual basis even as the country grapples with the Covid-19 pandemic. “The water sector is very critical in the fight against Covid-19 but as we speak workers have not been considered as essential service providers let alone received their vaccination,” he lamented. He urged the over 20,000 workers in water and sanitation institutions to join trade unions to make it easier for negotiations for better terms and conditions of service. Kenya Water Workers Association president Charles Chitechi  called for a nationwide audit of water companies’ accounts to unearth irregularities. “We are asking the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Director of Criminal Investigations to be part of the investigations and arrest all top managers who are behind the mismanagement of these companies,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori