A section of Murang’a leaders have hit out at former Chief Justice David Maraga for calling for the impeachment of the President. The Jubilee party leaders said on Sunday the former Chief Justice declared Parliament unconstitutional while he was still in office and wondered why he wants the same House to now impeach the President. A few days ago, Maraga said MPs should impeach the President, saying his actions amounted to a gross violation of the Constitution that he took a vow to uphold. Maraga said the President’s role in the appointment of judges is ceremonial and that he should appoint them in accordance with the recommendations of the Judicial Service Commission. Earlier this month, the President rejected the nomination of six judges to the Court of Appeal and the Environment and Lands Court. Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege said Maraga and his predecessor Willy Mutunga should stop interfering with government functions, especially the presidency. Kangema MP Muturi Kigano said the role of the President is to approve, not rubber-stamp the recommendations of the JSC. Kigano, the chairperson of the Justice and Legal committee in the National Assembly, said the role allows the President to reject any names he deems unfit. The MP said each judge is appointed individually, and the President has no mandate to approve them as a group. “The President has every right to protect Kenyans and send the names back to JSC for reconsideration,” he said. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said the Constitution allows Kenyans to freely express themselves. “We should be thankful that we have a President who disregards insults and who is focused on moving the nations forward,” he said. While underscoring the importance of criticism, the speaker cautioned leaders against making statements that could destroy the nation. “We should make sure the criticism we give is aimed at improving and not destroying,” he said. The leaders were speaking at Kenya Njeru ACK church in Kangema during a service. Kieni MP Kanini Kega was present. 