Retired politicians and a section of businesspeople in Embu have asked National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to run for President and ignore the noise from some Central Kenya politicians. The leaders drawn from Runyenjes subcounty vowed to support Muturi once he declares his candidacy. Speaking at a meeting held at Kawanjara in Runyenjes on Wednesday, they lauded Mt Kenya leaders who have endorsed Muturi despite a few politicians from the region opposing his new role as the Mt Kenya spokesman. They also called on Embu residents to support their heir on his mission of uniting  Mt Kenya people. “We advise the Speaker to go for position one in the country and we will unite to support him. I urge the people from the central part of Mt Kenya to show some form of gratitude by supporting Muturi in his future political endeavours," Ceasar Mugo, a businessman, said. “I have heard leaders from some counties in Central Kenya opposing Muturi’s new role and if they are not ready to support us, we will join the rest of the people in Kenya and support him.” They also appreciated the elders from Mt Kenya for accepting to crown Speaker Muturi as the region's spokesperson through the rites ceremony at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a. “I appreciate the elders from Njuri Ncheke, Kiama kia Ma and Embu elders for appointing Muturi as an elder in charge of uniting the people Mt Kenya,” Juliet Wanja, a businesswoman, said. The leaders said that they have been supporting their Central Kenya leaders when it comes to leadership and thus requested them to unite in supporting Muturi in his presidential bid. They also requested President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider extending working hours for restaurants and hotels. They said that they are struggling to pay for licenses which the government wants them to pay in full despite the few working hours. “The deadly coronavirus is still there and I urge Kenyans to be obedient in following the containment measures set by the Ministry of Health,” Mwaniki Nderi, a former Runyenjes Municipality Councillor, said. “I humbly request the President to consider extending hotels and restaurants hours so that we can revive our economy. We promise to keep the containment measures to the latter.” Nderi also said the restaurants and hotel owners are going through difficult times as they have very few working hours. They said that they are opening their businesses at 5 pm and closing at 7 pm yet the licenses have not dropped their cost and the government is requesting to be paid in full making it difficult for their business. They also urged the President to stress on leaders minimising public rallies as it has been for past weeks.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris