The number of companies merging dropped in 2019/20 compared to the previous year as Covid-19 limited business activities. According to the annual report by the Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK), a total of 121 mergers were determined during the period under review. This was a decline from the previous year’s 141 mergers, which is attributable to the enactment of the tough merger thresholds. Even so, the competition agency handled more complex mergers that had cross-border dimensions and new frontiers of competition assessment such as the digital economy and big data. The biggest merger activity was in the manufacturing sector with 21cases. The economy continued to experience consolidation in the banking sector with four mergers applications reviewed and determined,’’ CAK director-general Wang’ombe Kariuki said. The Authority investigated and finalized 178 consumer complaints, which is an increase of 28 per cent from the previous year. This is attributable to increased awareness about our mandate. The authority conducted a specific investigation into the retail sector, which focused on 25 medium and large retailers. "The main objective of the retail sector investigation was securing the sustainability of the sector, which supports the livelihood of tens of thousands of Kenyans,’’ CAK said. This stems from the recognition that abuse of buyer power in any sector exposes small enterprises to business collapse, an unfavorable outcome that would entrench the concentration of dominant players. It was determined that four retailers had delayed payments to their local suppliers, most of whom are SMEs, for a period exceeding 90 days. Following engagements with the Authority, the affected retailers were ordered to develop clear payment plans to offset delayed payments. In addition, monitoring to ensure adherence to the plans was done and shall progress into the next financial year. As a result of the Authority’s intervention, Sh2.1 billion held by retailers was paid out to SMEs. During the period under review, the authority’s online platform boosted efficiencies. For instance, CAK now takes an average of 30 days to analyse merger applications, an improvement from the previous year’s 37 days. “These incremental efficiencies are aligned with our commitment to play a positive role in improving the country’s overall ease of doing business within the remit of the law,'' Kariuki said.