Kenya will host 3000 athletes and officials during the 2020 World Athletics Under-20 Championships set for August 17 to 22 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. This is after the Local Organising Committee signed contracts with seven local hotels on Wednesday. Whereas Safari Park Hotel will be the World Athletics family's official residence, Ole Sereni, which has been set aside for the teams will also serve as the accreditation and medical centre. Utalii Hotel will host technical officials. Besides providing accommodation, EKA Hotel will have a special Covid-19 isolation centre while Sports View Hotel has been designated as the Media Hotel. Tamarind Tree and Sarova Panafric are the other hotels that will offer support. Rabar indicated that all the hotels have agreed to adhere to Covid-19 protocols that will see them adopt an absolute bubble model at their facilities. “All the hotels will have medical centres but Ole Sereni will have the main medical facility with Eka coming in as the holding centre,” said Rabar, who was flanked by his deputy, Ruth Agesa and director in charge of the accommodation, Zulekha Khalid. Rabar said upon arrival, all athletes and officials will pass through Ole Sereni Hotel for accreditation and Covid-19 testing before being released to their respective hotels. “Teams will only be allowed out after receiving the Covid-19 test results,” said Rabar. He noted that the hotels are based in areas where athletes will be able to access Kasarani and the Nyayo National Stadium, which has been set aside as one of the training venues for the event. Safari Park president Young Roh welcomed the World Athletics Family at his facility. The hotel hosted the same officials during the 2017 World Athletics Under-18 Championships. “We are proud to provide our services in support of the event that will make us succeed too,” said Roh, adding that 300 rooms will be available for the event. “We are working closely with the organisers to see that the bubble concept is achieved.” Ole Sereni Group CEO Ghulam Samdani noted that they are now conversant with the bubble concept having hosted participants during the Kenya Open Golf Championship and Savannah Classic Golf Championship in March this year. “We are up to the task and we promise our guests the best hospitality they can dream of during their stay in Kenya. We have mastered the new phenomenon,” said Samdani.