Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has rejected financial statements for the Vihiga county government expenditures for 2018-19. In her report, she said the county administration failed to properly account for Sh7 billion for the year under review. Gathungu on Monday said that the county’s financial statements did not present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the county as at June 30, 2019. “The financial statements do not comply with the County Governments Act 2012 and the Public Finance Management Act 2012,” Gathungu said in the report. The auditor said a comparison of payments made through the IFMIS system and corresponding bank statements from the Central Bank indicated that payments amounting to Sh1.1 billion were voided or cancelled by the county government during the year under review. She said it was impossible to verify the reasons for the cancellation of payments because no documentation or register was provided. “There were no details of who authorised the cancellation,” Gathungu’s report said. She questioned the expenditure of Sh2 billion in employee payments, noting that there were numerous arithmetic errors in the county payroll. While the statement of receipts and payments reflected Sh1.99 billion was used on compensation of the workers, payments differed by Sh348 million, with Sh1.6 billion as computed from the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database gross pay. The county payroll has serious errors with some employees having duplicate ID numbers and earned through duplicate bank account numbers, causing the county to lose millions of shillings. In another case, a review of the payroll and bank records revealed that five employees received Sh1.7 million through a single shared bank account. The county's statement of assets and liabilities also reflected liabilities of Sh1.3 billion against assets valued at Sh696 million, a difference of Sh527 million. The county did not provide documentation to support the use of more than Sh220 million, which was transferred from other government entities, including the Kenya Roads Board. Gathungu also questioned how Sh1.2 billion was used by the county on goods and services. No proper documentation was provided for Sh270 million used for domestic travel, including unsupported payment of more than Sh13 million to an air travel agent. The county also did not provide proper documentation to support payment of Sh184.2 million as legal fees. The county had pending bills of more than Sh2.5 billion and the administration could not explain why the bills were not paid. Gathungu also questioned irregular payments of more than Sh700 million and general poor implementation of many development projects. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 