Some people come to this earth and are brave enough to follow their calling. From early on they know they are special. That they are gifted. The insecure ones see that as arrogance. They are so caught up in their fears that they project them on those vulnerable enough to live their truth in the limelight. Because they do not ask for permission nor apologise for making you uncomfortable in your illusion of a proper life. It is always easier to portray them as villains. But even villains have a story to tell. A lesson to teach. A legacy to leave. I first met Benjamin Ayimba in my early 20s. I was the sales and marketing manager at a snacks company (we sold crisps owada, but someone said I should call them snacks). My department had all of one person. Me. I really took that job seriously. I had this great idea to take our crisps to the rugby men and their fans. It was a good idea, I sold out every weekend. That is where our paths crossed. Benja was a fast-rising star. I had no idea who he really was. My then-boyfriend was a rugby player (on and off the pitch). So there had been mention of this man in conversation. Years went by and I would adopt him as a big brother. I have always wanted big brothers, so I have given myself some. When my son was maybe six, he decided he loved this rugby (yaani, rugby will not just leave me alone). So I took him to Benja, who became a coach and then a small god in our house in quick succession. My son Matt is turning 16 at the end of this month. The relationship between Matt and I and the coach over the last 10 years will forever impact our lives. For the better. Coach saved my son from my apron strings which had been wrapped around my only son so tight. The first time I let my son walk home alone from training was at the instruction of Benja. He bluntly asked, “Felly, are you raising a man or a mouse?” So I let him walk home but I did nothing for the 45 minutes, maybe less, but it seemed like a lifetime that I held my breath, waiting for confirmation that he had reached home. Benja would continue to mentor him and teach him things that as much as I loved him as his mother, I had no idea how to go about. Our friendship allowed me to not only see my own father as a human being but also extend him, Benja, that grace. I learnt that sometimes a man is just a person. Trying to make his way the best way he knows how. Often with no instruction or example. Many times bearing the dreams and expectations of many, dear and unknown. Never feeling like they are doing enough. Always expected to give more even when there is nothing to give. I saw how unfair we were to him. Wanting to own him and trying to squeeze him into a box. Yes he was a superstar in this country and beyond, but he was not ours to keep. He belonged to himself and his creator. We projected our fears on him because it is easier than facing our own realities. Who has never been broke or has a signed contract from God that he shall never be led into temptation? Who has never been fired? Who has never had to start anew? We loved him with conditions. When he won, he was ours. When he was human, we pointed fingers and looked down from high horses. Even now people who have never even built a chicken coup have the audacity to judge a human being. One of my favourite quotes by Terance rings true. “I am a man: I hold that nothing human is alien to me.” There is nothing alien about Benjamin’s walk on this earth. Even if you want to paint him as a villain, he lived his truth. May we be kinder to these special people. Live your life so you are not picking specks from their eyes. We do not own them and they do not owe us a “proper” life. Everyone does the best they can with what they know. Some two and a half years ago at my 40th birthday party, I was able to thank Benja for the role he had played in my life and that of my son. A true brother and friend. I still do not know how I will pay you back, omera. Rest in peace, wan a nere.