A chopper has crashed in the Oltinga area of Kajiado West sub-county with an unconfirmed number of passengers. Kajiado County Police Commander Muthuri Mwongera said the accident happened about 8 am and details of the chopper and the number of passengers remains unknown. “I have dispatched Kajiado West OCPD Vincent Kitili, to the scene in Oltinga to get us details,” Mwongera said. The police commander confirmed that it is an Army chopper that crashed 60 km south of Oloopolos. Such choppers, they say, can carry a maximum of 26 passengers. Kajiado West OCPD Vincent Kitili said 13 passengers were rescued and have been flown to Forces Memorial Hospital in Nairobi. "This a military operation and we are not supposed to share the information from the ground. The military has taken over. Our duty is to file a signal later," he said. The area DC Morekwa Morang'a reported that as the chopper prepared to land, a large whirlwind occurred causing the pilot not to see the ground. "We are yet to count the bodies of the dead," said the DC. The DC said the chopper was on its regular and normal exercises when the accident happened after takeoff from the Eastleigh Airbase on Thursday morning. Mwongera disclosed that there were 23 passengers including the pilots in the army chopper that crashed in Oltinga and already 13 have been rescued from the wreck. Out of the 13, Mwongera said 10 were "safe" while three were critical. This means at the time of filing this report seven soldiers had not been accounted for. "The accident scene has been taken over by the military police and officers from the scenes of crime unit. They are retrieving the and accounting for the dead," said Mwongera. One of the people on the ground said the chopper burst into flames as soon as it came down. The Kenya Defence Forces have confirmed that the chopper is a Mi 171e Air force helicopter that was on a training mission. "It crash-landed at the Ol Tepesi area in Kajiado," KDF said via a tweet on Thursday. More to follow...