Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has called out the National Treasury for breaching the Constitution citing the slow disbursement of Equalisation Fund. The auditor warned that the 14 beneficiary counties may not get the full allocation within the 20 years of the fund’s lifetime. Gathungu said there was a problem considering that only 30 per cent of the fund has been disbursed for the past seven years since the inception of the fund. The beneficiary counties are entitled to Sh32.6 billion so far but Treasury has only disbursed Sh12.4 billion as of June 2019. The auditor said the breach followed that the National Treasury had not remitted the remaining balance of Sh20.2 billion to the Fund as at 30 June, 2019. Out of the Sh12.4 billion transferred to the Fund account so far, only Sh10.1 billion has been disbursed for the approved projects, through the parent ministries to the identified counties. A balance of Sh2.3 billion was still held in the fund account as of 30 June 2019. The auditor further flagged that out of the disbursed amount, only Sh6.5 billion had been spent as of June 30, 2019, leaving a balance of Sh3.6 billion still held by the parent ministries in their respective bank accounts. While some Sh122 million was held by the Fund Secretariat, the National Treasury did not transfer any allocation for the financial years 2017-18 and 2018-19. Services that were to be catered to by the fund have delayed in Turkana, Mandera, Wajir, Marsabit, Samburu, West Pokot, Tana River, Narok, Kwale, Garrisa, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Isiolo and Lamu. Council of Governors has over the years lamented the delayed release of the funds saying the monies have been with the Treasury since the advent of devolution. Governors sued over the delays and a decision was made but the government was yet to release the funds. Equalisation Fund is to provide basic services such as water, roads, health facilities and electricity to marginalized areas. The aim is to bring the quality of the services in those areas to the level generally enjoyed by the rest of the nation. But Gathungu, in her latest summary report for the year ending June 2019, said the country is not likely to achieve the objectives of the fund given the low level of disbursements. She cited Article 204 of the Constitution, which provides that the Equalisation Fund will lapse in 20 years of its inception, after which it will cease if no extension is approved by Parliament. The fund administration, according to the audit report, attributed the low level of disbursement to delayed policies, delayed project identification, and legislative hurdles. The Public Finance Management (Equalisation Fund) Regulations, 2021 is among laws that are to help realize the full potential of the fund. “The legislative piece has been approved by the Cabinet and is currently at the Attorney General’s Office for legal drafting and publication,” the report reads. The regulations provide that the fund, into which 0.5 per cent of national revenue is deposited, will be administered by a board comprising a chairperson appointed by the Treasury CS. Other members will be Devolution principal secretary; a nominee by the Parliamentary Pastoralist Group; Senate nominee; two nominees by Council of Governors – from ASAL counties; two persons nominated by organizations working in beneficiary counties, and a chief executive officer appointed by the board. Members will be required to hold a degree from a recognized university in Kenya; at least five years professional experience; and meet requirements of Leadership and Integrity. The board will evaluate projects and make recommendations on priority areas for funding in the recipient counties. Each eligible county will be required to establish a county technical committee chaired by the respective county commissioners. Other members are Finance CEC; Constituency Development Fund managers; representative of county assembly; and representative of implementing sectors. Allocations to the Equalisation Fund, as spelled in the constitution, are to facilitate services including water, roads, health facilities and electricity. Each county shall form a sub-county technical committee chaired by sub-county commissioner; four technical officers from ministries relevant to funding priorities; and chairpersons of project identification and implementation committees (PIIC). The committee will receive project proposals from the respective PIICs and asses the feasibility and cost of submitted proposals.