Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has become the latest leader in Jubilee to call for party changes ahead of the 2022 General Election. Waiguru posted through her Facebook account on Monday that, “The rains have beaten us. Our fortunes are dwindling. Intense introspection is demanded." She said that the party carries the dreams and aspirations of many Kenyans and that it was built on the strengths of many. “The party became what it was because of its diverse and broad support base.” The governor said that as the country continues to muscle for the next election, the party must recognise that it is operating in a new context far different from 10 years ago. “We have a much younger generation dominating the electorate. Our outlook and strategies must suit the times and so we must be willing to step off our comfort zone and embrace new ways of thinking and doing,” she said. “We need a reenergised Jubilee that projects the face of Kenya in all its diversities.” According to the governor, the two-term ruling party should reopen both the sides and back of the tent for people to enter and re-enter. She added that; “A lot of futures are tied to the fate of the party and we must restore its vision, glory, and stature or contend with predictable consequences.” Waiguru's call comes amid political turmoil in the region, where the elected leaders are seeking the favourable party which will secure them a seat. Recently, Gatundu South MP's party won the Juja Constituency by-election, beating the Jubilee candidate in its stronghold. The People's Empowerment Party was fielding Raymond Kuria as its candidate. George Koimburi was declared the winner after garnering 12,159 votes against Jubilee's Susan Njeri who got 5,746 votes. All eyes are now on the upcoming Kiambaa mini poll, where the UDA party associated with the DP William Ruto is contesting. Kuria's party withdrew from the Kiambaa by-election race. Kuria said that the decision was made after consultations with Deputy President William Ruto. The People's Empowerment Party was fielding Raymond Kuria as its candidate.