Lamu residents are agitating for the privatisation of waste management and disposal due to uncollected garbage and littering in towns. The county has for years grappled with poor waste management infrastructure that has seen major towns in the region operate without a definite waste collection and disposal mechanism. The result has been a pile-up of garbage from the beaches in the archipelago to the streets, towns and villages in the region. Environmentalists have equally raised alarm over the high plastic waste pile up in the Indian Ocean and on the beaches, a major tourist attraction in the region, a situation that has reduced the number of tourists in Lamu. They have asked the county government to formulate better waste disposal policies. The worst affected areas are Lamu Old Town, Matondoni, Mokowe and Mpeketoni. Owing to the lack of such amenities in place, residents are left with no option but to dump waste directly into the Indian Ocean or on the beaches, which is an environmental hazard. The once beautiful beaches are now choking from an immense buildup of garbage mostly plastic waste such as water bottles, straws and old fishing nets. Open sewers continue to spew dirt on the streets and water sources, posing serious health threat. The Lamu government has been on the spot over its laxity in establishing effective waste management strategies. “The pungent smell emanating from garbage piled up on streets and beaches is something else. Its obvious the county government has failed to manage waste here and that’s why we want them to pass the mantle to someone else," community leader Muhashiam Famau said. Traders at the Lamu municipal market have accused the municipality of failing to consistently collect garbage from the market, leading to a pileup that’s now affecting business and posing a health risk. Due to lack of a drainage system at the market, there has also been a build-up of sewage waste that has left the place stinking. “People no longer want to come here because of the dirt and garbage. We are looking at a possible cholera or typhoid outbreak if nothing is done," grocer Wainaina Muthoni said. Environmentalists have said as part of the solution, the county government should create mobile collection points in old town and equally allow the privatisation of the garbage collection services. In his response ,however, Lamu Municipality Manager Omar Famau denied such challenges exist. He said there are a number of garbage collection tractors stationed around towns in the region and in addition, there were cart handlers and cleaners employed to ensure prompt garbage and cleanliness of the towns. He, however, admitted the number of dumpsites in the region are not enough. “Privatising means robbing people of their jobs, which is a selfish thing to do in these harsh economic times. The plan meanwhile is to increase the number of tractors and establish more dumping points,”Famau said.