Shem Mukalo, the son of a sugarcane cutter in Vihiga, excited Kenyans by pouring out his love for Ngina Kenyatta. The 30-year-old from Kakamega first came into the limelight after writing a love letter to 31-year-old Ngina Kenyatta. Speaking exclusively to Word Is, Shem said he meant every word in his love poem, and the President's daughter is the apple of his eye. "People were telling me that the intelligence officers are going to come for me. But I told them this is just a letter celebrating a great woman, I haven't abused anyone. Why should I be afraid? They are just human like me. My conscience is clear because I was just appreciating a great woman," he said. He said his love letter to Ngina came after a breakup with his girlfriend, and to him, the President's daughter is the ideal woman. He loves the dignity and elegance displayed by Ngina Kenyatta during her few public appearances. "I have a romantic interest in her. I know very well that is punching above my weight because she is a member of the higher society," he said. "If it comes sooner, well and good. I am just hopeful. I am also aware of the fact that it might not happen. I am hoping for the best and at the same time, preparing for the worst. I am ready for the worst." He said he is ready to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta. "If I did not want to have him as my father-in-law, I wouldn't have taken the struggle of writing that romantic letter." In his love letter, Shem promised to take Ngina on a world tour. But does he have the money? "I am a very ambitious man. My situation right now might not be financially good. I might not be able to take her around the world as of now, but in a few year's time, I believe I will have amassed the finances through hard work." His mother came to learn about his letter to Ngina Kenyatta on June 14, days after he wrote it. She was worried about the safety of her son after he confessed love for a member of high society. Shem said he does not mind the fact that Ngina Kenyatta is a year older than him. To him, age is just a number and a non-issue in his pursuit of love. Additionally, he said girls have been flocking his inbox on Facebook since his bold letter to the President's daughter.