Kemsa has yet again been put on the spot, this time for irregular procurement of resealable plastic wrappers used for dispensing medicine. The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority procured 45,500 dispensing plastic resealable envelopes at Sh28.6 million under the World Bank-funded health services support programme, which is now a subject of an audit query. This loosely translates to Sh630 for a pack of 1,000, which is way above the prevailing market prices. Various pharmacists told the Star they buy the items at an average price of Sh300 for a pack of 1,000 pieces. A search on globally acclaimed e-commerce websites shows that the bags are sold at an average of Sh2 per piece as compared to the Sh6 per piece that Kemsa spent. The Mission for Essential Drugs (MEDS) sells a pack of 1,000 pieces at Sh425. Kemsa records show that it was the same entity –MEDS – that supplied the authority. The one-year contract is set to expire in October. Kemsa further procured pharmaceutical items amounting to Sh95 million using direct procurement method from the supplier – said to be a faith-based organisation. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has, in a review of the Health ministry books of accounts, flagged the Kemsa purchases, citing breach of procurement laws. Gathungu said the management was in breach of the law for using direct procurement on the nature of goods the entity sourced. “The reasons given for the use of the direct procurement method do not satisfy the conditions for use of the method,” Gathungu said. The auditor said Kemsa violated the provisions of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015. Kemsa management defended the direct procurement method, saying it was aimed at mitigating against stock-outs of critical items needed by the counties. They said even the supplier identified was a non-profit organisation. The Kenya Episcopal Conference, Registered Trustees and Christian Health Association of Kenya are listed as the beneficial owners of the supplier. Kemsa has been on the spot following the Sh7.8 billion PPE scandal, which saw some of its bosses step aside to pave way for investigations. The inquiry file is awaiting action by the Director of Public Prosecutions after the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission concluded its probe. A parliamentary probe on the Covid-19 purchases showed the law was disregarded on the premise that the procurements were done under an emergency. Gathungu has, however, flagged irregularities in purchases of Covid-19 related equipment. In the new case, the authority sourced the equipment at Sh304 million using direct procurement. “Kemsa procured the said Covid-19 related items using the direct procurement method retrospectively without putting in place systems and procedures to guide the use of the procurement method contrary to Section 69 ( 2 ) and Section 45 ( 1 ) of the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act, 2015,” the auditor said. “In the circumstance, it is not clear whether the project [World Bank-funded] obtained value for money on the expenditure of Sh304,160,118 incurred on procurement of Covid-19 related items.” The audit also flagged delays in the completion of works in the Kemsa warehouse and office. The modern warehouse and office block is jointly funded by the Global Fund and the Government of Kenya at a cost of Sh3 billion. The works commenced on March 28, 2018, and were due for completion on March 12, 2019. The auditor reported that a site inspection in November 2020 indicated that construction was still ongoing, 20 months after the project’s scheduled completion date. Management reported that the works on the warehouse were 95 per cent complete. The contract has since been extended several times with the latest completion date having been set for December 23, 2020. “No plausible explanation has been provided by management for the delay in completing the buildings,” Gathungu said.  Edited by P.O