Deputy President William Ruto has said the ganging together of his political opponents will not stop his march to State House and dismissed the groupings as tribal. Ruto said he was aware that some political leaders were preparing to form coalitions, objectively to block him from succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta. However, the DP said he was ready to face his opponents head on and asserting that Kenya must change for the better. "Hawa watu wanajipanga lakini hata mimi nimejipanga. Hawa wangwana watakiona, watajua hawajui (These people are preparing but I am prepared too. These gentlemen will find it rough)" Ruto vowed. He challenged his opponents to compete based on issues and prepare for a tough race ahead. “We are going to challenge each other on the platform of issues and development track-record,” he said. Ruto was responding to calls by leaders for the revival of Nasa to face him in 2022. On Saturday, Opposition chief Raila Odinga termed the looming political alliance to "a political tsunami" "I want to assure you, come what may, we must change Kenya. I have seen many politicians saying they want to unite so that they face me and the hustlers,"Ruto said He said Kenyans are least concerned with the unity of leaders but with their own affairs, including getting jobs, businesses and better prices for their produce. Ruto addressed the public after witnessing the installation of Bishop Rev Dr Phillip Muia as the Machakos Bishop at the AIC Bomani Church on Sunday. Ruto also asked leaders to stop creating tribal alliances saying such formations will not solve Kenyans’ problems. He called on leaders to embrace a people-centred and issues-guided politics. “Kenyans want leaders to work together and address their challenges, especially now when Covid-19 pandemic is destroying lives,” he said. Ruto explained that the era of politicians uniting to form tribal political outfits was long gone. “The problem that millions of Kenyans are facing today is not tribalism but poverty. That is why we are re-engineering our economic model to put more emphasis on the lower end of the wealth pyramid,” he said. The Deputy President was accompanied by Machakos Senator Agnes Muthama, Machakos Woman Rep Joyce Kamene, Mwala MP Vincent Musyoka, Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East), Narok Woman Rep Soipan Tuya and Mbeere South MP Geoffrey King'ang'i. Musyoka said Machakos will rally behind Ruto because of his political ideologies. “The bottom-up approach that is being pushed by the Deputy President will empower ordinary Kenyans. That is how we will get out of poverty as a country,” said the Mwala MP. -Edited by SKanyara