Ruiru-based Zetech University is set to put up a multimillion-shilling cancer care centre in Juja, Kiambu. Vice chancellor Njenga Munene said plans are at an advanced stage to put up the facility to boost the fight against the scourge. This comes as leaders and Kenyans pressure the government to declare cancer a national disaster. The disease, which has killed thousands and drained family resources, has also robbed the country of key figures, including former Safaricom CEO Bob Collymore, former Bomet Governor Joyce Laboso and former Kibra MP Ken Okoth. Prof Munene said the move to construct the facility was informed by the surging cancer cases, especially among children. He spoke after inking a deal with Ponea Health on the Ruiru-based main campus. “We've noted with concern, as an institution, that cancer is claiming so many lives in the country, especially children. In other developed countries, patients manage to beat the illness, but here in our country thousands are succumbing to it. "This is the reason we are planning to put up the facility where patients will be accessing vital services in a timely manner and effectively,” Munene said. The university plans to establish another campus near Mang’u High School in Juja to house the cancer centre. “We are determined to be solution providers to the myriad of problems bedevilling our society,” he said. Prof Munene quipped that they will partner with other institutions to see the project to fruition. At the same time, he said the partnership with Ponea Health is geared towards enhancing healthcare access by Kenyans. Ponea Health operates an online platform where health services have been aggregated to provide patients with requisite information on facilities, medical specialists, services and their location with ease. The university's students and graduates will benefit from the deal through internships and jobs. Munene said 25 graduates have been recruited and will offer their expertise, especially in ICT. Mathew Ng’etich, a clinical officer at Ponea, said most patients in the country are unaware of many health facilities that offer specialised medical services, hence their decision to provide such information. “We move to centres of excellence that operate remotely and get their information, which we provide to Kenyans on our platform. We found that most Kenyans are suffering without knowing they can access specialised treatment within the country and even within their localities,” Ng’etich said. 