ODM Party leader Raila Odinga's son has demanded that the office of political parties rectify his membership status within 24 hours. Raila Junior was among many Kenyans who found themselves registered – seemingly fraudulently – to other political parties on the e-Citizen platform. Raila Jr was listed as a member of the Amani National Congress and not Orange Democratic Movement, as would be expected. "I have instructed my lawyer to write to seek clarity as to why I was there without my knowledge or consent. I understand there is a class of Kenyans who face a similar predicament," he said. Through his lawyers, Raila Junior said the office should delete his details from their register. "We demand that your office rectifies your records by deleting our client's details from ANC party and properly listing him in ODM immediately and in any event within 24 hrs from receipt and thereafter confirm the rectification with those parties," he said. "This information is false and injurious to our client who remains a lifetime member of ODM." Earlier, the Office of the Registrar of Political Parties closed the checking of parties' membership status through e-Citizen, after protests from Kenyans. The ORPP said that this was only a pilot period that ended on June 21, 2021, and the "feedback received was appreciated". Kenyans confirmed their membership status through an online portal on e-Citizen, shared out by the office of Registrar of Political Parties. The office of the Registrar of Political Parties later defended itself saying that recruitment of members is only done by parties. "Recruitment of members is done by political parties in line with respective party constitutions; section 7, Political Parties Act, 2011, second schedule to Political Parties Act paragraph six," the office said last Saturday. Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu last week announced that her office was piloting the online service to enable the public to verify their political party membership status. She added that the office was also planning to enhance other services including the management of independent candidates, party membership recruitment and registration. "This is, therefore, to appraise you on this development and invite your feedback through info@orpp.or.ke or to our offices," Nderitu said.