The former secretary general of Njuri Ncheke and chairman of the National Council of Elders Phares Ruteere will be buried on Saturday at his home in Isiolo. His assistant and long-serving Njuri Ncheke secretary general Nicholas Mugambi told the media that Ruteere died from Covid-19-related symptoms. "He died last Wednesday morning while receiving treatment at a hospital in Nairobi where he was admitted for more than a week," he said. Ruteere was first admitted to Kiirua Mission Hospital in Meru before being transferred to Nairobi Hospital. In an interview with the Star on Wednesday, National Council of Elders secretary general Joseph King’ori said government officials are expected to attend the burial, including President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We are awaiting State House confirmation on Uhuru’s attendance, but everything is in order," he said. King'ori said the committee organising the burial is meeting daily at his home in Nairobi and his burial plan will take place as it was per his last wish. “The funeral of Ruteere will be held on Saturday at his home in Isiolo (near Isiolo town) from 11 am,” he said. King’ori said a funeral service will be held on Thursday at Lavington Unity Church in Nairobi. Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Kimani Maigua said all traditional rituals will be conducted ahead of the burial. Maigua said the church will be allowed to take charge of the burial exercise on Saturday as he was a staunch Christian. “Ruteere was a good leader. He worked closely with the Kikuyu Council of Elders and his leadership style was loved by everyone nationally and at Gema council," he said. In his condolence message, President Kenyatta described Ruteere "as a wise and astute elder and leader who cherished and championed national cohesion, progress and a value-driven life among Kenyans." “The death of Mzee Ruteere is a big blow to our country. Death has robbed our nation of a wise and dependable elder and wise counsellor whose role in uniting the nation and inculcating life values in our youth shall be dearly missed," President Kenyatta said. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi visited Ruteere’s family and pledged to support in burial plans.