The government plans to partially lift the ban on logging in forests, opening up 5,000 hectares for harvesting of trees through tendering. Kenya Forest Service has already advertised for those interested to apply in order to be licensed for logging. However, the KFS has set tough conditions, sparking off protests from more than 700 saw millers in Rift Valley who oppose the new requirements. Saw millers' spokesman Patrick Bundotich said the conditions to qualify for the logging tenders are too harsh, including a requirement that they must have minimum balances of between Sh1 million and Sh10 million in their bank accounts. “The conditions set by KFS are just unrealistic and the saw millers cannot afford the same. We fear the conditions are meant to block the small scale saw millers and benefit certain individuals,” said Bundotich. He said since the ban on logging was imposed most of the saw mills had collapsed and rendered more than 10,000 people jobless. The saw millers had also gone for loans before the ban to develop their mills by purchasing machinery including lorries and tractors. “The machinery including lorries and tractors were later repossessed by the lenders due to non-payment of loans, leading to collapse of the business. It is therefore unfair to expect the same millers who collapsed to have money in bank accounts,” said Bundotich. Bundotich said before the ban on logging the saw millers had paid more than Sh300 million to KFS for logging and they want the money refunded. “We want the government to review and ease the conditions advertised by KFS so that even the small scale saw millers whose businesses collapsed can afford to tender for the logging,” said the chairman of saw millers in the region Joel Songok He said if the government does not review the conditions, then it should refund the money which the saw millers had paid to KFS. Songok wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene in the matter and ensure that the plan benefits the ordinary Kenyans in the sector. “If the President wants to help the ordinary Kenyans then let him order the CS for Environment to review of the  conditions set by KFS,” said Songok. Songok said the saw millers may be forced to go to court to demand a refund of the money paid to KFS.  The saw millers said they had written to Environment CS Keriako Tobiko over the matter. Edited by Henry Makori