The government has allocated Sh700 million to the construction of Bus Rapid Transit project. Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (Namata) CEO Francis Gitau on Wednesday said the project is on course and resources will fast-track the project. Funds are expected to be available in the next financial year but the release date was not immediately known. "Resource mobilisation is a continuous process. We hope to get enough resources for the pilot from the supplementary budget,"Gitau said. "Though the implementation has lagged, works are still going on," he added. Retrofitting of the corridor and construction of the Kasarani Depot and Bus Management Office is underway. "We also hope to integrate the Ruiru railway station," Gitau said in a phone interview. The Kasarani Sports Arena will have 130 park and ride facilities for BRT. Construction is underway. Engineers  at the site said, however, more parking spaces will be needed. To ensure the BRT buses are not hindered by traffic, the inside lanes of Thika Super Highway will be demarcated and stations provided along the corridor. Those with personal cars will park at Kasarani before boarding BRT buses. The main depot for Line Three is at Kasarani, while other minor depots will be at Kenyatta National Hospital and Ruiru. In November 2019, the government floated the BRT tender, saying it intends to improve the infrastructure of Thika Superhighway to accommodate the project. A Chinese firm, Stecol Corporation, secured the Sh5.6 billion contract to construct special lanes for high-capacity buses in July 2020. The project is being carried out in two phases. Phase I is from Clayworks to the Nairobi CBD, Phase II will run from Clayworks to Ruiru. At Kasarani, construction of the maintenance block for 10 BRT buses at a time is to be completed  in eight months. Platforms for picking and dropping passengers are also at an advanced stage of construction. Kasarani depot will have two access points. It already has a testing lab for construction materials. At Ruiru station, the Kenya Railways and the Kenya National Highways Authority land will be utilised for the project. After the corridor has been demarcated, the state will procure buses under a Public-Private Partnership. Fares will be paid in a cashless system. The buses must accommodate children, the elderly and people living with disability. They will also be fitted with an intelligent transport system. Once passengers access the platform they buy tickets at machines. BRT will provide reliable commuter transport to decongest the CBD, reduce travel time and reduce pollution. Traffic snarl-ups in the Nairobi metropolis are estimated to cost the country Sh2 billion annually. The city has a population of 4,397,037, most of whom rely on public transport. The state has identified five corridors to decongest Nairobi roads. Line 1 will run from James Gichuru road-Waiyaki Way to JKIA, distance of 20km. The 31-km Line 2 will run from Lang’ata Road through Ngong, Juja, Komarock roads to Ruiru with major stops at Dandora, Kariobangi, and Gikomba Market. Line 3 will run from Githurai through Thika Road to Moi Avenue in the CBD, ending at Kenyatta National Hospital. Namata was established by President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 9, 2017. It covers Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Murang’a counties. The authority is mandated to establish an integrated, efficient, effective and sustainable public transport system. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)