The Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers has allayed fears on the fate of a new pay deal for teachers as the current one comes to an end in the next 30 days. Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori on Thursday expressed concern about uncertainty and hesitancy by Teachers Service Commission to engage on the pay deal that is currently on its initial stage. Misori said they had fronted an offer to the TSC in 2019 but they have yet to get a counter offer. And given the employer's silence, the union now seeks to summon members of its national governing council—its top-most decision-making organ—for a meeting on June 10 to deliberate on the matter. "Between 2016 and now, the education sector has been very calm, but what will end the calm is delays in giving teachers a new CBA. We have given TSC seven days to provide an appropriate response to the union’s offer," Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba said. Misori said efforts to push for a final deal through the National Treasury and TSC have been futile. "We presented a memorandum of demands, which makes up the list of the CBA demands, we sought a counter offer... To date there is no counter offer,” he said. Although negotiations were initiated by Kuppet, which represents only teachers in post-primary level, the CBA will cover all the 374,000 teachers in primary and secondary schools. In Kuppet's proposals, teachers in the lower cadre were to get 70 per cent increment, while headteachers and those in higher cadres were to get a 30 per cent raise. In protest, however, the union notes that it has only known the progress of the CBA through media reports that indicate the Salaries and Remuneration Commission cannot factor in their demands. The Treasury, in its submission to Parliament, did not factor in funds for a pay raise in the upcoming financial year. Misori said the union in 2019 submitted its proposals to be included in the new pay deal, but TSC has yet to reply. According to labour laws, the unions are required to commence talks a year before the expiry of the current CBA. "Teachers expect nothing less than a salary review this year," Misori said. Misori argued that teachers’ role has been expanded in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis to handle medical issues arising, hence the need for them to be paid more. "An absence of the CBA in the next 30 days will heighten the anxiety among the teachers," Misori said. Other reports indicate that the Covid-19 crisis is to blame for the delay to finalise the deal.