How Sancho would fit into United line-up The pressure is off Manchester United to sign a new striker now that Edinson Cavani has agreed to stay for another year. I am informed that their concentration is focused on spending that money to bring Jadon Sancho to Old Trafford. Despite a failed attempt to sign him in January Dortmund have indicated they might be persuaded for a fee of £80m (Sh12.2bn). Sancho would solve United’s problem on the right-wing where Mason Greenwood has ably fitted in during a temporary fix. I posed the question of how Sancho would fit into a United team and was told that a 4-2-3-1 line-up would be most likely. It is worth noting that Dortmund also played this formation and Sancho scored 16 goals and provided a credible 20 assists this year. The formation is also Solskjaer’s favourite option. According to my sources, United’s likely attacking line would be Fernandes, Rashford, Sancho and Cavani. Solskjaer has already planned for Sancho to work closely with Cavani to bring a lethal goal threat against opponents. With Cavani’s incredible skills, he would convert most of those 20 goal assists if Sancho can reproduce his Dortmund form. Sancho could line up on Cavani’s right side with Marcus Rashford operating on the left. In midfield, Paul Pogba and Scott McTominay would support Sancho and co. from behind. Alaba joins Real Bayern Munich defender David Alaba has signed a five-year contract with Real Madrid. He left as a free agent after his contract expired and he could not reach a new agreement with the German club. This will possibly enable Real to consider transferring Raphael Verane and several Premier League clubs are interested in signing him. Incoming manager Carlo Ancelotti has said from the beginning that he would not sanction a second season for Gareth Bale to return to Tottenham as he sees Bale and Eden Hazard as crucial to his team plans for next season. There are rumours that Cristiano Ronaldo could also return from Italy. However, my contacts at the club tell me that Real could not afford his wages at the moment unless they get some new financial investment. Klopp shows confidence in Konate Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp is confident Ibrahima Konate will fight for a place in the first team. Klopp is also confident he can improve the 22-year-old. The Reds have agreed a £36m (Sh5.5) deal with RB Leipzig which will become official on July 1. Signing the Frenchman means Liverpool will not take up the £18m (Sh2.7bn) clause on Ozan Kaba’s loan deal from Schalke. Mourinho eyes Xhaka New Roma boss Jose Mourinho has earmarked Arsenal midfielder Granit Xhaka as his first major signing. Mourinho takes over in the summer and is a big admirer of the Swiss and two years ago called him a “true leader”. Roma have mentioned a fee of £10m (Sh1.5bn) for the 28-year-old. However, Arsenal may want around £25m (Sh3.8bn). Gunners' fans have always been divided about Xhaka and despite being stripped of the captaincy after an emotional verbal outburst towards supporters, he has always played with total commitment. Hector Bellerin is being courted by Spanish side Real Betis and forward Eddie Nketiah is on Brighton’s radar. Chelsea’s Tuchel finally meets Abramovich Astonishingly, Saturday’s celebration after winning the Champions League is the first time that manager Thomas Tuchel has met owner Roman Abramovich. After the match, the two met to discuss next season and Roman promised his manager that funds will be available to strengthen the squad. If anyone doubts Thomas Tuchel’s intentions of staying in the Premier League, I can tell you that he is already making plans for many years to come. Since joining the Blues, Tuchel has lived in a hotel. However, his family arrive from France in two months and they intend to buy a house sometime in July after researching the property market. De Gea failed to listen to advice David De Gea’s career at Manchester is in serious doubt as Dean Henderson is likely to start as No 1 next season. De Gea, whilst not being blamed for losing the Europa League to Villarreal, did not save any of the 11 penalty shoot-out goals. He annoyed the United bench as he failed to play according to the list given to him which highlighted where each Villarreal player usually placed his kick. He ignored advice on a scrap of paper handed to him which said Moi Gomez’s sudden-death kick would go down the middle. De Gea dived to his left but the ball went down the middle and would have been fairly simple to save. The Bees in the Premier League At last, we welcome a team to the Premier League who prove that persistence, good management and determination will enable you to achieve your goals in life. Minnows Brentford have been promoted to the big time. Brentford are a west London club and their nearest neighbours are QPR, Fulham and Chelsea. For 74 years, they have tried to reach the world’s elite league and finally achieved it at their new stadium which holds only 20,000 (they moved only a year ago from their old stadium which held a mere 12,000). Having watched them many times, I can tell you their fans make as much noise as 50,000. Their Danish manager Thomas Frank has come through the ranks having spent 15 years coaching youth teams and Brondby in Denmark before joining Brentford in 2016. Nicknamed 'The Bees' Brentford will now receive over £100m (Sh15.2bn) from the Premier League to invest in players. Recruitment has been a strong force in the Bees’ rise to the top level having sold and bought top quality players whilst working to a strict budget and not going into debt. Their star striker is Ivan Toney, who has scored an incredible 37 goals this season. He is the one who rouses the players in a huddle before the game and then works tirelessly bossing defenders and rising above them. It will be interesting to see how central defenders such as Harry Maguire and Virgil van Dijk cope with him. Saudis want the World Cup With scores of the Premier League players leaving this week for their home nations to play in the Euros, I feel I have to comment on Saudi Arabia’s planned bid to stage the World Cup competition in 2030. The Saudis have appointed an American consultancy to provide a blueprint strategy for the tournament and they want to hold the tournament every two years instead of the current four. Saudi Arabia is spending huge amounts of money on sport to promote their image. Many sceptics have commented that this is all a diversionary tactic to take attention away from their appalling human rights record. However, I ask one question: How can the prestigious World Cup be hosted by a country in which the only way to watch last weekend’s Champions League in Saudi was through a pirate TV company and which the Saudi’s have failed to close down? This was a problem in the aborted takeover of Newcastle by a Saudi-backed conglomerate. Top clubs fighting for Pochettino My contacts in both Paris and Madrid tell me that Tottenham face a fight to re-employ their former manager Mauricio Pochettino. PSG are determined to hold on to the Argentine despite his desire to leave because of internal problems. The dialogue between manager and directors have not exactly been cordial since his arrival from Tottenham. I have received several reports that the arguments centre around control and incoming transfers but the club are playing this down. The north London club want him back but  Pochettino is on record as saying that he would only consider a return to Spurs if Harry Kane is not sold.  Antonio Conte, the former Chelsea manager, is also a possibility. However, he is notoriously difficult to handle and has claimed he would only consider the job if Kane does not leave. Knives out for Pep in a difficult summer With Tuchel’s Chelsea beating Pep Guardiola’s Manchester City, I was surprised at the criticism aimed at the master; Guardiola. If football was a university, Guardiola would be the professor and most other managers in the world would be his students. But this time the master got his strategies wrong and he lost. Following the game, the critics sharpened their knives and none more so than Sergio Aguero’s brother. Aguero refused Juventus and is going to Barcelona on roughly half the salary he earned at City. The main incentive is that he is joining one of his closest friends Lionel Messi. However, Sergio’s brother aimed insults at Guardiola. He blamed him for limiting the striker’s game time in his last season. Aguero started only eight games and came off the bench for a mere 13 minutes. Mauricio del Castillo said that his brother had wanted to stay at City for another season but Pep refused his request. He also Tweeted: “Since Guardiola arrived at City, he has never liked my brother.” His Tweet was quickly removed, however. Guardiola has also lost Eric Garcia on a free transfer to Barcelona and who said this was an important step in his career. Guardiola is also facing difficult talks with Gabriel Jesus and Aymeric Laporte who are both unhappy about what City can offer their careers. Guardiola and City’s main intention this summer is to sign Harry Kane from Spurs and therefore Jesus will not have the game time he thinks he deserves. Benjamin Mendy is not required by Guardiola and he also wants away. However, with a salary of £100k (Sh15m) a week, this is likely to prove difficult. Mendy is behind Oleksandr Zinchenko and Cancelo in team selection.