The government has announced there will be disruption of the normal traffic flow on some of the major roads close to the routes which will be used during the World Rally Championships WRC Safari Rally. In a gazette notice issued on Tuesday, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i said five roads will be closed to all the commercial vehicles weighing three tones and above. The CS said the move is to guarantee the safe and secure operation of the race. The match anticipated race which will be held in Kenya after 19 years will be held from Thursday, June 24 to 27, 2021. The Eldoret-Nakuru Highway will be closed at Eldoret on June 24 from midnight up to 7 pm. Kericho-Nakuru Highway will be closed at Kericho on June 25 from midnight up to 7 pm, Nyahururu-Nakuru Highway to be closed at Nyahuru, and Mombasa-Nairobi Highway will be closed at Mlolongo. Also, Mai Mahiu-Naivasha Road, as well as Narok-Mai Mahiu, will be closed at Suswa point. Matiang’i has asked drivers of the mentioned heavy vehicles to park at the nearest designated parking areas by 6 am as they await the opening time. Further, the CS has informed the public that Kikopey-Elementaita Village Road will be closed to all users on Friday 25 and on Saturday 27 June. Head of traffic Nairobi region Joshua Omukata said more personnel had been mobilized to manage the route where the cars will use. “We urge for cooperation from road users. We will have more personnel to help the movements,” he said. The event starts in Nairobi on Thursday where president Kenyatta will officially grace it. Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai said they have deployed a multiagency security team from both land and air ahead of the event. Mutyambai said the security is comprised of National Police Service, Kenya Wildlife Service, National Youth Service, and safety marshals. “They will provide total and round-the-clock security to all the participating stakeholders. The plan is executed in three tiers, prior to during and post-event,” Mutyambai said. More than 1,000 police officers have been deployed to Naivasha to strengthen security during the World Rally Championship's Safari Rally. Hoteliers reported full bookings ahead of the event where around 30,000 visitors are expected in Naivasha.