Are you interested in pursuing a technical course in a public college in Ruiru? Well, if you are, a new technical institute has just opened its doors for you. Ruiru Technical Institute is the first of its kind in the subcounty and will be a boost to young people seeking technical training, according to area MP Simon King’ara. The institution, on a seven-acre parcel in Kwihota village, is ready to offer technical and vocational education and training. It was built by the national government in collaboration with the NG-CDF office for Sh100 million. King'ara on Monday said the TVET institution will enrol 1,000 pioneer students this year. He addressed residents during the commissioning of Mutuya Primary School, which was built by the government in Mwihoko ward. The lawmaker said the technical institute has come in handy at a time when the number of youths seeking technical training is blossoming. He said the government will partially sponsor successful applicants. “Currently, the population in Ruiru is over 500,000 people, most of whom are youths. The facility will give the high number of youths who are grappling with unemployment a chance to access technical training in various courses that will enable them to secure jobs or start their own income-generating ventures,” he said. Courses to be offered include mechanics, electrical installations, welding and metal fabrication, hairdressing, catering, plumbing, masonry, carpentry and joinery. “These courses are highly in demand in the job market currently; therefore, our youth will have higher chances of securing jobs,” he said. King'ara said his office will reach out to industries within the constituency and partner with them to enable students from the institution to secure internships and jobs. He noted that Ruiru has more than 100 companies that can offer jobs to the youth once they graduate and help address unemployment in the populous subcounty. “There will be collaborations between the technical training college and industries so that we can train personnel who will be ready to take up jobs in those facilities,” he said. Residents praised the development. Pius Muturi, a Kwihota village resident, said it will solve the inaccessibility problem as most youths who failed to join college or university "have remained stranded" because of a lack of technical facilities in the area. “Most residents come from humble backgrounds here and parents cannot afford to take their children to technical colleges in Kiambu and Thika. With our own institution here, our children will be able to train easily,” he said. Meanwhile, King’ara said the new primary school in Mwihoko will help decongest Mwihoko Primary School, which has been the only public primary school in the area. “The new school is an indicator that the government is determined to ensure every child gets access to education and to improve education standards in Ruiru and the country at large,” he said. He said another public primary school in Kiuu ward will admit learners from early next month. Manguo Primary School, built on a three-acre parcel, will accommodate 1,500 learners and help decongest Mwiki and Kwa Ng’ethe primary schools.  Edited by F'Orieny