Kuria East MP Marwa Kitayama has said the recent exposure of MPs who never spoke in Parliament last year was shallow and unfair. He appeared in the list. The 2020 parliamentary scorecard released by Mzalendo Trust showed that 31 MPs and three senators did not make any contribution in the plenary as part of their legislative role. Speaking to the Star over the phone on Tuesday, Kitayama said the report did not take to account work done by legislators in committees and other roles with the basis placed only on plenary in the floor. “This is a shallow approach in recording a plenary, the report is unfair and shallow. A plenary is just a talk show which gives place for people to hear a talk and never covers donkey work done in committees,” he said. He said in the ICT committee where he sits, it took three years to collect views from Kenyans and experts on the new cyber-crime Bill which was represented in Parliament. “In such a case only chairmen in committees get a chance to speak on the Bill and debates, most of us remain silent because we can’t have a plenary talk show in what we already know,” Kitayama said. "As a first-time MP and with over 400 members, it is hard to get a chance to speak in plenary. Most legislators shy away from debates and bearing in mind that the current constitution does not allow cabinet secretaries in Parliament. “So, why should I address issues for a ministry to an absentee person? I have directly sought development projects for my constituents especially in electricity connection and roads from ministries which are not covered in the report,” he said. More time is allocated to majority and minority leaders and whips. “More so, why would I comment on issues of, let us say, locust invasion in North Eastern which is not bothering my constituents just to appear active?,” he said. Kitayama said, sadly, most vocal MPs in the list don't have a development record to show to their constituents and believe by being popular nationally and seen on the press they lose base with their voters. But politician Tyson Kemege, who is Kuria East MP aspirant in 2022, said it was weird that since the legislator has been vocal in social functions like funerals bashing his rivals and intimidating them verbally. “My MP is very vocal when he gets a microphone in a funeral and has a sharp tongue in attacking his rivals, he should just use part of that energy to debate in the plenary since we have just 13 months to August 2022,” Kemege said. He said by being a debater, a legislator has more chance to lobby for development for his people which Kuria East constituency lacks currently. In the report, other silent MPs were Abdi Shurie (Balambala), Alfred Sambu (Webuye East), George Aladwa (Makadara), Gideon Konchellah (Kilgoris), Imran Okoth (Kibra), Oscar Sudi (Kipseret) and Rose Museo (Makueni) stood out for their loud silence. Other mute lawmakers in the National Assembly include Woman Reps Jane Chebaibai (Elgeyo Marakwet), Jane Njiru (Embu), Anab Gure (Garissa), Irene Kasalu (Kitui), Amina Gedow (Mandera), Asha Mohammed (Mombasa), Lilian Tomitom (West Pokot) and Janet Teyiaa (Kajiado). Oscar Sudi (Kapsaret), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Mathias Robi (Kuria West), Patrick Munene (Chuka/Igambang’ombe), Charles Gimose (Hamisi), George Kariuki (Ndia), Marwa Kitayama of Kuria East and ANC member Alfred Sambu (Webuye East) did not make any contribution in the plenary last year. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)