Kiambu residents can now get healthcare services at Tigoni hospital after the government reopened it for general medical services. The hospital had been converted into a Covid-19 centre in June last year, but the number of patients admitted at the facility has declined. Speaking on Saturday at Nderu Health Centre, Governor James Nyoro said the facility has been handling fewer than three patients in a week. The hospital has 200 beds. “As of now, we do not have a patient. Two weeks ago, we had three patients only. We have realised that we can open one side of the hospital to help the neighbouring health centres attend to patients with other diseases,” he said. The governor said that the Tower and the MRM Mabati hospital which has a capacity of 150 beds will be reserved for the Covid 19 cases. The front hospital with 100 beds for adults and children will be used to handle general treatments. “All the 150 beds in the Tower and the MRM Mabati facility are connected with oxygen, and we shall reserve them for Covid-19 patients if they are admitted,” he said. “We opened last week on Wednesday and patients are slowly coming. We have returned all our nurses and doctors who we had transferred to neighbouring health centres,” he said. The governor said they have completed a 14-bed ICU for the hospital. Josephine Wanja, a resident, says expectant women had suffered as they had been forced to seek antenatal care at bigger hospitals where services like ultrasound scans are available. “The dispensaries and health centres around do not offer services like ultrasound to expectant women including giving birth through caesarian section and we are forced to go to bigger hospitals where we pay a lot in fares and bills,” she said. Former Ndeiya MCA Nelson Munga lauded Nyoro for the plan to separate Covid-19 patients from the others. “We have noticed a decline of Covid-19 patients because people have obeyed the Ministry of Health instructions. This is good and I urged people to keep up so that they can protect themselves and others” Munga said. 