Rally debutant and motocross lady rider Maxine Wahome is among the four drivers who will don Betika colours in this month's WRC Safari Rally in Naivasha. Another debutant Andrew Muiruri is also in the Team Betika mix alongside KNRC driver Hussein Malik and autocross star Rehan Shah. Maxine, who is a four-time Kenya women's motocross personality of the year, will be making her rallying debut after a short stint in autocross. She will be navigated by Chantal Young in a Subaru Impreza N10. Maxine and Rehan are products of the KCB Kenya National Autocross Championship while Muiruri graduated through tarmac racing ranks in the TT events. "Most of my finishes in TT asphalt events have been podiums. I am glad to pursue my racing dream on my gravel debut," Muiruri revealed. Maxine, who is the daughter of retired rally driver Jimmy Wahome, said: "I'm just getting started in rallying and I'm overly excited. From my early motocross days, I never imagined I would reach this far in my career. I want to continue the legacy of my lady predecessors." Team Betika becomes the first local outfit to unveil its livery for Safari Rally slated for June 24-27. 'Betika Bazengas' has Malik who is teaming up with Linet Ayuko in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10. The duo are using the same car which crashed out of the ARC Equator Rally in April. "Betika Morios" is a composition of Muiruri and former 2WD navigators' champion Edward Njoroge. Muiruri and Njoroge are glad to pursue their Safari dream behind the ex-McRae Kimathi Subaru N12. "Betika Yengs" is an all-ladies crew comprising Maxime and Chantal Young in a Subaru N10." 'Betika Oteros' has Rehan and his partner Harshil Limbani in a Subaru N10. Betika CEO Nick Mruttu said they are proud to sponsor the four cars to the tune of Sh100million. "In the core front of nurturing talent and supporting sports diversity, Betika Na Community today has extended its support to 8 Kenyan rally participants who will be taking part in this year’s World Rally Championship. Sports personalities also need a decent living which is why Betika is spreading its tentacles to Safari Rally Kenya," Mruttu said. Sports Cabinet Secretary,  Amina Mohamed and rally legend Patrick Njiru thanked the betting firm for its goodwill gestures. "I'm glad that corporate sponsors are now identifying with young rally drivers who are the future of the sport. I saw Maxine when she was one day old, and I'm glad that she has now graduated from circuit racing to a rally driver. She is definitely the future of the sport, "sports CS Amina said She added: "As a Government, led by His Excellency President Uhuru Kenyatta, we have invested heavily in terms of resources and energy in an effort to bring the Safari Rally back to the world calendar and we are glad it came to fruition. "Kenya is the home of Safari and seeing corporate companies like Betika support our sportsmen and women through thick and thin,  is quite encouraging especially during this period when the world is battling Covid-19. "Driver Hussein Malik on his part said: "After our accident during Equator Rally, we had no car because what we had was damaged. But when Betika came calling, we were grateful for the simple reason that we would fulfil our childhood dream of doing a WRC Safari Rally. 