Covid-19 is a wake-up call but many countries, institutions and people aren't listening Local manufacturing of vaccines and technology transfer are key in pandemic response by reducing reliance on global markets and imported products. “Sharing intellectual property and know-how will be essential, along with facilitation of voluntary licensing and effective technology transfer,” the World Health Organization said in a statement. It commented at the conclusion of the first WHO World Local Production Forum that ended on Friday in Nairobi. It was virtual conference. The forum concluded that sharing intellectual property and know-how and a strong coordination mechanism is needed to realise local production of health products and technologies. Developed countries now have a monopoly on know-how and production. The forum emphasised that scaling-up local production of Covd-19 vaccines  is necessary to ensure the entire world is vaccinated. The event brought together delegates from more than 100 countries, WHO, WTO, UNIDO, UNICEF, UNCTAD, international partners, civil society groups, industry associations and major investors. The aim was to highlight the challenges facing local production, the steps required to address them, as well as opportunities for the sector. Dr Jacinta Wasike cochired the conference. She is director for corporate services at the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. She said though there have been positive changes in strengthening regulatory systems as well as technology transfers and new investments, there has been a missing ingredient m Covid-19. This has created urgency, and emphasised the concept that no one  s safe until everyone is safe. The medic  co-chaired a virtual session on leveraging innovation, Artificial  Intelligence and the digital revolution in the health products industry during the forum. “Covid-19 is indeed a wake-up call to all nations in the globe. Africa being one, has been awakened to the fact that it needs to cease the dependency cycle and find sustainable homegrown solutions to her challenges,” Dr. Wasike said. She said local production is not a new concept in the African continent. The continent developed a pharmaceutical manufacturing plan for Africa in the  2007 followed by a business plan in the year 2012. Among other initiatives was  formation of the African continent Free Trade area to address the challenges of fragmented market and the African Medicines Regulatory harmonisation. Dr Wasike said that the implementation of the regional policies such as the EAC, the East Africa Harmonisation Initiative, the EAC Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), the Big Four Agenda and the Kenyan GMP roadmap have been ongoing but slowly. “One entity will not make local production a reality, it has to be a concerted effort from all of us on this platform and those who are not here,” she added. The only way is to embrace the 4th industrial revolution and business intelligence that is cost effective to reach the general public and also friendly to the environment, she said Transfer of knowledge to the health workers is essential, she said. The five-day forum provided a global arena to stimulate dialogue and collaboration on opportunities and mechanisms for the promotion of local production and technology transfer. The WLPF aim was to urge member states to align the production of health products as essential long-term infrastructure akin to food, water and energy as safeguards to protect national, regional and global security. (Edited by V. Graham)