A resident of Uasin Gishu has sued Interior CS Fred Matiang'i for creating new administrative areas in the county. Joseph Omolllo has filed a case at the High Court in Eldoret complaining that the new units were created without following due process. Leaders in the county, led by Governor Jackson Mandago, have also opposed the creation. Omollo has sued the Interior ministry, the county commissioner and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and listed the Uasin Gishu government and the county assembly as interested parties. He accuses Matiang'i’s ministry of creating Moi’s Bridge, Kapyemit, Sergoit, Kaptagat, Pioneer and Cheptiret divisions in violation of the Constitution and other legal requirements. “There was no public participation resulting in recommendations for the creation of the impugned administrative units,” Omollo says in his affidavit. He has listed four other grounds to oppose creation of the units. County commissioner Stephen Kihara says they will file a response to the case, noting that public participation took place. Kihara said the units were proposed by leaders and residents in 2017 and were only enforced recently. “Officers were posted to the units last year and they are already working. We have produced all records indicating meetings for residents and leaders where the new units were proposed," Kihara said. Matiang'i visited the region two month ago and directed the units be enforced as proposed. This followed a protest by Mandago and other local leaders, who had last month written to him opposing the creation of new administration areas. Mandago said as leaders and residents they had not been consulted, hence the process must be stopped to allow for consultations and public participation. He was with a section of politicians, including Soy MP Caleb Kostany and MCAs. The ministry has already posted deputy and assistant county commissioners to some of the new administrative areas, including those in Eldoret town. “Through the Uasin Gishu county commissioner, we have asked that the ongoing creation of new divisions be stopped until those involved come so that we consult. “As county leaders, we want to put it clear that we were not consulted, let alone the public. For this reason, we have already petitioned CS Matiang'i to stop that exercise,” Mandago said. He termed it improper to carry out such changes without public participation and consultation with leaders. “That business of new boundaries should stop. We need to come for a meeting where leaders and the public will agree on the modalities of the new administrative units.” County assembly chief whip David Sing'oei said residents have the right to be consulted on matters concerning new boundaries. “The governor and the assembly were not consulted and Uasin Gishu people were left out,” Sing'oei said. Cheptiret-Kipchamo MCA Gilbert Tenai residents must give their opinions on how they want to have the administrative units changed. UDA politician Jonathan Bii, for his part, said the IEBC should be allowed to deal with issues touching on all boundaries. “The IEBC should be given space to undertake its duty, then public participation will be held for the people to present their opinions. The exercise by the Ministry of Interior is just illegal and elicits questions,” Bii said. The Interior ministry has insisted that the posting of new administrative officers was to enhance security, improve national government services and projects in all parts of the country. The changes came amid a raging debate in the region over the creation of three new constituencies as proposed in the BBI Bill. The majority of the local leaders have for many years opposed the creation of a constituency for Eldoret town, fearing that a non-native may easily be elected as MP.