Bolt Food has expanded its operations into new areas within Nairobi to bring quality and reliable food delivery services closer to its customers. Bolt is a company that offers vehicles for hire, micro-mobility, car-sharing and food delivery services. Bolt Food will now be available in South C, South B, CBD, Mombasa Road, Loresho, Girgiri, Kitisuru, Runda, Muthaiga and Ruaka, as the company cements its footprints within the city. The company also has onboarded new restaurants on its platform, including Java, Artcaffe, Debonairs and Steers, adding to the growing list of restaurants already on its platform. This is to continue giving users access to a wide variety of restaurants and menus at the tap of a button. Country Manager Bolt Food, Edgar Kipng’etich Kitur, said the company continues to scale up their operations for the benefit of customers as they bring a great selection of restaurants at great prices. "We are committed to solidifying our food business in Kenya and granting many people access to the Bolt Food convenience. "Our core business is entrenched in quality, responsible and convenient food delivery services. We are excited to make this stride within Nairobi." Kipng’etich said. The initiative brings Bolt Food’s growing network to 20 areas since its launch within Nairobi. They include Parklands, Westlands, Highridge, Spring Valley, Kitisuru, Lavington, South C, South B, Kilimani, Upperhill, Valley Arcade. Others are Kitusuru, Huruma Village, Spring Valley, Muthangari, Kileleshwa, Kilimani, CBD, Ruaka and Maziwa in Kibera. Orders on Bolt Food are currently running a 40 per cent full menu discount with amazing delivery offers with restaurants such as KFC, JAVA, ArtCaffe participating. To place an order, one can pick a restaurant of choice in the app, see its menu and select the foods they wish. Before confirming the order, you will view the cost of your shopping basket and the approximate delivery time. You can then choose your preferred means of payment, and a receipt will be sent to your email address. “We continue to give exciting offers and amazing discounts to our customers to continue serving them even better,” Kipng'etich said. Bolt Food continues to facilitate couriers with the necessary training to ensure quality and professionalism in the entire value chain of food delivery. The couriers strictly adhere to all the requirements set forth by the National Food Safety and Coordination Committee - the institution responsible for health and food safety in the country.