Some hospitals and doctors in Uasin Gishu are coercing pregnant women to deliver through caesarian section to get more money through insurance claims, Governor Jackson Mandago has said. Mandago urged medics and hospitals, especially private ones, to observe the highest levels of professional ethics and not prioritise profits. According to a 2017 Consumer Reports study, about 26 per cent of healthy women with low-risk pregnancies and full-term babies positioned headfirst and considered equipped to deliver normally end up undergoing cesarian section. Mandago said such reports were scaring and hospitals involved should stop putting at risk the lives of mothers by subjecting them to unnecessary C-sections. Governor Mandago said hospitals found deviating from professional ethics should be punished. He spoke during a meeting with residents in Soy subcounty. "A number of women are being subjected to caesarian sections even when they were to deliver normally. This happens especially when hospitals know that the bills are to paid through insurance covers," Mandago said. Mandago said the relevant authorities including the Ministry of Health should take up the matter and protect pregnant women. “In short, these women are advised not to conceive more. C-section should be administered only when there is a professional reason for it,” Mandago said. Medics advise that a woman undergoes no more than three CS surgeries. He said some private hospitals are known to force for cesarian section especially when the patient has a comprehensive medical cover. A cesarian section is estimated to cost between Sh100,000 to Sh 280,000 while normal deliveries cost about Sh30,000 in private hospitals. Governor Mandago also asked women to get maternal services in public hospitals. The service is free in most public hospitals under the Linda Mama programme. Mandago was with his deputy Daniel Chemno and Soy MP Caleb Kositany. Mandago said he is targeting to upgrade health services in the county through automation and improved connectivity that will enable residents to access specialised healthcare services. He said the county was working with partners in the private sector to equip hospitals with adequate computers and systems that will ensure connectivity between hospitals and also between medics in the region. He said the few consultants available will be able to offer services or access hospitals and patients online. 