Suleiman Shah has come to the rescue of over 350 traders who have been locked out of the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park for three years. The small scale traders, most selling traditional foods for tourists, were forced out of the park in 2018 to pave way for regeneration. However, they have been locked out after the park opened to the public. They are only allowed in for purposes of 'inclusiveness' when when dignitaries an top government officials visit the park. They protested on Monday seeking to have the government allow them back into the Sh460 million refurbished waterfront park on 26 acres. On Friday, KenTrade chair Suleiman Shahbal visited the traders to listen to their mgrievances. e “It is true there is a problem. We acknowledge there is Covid-19 that has disrupted businesses and our way of life. “But Kenya is being opened up and businesses are resuming. Markets and other business premises have resumed operations. Is the coronavirus only at Mama Ngina and Light House?” Shahbal asled. He said urgent talks are needed between traders and both the national and county government of Mombasa to see how the traders can be allowed back into the park to do businesses. “The time has come for them to resume their businesses inside the park,” Shahbal said. Hawkers and other small scale traders in the informal sector make up 65 per cent of the working force in Kenya, a significant source of GDP. “This is because there are no jobs in Kenya. Entrepreneurship is the way to go,” Shahbal said. National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani on April 8 said Kenya’s economy is expected to grow by seven per cent in 2021. Yatani said this is  a result of resumption of international trade, strategic investments and the country’s development priorities. In 2020, Kenya’s economy grew by 0.6 per cent, which was attributed to the triple threats of Covid-19, locust invasion and floods. Shahbal on Friday said Small and Micro-Enterprises will play a significant role in the growth. “These are genuine traders who make a living through their own sweat and in the process contribute to the growth of the country’s GDP,” the businessman said. He said there is not reason to keep the traders out of the park provided they follow all the protocols against Covid-19, just like other businesses. Salim Dzombo, the chair of the Coconut, Cassava and Maize (Cocama) dealers at the park, said there is enough space to comfortably accommodate all the traders with social distancing being implemented. Shahbal is seeking talks with Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and Tourism CS Najib Balala or even higher authorities over the traders’ plight. “I don’t think it is the intention of the government to lock out a section of traders out of business. There might be challenges here and there but I will make sure you are allowed back into the park to do business,” said Shahbal. (Edited by V. Graham)