Siaya leaders have eulogised former Gem MP Jakoyo Midiwo as a dedicated leader who strived to represent his people without fear of contradiction. Led by Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo, the leaders said Midiwo was an astute and reliable leader who placed the interests of his people first. They also described him as fearless, outspoken and a great contributor during debates on matters of national interest. Odhiambo said although they (himself and Midiwo) were revivals in politics, they were good friends outside the political arena. "The cruel hand of death has robbed us a great son of Gem. He was a hardworking politician who told off our political enemies in broad daylight," the Gem MP said. He promised to liaise with the family of Midiwo to give him a befitting send-off. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said he learned of Midiwo's demise with astonishment and disbelief. He said Midiwo was a dependable compatriot and a true friend of the people of Ugunja. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga described the former lawmaker as having a strong character since he was ready to face any kind of challenge in life for the interest of his people. He said Midiwo was a go-getter and someone who could not be easily swayed to change what he believed in. “At some point in politics we differed because of his hard stance, but that did not in any way affect our good relationship, especially now that we were relatives,” Rasanga said. Midiwo died on Monday at the age of 54. Midiwo, who was also known to his friends as Otada (to mean a fearless person),  served as MP for three terms. He was a founding member of the ODM party. Born in 1966, Midiwo joined politics in 2002 when he vied and won the Gem parliamentary seat. In 2017, he lost the ODM nomination to Odhiambo and went on to vie as an independent candidate. He lost the seat to Odhiambo. During his term in Parliament, Midiwo served on various House committees including the Departmental Committee on Finance and Trade, and the Joint Committee on Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library. Others are the House Business Committee, Departmental Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations and the Catering and Health Club Committee. Midiwo also served as the ODM Chief Whip and later on served as the Deputy Minority leader in the 11th Parliament.  Edited by A.N