 Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo has said he will seek reelection on the ODM party ticket in next year's general election. There have been claims that the party will field another candidate because the governor has failed. Vihiga ODM official and Ottichilo's competitor Joseph Simekha had claimed the party was shopping for a candidate other than the governor. “ODM is going to have a new candidate for the gubernatorial race, not Ottichilo. What we expected from our number one MP is not what we have and that is why we have said we must have a new person for that position,” Simekha said. Ottichilo previously served as Emuhaya MP with a superb development record. But he is being opposed by many, including Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi who has promised to take on his boss in next year's election. But Ottichilo defended his administration, saying he has done his best since his election in August 2017. “One of the biggest challenges is that people’s expectations are too high. It is good for that, yes, but it goes with time,” Ottichilo said. He said his administration was grappling with huge pending bills inherited from the previous administration and delayed exchequer releases from the National Treasury. The governor said bad politics in Vihiga was also derailing his development agenda. “I'm being fought left right and center politically. Sometimes we waste time on political issues instead of serving the people,” he said. In 2018, Ottichilo successfully battled an impeachment motion. He was accused of gross misconduct and poor service delivery. Vihiga is also battling many court cases, most of which were filed by ex-staff. A lobby group is currently collecting signatures to suspend the county government. Ottichilo said all these 'political machinations' derail the county's agenda. He accused his deputy Saisi of scheming his downfall. Saisi dismissed the accusation, saying he has no time to fight his boss. "I had already told the governor that we won't sail in the same boat in 2022. So I have no reason to fight him," Saisi told the Star. The deputy governor said he had nothing to do with the bid to dissolve the county government or the many court cases against the governor. "I am only being mentioned because I had told the governor I won't work with him," Saisi said.  Edited by P.O