The Kenya Meteorological department has warned of an increase in respiratory diseases in June and July as the cold season peaks. The weather outlook for the June-July-August rainfall season indicates that Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Nairobi will experience near-average with a tendency to above average temperatures. This is in addition to some parts of Marsabit, Isiolo, Kajiado, Machakos, Kitui and Makueni. The weather outlook was released on Wednesday. "This will be occasioned by prolonged hours of cloudy conditions resulting in cold and chilly conditions. A few days may turn out to be extremely cold with daytime temperatures falling below 18oC," Met said. Met director Stella Aura said cases of respiratory diseases like asthma, pneumonia, flu and common cold are likely to increase due to the expected cool/cold conditions in some areas. The areas include Nairobi county, the highlands east of the Rift Valley, the central Rift Valley and parts of the highlands west of the Rift Valley. She advised Kenyans to wear warm clothes and follow advice from health authorities. "We advise that during chilly days, jikos in poorly ventilated houses should be avoided as burning charcoal produces carbon monoxide gas that is lethal when inhaled," Aura said. The outlook further indicated that the highlands west of the Rift Valley, Lake Victoria Basin region, central and southern Rift Valley as well as the northwestern region are likely to receive slightly above-average rainfall. The Coastal Strip is likely to receive below-average rainfall, while the rest of the country is expected to remain generally dry. "Most areas in the central highlands and Nairobi area are expected to experience cool/cold and cloudy conditions with occasional rain or drizzle. The temperatures are likely to be slightly warmer than average for the season," the outlook revealed. Counties in northwestern Kenya (Turkana, parts of Samburu, West Pokot) and several counties in the Highlands West of the Rift Valley (Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kakamega, Nandi, Vihiga, Bungoma), are likely to experience near-average temperatures. The others are counties in the Lake Victoria Basin region (Kisii, Busia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisumu), southern and central Rift Valley (Laikipia, Nakuru, Baringo, Narok, Bomet, Kericho), highlands east of the Rift Valley (Nyandarua, parts of Nyeri). Counties at the Coast (Lamu, Tana River, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale), northeastern region (Mandera, Wajir, parts of Isiolo, Garissa) and southeastern regions (parts of Kitui, Makueni, Taita Taveta, parts of Kajiado) are likely to have warmer than average temperatures. -Edited by SKanyara