Nairobi's 6,250 Community Health Volunteers will receive Sh500 health insurance starting in July, after waiting more than two years. They will also receive a Sh3,000 monthly stipend which has been increased from the current Sh1,000. The county has allocated Sh308 million to roll out the stipend and NHIF cover for the health volunteers in the 2021-22 financial year. Sh100 million will be used for the Community Health Services Act, 2019 and specifically for the initial payment of Community Health Volunteers. Budget committee chairperson Robert Mbatia on Tuesday said the programme was to be rolled out in 2019 but had to be pushed back because of budget constraints. "Only Sh100 million was allocated instead of the requested Sh300 million budgeted for,” he said. Nairobi has about 6,250 community health workers in more than 1,000 health centres across the 85 wards. Health volunteers visit homes to determine the health situation, promote appropriate home-based care for the sick, trace and refer health-related cases to the nearest facilities and mobilise community members to adopt appropriate health practices. This is in addition to organising and conducting community health activities, maintaining household registers and keeping records of community health-related events. They also conduct community disease surveillance and response as well as enrolling households to achieve universal health coverage. Before devolution, the national government used to train the volunteers. The Nairobi City County Community Health Services Act, 2019 requires Nairobi Metropolitan Services to establish community health units to improve services. "The health units through their volunteers will be able to give reports to alert the county in time in case of an outbreak, to prevent further spread of a disease,” the Act reads. The established community health units should comprise  not more than 1,000 households with 10 community health volunteers, under the supervision of a minimum of two community health assistants or officers. The Act developed by Zimmerman MCA Pius Mbono also compels NMS and City Hall to make arrangements for training and certification of volunteers using an approved curriculum. It seeks to streamline the operation of the community health volunteers. It also calls for the protection and safety of all community health volunteers and community health services personnel. In addition, it requires the creation of an institutional and coordination framework to encourage and facilitate the voluntary provision of community health care services. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)