A seasoned politician is alleged to have assaulted a woman at a five-star beach hotel at the Coast after his sexual demands were turned down. The politician, who is eyeing a top seat in next year’s election, had hoped to get intimate with the woman without protection. According to the woman, the man attacked her when she insisted he uses a condom. The woman checked into a hospital for treatment and reported the matter to the police. She is appealing to Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai (pictured) to ensure justice prevails, saying the politician told her the case will go nowhere. *** A senator and an MP from Nyanza recently hosted a doctors’ union official in Nairobi to craft a 2022 election plan with the aim of dividing votes in one of the constituencies to enable the fast-fading MP to secure his reelection. Those familiar with the plans say the two legislators agreed to jointly sponsor the doctor to vie in the MP’s constituency so that he could help him divide the votes of his rival’s populous clan. However, a little bird whispered to Corridors of Power that elders and opinion shapers in the clan are aware of the schemes and have vowed to rally the community against such moves. ** Just what is a vocal politician from Mt Kenya East up to? The MP shied away from coming into the open to support the coronation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi as Mt Kenya spokesperson. This is despite his behind-the-scenes manoeuvres to endear himself to Muturi. The politician is said to have attended one of the meetings convened by Muturi to deliberate on the way forward after his installation. However, the MP avoided a group photo circulated on social media amid speculation he still has doubts. There are reports that the MP is trying to juggle between President Uhuru Kenyatta’s camp and the emerging Muturi faction within Mt Kenya politics. When will the MP be bold enough to declare his stand? Only time will tell. *** A legislator early this week bragged to his colleagues about an expensive new shirt he claimed to have bought in Malaysia. It started when a colleague commented about the shirt and asked where he could get one. Interestingly, the legislator bragged about his classy outfit as CSs and other senior government officials who had appeared before a parliamentary committee watched. Without mincing words, the lawmaker said he never wears cheap clothes and that the shirt had cost him some dollars. Reacting to the show-off, another legislator said they buy shirts locally but also made in Malaysia. -Edited by SKanyara