Counties are missing on billions of donor funds because they lack climate change legislations. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said only 16 out of the 47 counties have climate change acts and are therefore able to access donor funds. The CS called on governors to work with the county assemblies to prepare the necessary legislation. “I am pleased to be here in Embu to champion the campaign of the national and county governments partnering with interested parties to ensure we meet the target of two million trees by August. I also want to encourage all counties to ensure they plant trees to combat climate change since it’s the biggest threat facing us and our future generations,” said Eugene. He spoke in Embu on Friday when he joined other senior government officials in planting trees in preparation for the upcoming 7th Annual Devolution Conference to take place in August in Makueni. The tree planting exercise took place at Jeremiah Nyaga Technical Training Institute. The event was attended by Environment and Forestry CS Keriako Tobiko, Embu Governor and Chairman of the Council of Governors Martin Wambora, Vihiga Governor Willberforce Otichillo, secretary general County Assemblies Forum Kipkurui Chepkwony and Embu County Commissioner Abdulahi Galgalo. The governors vowed to mainstream climate change as the main threat to survival of mankind and development of the country. “We are working together with the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Devolution and World Bank and we intend to get over Sh32 billion which will be availed to the county governments to mainstream climate change as the main driver of development in the country,” Ottichilo said. Chepkwony assured that all the 47 county assemblies will pass climate change laws. Makueni county was among the first to adopt a climate change law in 2015, which enabled it access part of Sh50 million for climate change adaptation and resilience building as seed money from DFID. Other successful counties include Isiolo, Wajir, Garissa and Kitui. Environment CS Tobiko, who was the chief guest, applauded the Council of Governors for embracing tree planting. The event saw over 2,000 seedlings planted, which is part of the Council of Governors initiative. “We have been working round the clock together for the last months in preparation for the upcoming 7th Devolution Conference to take place in August. The theme is set to be the climate change and that’s why we’re here working to restore our forest cover,” Tobiko said.