Jubilee Party has asked leaders to stop misleading Maguga voters and leave them to elect a candidate of their choice. The party was campaigning at Zambezi on Saturday to woo support for its candidate Githinji Mung’ara. Maguga MCA by-election has been scheduled for July 15 alongside that of the Kiambaa MP vote. The ward is in Kabete constituency, Kiambu. The seat fell vacant after the area MCA Eliud Ngugi, alias Thithia, died on March 16. Governor James Nyoro on Saturday accused Kabete MP James Githua of misleading the electorate while wooing them to support Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party candidate Kamau Thumbi. Nyoro said even though Githua was elected on a JP ticket, he might confuse residents. “Even if you like Githua and you want to respect his wish, just know he is a member of Parliament, but here we are talking about a member of the county assembly. These are two different entities,” Nyoro said. Sources say Githua, who is a member of  the Tanga Tanga movement, has been secretly drumming up support for UDA candidate Thumbi. Jubilee, meanwhile, has adopted door-to-door campaigns to mobilise as much support as possible. The party, led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, dismissed claims that it is weak, saying it is stronger and working with the people. Nyoro was accompanied by Kiambu MP Jude Njomo and party officials. Mung’ara said he has been engaging residents at their homes, businesses and farms for their support. Nyoro said all 59 MCAs in the Kiambu assembly were elected on the JP ticket, while 40 were nominated by the same party since it had the majority, hence the need for the voters to maintain the voting pattern. “If you consider electing a candidate with another entity apart from JP, then you will be the first ward to be in opposition,” Nyoro said. “Do not let your candidate be alone in the assembly, choose a JP candidate so that we can continue supporting the government’s agenda and move forward together. We have less than two years before we go to the general election,” he said. Nyoro said his administration is ready to support the JP candidate once elected to finish all the projects started by Ngugi—as he does his—so that residents can benefit. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 