Farmers in Trans Nzoia and West Pokot counties fear they might encounter losses at the end of this year due to drought. The prolonged dry spell in the two regions has been attributed to climate change. The farmers expected bumper harvests after they received enough rain during the onset of planting season. However the crops have began to wilt and they now fear they might not harvest anything. Most farmers rely on rainfall to grow crops but since March the region has been experiencing unreliable rains. The area last received rainfall at the end of April. "The long rains that we experience annually between May and June have not been received,” said farmer John Khaemba from Kobos in Trans Nzoia. He said some maize crops have reached the top dressing stage but they are unable to do so since the nutrients won’t be absorbed. Khaemba said the most affected farmers are farmers who planted beans. The rains subsided when they had reached the flowering stage which needed a lot of water. They have since wilted due to prolonged dry spell. The farmers said that the dry spell was  going to impact negatively on food security in the country, since Trans Nzoia is one of Kenya's food baskets. “Next year, demand for food is going to increase since counties that don’t depend on relief food will be forced to seek for food aid,” Mary Nekesa said. She said that increase in the prices of farm inputs like fertilisers forced many farmers to seek loans from various organisations to facilitate planting. “Many farmers are going to default on their loans if this dry spell continues,” Nekesa said. Their big worry is the infestation of army worms that have invaded farms. She said most farmers in the region are unable to control the worms due to lack of funds and are currently using ineffective traditional methods. “Most of the farmers are currently using ash to save their crops but it’s not effective. If we could be having enough rainfall, it could help in controlling these worms,” Nekesa said. Lack of rainfall has led to an increase in prices of food commodities in West Pokot. The prices of tomatoes and vegetables have skyrocketed in various towns in the county. A crate of tomatoes is currently retailing at Sh3,000 up from Sh1500. One tomato is being sold at Sh10 from a previous price off Sh5.  (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 