Al Shabaab militants struck for the third day in a row, killing a Kenya Police Reservist in Koromey, Mandera county, on Wednesday. Two other police reservists were injured. The attackers also torched two tractors. The reservists were guarding the tractors at the site where Banyole Dam is being constructed. They reportedly tried to fight off the attackers during the early morning raid but were overwhelmed. Workers who were on the site reportedly escaped. The attackers also set fire on an excavator. The attack was the third in consecutive days showing the militants are now back in the expansive border county. The attacks have left 15 people dead. On Tuesday morning, at least three police officers were injured when al Shabaab gunmen attacked their vehicle in Bambahowla area. The previous day, militants killed three people and abducted three others in attacks in Falama and Jabibar areas along the border with Somalia. In the Tuesday raid, the officers were patrolling in a police vehicle from Wargadud police station towards Elwak in Mandera South constituency when they were attacked. The driver managed to escape but the officers on board sustained injuries. They included two Kenya Police Reservists and the acting Officer Commanding Station. The victims were admitted to a local hospital with multiple injuries, police authorities said. On Monday, al Shabaab militiamen staged twin attacks targeting civilians travelling in trucks. They killed three people and kidnapped three others, police said. At Falama, the militants hijacked a construction truck, kidnapped the driver and his crew before torching it. At Jabibar, the militants hijacked another lorry with five occupants. They killed three occupants but spared a female passenger, sources said. One militant was killed after a lorry carrying miraa ran over them. The gunmen had reportedly tried to stop the vehicle. The vehicle reportedly overturned a few metres from the scene, allowing the militants to catch up with the crew, authorities said. They kidnapped the lorry driver. Those abducted are yet to be found but teams of security agents have joined the hunt. The attacks come in the wake of a campaign mounted in the region by Governor Ali Roba, EAC Cabinet Secretary Adan Mohamed, Senator Mohamud Mohamed and local MPs against al Shabaab. Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana was also present in the two-day campaign against terrorists in the county. The leaders said al Shabaab remains the greatest enemy of development in Mandera and urged locals to help security agents to tame them. Northeastern police commander Rono Bunei said more personnel had joined in the hunt for al Shabaab militants operating in the area. There are concerns the persistent attacks are grounding operations in the county. Transport has been grounded with little movement for fear of attacks. Two weeks ago, the Mandera county government stopped movement of its vehicles, citing increasing terror-related attacks. Mandera county secretary Abdinur Hussein released a memo on June 10 directing that strict regulations be followed in the movements of vehicles. He told the county executive committee members to ensure no vehicle is on the road past 5pm. Hussein said no vehicle will be authorised to travel to the subcounties unless on emergency missions such as ambulances, health utility vehicles or those responding to Covid-19 related emergencies until further notice. Firefighting trucks, skip loaders and sanitation trucks were also excluded. Mandera has enjoyed some tranquility in recent years but has turned out to be an area of soft target for the terrorists. The militants have been targeting security installations that they destroy.  Edited by P.O