“I thank God I can now breathe and eat well. I thank the Star newspaper for highlighting my plight and all the well-wishers who came in to help. I would have died." These are the words of Beatrice Makokha, who was living with a kilogramme of tumour on her face that was successfully removed. Makokha, 68, was diagnosed with a growth on her face that she had been living with for the past 12 years. She had been living in pain for over a decade and had difficulty in breathing and couldn’t eat well until the Star highlighted her story prompting well wishers to come to her rescue through cash donations. Makhoha was then  taken to Bungoma County Hospital  where she was referred to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in April this year. A team of doctors successfully undertook an operation removing the growth. The benign tumour had compressed the eye resulting in the patient losing vision on one eye, according to specialists. Maxillofacial surgeon Dr Francis Thuku, one of the specialists in the operation, said the growth was non-cancerous, a benign tumor, a condition common among children. "It starts as a small swelling and progresses to a huge growth but we have never seen such a size. We encourage patients to seek medical attention early," said the medic. A team of medics specialised in different areas managed to remove the huge cystic growth from the right side of the face, involving the eye, frontal bone, ethmoid and frontal sinus. According to the health facility, the mass had three litres of dermoid fluid, which luckily did not involve the brain. Her face was successfully closed with a dura patch and cranium mesh. The surgery would cost Sh550,000 but the MTRH  treated the patient for free as part of their corporate social responsibility. Through mobilising well wishers, Radio Africa group which owns the Star raised Sh1.1 million which they handed over to Makhoha at her Number One village, Kamusinde in Kimilili constituency on Wednesday. The cheque was handed over by  news editor Francis Mureithi and head of radio Susan Kimachia who encouraged Makhoha to continue attending her clinics to ensure she fully recovers. Mureithi said the cash from the company and well wishers will help her continue with after surgery care and any other medication required. “We encourage you to use the cash to continue attending your remaining clinics  and any other needs that will arise in the course of the recovery,” said Muretihi. He also thanked well wishers who came in to help Beatrice when the Star appealed  for help. Makhoha is recovering well while attending her clinics both at the MTRH and Bungoma referral. -Edited by SKanyara