Milk is produced by animals and is most locally available in families through various sources which include, own daily farming, buying and borrowing. Apart from milk being an income generator to the county residents, it has its value on our health. According to Carren Kerubo Vihiga county nutritionist said milk and dairy products are packed with important nutrients that have health benefits in the human body function, this include: She said it's an excellent source of protein for bodybuilding blocks hence prevent protein-energy malnutrition. She further said milk has a lot of fat which is a good source of calories, energy for the body. Whole cow's milk contains more calories and saturated fat than any other milk, aside from goat's milk and thus plays a role in the prevention of protein-energy malnutrition. Milk is one of the best and cheapest calcium sources. "The body needs calcium to maintain strong bones and to carry out many important functions,” Kerubo said. “Almost all calcium is stored in bones and teeth, where it supports their structure and hardness.” Kerubo further said the body also needs calcium for muscles to move and for nerves to carry messages between the brain and every body part. Phosphorus nutrient just like calcium plays a great role in the formation of bones and teeth. The county nutritionist said phosphorus also plays an important role in how the body uses carbohydrates and fats (carbohydrate and fat metabolism). It is also needed for the body to make protein for the growth, maintenance, and repair of cells and tissues (repair and body growth functions). Vitamin D The major biological function of vitamin D is to maintain normal blood levels of calcium and phosphorus. Vitamin D aids in the absorption of calcium hence helping in the formation and maintaining strong bones. This vitamin D functions in the intestine, bone, and kidney to stimulate the transport of calcium and phosphorus into the extracellular fluid compartment upon demand. B VITAMINS B vitamins are important for making sure the body's cells are functioning properly. They help the body convert food into energy (metabolism), create new blood cells, and maintain healthy skin cells, brain cells, and other body tissues. Milk and dairy products like yoghurt and cheese are great sources of protein and several vitamins and minerals, including vitamin B12 which helps keep the body's nerve and blood cells healthy. According to Leah Akoya who is also a junior staff at the county government of Vihiga says those who lack milk are likely to suffer from various illnesses. “Those with milk deficiency are likely to suffer from Osteoporosis which is a bone disease caused by insufficient calcium and vitamin D as well,” Okaya says. (Edited by V. Graham)