Rivalry between Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and Senator Susan Kahika played out on Friday at a church function attended by Deputy President William Ruto. Kinyanjui said someone needed to correct politicians who had turned church functions into publicity rallies and tell them that their zips were down. Outside the church people were shouting Kihika for governor slogans and disturbing the service at Langa Langa Full Gospel Churches of Kenya. DP Ruto was in Nakuru for the consecration ceremony of FGCK presiding Bishop David Macharia. He was accompanied by MPs allied to UDA, including Nakuru Town East legislator David Gikaria and his Subukia counterpart Samuel Gachobe who recently returned to the DP's camp. Kinyanjui was further angered by Malindi MP, Aisha Jumwa’s statement that besides praying for the DP’s success to take the presidency in 2022, she was also praying for Kihika to clinch Nakuru’s governorship. Kinyanjui asked how a leader could pay people to cheer and make noise at a church function attended by national and international guests. He apologised to the church on behalf of fellow leaders who do not distinguish between political rallies and church functions. “What image of us will the international guests here take home? I want to tell the leaders who turn churches into political platforms that their zip is down,” he said. Kinyanjui said he too had the resources and manpower to bring people to cheer him on but he respected the church. The Governor told her to respect the people of Nakuru because they had the intelligence and capacity to choose their leaders. “We do not mind your prayers for your friends, but let Nakuru people choose their leaders because we cannot come to Malindi to tell the people there who to elect,” he said. The DP and his brigade addressed a roadside rally along Kanu Street after the church function that included Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said BBI proponents. He said they should not tamper with the 2010 Constitution. He said the proposed changes in the 2020 Constitutional Amendment Bill would not solve problems dogging the public. He urged those pushing for the changes to instead formulate policies that would help the low and middle-class population. DP Ruto dismissed a section of Jubilee leaders intending to enter into a pre-election agreement with ODM, saying that this is not the will of Jubilee party members. Despite being allied to UDM, Ruto condemned a plan to merge Jubilee with ODM before the 2022 General Election. “We cannot go back to where we came from, the planned union of the two parties is against the will of Jubilee party members," Ruto said. Kihika expressed fear that there might be an unconstitutional plan in the succession process and urged the church to pray for Kenya. (Edited by V. Graham)