Kenya’s multi-billion shilling automotive industry is set to benefit from a new distributor in the market. Speaking during the official launch of BMW Motorrad (motorcycles), Inchcape Kenya limited Managing Director Hussein Ibrahim said that the entry of the company in the market will ensure better service delivery and as well provide better buying power to the consumer. He added that the showroom would provide sufficient space to display BMW Motorrad products while also giving customers a bespoke experience before purchasing their preferred BMW motorcycle. “Our goal is to ensure that we keep our customers first by providing them with the best services they can get. This state-of-the-art showroom with a variety of motorcycle models is the first step towards achieving this. "One is able to touch and feel the bikes before making a purchase with test rides also available for clients.” he said. The BMW motorcycle is a top-end product defined by its sleekness, power, performance, luxury, and comfort, making it a preference for many motorcycle racers and the biking community. Biking in Kenya is expanding, with the community growing by the day. Many Kenyans today are looking for fun activities to keep them engaged. “We have experienced brand love from our customers and the growing biking enthusiasts because of our wide product range and the brand promise of bringing joy to clients through Modern technology,” Ibrahim said. BMW Motorrad whose tagline is “make life a ride” is part of the BMW product line that deals with the manufacture and design of motorcycles. The product line has a variety of motorcycle products to choose from depending on a person’s lifestyle and bike usage. They include Adventure bikes GS series, Sport bike (S1000 RR) and Urban mobility bike (C 400 X) among others. Ibrahim said customers will be offered technical training upon purchase of the bikes to ensure that they understand their motorcycles better and can easily detect any issues. He added that their sales division will also ensure that customers have the latest software updates available. "Additionally, all parts will be made available to customers which will ease the pressure of having to source for and bring on their own which has been a pain point for many motorcycle riders. We will also as well provide trained technicians to provide expert support,” Ibrahim added. In Africa, Inchcape has dealerships in Kenya (Inchcape Kenya) and Ethiopia (MOENCO) with Kenya being a hub for 7 other African countries. It began its operation in Kenya in 2018 as Jaguar Land Rover dealers and later took over the BMW franchise.