Former Embu Senator Lenny Kivuti has reached out to Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi to jointly revive the regional party which they abandoned to join Jubilee before 2017. Kivuti said they will also invite other Mt Kenya leaders to revive the Alliance Party of Kenya (the Mbus Party) as their working political party. Kivuti will be vying for the Embu county governor's seat after losing to Embu Governor Martin Wambora in 2017. He was speaking in Kanyuambora on Saturday when he received anointing and blessings from Anglican Church of Kenya Bishop Moses Masamba of Mbeere. "Things got worse after we lost APK (the Mbus Party) and I will go and look for the Mbus since that will enable us to have bargaining power during the country's cake sharing. "During the 2017 elections I was under Maendeleo Chap Chap and right now it is Governor Alfred Mutua who meets the President since he has power from the party he heads," Kivuti said. Kivuti won the senator’s seat under APK in 2013, he then joined Jubilee but shortly decamped to Maendeleo Chap Chap a few months before the 2017 election. Mbeere North MP Muriuki Njagagua called upon the leaders of Mt Kenya East to unite in order to have their leaders gain top seats in the country. "I call for our leaders to reorganise, join together and support one of our own. I also call the people of Mt Kenya West to support us as we have been doing in the  past years," he said. "We have supported Kenyatta, Kibaki and we supported the present President Uhuru Kenyatta. I call them to support us this time round," Njagagua said. He said that it was shameful how some of the leaders from the Central region of Kenya led by Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria were defying the President. Bishop Masamba, upon anointing and blessing Kivuti for his Embu gubernatorial race, called on politicians to consider conducting peaceful politics and show respect to one another including citizens. He said Kenya is a democracy led nation and urged the incumbent and aspiring politicians to continue with their preparations as they consider respecting the citizens. "It is about time to conduct another general elections and my call is for everybody to consider promoting peace and allow everyone to practice their democratic rights," Bishop Masamba said. He also called for Kenyans to engage in counselling to avoid the ill behaviours of crime and suicide which have been on the rise since the onset of Covid-19 pandemic. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)