Deputy President William Ruto has said that the current ruling Jubilee Party has been badly damaged from within. In his interview in KTN NEWS on Thursday night, the DP said that it is unfortunate that the party which is one of the biggest in the country has never held party retreat nor Parliamentary Group (PG) meetings since it won the 2071 elections. Ruto said that the only PG that the party has held has been to discuss the expulsion of some of the legislators for having different opinions. “Unfortunately, it has been destroyed by the people who do not appreciate that the way to de-ethicize the politics of our country is to organize politics around the political parties and when you destroy the political parties, we regress, we are engaging on a reverse gear,” Ruto said, Regarding the current debate on the possibility of President Uhuru Kenyatta supporting a different candidate to succeed him come 2022, Ruto avoided the topic, saying he will not discuss matters about his boss. “It is not good manners to discuss your boss…I would like to discuss William Ruto and not about my boss…the president has given his opinion. It is up to the people of Kenya to judge.” The DP said that he intends to build a national party ahead of the 2022 general elections. He also said that he contributed a lot to the Jubilee. " I made a huge contribution in making Jubilee what it is. It is unfortunate that the people who were trusted with the running of the party, let the party leader down." Ruto added that if Jubilee would have managed to leave up to its initial ambition, it would have forced the Nasa coalition to stay united, hence creating strong parties in the country. "If we had held Jubilee together, Nasa would have been forced to hold together." The DP also said that Kenyans will determine who will be the next president based on what he has achieved with the president since 2013. "Even if William Ruto does not merit the president’s support there are eight million other people in Jubilee who merit that support." He has also said that the next elections will be held in August as stipulated in the constitution, ruling out any attempts to postponed it due to the BBI exercise.