ODM party leader Raila Odinga has taken a swipe at Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka over the 2022 elections. Kalonzo had on Wednesday said it was very unlikely that he will support Raila Odinga for president again. The Wiper party leader said he would rather retire, than support Raila. “For me, as of now, it is unthinkable that I, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, would support Raila Odinga for the third time…. I would be the most stupid fellow on earth to go and support — for the third time — a presidential candidate without a measure of reciprocity,” Kalonzo said. But in a response on Thursday, Raila who was speaking in Mombasa said he has not even announced his interest in the presidency. “Sijatangaza kwamba nataka kusimama urais, lakini wengine wanasema eti hawawezi kuniunga mkono, nimekuuliza wewe uniunge mkono?” Raila posed. Loosely translates to (I have not announced that I want to run for the presidency, but others have been saying they will not support me, did I ask you to support me?) “Mimi Sijatanganza washaanza kutetemeka, wanaanza kubweka bweka..subiri bwana mambo bado..sisi tunaangalia mambo ya BBI.” Loosely translates to (I have not announced and they have started shaking...wait.. we are still looking into the BBI) Raila said the High Court had only taken the Building Bridges Initiative Reggae to half time. On Wednesday, Kalonzo blamed ODM for the collapse of Nasa, insisting that it will take a miracle to rebuild the alliance. Kalonzo said that ODM killed Nasa after its Secretary-General, Edwin Sifuna announced that the alliance was dead, during the Kibra by-election. "When you have a breach of trust at that level where leaders cannot meet, where leaders are calling each other names as if they are children, then clearly it would require a miracle," he said. The President's 2022 succession strategists are said to be keen to have Nasa consolidate the critical Western bloc as they craft a winning formula for Opposition chiefs against DP William Ruto. They believe that if Nasa locks Nyanza, Coast, Western and then shares the spoils in Mt Kenya, they will form the next government. There are concerns that Uhuru's move to declare his support for a Nasa candidate over Ruto in 2022 might work against the DP with the state machinery likely to be deployed against him. The widening cracks in the mountain, where Ruto hoped he would record a clean sweep to romp to State House next year, might complicate his arithmetic, 13 months to the polls.