Thousands of Turkana residents suffering famine have received food donations worth Sh419 million from the county government. The administration announced that at least 640,00 people were in dire need of food. Disaster Management chief officer Esther Ikaru said they have concluded the food distribution programme that began in March. Families in seven counties were targeted. “The county government, through the Covid-19 fund, has procured 70,000 bags of white maize, 6,500 bags of rice, 16,000 bags of beans and 15,000 cartons of cooking oil, which will cover 106,366 households estimated at a population of 640,366 in the entire county,” she said at Kalotum village in Turkana Central. Ikaru residents from Kibish, Turkana North, Turkana West, Turkana East, Turkana South, Loima and Turkana Central received food. She said each household affected by drought has received 36kg of maize, 7.2 kg of beans, 4.5 litres of cooking oil and three kilos of rice. Ikaru said the next relief food distribution cycle is set to begin in July. Vincent Palor, Turkana County Director for Disaster Management thanked the efforts of the World Food Programme (WFP) for the provision of logistical support in transporting relief food in various regions for distribution. Julius Lotootin, a resident of Kalotum village in Turkana Central, said they have struggled with the effects of Covid-19 and drought. “We thank the efforts of the county government for reaching us with food. We have been starving since the pandemic started and when the drought started things got worse as we could not afford a meal in a day,” he said. Kalotum resident Leah Lokaala said the livestock was decimated by drought and then swept by floods. “We thank the county government for the provision of food. I have received food, including rice, beans, maize and cooking fat that will sustain my family,” she said. “We experienced drought season for a long period that caused pastures and water sources that we depend to feed our animals to dry up. When the rain came it swept our emaciated animals leaving us with nothing.” Peter Ekeno urged the government and humanitarian agencies to help them access clean water. “We appreciate for the donation of food because for many years we haven’t been considered. Despite the fact that we need food, we also need water for domestic use and for our animals,” he said. 