KCB stalwart Jacob Ojee is in contention for a place in the 12-man Kenya Sevens squad to be named by head coach Innocent Simiyu on Friday. The winger suffered an ankle ligament injury during the Rugby Africa Solidarity tournament in Stellenbosch, South Africa last month and has been out of action for six weeks. Simiyu said Ojee resumed training a week ago and looked sharp while training with the rest of the squad. "He is back in training and is getting up to speed with the rest where competition for places has been intense at the Kasarani bubble camp. We will pick a formidable squad to do the country proud in Tokyo,” added Simiyu Simiyu said there will be a final scrimmage on Thursday before team naming. The team had their plans to travel to a final pre-Olympic tournament in Los Angles shelved by the Ministry of Sports due to Covid-19 restrictions. "We have had a couple of inter-team training sessions for the past couple of weeks to get the team into shape and to be in peak condition by the time the Games begin,” noted Simiyu The former captain said they will take one game at a time even as they await the fixtures schedule with Shujaa facing heavyweights South Africa, USA and Ireland in Pool 'C'. "We don't want to think ahead of ourselves. We are looking at one game at a time,” said Simiyu. The top two teams in each pool and the best two third-place finishers in the pool stage will advance to the quarters in the three-day extravaganza which kicks off on July 26. Simiyu said the team will seek to acclimatise to the conditions in Japan by arriving in Kurume City on July 5, camp there for two and half weeks then head to Tokyo. Elsewhere Kenya Simbas opponents in the Rugby 2023 World Cup qualifiers Senegal and Zambia will arrive this week. Senegal will jet in Nairobi on July 1 with their first match against the Simbas set for July 3. Zambia on the other hand are slated to arrive on July 5 with their first match against Senegal slated for 7 July. The Simbas will be back in action on July 11 to play Zambia in the final match.