Police in Embu have warned aspirants for next year's elections against holding campaigns likely to act as Covid-19 superspreaders. Embu police boss Abdulahi Galgalo told aspirants to wait until the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission releases campaign dates. Galgalo said in Embu town on Thursday that the government is also keen to contain Covid-19 and health guidelines must be obeyed. He said gatherings or demonstrations and political campaigns should stop. He spoke after more than 50 boda boda riders from Kithimu ward in Embu East held a three-hour demonstration against their MCA. The youths said MCA Michael Njeru who is also the majority leader in the county assembly was not facilitating youths to get tenders for local projects. “Those who are engaging in campaigns should know it’s not yet time and wait until the IEBC announces,” Galgalo said. “It’s also everyone’s responsibility to follow the government rules on Covid-19 containment, and thus people should avoid any gatherings threatening the set rules.” The county police boss also called upon the youths to avoid being used by politicians whose self-interest is more important than service. On Wednesday, the demonstrating riders complained of lack of jobs in the ward and being snubbed during vetting for the youth funds. They also complained that the ward tenders are given to the same people, denying many of them a chance. “We are facing struggles in raising capital to improve our livelihoods despite having an MCA who should be enabling us to acquire some youth money. We are taking our motorcycles on loans, something we could purchase easily if we are awarded the youth funds,” a protestor said. The riders also said that the MCA has failed to build seats on the boda boda sheds and ordered for demolition of the ones they built. “The shed was built and left without chairs. It is a torture to our customers who are forced to stand for long hours waiting for a motorcycle. The mostly affected by this are the elderly and the mothers with infants,” said another resident. Njeru asked the youths to respect present leaders and wait for their time to vote. “I want to remind the youths to avoid being used to cause fracas by politicians. I’m the one who is currently working for the people of Kithimu ward and that tampering with any structure set up that’s malicious damage to government property. Writing aspirants name on such structure is risking a wrath of the law,” Njeru said. “The youth fund is under county government and the fund is managed by the department of youths. It’s the youth’s responsibility to fill the loan forms and submit to the department, since I’m not supposed to handle that.” Njeru said MCAs have no roles in the award of county tenders.  The youths who want contracts should apply to county government whenever bids are called for, he said.  (edited by o. owino)