One by one, they alighted from a chartered Boeing 767 Ethiopian Airlines aeroplane to a job-well-done reception by the Deputy Army Commander Maj Gen  Albert Kendagor. Their bright faces reflected a successful peace keeping mission in Darfur, Sudan. As the plane touched down at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport a few minutes to 3pm on Saturday, they sighed. They were glad to be home. A Kenya Defence Forces contingent of 75 Military Police personnel returned after completing their tour of duty under the African Union United Nations Hybrid Operation Mission in Darfur (UNAMID). For the past 21 months, they have been away from their loved ones. They included 65 male and 15 female officers. The troops returned home after UNAMID wound up its mandate on December 31, 2020. Then a six-month window was given for troops drawdown and back-loading of Kenyan-owned equipment ending. “You have been on the mission the longest, did your work with dedication, maintained response and build the name of our country," \ Kendagor said. Maj Jackson Muthee was the troops’ CO. He said despite the challenges the troops faced, they performed their duties with determination and resilience. They were tasked with enforcing military law and order, conducting investigations, preventing crime. They handled issues arising in the mission area, traffic rules and regulations, VIP escort, protocol duties, customs activities and confinement operation, among others. “We have done a lot of liaison with other government forces, we have made friends because this is an international environment where the Kenya military police were used to police other contingents. "We used to police the Ethiopian military, the Bangladeshi, Indonesian, Rwandese, Tanzanian and Egyption so it was a big responsibility that has been bestowed upon us,” Maj Muthee said. "In all these jobs we have been doing we have observed a lot of integrity, a lot of respect for diversity and observing high levels of professionalism that has seen us serve for all this time,” he added. Snr Pvt Hilda Makandi said though the mission was successful, it had its challenges. First the harsh weather, language barrier and the Covid-19 disruptions. But these could not hinder their determination. “We are soldiers and we are trained to work in all climatic conditions but there is this wild wind called haboob. When haboob came, there wasn’t any working because everywhere was filled with dust. "You couldn’t go outside, some trees were breaking so we had to stay indoors. If you were in the office, you hadto stay there until it ceases,” she said. Because of the language barrier, they sometimes hired interpreters, which was not always satisfactory. “When it came to investigations, we got to a point that we needed an interpreter. When you add another person besides you on the case, it becomes a challenge,” he said. She added, “During interpretation, some facts are lost so at the end of the day, you are not satisfied because you can’t really tell what the other party could wish to say or whether all facts were exhausted.” For Sgt Stephen Kirsiet, representing his country in the community of nations was a fulfilling moment and happy time. What was even more fulfilling was that the mission was accomplished. “I am happy the objective is largely attained. As now the elderly, the women and the children who  to bear the brunt of any violent situation are now at peace and the humanitarian organisations can now access them and help them,” he said. Due to the Covid-19 protocols, the troops will be in isolation for 10 days, then they will be addressed by the military leadership and given leave to join their families. (Edited by V. Graham)