ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru has urged the youth to take up online jobs to reduce unemployment. He said the government has eased access to digital opportunities in the country through the Ajira Programme. The CS's speech was read by the ministry’s Administration Secretary Lucy Mulili during the launch of Zetech University Ajira Club in Ruiru on Thursday. "Online work is the way to go. The opportunities in the digital work space by far surpass the number of digital workers. I urge our youth to enrol in the Ajira Digital Programme so they can benefit and make online work as an alternative employment," the CS said. He said even after the Covid-19 pandemic struck the world last year leading to laying off of millions of workers, online workers didn’t lose their jobs. “Online workers were not affected simply because their workspace is safe to conduct business and deliver services. It’s high time to embrace technological changes and innovations to promote remote working as alternative employment,” the CS said. “Globally, many countries invested a lot in online work and they are generating a lot of revenue in billions to their respective economies and that is our absolute goal as a country.” He said the ministry in collaboration with parliamentarians has opened Ajira youth empowerment centres in all constituencies where the youth can enrol and get trained. Close to 60,000 youths have been trained. They have been trained on transcription, digital marketing, virtual assistance, data entry and management and online writing. The CS said the programme has been extended to institutions of higher learning. “The programme is changing the lives of the youth,” he said. Mulili said the ministry is sourcing for partnerships to improve internet connectivity and lower costs to benefit students and the youth. “This programme will see us instil the spirit and capabilities of innovation in our citizens, creating a more technologically vibrant generation in the next decade or so. I believe this is the route to a Kenyan ‘Silicon Valley’ of the 21st century,” she said. Zetech University vice chancellor Njenga Munene said the institution is ready to host Ruiru's Ajira hub to enable students and youths from the populous constituency access training. He said the university was the first private institution of higher learning to partner with the ministry to initiate Ajira clubs in 2018. “Our aim was to expose our students and graduates to the opportunities in the digital workspace,” Munene said.  