The President has the right to rate himself as he wishes. He can even say his government is the best compared to the previous ones but the fact of the matter is that Jubilee has failed in its second term compared to the first. I give it a score of 40 per cent in this second term. The President gave a lot of attention to succession politics in the second term, concentrating too much on the BBI. What the President said is contrary to the information available at the Kenya Bureau of Statistics, which shows many Kenyans lost jobs, households are unable to put food on the table and the economy has deteriorated. If indeed the Jubilee government has performed better in its second term, why is it that people are unable to feed themselves? Why is it that we have many jobless young people? The same government that came to power promising free education is now ordering head teachers to chase away pupils and students who have not paid school fees. Then you will hear them saying we have achieved 100 per cent transition to secondary school. More micro-enterprises and companies were closed down in the second term of Jubilee unlike during the first term, when businesses were thriving. Many businessmen have had their companies auctioned because the economy is bad. So what justification is there to show that President Uhuru Kenyatta has done better? The second term has created few millionaires – the Covid-19 millionaires — and the government should not use that as a measure of a well performing economy. The Big Four agenda that was adopted as the blueprint for Jubilee’s second term is dead. Apart from the ongoing road constructions —most of them commissioned in the first term — which tangible development can we pin point that started in the second term? It is public knowledge that the opposition is dead and that is what could be giving the government the feeling that its is performing. The government is operating without checks and balances. The opposition is now part of the government, they hear and see no evil despite the shrinking democratic space. When we talk about improved economy, let us have numbers, statistics to justify our claims. The former Sports CS spoke to the Star