Germany will have no time to soak up the atmosphere in front of a home crowd at the Euros when they host world champions France in Munich on Tuesday, with coach Joachim Low’s untested team facing the tournament favourites in their Group 'F' opener. Germany’s shock first round exit from the 2018 World Cup triggered an overhaul of the team. But in his final tournament before stepping down after 15 years, Low has recalled some of the players he had axed after the disruption caused by the Covid-19 pandemic meant that the overhauled squad failed to get the desired results. With 2014 world champions Thomas Mueller and Mats Hummels back in the squad after more than two years, Germany will be considered as the underdogs when their largely untested line-up face their powerful neighbours. What Germany will need to do first is lock down their defence against a formidable French frontline, arguably the best in the world at the moment. With European champions Portugal awaiting next in their group before their final game against Hungary, avoiding defeat could prove decisive for Germany in their ‘group of death’. “France would not have become world champions if they did not have top defenders,” said Germany forward Timo Werner. “Players who go into the one-on-ones like N’Golo Kante or Benjamin Pavard. There is a reason why they are tournament favourites. “And then in attack the trio with (Kylian) Mbappe, (Antoine) Griezmann and (Karim) Benzema is just world class. When you have players like that in a team then it is just outstanding.” Meanwhile, Portugal will look to their Euro 2020 opener with Hungary to get a head start in a bruising Group ‘F’ encounter but the holders will have to overcome a wall of noise made by 67,000 locals to make a statement of intent. Hungary, playing in only their second European Championship in 49 years, are rank outsiders in the tournament’s toughest group but will compensate for what they lack in star names with passion and grit. The shiny new Puskas Arena is the only Euro 2020 stadium which will be at full capacity after local authorities agreed to exchange social distancing for a strict entry policy, requiring fans to return a negative COVID-19 test to gain access. It means the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo and Bruno Fernandes face the prospect of their every touch being booed in Tuesday’s fixture by the Budapest crowd, who will not forgive any slacking off from their side. “They (Hungary) are a very tough team and won’t let any ball go and will never give up,” said Portugal midfielder Danilo. “We know what style of play to expect from them and we’ll be preparing well over the next few days to make sure we’re not in for a surprise.” “We spent a season without playing in front of fans and we’re not used to it anymore but having a crowd will make the game more exciting. Hungary will be extra motivated but it’s just another problem we’ll have to deal with.”