Tusker tactician Robert Matano has extolled his charges for bouncing back from their recent setbacks in the Kenyan Premier League to overcome a resilient Kariobangi Sharks at Utalii Grounds on Sunday. The brewers put all their arsenals in motion to collect maximum points after a Chrispinus Onyango's goal in the 62nd minute fired them to 41 points, one adrift of leaders KCB. Goalkeeper Mike Wanjala then stepped up to comfortably save Douglas Mokaya's spot kick in the 76th minute. “The three points are crucial. We squandered many opportunities but at the end of the day, we won and that's all we needed today. Wanjala is a good player only that he had sustained an injury sometimes back and had to be sidelined for a while. I was sure he would save the penalty just as he does in training,”  Matano said. Sharks head coach William Muluya lashed out at his charges for fumbling in front of goal but nevertheless said they had lost to a more organised side. “Sharks played a good game. We simply didn't make good use of our opportunities. We have to remain calm as the league gains momentum,”  Muluya said. Just five minutes into the match, Luke Namanda unleashed a thunderous shot that spilled off the hands of Sharks keeper Brandon Obiero. In the 43rd minute, Henry Meja's attempt greased the crossbar before Onyango rose unmarked to head in Sammy Meja’s pinpoint pass from the left channel — 19 minutes later. Eric Kapaito had a glorious chance to level matters in the 80th minute when he came on the end of Fredrick Alushula's enticing cross with a brilliant bicycle kick that swished just inches wide. At the final whistle, the brewers headed towards the stands to celebrate their renewed charge for the title. Sharks remain rooted in fifth with 31 points. Elsewhere, defending champions Gor Mahia edged Sofapaka 1-0 at Thika Stadium to ascend to joint third with arch-rivals AFC Leopards. Burundian Jules Ulimwengu came off the bench to score the all-important goal in the 75th minute as K'Ogalo battle for a fifth consecutive title. At Ruaraka, Posta Rangers and Bidco United played out to a barren draw while 