Prolific Kenya National Rally Championship (KNRC) driver Sohanjeet Singh Puee is looking forward to his WRC Safari Rally debut with great expectations. The two-time KNRC 'S' Class champion is among the four coast drivers taking part in the fabled event which was first held in 1953 to celebrate the Coronation of Queen Elizabeth II. Other coast representatives are Paras Pandya of Synergy Gases, Izhar Mirza of Coast Pekee and Kilifi-based Piero Canobbio. Sohan — racing for Team Nanak and teaming up with navigator Adnan Din in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X, is determined to achieve his potential while calling on corporate sponsors to help him realise his dream of owning an R5. "WRC has been away for more than 18 years and it's quite exciting for it to be back. It's not like the normal rallies so we are trying our best to be prepared. It does require a lot of preparations and corporate support," said Sohan, who won the 'S' class championship in 2018 and 2019. Sohan, who also won KNRC Division 2 in 2018, continued: "In my debut season — 2018,  I secured a Group 'S' championship and successfully defended it a year later.  I was also one of the youngest drivers in a debut season to win a double. Corporate sponsorship has always been hard to come by but KCB have made it easier, playing a big role in bringing the WRC back to Kenya," Sohan said. The 27-year old says it's an honour to represent his Mombasa County.  With few drivers from the region — it will be a completely different feeling from the Safaris they usually do. "This one has a lot more preparations as we are required to do longer runs. We're nevertheless 95 percent ready in our preparations. Our car has conformed to FIA standards," said Sohan, who has driven a Group 'S' Subaru for two seasons in KCB Autocross events. Sohan went on: "The Evo is a completely different drive as it has more torque and better acceleration. I'm coming to grips with the car and with good backing and sponsorship, I can realise my dream. We skipped Equator Rally because we lacked sponsorship." "I wish to urge the corporate world to support younger drivers. Many people shy away from rally sponsorship due to the expenses involved but I would like to urge them to embrace the uniqueness of the sport and believe in us." Navigator Din, said: "The 2021 rally season has been very difficult for us. I would say Sohan is one of the fastest young drivers in Kenya at the present. There is a lot of talent that need to be harnessed." "With  proper backing, I'm certain Soham can reach full potential and Kenya can discover another star driver."