KCB Foundation and the German Development Cooperation have partnered to increase the employability and income generation of 3, 500 Kenyan youth in the construction sector. The agreement puts together Sh300 million to provide technical and vocational skills training for the next three years. The funds will also support the provision of construction toolkit to 700 youth, to enable them establish business enterprises in the construction sector, the partners said in a statement yesterday. The partnership has been extended under the Employment and Skills for Development in Africa (E4D) programme commissioned by the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development (BMZ), and implemented by GIZ, and KCB Foundation’s 2jiajiri Programme. It seeks to create self-employment and establish enterprises among unskilled and semi-skilled youth in Kenya. KCB Group CEO and managing director, Joshua Oigara, said the partnership is aligned with KCB’s shared value approach that champions businesses to solve societal challenges, anchoring the foundation programmes. “The shock to the economy caused by the Covid-19 pandemic has negatively affected small businesses setting back the country’s job creation efforts for the youth. We are looking at sustainable solutions to remedy the situation," said Oigara. He noted that the construction sector has demonstrated significant job creation potential, based on industry trends The programme will target a total of 60 per cent male and 40 per cent female, with a bias towards unskilled individuals previously working in the construction sector. The youth will be trained in masonry and brickwork, carpentry and joinery, plumbing and pipe work, electrical installation and welding and metalwork. GIZ’s E4D Kenya team leader, Thomas Jaeschke said:“ Ultimately, our goal is to generate more decent and sustainable employment in East Africa.” The 2017 National Construction Authority survey indicates there is a skills gap in the industry, attributable to skills shortages, access to finance and inadequate availability of construction equipment such as cranes, concrete mixers and concrete pumps.