Kirinyaga county is set to complete 19 dispensaries that stalled before Governor Anne Waiguru's administration took charge. This is part of efforts to boost primary healthcare by enhancing accessibility for residents who have been travelling long distances to seek treatment. The dispensaries are at various stages of completion, with some already being furnished. Inspecting some of the projects on Thursday, Waiguru said the ongoing works are expected to be completed within three months. “When people access quality primary healthcare, they do not need to visit higher-level hospitals, which can then be eased off to handle complex health matters and critically ill patients,” she said. Waiguru said the dispensaries are close to the people, thus will save them the agony of travelling long distances in search of healthcare services. The facilities that are near completion include Joshua Mbai laboratory, Kiamugumo, Kiandai, Kiamwathi, Kavote, Ndaba and Kianjiru dispensaries. Residents from these areas are now hopeful that their suffering is about to end. They have had to spend a lot of money and time to access medical services in faraway facilities. At Mbai dispensary in Githure trading centre, a laboratory is nearing completion. Gibson Njagi thanked the county government for undertaking to see the laboratory up and running. Joshua Mbai dispensary serves the 4,000 residents and has been in operation since 1993, but patients have had to be referred to other facilities for medical tests. "We have to travel to Kiamutugu health centre or private facilities where we have to spend on fare and lab services. The referrals are not only costly but also time-consuming and may lead to delayed diagnosis and treatment," Njagi said. Health chief officer Muriithi Nyaga said residents will now access outpatient services, including TB treatment, prenatal and postnatal services, and pharmacy services at the dispensaries. "They will also be able to get early detection of ailments that may require further investigation and treatment for which they can be referred to more advanced facilities,” he said. Governor Waiguru reiterated her administration’s commitment to improving health infrastructure and service delivery with an aim of achieving universal health coverage. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 