The Environment and Land Court has declared that the allocation of a parcel of land by the Commissioner of Lands to a former public official and issuance of lease for a government house were irregular. In a judgment delivered by Justice Anthony Ombwayo on June 4, the court ruled that the EACC case against former DCIO John Mwachai and then Commissioner of Lands Wilson Gachanja had succeeded. The judge also granted an order for rectification of the register by cancellation of the certificate of lease and all entries on the land register for the suit property. He directed the Director of Surveys to cancel the surveys for the suit property – Eldoret Municipality block 7/305 – and to compile a plan which will be registered as the land housing government house number ELD/HOUS/HG5. “I do grant an order of preservation and a permanent injunction against the first defendant, his agents, servants or assigns restraining him from leasing, transferring, charging, taking possession or in any other manner howsoever from dealing with the suit property otherwise than by transfer or surrender to the government,” the judge ruled. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had in 2014 moved to court alleging that Mwachai had acquired illegally a government property known as Eldoret /Municipality block 7/272 measuring 0.1449ha valued at Sh40 million. The commission said the property is situated along Nandi Road near Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital being servant quarters and compound to house ELD/HOUSE/HG5 and was part of government land alienated and reserved for public purposes for the use and occupation of government officials. It claims that on or about 1993, Mwachai was accommodated and occupied the property comprising a main house and a servant’s quarter when he was posted from Mombasa to Eldoret divisional police headquarters as the District Criminal Investigation Officer. The same government house has never been boarded for disposal as required by the financial regulations and procedures of 1989 and is still in use by government officials, currently occupied by an officer of the Judiciary. On or about May 9, 1995, Mwachai purportedly applied for allocation of an alleged vacant space of the suit property and built a residential house for his occupation and by a survey carried out through Folio register No 298/94 and a re-planning of the same, the land was divided into two. The parcel was divided into Eldoret Municipality Block 7/272 (the suit property), which comprises of the servant quarter and Eldoret municipality block 7/305 comprising of the main house. EACC claims that on or about May 12, 1999, Gachanja in the purported exercise of statutory powers conferred upon the Commissioner of Lands under the Government Lands Act and other written laws, issued and caused to be issued to Mwachai grant of lease for a term of 99 years with effect from September 1, 1995. “Consequently, the suit property was then registered in the name of Mwachai while block 7/305 was registered in the name of one Daudi Kiptugen who has since surrendered the original title to EACC”, the commission argued. EACC averred that the suit property was not available for alienation in any manner and the issuance of the title documents to Mwachai by Gachanja was irregular, illegal, fraudulent, and null and void. It argued that Mwachai held a public office and acquired public property illegally and that Gachanja had no powers to confer on him any estate interest or rights in the suit property. Mwachai in his defence stated that prior to September 1, 1995, the government house HG5 belonged to government for housing government officials. He said he was issued with a certificate of lease for block E7/272 for the parcel of land adjacent to the house Eldoret /Municipality block 7/272. He applied for allocation of the vacant land adjacent to the house HG5 which was not part and parcel to the said government house and the same was in a dilapidated state as the government did not have money to effect repairs on the same. Gachanja, however, defended himself, saying that the suit land was not government land alienated for public purposes for the use and occupation of government officials. Edited by Henry Makori