A court has dismissed a case in which a woman and her children sued her husband and Co-operative Bank for attaching their home without consent over a Sh8 million loan. Elizabeth Morema and her six children sued Cooperative Bank, her husband Naftali Morema, Grain Ombati and Nixon Nyamongo in 2015. She said a charge was registered over the property on November 10, 2011, without their consent or knowledge. Elizabeth and her children Robert Nyakoe, John Asuga among others sought that the charge be annulled for the lack of consent. She also sought a declaration that the charge in favour of Co-operative Bank in respect of LR. No. North Mugirango/553 is illegal, null and void. “A mandatory injunction directing the Land Registrar Nyamira County to cancel the charge on the suit property. And an Order compelling the bank from recovering the amount that is due to her from Ombati and Nixon,” court documents state. On June 11, Justice Maureen Onyango ruled that the petitioners did not ask the court to infer a trust in their favour over the suit property. There being no proof of marriage between Elizabeth and Moremo, the judge said it was unnecessary to delve into statutory notices and the reopening of the charge. The court noted that Moremo did not deny that the loan advanced to Ombati is still outstanding nor complain that he was not served with the statutory notices. Robert Esese said in his evidence-in-chief that he together with his father Morema, Elizabeth and his sisters and brothers stay on the suit property. He told the court that they were shocked to see a valuer coming to the suit property in 2015. The valuer said that the valuation was in respect of an auction that had been commissioned by the bank. Esese further told the court that as a family they came to discover that the suit property had been charged but Morema denied signing the charge. He produced various documents including, a copy of the title deed; certificate of official search, notification of sale, chief's letter confirming the subject land is ancestral property among others. On cross-examination, Esese said that the charge on the suit property was used as a security for the loan advanced to Ombati. He said Moremo never informed them that he was guaranteeing the loan. He stated that the bank told them that the person who had taken the loan had defaulted on repayment. Esese also told the court that he did not know whether notices were sent to Moremo as he did not know the address that his father had used when guaranteeing the loan. The bank through Wycliffe Senelwa denied the claims by the petitioners. It said it did due diligence before the charge was registered in its favour to secure loan facilities advanced to Ombati. The bank said the law did not require the consent of the spouse and, therefore, the charge was regularly registered. An accountant with the bank testified that he knew Ombati as their customer who took a loan with the bank and used the suit property to secure it on November 10, 2011. He told the court that Ombati defaulted on repayment after which it was restructured in 2014, but she still failed to pay. The accountant said that the valuation report done in 2011 showed that there were various buildings on the suit property. He said that the loan was secured by the suit property and others. The bank was following up on the other properties as well. 