As Kenya parades an eight-member team-four in each category for the beach volleyball Olympic qualifiers in Morocco starting Monday, experience and momentum will be essential in the nation jostling for a slot for the first time in history for the planetary event. While the women's team coach Sammy Mulinge is counting on the experience of Gaudencia Makhokha and Brackcides Agala to aid Kenya's trophy chances, Patrick Owino is pinning his hopes on the much-improved youngsters Enock Mogeni and Brian Melly who have been hard at work. The quartet of Yvonne Wavinya, Phosca Kasisi, Ibrahim Oduor and James Mwaniki should not be written off either. Even though Kenya are not as experienced and established in the game like hosts Morocco and Zambia, Mulinge is optimistic they can negotiate their way into the third round, from where they can work their way up. Kenya will be targeting the top two places in the women's category to join already-qualified Egypt and Mozambique. Other teams in the qualifiers include Ivory Coast, Ghana, Sudan, South Africa, Tunisia, Sierra Leone, Democratic Republic of Congo, Mali, Mauritius and Niger. "Makokha and Agala have played together for a while and their chemistry is first class," Mulinge said. "Since the team is starting in the second round, we need to ensure we move to the third and last phase. From there, we will see what happens," Mulinge observed. In the men's cadre, Kenya will fight it out for the final round against 24 opponents. Owino exuded confidence that his team is ready to rub shoulders with Africa's finest, terming the combination of youngsters Mogeni and Melly the real deal. "In beach volleyball, there's a level playing field with an equal chance for all. You cannot quite tell about your opponents but it all depends on the preparations. Even without friendly matches, we are going to have a good tournament based on the last few weeks of training and the morale of the players," he said. "Mogeni and Melly have taken their game to another level and improved a lot. It's been a while since they competed but I am sure they will not disappoint," Owino added. Owino's trust in Kenya Ports Authority right-attacker Mogeni is based on his current form. In April, he helped KPA to a fifth-place finish at the African Club Championship and has been hard at work in training. The 23-year old setter Melly plies trade with GSU.