A matatu driver who allegedly killed the daughter of Deputy Inspector General of Police by dangerous driving was on Monday detained for four days pending investigations. Patrick Macharia was detained by senior resident magistrate Esther Kimilu at Central police station after a successful application by the cops. In an affidavit, constable Peter Ndirangu said the suspect was arrested on June 17. Macharia is accused of killing Nelly Waithera, 25, daughter of DIG Edward Mbugua. Ndirangu said at the time, Macharia was driving a minibus operated by KMO Sacco at the junction of Tom Mboya Street and Murang’a lane. “The suspect reversed the motor vehicle dangerously without due care to other road users and sandwiched a pedestrian namely Nelly Waithera between another motor vehicle,” the officer told the court. He said Waithera sustained serious injuries and was rushed to Kenyatta National Hospital, where she succumbed. Ndirangu added that Macharia, on realising his mistake, abandoned the minibus at the scene and fled to evade arrest. He was traced and arrested along University Way and detained at Central police station. “The suspect’s action of escaping from the scene is a clear indication that he had no intention of reporting the accident or presenting himself to any police station or police officer," the affidavit reads. Waithera's body was taken to the Kenyatta University Funeral Home for preservation and postmortem. “That this court be pleased to issue a custodial order that the respondent be detained for four days at central police station as a postmortem has been booked and scheduled for today (Friday)” the officer said. He added that the investigations are not complete as they are awaiting the  postmortem examination results and crucial prosecution witness statements thus the matter could not be presented to the court for plea today. Ndirangu argued that  Macharia is a flight risk, a compelling reason he should not be released on bail. Waithera was crossing from Tom Mboya Street on Thursday at 8am when the incident happened. The case will be mentioned on June 24