ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday said he has not declared interest to run for the presidency next year, therefore people should stop panicking. In a thinly-veiled attack on his former running mate Kalonzo Musyoka, Raila said people should not be scared of his candidature. Kalonzo was Raila’s running mate in 2013 and 2017 when they lost twice to the Jubilee duo of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. President Uhuru is seen to be supporting Raila’s presidential bid, leaving out his deputy Ruto. Early this week, Uhuru said he will support one of the National Super Alliance principals Raila, Kalonzo, Musalia Mudavadi or Moses Wetang’ula. On Wednesday, in an interview with NTV, Kalonzo said it would be unthinkable to support Raila for the third time. The Wiper party leader said he would rather retire from politics than support Raila. "I will be the most stupid fellow on earth to support Raila for the third time, a presidential candidate without a measure of reciprocity," said Kalonzo. Raila responded that Kalonzo “should stop panicking and barking around”. “I have not declared that I want to run for the presidency. Some people are now coming out to say that they will not support me. Why are you afraid?” posed Raila. “Wait until I declare my candidature, but for now you should not be barking around.” Speaking during the launch of a catheterisation laboratory at Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital in Mombasa, Raila said he is focused on ensuring the Building the Bridges Initiative is successful. “Currently, my focus is to ensure that BBI sails through. The courts have just paused the BBI reggae. We are now on half-time, we will resume the process soon,” said Raila. At the same time, the bitter rivalry between Raila and Ruto played out when he attacked the DP’s “generous donations” to churches, youths and other projects. “Corruption has been the biggest impediment in the development of our nation. We are seeing people dishing out money from Thursday to Sunday every week. In one month someone donates in excess of Sh100 million. What is the source of that wealth?” said Raila. He said the money is the proceeds of corruption. “That money should be in the coffers of the National Treasury. If Ukur Yatani (Treasury Cabinet Secretary) had that money at the Treasury, counties would not be complaining of delayed funds, but someone has that big amount of money in their houses,” said Raila. He said that corrupt individuals should be jailed. “Kenyans need to be cautious of such people. They should actually be at Shimo la Tewa or Kamiti prisons,” said Raila. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who is ODM deputy party leader, said he is still in the race to succeed Uhuru next year. “I have finished my two-term tenure as Mombasa governor a happy man and I’m now going for the national seat. I will be playing politics in the national arena,” said Joho. Joho and Kakamega Governor Wycliff Oparanya are said to have submitted their nomination papers to ODM to be elected the party’s presidential flag bearer next year. Raila is yet to submit the nomination papers. However, reports say Joho and Oparanya could have stepped down to allow Raila to run for the presidency again. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has declared interest to succeed Joho. He said Kalonzo was nominated by Raila to be his running mate, not the other way round. “It was Baba’s decision to have him as a running mate. They did not nominate Raila to be their running mate, therefore they should respect him,” said Nassir. Others who had accompanied Raila to the event were Mombasa deputy governor William Kingi, former Kisauni MP Rashid Bedzimba and former Mombasa mayor Ahmed Modhar. Edited by Henry Makori