The more than 40,000 children at Kakuma refugee camp will have easy access to paediatric surgical operation should they need the services after a facility was set up at the complex. Global health charity Kids Operating Room installed the first paediatric theatre at the refugee camp to provide safe surgery to children. The Scotland-based charity partnered with United Nations High Commission for Refugees, the International Rescue Committee and the Biltema Foundation to provide paediatric surgical training to transform the lives of the children living within Kakuma. The children in Kakuma have had limited or no access to appropriate surgical care, putting them at risk of dying from treatable conditions such as appendicitis. The paediatric operating room was installed at Kakuma Level 4 Hospital. KidsOR cofounder Nicola Wood said the operating room comes with about 3,000 types of equipment for the surgery of children. “This operating room will make essential care available to tens of thousands of children in Kakuma. KidsOR exists to provide children with access to safe surgery, and this is an important milestone for children and families in Kakuma," Wood said. Globally, there are 1.7 billion children that can’t access surgery, and more children die from surgically curable conditions than HIV, Malaria and TB combined. KidsOR Africa director Rosemary Mugwe said children from the camp and host communities will receive all services for free. Access to paediatric surgical services at the camp has been at 25 per cent leaving many children with treatable surgical conditions, she said. “With this operating room and the training of doctors, anaesthetist and nurses, we target to increase accessibility to 75 per cent, reduce referrals by half as well as improve the quality and safety of theatre services,” Mugwe said. Mugwe said KidsOR prioritises investment following detailed consultations with local doctors, ministries of Health and surgical colleges to save as many lives as possible. She said investing in the public health service of a country is most likely to help bring urgent care to the poorest children. “The operating room at Kakuma Refugee Camp sits as part of a wider plan to transform paediatric surgery in Kenya, building capacity by providing nine dedicated operating room for children over the coming years alongside trained surgeons and paediatric anaesthetists,” she said. Mugwe said they have engaged renowned paediatric surgeons and paediatric anaesthesia providers from other parts of the country to train the doctors at the hospital to do emergency surgeries. Mugwe said KidsOR plans to create 120 operating rooms, with trained paediatric surgical teams, spread across 37 countries which will provide essential surgery to 635,000 children, saving thousands of lives and averting 10 million years of disability.   (edited by o. owino)