Nairobi county government has passed its highest budget since devolution at Sh39.63 billion for the financial year ending June 30, 2022 . The new budget is an increase from the current financial year’s budget of Sh37.7 billion. For development expenditure, Sh12.6 billion has been allocated while Sh27 billion is for recurrent expenditure. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has emerged the biggest loser having been allocated Sh19.2 billion for the four transferred county functions of health, transport; public works, utilities and ancillary services, and county planning and development services. This is a reduction of Sh7.17 billion from the Sh27.1 billion allocated to the national government entity in the current financial year ending June 30, 2021. However, while reading the budget statement of the county budget FY 2021-22,E executive for finance Allan Igambi disclosed that the national government is expected to fill any resource gaps to NMS from the Consolidated Fund in line with the Deed of Transfer. “To ensure implementation of the transferred functions, I have proposed an allocation of Sh19.2 billion to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services for the transferred functions. The national government is expected to fill any resource gaps to NMS from the consolidated Fund in line with the deed of transfer,” he said. On the other side, the county assembly was allocated Sh4.13 billion for its operations up from Sh2 billion in the current financial year. “To enable it carry out functions such as pay MCAs allowances, administration, renovations, staff salaries and maintenance as well exercise it roles such as approval of laws and oversight,”Igambi added. For the Ward Development Fund (WDF) \for the allocation has shot up to Sh1.5 billion from Sh1.3 billion in the 2020/2021 fiscal year after it was placed under the management of the Nairobi Metropolitan services. “The Ward Development Fund has been encountering various impediments leading to the delayed implementation of projects and therefore denying Nairobians the much needed services...the county management committee for the fund was however recently appointed and inducted thereby paving way for a seamless implementation of ward projects in the coming financial year," Igambi added. MCAs have decried projects having no single WDF project having kicked off in this financial year. The Ann Kananu-led administration has been allocated Sh20.4 billion for retained functions. To ensure that Nairobi food is secure, Sh409 million has been allocated to the Agriculture department while Sh252 million has been set aside for youth activities inclusive of completion of stadiums and social halls which serves as recreational centres for the youth. “This will not only enhance efficiency but will also ensure the county gets the best services at the best prices possible due to increased competition,” Igambi added. For needy students in the county, Sh420 million has been set aside for provision of bursaries in Nairobi. Going further, Sh1.3 billion has been set aside towards the Early Childhood Education and vocational training. “The funds are expected to aid in the hiring and training of more ECDE teachers to match the increased number of pupils, improving and expanding existing training infrastructure as well as integrating ICT curriculum delivery,”Igambi noted.