Former Chief Justice Willy Mutunga led the Judiciary for some time. If Mutunga says he identified the weakest link in exerting the independence of courts, then he should have fixed it or at least tried to fix it while in office. There is a feeling that what Kenya is witnessing at the moment, and Mutunga also contributed to it, is something close to judicial dictatorship. This is especially so when you look at it with respect to the sovereignty of the people. Whether it is Parliament, Executive or Judiciary, no arm of government should have powers to interfere with the sovereignty of the people. The electorate initiated a process to amend the Constitution then the Judiciary came in and stopped it. That cannot be seen as judicial independence but judicial dictatorship. Nonetheless, I want to be very clear that all three arms of government should have a high degree of independence. All three arms of government exercise delegated power, be it the Executive, Legislature or Judiciary. They all should have a level or some degree of independence. This is why the Executive, while executing its functions, should not encounter interference from the other two arms. You also do not expect the Executive to interfere with Parliament or the courts when they are executing their functions. Parliament should only play the oversight role and not interfere with policy and implementation. Parliament, in its legislative work, should also be respected, so to speak, and given space to do its work. You do not expect the Executive and Judiciary to stop Parliament from legislating. Parliament should not interfere with the Judiciary and that is why you find in our Standing Orders that any case that is active in court cannot be brought to Parliament. Be that as it may, you need to be very careful with that independence. The same way the Executive can turn dictatorial, Parliament can also be overbearing and so can the Judiciary. Judicial independence should not synonymous with judicial dictatorship. That is what this country is crying about. That is the conversation that the country needs to have. The National Assembly Minority Leader spoke to the Star