The West Pokot administration has rehired 53 intern nurses whose contracts expired in February. The one-year contracts for the 53 nurses previously employed under the Universal Health Coverage expired in February. They report back to work starting July 1. Governor John Lonyangapuo on Monday directed the nurses to pick their contract letters from West Pokot County Public Service Board chairman John Maratakou. The governor spoke when he flagged off solar-powered fridges to 12 rural facilities to be used for cooling of vaccines for immunisation of children. Lonyangapuo said more doctors and nurses are required for the county government to realise its goal of provision of universal healthcare services to residents. "We need more nurses in our hospitals and dispensaries who will help us improve the provision of universal health care to the needy patients in our county. We also need to scale up services in our county referral hospital and dispensaries, as a way of ensuring we have enough staff members to handle critically-ill patients and anyone that needs treatment," he said. He added, "I sincerely thank you all for the commendable work that you were able to render to the people of West Pokot county for the last one year since you signed your contract as interns for Universal Health Care and I hope you will continue to serve with the same spirit." County executive for health Christine Apokoreng said they were committed to increasing medical personnel in the public health facilities for better services. County director of nursing services Samuel Lopar thanked the national government for its efforts towards ensuring there is adequate provision of medical services in all public hospitals across the country. He called for the deployment of more health workers to deliver quality services. Lopar also thanked the national government together with the World Bank for the 12 fridges that the county government bought through their grants under the Transforming Health Systems programme.  Edited by P.O