Rent-Rahisi, an innovative unified property management application software has been in use since mid-2017 and is very popular with smart, tech-savvy, and self-managing property owners. The app was developed to help property owners to have control over rent collection, maintenance, and tenant retention. It has grown to help landlords cut costs through automated rent-collection, tenant management, and streamlined property maintenance. Every rental property investor and manager or agent needs elaborate tenant management and rent recording app to thrive. At only 20,000 per year, Rent-Rahisi cuts property management costs by up to 60% in money alone. With competition for quality well-priced houses rising daily, a landlord needs say 30% of the saved costs for critical property maintenance and marketing tasks to realize peace of mind, 100% occupancy, and higher, predictable rental earnings. Landlords with the Rent-Rahisi app can from anywhere through their phones, tablets, or laptops send unified bills, reminders, communications, and receipts via SMS and E-mail thus saving much time and money. When their portal is integrated with a pay bill number that has bank settlement, the process is easier as the app will reconcile and receive all mobile money payments made without their intervention. From the app, they can see tenants with pending payments, generate and store gross and net-rent payment statements, and records their financial recording keeping for key real-time decision making. In the future, if they wish to sell or secure financing with their properties, they can bargain for higher value because of the availability of past and present certified payment records. Reports stored in the software are downloadable in Excel and PDF Formats and also printable. For landlords with many tenants or multiple developments, the software comes with multiple computer-based user accounts to enable unified property management. Apart from the landlords’ admin account, the app has an option for a cashier, field officer, and caretaker accounts. Each of these optional accounts has specific roles. The cashier for example deals with billing and receipting when M-Pesa paybill integrations are not activated whereas the field officer handles tenant placement, release, receipts collection while the caretaker may handle automated entry of water utility readings. The landlord is always in control over the actions of his or her team and can revoke these privileges anytime. Where a landlord has an agent or property manager, they can create an account for them in their portal and set do’s and dont's, example the landlord may set them not to edit tenant details, to view vacant houses alone, or just deal with tenants with unpaid payments. This ensures the agent or property manager is diligent and accountable to them on the agreed quotas and you only pay them for what they deliver. When a landlord has an account but wants to outsource much of the admin roles to the property manager, they can set what records they would like to view from their new landlord interface thus ensuring transparency at all times. This flexibility ensures there is uninterrupted professional management in case the landlord opts to appoint another agent, property manager, or in-house individual. The app’s unified property management functions enable the owners to be masters as well. Landlords can collect and collate more payment records and keep payment defaults at the minimum. Where, a landlord must-have has or wishes to appoint and add an agent or property manager to their portal, they can re/negotiate for lower management fees as the app can do most of the job for the property manager/agent efficiently in the least time and at a lower cost. Such an App comes in handy during this Covid-19 pandemic period where the property rental investment sector is among the worst hit . Nearly half of Kenyan tenants, the cog of the rental housing industry had their incomes affected and could barely meet their rental obligations. When the government authorized work-from-home modes and cashless payments to beat the pandemic, it became cumbersome for some tenants to make the switch from paying via bank deposits to mobile payments leading to delayed rental payments.