Security consultant and former Kenya Air Force officer Mwenda Mbijiwe has been reported missing. His sister Tamara Mbijiwe said they have filed a missing person report at the Central police station, Nairobi. She told the Star they last heard from the former Meru governor contestant on June 12 and that it is believed that Mwenda was travelling to Meru that morning. “We filed the report on Monday and authorities are yet to tell us the developments so far," Tamara said. She added Mwenda who was the CEO of Eye On Security (K) Ltd had not expressed any fears over his life. “If any, we were not aware of it. We hope and believe he is somewhere safe,” she said. She had earlier on written on Facebook that Mwenda reached out to one of the family members and disclosed his whereabouts. However, that was reportedly the last time they heard from him. "Ever since all his phones went off, the car he was using is yet to be found. In case of any information about his whereabouts, kindly get in touch or report to the nearest police station. Kindly, remember him and the family in prayers." Mwenda is a popular TV analyst and consultant who speaks on security matters. In June 2019, he was arraigned for fraud. Mwenda was accused of fraudulently acquiring Sh150,000 from a man after convincing him that he had links and networks with the United Nations. Mwenda had allegedly misled the victim into believing that he was in a position to secure employment for his sister at the UN. He ran for the Meru gubernatorial seat in 2017 on an ODM ticket but lost to incumbent Kiraitu Murungi. Central police boss John Nyamu said they are investigating the report made to them. Mwenda made a post on his Facebook on June 11 on current political issues and especially the standoff between the executive and the Judiciary. “What you are witnessing in Kenya now is the rise of judicial activism and the self-assertion of radical judges. These will in not-so-far future transform into legislators of law,” he said in the post. Edited by Henry Makori