Police in Kiambu county have lost a bid to have a suspect locked up while they investigate a case of robbery with violence and murder. When businessman Wilson Karanja was arraigned on Monday afternoon, investigating officer Michael Gitonga told a Limuru court that they needed 14 days to finalise their investigations. Gitonga told chief magistrate Everlyne Olwande that the suspect had been linked to the case in which a boda boda rider Alfred Njenga went missing on May 21 and his motorcycle stolen. He said two suspects were intercepted with the said motorcycle in Namanga on the Kenya-Tanzania border on May 24 and brought to Tigoni police station. On May 28, Gitonga said, Njenga was found buried in a shallow grave behind a butchery. The body was taken to UpHome Funeral Home and the suspect arrested on the same day. The DCI officer asked the court to allow them to lock up the suspect at Tigoni police station for two weeks, saying they had not recorded all the statements they needed and a postmortem on Njenga’s body had not been conducted. He argued that the suspect might interfere with investigations, and he should not be released on bail. However, Karanja’s lawyer Dorine Kalii objected to the application, saying the officer did not tell the court how the suspect would interfere with investigations. She told the court that Karanja was not arrested but he presented himself to the police. She said Karanja had gone to report that his butchery and house were set ablaze by residents, but was locked up in the cells Kalii told the court that Karanja had employed the suspects who were nabbed with a stolen motorcycle in Namanga and he assisted the police to bring them to Tigoni police station. She told the court that the post-mortem had nothing to do with the suspect. In her ruling, Olwande said the court assessed both applications and the investigator's application was not convincing. “Why keep him all these days? Why can’t you record those statements today? From your application, I do not see how the suspect will interfere with witnesses,” she ruled. The magistrate released Karanja on Sh300,000 bond and a surety of the same amount. The case will be mentioned on June 7, when the court will give more directions. 