Co-curricular activities in teachers training colleges, primary and secondary schools will resume this year. Eliud Wambua who is the assistant director of quality assurance and standards in the Ministry of Education said stakeholders have already developed guidelines on the resumption of sports He spoke at Kisii University during the Nyanza South region World Under 20 pre-trials. “We have already developed protocols on resumption of sports activities in educational institutions. We are only waiting for approval to resume by the Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha,”  Wambua said. “We have proposed to start with non-contact and low-risk games that’s why rugby and swimming will remain suspended for now. We expect that the games will also resume.” He said a draft calendar of events has been done. “We lost a whole cohort because of the suspension of sports due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” Wambua said. According to the draft calendar, term one games which include athletics, cross country, decathlon, heptathlon, basketball, hockey and handball will start at the county level by August 21 and conclude on October 10 at the national level at Kapsabet Boys. Term two games which involve soccer under 19, soccer under 16, volleyball, racquet games and netball will start on October 30 and conclude on December 19 at Kang’aru School in Embu. The games were suspended in March last year when the country confirmed the first Covid-19 case. By the time of the suspension term, one games had reached county level. Wambua said the Ministry of Education is keen on stamping out age cheating in schools. On Wednesday, Education Cabinet Secretary, George Magoha launched Kenya's first Physical Education and Sport Policy for basic education. Magoha promised to work with all relevant ministries and departments to implement new physical education and sports policy. According to the CS, the Ministry of Education will mainstream physical education and sports in all learning activities.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris