A police officer based at the Amisom offices in Gigiri, Nairobi, shot himself in the mouth and died on Tuesday. David Mbatia, a constable, was at his sentry when a gunshot was heard at around 1pm. He was 36. His duty colleague said Mbatia had killed himself with his AK47 rifle. A team of detectives visited the site and documented it before the body was moved to the mortuary. Nairobi police boss Augustine Nthumbi said they are investigating the matter. He said they want to understand the circumstances under which it happened and if there are other parties involved. “A team of experts is handling the matter. We don’t know the motive so far,” Nthumbi said. The incident could be linked to increasing cases of suicide within the service, which have been associated with trauma. Officials say trauma is the main reason of such behaviour. According to a Kenyatta University research, the major factor contributing to suicide and murder among police officers in Kenya is work-related trauma. The study found out that police are generally at the receiving end of all community problems. They are expected to maintain law and order in very difficult situations. They put their lives at risk as soon as they leave home every day. Police officers are often in touch with extremely painful issues in the community such as murder and rape, which stresses them. The stress can be passed to immediate members of the family. Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai had in 2019 launched a new programme Muamko Mpya-Healing the Uniform Initiative to give psychological support to officers. Mutyambai said police officers, who are often exposed to trauma that creates deep emotional scars, need healing. “The ultimate goal of the initiative is to provide officers with knowledge, tools and a framework to assist them to support each other while handling traumatic situations,” Mutyambai said. “They encounter most of these situations on personal and professional levels.” He ordered police heads to ensure counselling is integrated in the police training curriculum. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)