The new Kenya Tea Development Agency management has promised to work  towards building good relationships between employees and farmers. Acting KTDA secretary Patrick Ngunjiri said the relationship between staff and growers has been lousy. He spoke to the media in Konyu, Othaya, Nyeri county. The agency, he said, is planning to train its staff on how to relate to farmers. “We would like our farmers countrywide and unit factory managers to open a new chapter and start working as brothers and sisters because we want the farmer to be respected,” he said. This will ensure farmers reciprocate by doing the same to the employees, he said. Farmers have been complaining of harassment by factory employees. Ngunjiri also urged the employees to stop fearing that the new directors will victimise them. Collection and processing of farmers’ tea should continue normally, he said. He assured farmers that the new board will soon go to court to apply for the withdrawal of the cases challenging the implementation of the tea reform Act. “Let us now leave all the cases that had been filed by the previous management to the Judiciary to decide. The new board will respect the decision of the court,” he said. Ngunjiri said the new board has released a circular directing chairmen to work with factory secretaries and start convening meetings with new directors. The new directors have already received CR12 forms but due to opposition from KTDA headquarters they have yet to take over office, he said. A CR12 form is issued by the Registrar of Companies as an official confirmation on whom the directors of a company are. Ngunjiri urged farmers to go back to their farms and work towards improving tea quality and quantity. Farmer Benson Wachira said they were ready to improve quality but called on the director to work hard to ensure that prices improve. “If tea prices do not improve, then the farmer will have no motivation to work hard. But if we get more money from the produce, then the farmer will be happy and motivated,” he said. Ngunjiri said the new KTDA board will have paid the over 620,000 small-scale tea farmers in all the 69 factories their mini bonus by the end of July. Farmers will also receive their June pay alongside the mini bonus. Ngunjiri said the board last week directed that farmers be paid their mini bonus at Sh5 per kilo. The payments have been delayed following wrangles between the former management and the new ones. Edited by A.N