In the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, Nairobi City residents will be forced to dig deeper into their pockets as City Hall ropes in new levies aimed to enhance their own source revenue collection. Part of the new levies will see landowners pay more as the rates have been set at 0.13 per cent of the current land value in a proposed new valuation roll. This will see landowners pay more for the asset. Currently, property owners pay land rates at 25 per cent of the unimproved site value based on the 1980 valuation roll. This as City Hall seeks to raise Sh19.8 billion from its own source revenue in the financial year ending June 30, 2022, to fund its Sh39.63 billion annual budget. In order to implement the Geographical Information System (GIS) - based valuation, the county government will increase the number of rateable properties in Nairobi from the current 161,000 to approximately 300,000 properties. While reading the county's Budget Statement and Finance Bill, 2021 on Thursday, Finance executive Allan Igambi said the completion and implementation of the GIS-based valuation roll will result in capturing all properties and rates charged based on the current land value. "This is a departure from the current state where rates are charged as per the 1980 valuation. This will automatically double the rate income,” he said. City Hall has also started implementing the Nairobi City County Betting, Lotteries and Gaming Act, 2021. The players in the sector with an annual turnover of more than Sh5 billion will be taxed 30 per cent by City Hall. As highlighted in the Act, all betting, lotteries, and gaming licensed under the new law will attract an entertainment tax chargeable at a rate of 20 per cent on the gross winnings of all betting, lotteries, and gaming activities. The Finance Chief noted that the betting licenses have a potential revenue of raising over Sh200 million annually. "We have proposed minor adjustments and new charges through the Finance Bill, 2021 with a potential of increasing the revenue by Sh2 billion,” he said. Further,  the county is set to increase the number of registered businesses to 500,000 from the current 188,000. "The increase will be through the collection, updating and cleansing data to have accurate data on single businesses in Nairobi," Igambi said. Due to the increase of registered businesses, revenue from a single business permit will increase to Sh5billion from the current Sh2 billion. The Ann Kananu-led administration has also resolved to introduce monthly seasonal tickets for building materials transporters, as part of revenue-raising measures. With an aim to collect Sh3.02 billion in parking, City Hall will also gazette more parking areas and zonal charging of the parking bays. In the past financial year, Sh1.5 billion was collected in parking against a target of Sh2.8 billion. The county currently charges Sh200 as a daily parking fee within Nairobi’s city centre. City Hall has been recording dismal own-source revenue performance always falling short of its targets every financial year often been blamed on unreliable rates, low collection from single business permits and inefficient collection of parking fees. The highest amount ever collected was Sh11.71 billion in the financial year ended June 30, 2016, which was still short of the Sh15.3 billion target. In the financial year ended June 30, 2020, the county government collected Sh8.6 billion, the lowest ever recorded by the county government, against a target of Sh17.2 billion with the underperformance largely attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic and arbitrary granting of waivers.