Cane farmers are ready to welcome any investor who will revive Mumias Sugar Company. They said revival of the giant miller will address the economic hardships they face, and the insecurity concerns triggered by the loss of jobs following the collapse of the company. Bonny Wangwe from Navakholo subcounty said farmers don’t care who the investor is as long as the factory roars back to life and they are able to supply their cane and be paid. He said the collapse of the company made it difficult for farmers whose livelihoods depended on sugar cane farming to negotiate for credit in the event of emergencies. “When Mumias was working, your statement alone was enough to guarantee you credit because someone would know you have a source of income. Once you presented the statement to the school, the teacher would allow your child to go to class knowing you will pay fees even if it delayed,” Wangwe said. Boniface Manda said though farmers are ready to welcome any investor to revive the company, due process of picking one must be followed. He said once an investor is identified, they should give priority to farmers as key stakeholders in the revival process. “We want the investor to address the problems farmers have been facing, such as late payments. We also want the investor to ensure he weighs the cane on farms where the farmer can witness the tonnage of their crop,” Manda said. Raphael Welimo, a farmer from Namulungu in Matungu, said the investor should roll out an elaborate sensitisation programme to convince those who quit cane farming to change their minds and plant sugar cane once more. Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers deputy secretary Simon Wesechere said the revival should be between the investor and farmers, not politicians with their eyes set on the 2022 election. “We demand to participate in the process as the main stakeholders. We want the investor to sit with us and agree on pertinent issues because he cannot operationalise the factory without raw material,” Wesechere said on the phone. He said the revival was long overdue, but it should be aboveboard. “As farmers, we want an investor committed to reviving the company and not a game like the one on Pan Paper which, instead of being revived to produce papers, was turned into something different," Wesechere said. "We have suffered under the former Mumias management and we must reach an agreement on issues of cane development and payment arrangements.” The factory has remained closed for over two years due to a huge debt, poor internal governance and insufficient supply of raw materials. The closure of the factory led to job losses for people who depended on the company for livelihoods, either directly or indirectly. Earlier attempts by the government to revive the miller failed, even after pumping over Sh3 billion in its turnaround. Its revival has split the leadership in the Western region down the middle. The loss-making miller was placed under receivership by KCB Group in September 2019, to protect its assets and maintain its operations. Edited by A.N 