A widow in Machakos will lay her husband to rest after the hospital that detained it for two years over a Sh1.7 million bill waived the fee and released it. Winfred Nzomo, 60, from Mung’ala village in Mumbuni was accompanied by her daughter Annette Nzomo to receive a burial permit at Beleview South Hospital on Tuesday. Charles Nzomo’s body lay at Chiromo Mortuary where Beleview Hospital’s management moved it to on September 22, 2019. The widow and her daughter thanked the hospital for waiving the bill. “We have had lots of challenges trying to raise the Sh1.7 million to settle the pending medical bill. But, today we are happy that the hospital has waived Sh1.5 million and released my husband’s body to us, the family,” Winfred told the Star at the hospital on Tuesday. “We thank Beleview Hospital director Dr Abdi Mohammed and hospital’s board for waiving the bill; we had only paid Sh300,000 since the initial outstanding medical bill was Sh2 million.” The family on Tuesday paid Sh180,000, which the widow said they raised through churches and well-wishers over a long period of time. They couldn’t raise more, she said. The family paid Sh480,000 in total. Hospital director Mohammed said their board had made sacrifices to help the family out of the trouble and enable them to bury their dead. Dr Mohammed spoke to the Star alongside Nzomo’s family at the facility. He issued the widow her husband’s burial permit. “Having determined that the family is not capable of settling the bill and having sent our social workers and all those particular people to confirm the family’s situation, we today, the board of directors Beleview Hospital decided that we waive a total amount of Sh1.5 million for the family to be able to bury their dead.” He said the government should hasten plans to roll out universal healthcare so the bills are lighter for both the patients and medical providers can operate without making losses. “We call upon the government to also, as the private sector does its corporate social responsibilities, determine those people who aren’t able to help each other and settle their bills,” Mohammed said. He said cases of vulnerable families being unable to settle accumulated bills in health facilities, especially private ones, were higher because of Covid-19 pandemic. “We don’t know what to do between the business and humanity. When the patient passes on or has been discharged and needs to go home and they have accrued huge bills, then there is lack of balance in all sense,” he said. Mohammed urged the public to make early plans to pay bills when they admit their loved ones to private hospitals.  (edited by o. owino)