Nairobi Stima have the capacity to shake off their torrid start to the season for a top-flight promotion, head coach Barrack Ouma has said. The visibly elated tactician spoke after his charges registered a second consecutive win, beating Mully Children's Fund 2-1 at Camp Toyoyo on Monday. “We played extremely well. If we can maintain this momentum, we are capable of pushing ourselves forward to contend for promotion at the end of the season,” said Ouma. MCF’s coach David Mahira chided his players for underrating their opponents due their inferior position on the log. “We came into the match underestimating the potential of our opponents to cause us damage, given they are currently second last on the log,” said Mahira. “All in all, we lost a lot of chances. That notwithstanding, I strongly believe we can still make use of our subsequent matches to fire ourselves to title contention,” he added. Hillary Otieno's 41st-minute effort broke the deadlock after a drab encounter that saw each side approaching the game cautiously. And before the dust could settle, Rolland Makati extended Stima's advantage. MCF emerged from the tunnel for the second half more purposeful, more determined and a few minutes into restart, Emmanuel Pala cleared a goal-bound ball to deny John Ochieng. But it wasn't long before the visitor's incessant inroads came to fruition. Clean through, Bradley Omondi neatly placed the ball past Omondi to restore MCF's hopes in the 73rd minute after pouncing on Alex Waiswa's pass deep in the midfield. And it was Stima who created the better chances throughout, although MCF enjoyed more possession. But still, chances on either side could not be converted. MCF repeatedly used tactical fouls to foil Stima counterattacks. Elsewhere, Shabana continued their rich vein of form with an emphatic 4-1 win over Vihiga Bullets at Migori Stadium. The outcome has fired the Kisii-based side to third on the log with 33 points, sevens adrift of leaders Talanta, who beat Kibera Black Stars 1-0 at Ruaraka Grounds on Sunday. Mwatate United and Silibwet settled for a four-all draw, AP Bomet edged Coast Stima 3-2 as Modern Coast and Murang'a Seal battled to a barren draw. Nairobi Stima have moved to 15th with 25 points whereas MCF are seven points better at fourth.