The anti-narcotics agency wants counties to limit the number of bars a trader can open with one licence. It also wants designated areas in the estates for the operation of bars and restaurants. National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse boss Victor Okioma has appealed to county governments to review licensing guidelines for bars and restaurants to include plot numbers and exact locations. Speaking on Wednesday after meeting the Northeastern regional multi-agency teams, Okioma said that some bars had been opened next to schools. Others are in places where there is no security, risking the lives of Kenyans. The licences do not indicate the premises and plot numbers. Some people are taking advantage and opening 10 bars with only one licence. “County authorities ought to be keen about premises where bars operate. We also need to know that what the bars are selling confer to minimum health requirements,” Okioma said. The CEO dismissed those pushing for legalisation of marijuana, saying that legalising the substance has not worked in countries that allowed it. “Marijuana is one of the most problematic drugs in the country. Licensing it means that we allow it for recreation. Currently, marijuana is only allowed for medical and scientific reasons,” he said. He warned that marijuana is the most abused narcotic and is the leading cause of  drug-associated disorders in the country. Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana said that security teams in the region would do their best to stop drug trafficking. “Drugs in this region can be eliminated because it is not in-depth. We need to thwart the intentions of those who may want to start abusing early enough,” Ndalana said. He said that the drugs end up in neighbouring Somalia and security agencies are working to stop the business. Ndalana warned that Somali based al Shabaab militants may start trafficking drugs. The meeting brought together all county commissioners and police commanders from the region. Police have in the last one year intercepted close to a tonne of bhang in the region, with several cases pending in court. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)