Displaced victims of banditry attacks in Lopii and Lokori in Turkana East subcounty have received maize, beans, cooking oil and other food items from the county administration. Turkana Disaster Management chief officer Esther Ikaru said more than 6,000 residents of Lopii fled their homes following an attack on June 10 by suspected Pokot bandits from Tiaty in Baringo county. The suspected bandits shot and injured a police officer, damaged four police vehicles and drove away an unknown number of animals. “Some of the affected families fled to Kodede, Kaloutulem, Lokomokori, Lotimana and others to Katilu ward in Turkana South subcounty,” she said. Ikaru said they have distributed 58 tonnes of food. Thousands of Turkana residents suffering from hunger last month received food donations worth Sh419 million from the county government. The administration announced that at least 640,000 people were in dire need of food. Ikaru said they have concluded the food distribution programme that began in March. Families in seven counties were targeted. Ikaru said the next relief food distribution cycle is scheduled for July. Peter Ekai, a resident of Lopii who fled with his livestock to Kodede, thanked the county government for the food donation. Ekai said he was more vulnerable to hunger as the livestock that he depends on to support his family were taken by cattle rustlers. “We have received food to sustain us for some days but what we have lost is very important in our lives. We have lost the animals that we depend on to support our livelihoods,” he said. He urged the county government and humanitarian agencies to initiate the restocking of livestock programme to help the families that lost their animals. John Epeta said they surrendered illegal firearms to the government but their neighbours in Baringo did not and are now terrorising them. “We were ready for peace and that’s why we were the first people to surrender the illegal firearms before the impending forcible disarmament but our neighbours haven’t surrendered and that is why we are being attacked day and night because they know we have nothing to protect our animals,” he said. He has called on the government to disarm their neighbours to end banditry attacks between Turkana, Baringo and West Pokot counties. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok urged the government to recruit and vet National Police Reservists to curb banditry in Turkana East. Nanok and Turkana East MP Ali Lokiru have condemned the attacks in the area. “We will do all we can as leaders to make sure peace prevails. We want the government to recruit National Police Reservists so that they can protect people and livestock,” he added. Governor Nanok said his people are ready for peace, but suspected Pokot bandits are camping in Turkana East to attack and displace his people. “Security officers don't know our people best and that’s why we need National Police Reservists to protect our people. The government mounted an operation Kapedo to mop up illegal firearms and flush out cattle rustlers, but it was stopped," he said. He said the lifting of the dusk-to-dawn curfew in Kapedo has given bandits the audacity to conduct raids in Turkana East.  (edited by o. owino)