Former Gem MP, Washington Jakoyo Midiwo died on Monday, June 14, 2021. The politician who was also known to his friends as Otada’s passing was first announced by the Orange party. Midiwo was a three-time serving MP and a founding member of the ODM party, whose leadership style colleagues in the party have described as dedication and selflessness. He has also been described as a man who was fearless and outspoken, as well as a great contributor whenever it came to debates on matters of national interest. Many have also mourned him as an astute and dependable leader who put the interests of his people first. Born in 1966, Jakoyo Midiwo officially joined politics in 2002 when he vied and won the Gem parliamentary seat on a NARC ticket. He went on to be re-elected to represent the people of Gem for another two terms; in 2007 and in 2013 under the Orange Democratic Movement ticket. In 2017, however, he lost the ODM nomination to Elisha Odhiambo and went on to vie as an independent candidate, but lost to Odhiambo who is the current Gem MP. The move got him branded one of the rebel leaders from the ODM strongholds but after almost two years of silence, he announced a comeback by rejoining the ODM party alongside other rebel leaders including; former Kasarani MP Elizabeth Ongoro, Reuben Ndolo (Makadara) and Oyugi Magwanga (Kasipul Kabondo), Omondi Mulwan (Alego Usonga) and Omondi Anyanga (Nyatike). As soon as he rejoined, Midiwo was tasked with popularizing the Building Bridges Initiative in the Nyanza region alongside other leaders. As an outspoken leader, Midiwo never shied away from calling out what was ailing the country, even if it meant calling out his party leader Raila Odinga or the president. During his term in parliament, Midiwo served in various house committees including; the departmental Committee of Finance and Trade, Joint Committee on Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library. He also served in the House Business Committee, Departmental Committee on Defence and Foreign Relations and the Catering and Health Club Committee. Midiwo also served as the ODM Chief Whip and later on served as the Deputy Minority leader in the 11th parliament.