The National Cohesion and Integration commission is carrying out an assessment of the situation in all the counties as part of preparedness for next year's general election. NCIC is implementing a road map to 2022 dubbed “Elections Bila Noma” (elections without chaos) The commission will meet county leaders, community representatives, elders and peace actors to discus peace, security, unity and cohesion. Commissioners Abdulaziz Farah and Danvas Makori led the NCIC team during a tour Uasin Gishu, where they met local leaders and community representatives to discus peace and cohesion. “We want to be pro-active and not reactive. We would like to deal with all emerging or critical issues instead of waiting for the election time,” Farah said. Farah said it was unfortunate that a few leaders in the country were the main cause of electoral violence. The NCIC, he said, has also identified some of the underlying issues such as land disputes that trigger animosity during elections. “The majority of our leaders are good and want peace but there are a few who exploit these issues to cause problems for personal benefit,” he said. Farah said the commission was concerned with rising political temperature in most parts of the country and urged leaders to exercise caution and protect stability of the country. Elders in the Rift Valley led by Major (Rtd) John Seii have also called for peace and resolved to wok with the NCIC and other organs to ensure peace ahead of the polls. “We are asking the elders to take their position and play their critical role and ensure our country remains cohesive and peaceful,”Farah said. At the same time the NCIC wants the Executive and the Judiciary to resolve the row over appointment of judges through diplomatic means and negotiations instead of public exchanges. The duo said the public quarrel between the two institutions is causing unnecessary tension, divisions and eroding public confidence in the two arms of government. Abdulaziz said President Uhuru Kenyatta and Chief Justice Martha Koome should quickly find a solution to the dispute and streamline their working relationship for the benefit of Kenyans. Elsewhere, former IG David Kimaiyo called on President Kenyatta, the speakers and CJ Koome to respect each other and work as per the Constitution to avoid plunging the country into anarchy. Kimaiyo said the exchanges between the Executive and Judiciary is a threat to the country's peace, unity and stability. He  wants the row over the appointment of judges sorted out amicably and according to the law.