The motorist who was executed along Thika Road, Kiambu county, in a gun attack has been identified as Daniel Gucoma, 36. Gucoma was a motor vehicle dealer based in Thika town. Police said they are yet to identify those behind his killing. But officers handling the matter said the deceased had pending robbery with violence cases in Nakuru and Nairobi. “His gang had also attacked and robbed a police officer of his gun in Eldoret in 2019. He had pending robbery cases in Nakuru and Nairobi,” said an officer aware of the developments. The deceased had another civil suit at the Kiambu law courts. The officer said they were interested to know those behind his attack  as over 20 bullets were fired at Gucoma’s car fatally wounding him. The officer said they are yet to know if the shooting is linked to the pending cases  he had in court. “For someone to pump 24 bullets on his car, it shows the determination they had to eliminate him. But why it happened remains a mystery,” said the officer who asked not to be named. His body was taken to General Kago Funeral Home while the car was towed to Juja police station. An autopsy is planned for Friday. His wife Susan Wangari told journalists she was not aware of the said cases. She said her husband had not expressed any fears on his life. Wangari said on the day Gucoma was killed, she was to meet him in Ruiru but was held up in a traffic forcing him to leave before she arrived. Fearing that he might miss out on the car deal after the wife took too long to arrive, Gucoma decided not to wait for her and asked her to send the documents via WhatsApp in their phone conversation at 2:56pm. That was the last conversation Wangari had with her husband. Gucoma was driving alone along Thika highway and was branching off in Juja when he was attacked on Tuesday afternoon. Witnesses said the lone occupant of a private Subaru Forester was diverting to Kenyatta Road, off the Thika Superhighway at about 4pm, when the gang opened fire. The gunmen were apparently tracking the motorist on a motorcycle, police and witnesses said. A witness said the gunmen looked trained and aimed at the driver demobilising him. Juja DCI officer  Richard Mwaura said they were informed the attackers sped off after suspecting they had killed their target. “We don’t know the motive and his identity. We will know more as investigators work on the case,” he said. A search on the car the motorist was driving showed it belongs to a motor vehicle dealer. This shows it was either on hire or had been sold to an owner who was yet to transfer its ownership. Two months ago, a motorist was killed in Changamwe after unknown gunmen opened fire on his car. The attackers are yet to be found. The incidents raise alarm on possible rise of criminal gangs. Meanwhile, a woman was Tuesday shot and seriously wounded in Nairobi’s Eastleigh area before being robbed of unknown amount of money. The woman was either coming from or headed to a bank when the shooting happened. Witnesses said she was shot in the hand and later rushed to hospital. The gang escaped on a motorcycle and no arrest has been made. -Edited by SKanyara 