Governors from the Lake Region Economic Bloc will Friday hold the seventh summit in Kisumu county to discuss health and other development issues. Top on the agenda will be how to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the region. A media advisory released on Thursday by bloc CEO Abala Wanga said the governors will also discuss the status of the sugar sector, fish farming and the launch of LREB Strategic Plan. Bloc chairman Wycliffe Oparanya will preside over the meeting, which will be held at Ciala Resort in Kisumu West subcounty. Member counties are Kisumu, Migori, Nandi, Kakamega, Bomet, Siaya, Busia, Homa Bay, Kisii, Vihiga, Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Kericho and Nyamira. Governors James Ongwae (Kisii), Anyang' Nyong’o (Kisumu), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Okoth Obado (Migori), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya), Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Paul Chepkwony (Kericho) and Hillary Barchok (Bomet) are expected to attend. Others are Amos Nyaribo (Nyamira), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) and Stephen Sang (Nandi). The meeting will also be attended by 28 council members, LREB Covid- 19 Committee of Eminent Persons and 13 vice chancellors from universities in the region. Oparanya noted that due to the Covid-19 surge in the region, county executive members, directors and other stakeholders will join the meeting virtually. On Wednesday, governors from the bloc called on the government to allow them to directly import Covid-19 rapid testing kits to boost the fight against the virus. Oparanya said the pandemic has continued to ravage the region, which requires intensified testing. The governors also called on development partners to support LREB's response strategy by increasing rapid testing kits. “We are appealing to them to avail a total of 500,000 rapid test kits for the residents in the bloc,” Oparanya said. He said rapid testing is more cost-effective and the focus will be on the border and hotspot counties of Busia, Migori, Kisumu, Kisii, Kericho and Siaya. “We should decentralise rapid testing to subcounties and harmonise enforcement of public health measures such as handwashing, masking and social distancing,” he said. Oparanya also urged the national government to allow the hard-hit counties to directly import Covid-19 vaccines. The governors decried insufficient oxygen in the hardest hit counties. Oparanya cited Kakamega, Kisii and Kisumu as having overstretched oxygen supplies to patients. On the sugar sector, governors are expected to discuss the challenges bedevilling state-owned millers and the status of the stalled leasing process. The government plans to lease Chemelil, Muhoroni, Mumias, Sony, Nzoia sugar and Miwani companies to private developers to make them more vibrant and cost-effective in terms of production. Edited by A.N