The Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Union will open fresh negotiations with counties and the national government to implement pending Collective Bargaining Agreements and other demands to avert possible strikes in future. The union concluded election for its national officials and those elected in the North Rift have asked the governors to embrace dialogue as the best way to resolve issues affecting doctors to improve health service delivery. Speaking in Eldoret, Darwins Amuka and Kamunzu Mule who were elected chairman and secretary of the KMPDU North Rift branch said the union was interested in having the best healthcare for Kenyans and all medics. “Last year we called off the strike because of an agreement with the government that our issues would be resolved but it's unfortunate that since then nothing has been done,” Amuka said. He said some of the issues which the medics wanted to be enforced were simple but the two governments had remained adamant for long. “If we are all interested in the welfare of Kenyans then it's time the government listened to us through dialogue”, he said. Amuka said insurance cover for medics, training and promotions would motivate healthcare workers to perform better. On his part, Mule said it was unfortunate that the NHIF could not provide proper cover for doctors and other Kenyans during the Covid-19 pandemic. The doctors complained that institutions like Moi University were making NHIF deductions from salaries but failed to remit the same so that workers can benefit from health cover. At the same time, KMPDU warned that the resumption of political activities including the tour of President Kenyatta in Nyanza region may turn out to be a super spreader for Covid-19 if control protocols are not fully observed. Amuka said they are concerned that political activities were picking up again despite the ban. He said the Indian variant which was more dangerous had been detected in parts of Nyanza region and Kenyans especially those in Nyanza must fully adhere to control measures including avoiding gatherings “We are still deep in the woods as far as Covid-19 is concerned as we urge our leaders to follow the Ministry of Health guidelines strictly so that more Kenyans are not exposed to the disease,” Mule said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris