Traders that were set to occupy the modern built markets in Nairobi will have to wait a bit longer. This comes as City hall plans to spend Sh1.2 billion for the completion of already started markets, setting up of new ones as well as the putting up of modern kiosks across 10 wards in the county. The county government will use a phased approach in implementing the development projects. The total project will cost Sh1.2 billion but the county plans to spend only Sh138.2 million towards it. Westlands market will get Sh10 million for drilling boreholes, networking, installation and connection with reservoirs out of the Sh15 million allocated for the project. Abattoirs will be constructed at Karandini market at Sh3.13 million. Westlands and Karandini are among three Nairobi modern markets, that were to be commissioned last year Construction and rehabilitation of the markets started in 2018 The Nairobi government is set to commission four markets by the end of the year. Works at Mwariro, New Wakulima, Westlands and Karandini markets near completion Karandini Market which will provide 4000 trading spaces was built by the World Bank in partnership with the county government. Westlands Market, which aims to accommodate close to 3000 traders, had started in 2008 but stalled for nine years only to be revived again between 2017-2018. The stallment of the market has in years revealed the frosty relationship between the national government and the Nairobi government. Also, Sh1 million will be used for the signage for the new markets in Westlands, Karandini, Kangundo road and Quarry road. The projects are highlighted in the Nairobi County Fiscal Strategy Paper which factored in next financial year's budget 2021-22 and was adapted by the Nairobi County Assembly earlier this month. Last month, the Nairobi Metropolitan Services started upgrading, some eight markets in the capital. The markets include Jericho, Wakulima Market , Landhies Road, Kariobangi South, Kayole Spine road, Embakasi, Uhuru and Muthurwa Market. According to NMS, each will markets will have different upgrading works. The construction of modern kiosks will be done at Sh25 million in Pumwani, Kware, Pangani Kabiro, Dandora, Kariobangi North, Mowlem, Hamza/Maringo, Kangemi and Woodley/Kenyatta Golfcourse wards. The construction of a new City park market has been allocated Sh20 million in the coming financial year out of the total project cost of Sh243 million. Construction of Makina market will take Sh17 million out of the total project cost of Sh42 million whereas the extension of the Dandora E-market will take Sh15 million out of a total project allocation of Sh35 million. Muthurwa market will receive Sh15 million boost in renovations while the construction of Kamulu market perimeter wall and sheds will be dome at Sh15 million. Both projects have been allocated  Sh70 million. In the coming fiscal year, another Sh 9 million will be pumped into the construction of the Karen market with the total cost of the project being Sh20 million. The construction of abattoirs at Karandini market will be done at Sh3.13 million with the total project cost being Sh5 million.