Athletics Kenya will this week continue with their hunt for Team Kenya probables to the World Under 20 championships with a series of pre-trials across the regions. On Wednesday, AK Nairobi region will conduct their pre-trials at the Nyayo Stadium. “As we continue with the pre-trials in all the AK regions, our aim is to ensure every prospective athlete has an opportunity to make the Team Kenya for the WU20 championships,” said AK Nairobi region chairman Barnaba Korir. Meanwhile, Nyanza North region World Under 20 pre-trials will be heldat Kisumu National Polytechnic on June 19, according to the regional chairman Joseph Ochieng. “We have written to Kisumu Polytechnic requesting for a venue. As you are aware, Moi Stadium track is in a bad shape and therefore cannot host the event,” said Ochieng. Speaking to the Star on phone, Ochieng is hoping they will stage a successful event despite the Covid-19 challenges. “Initially, we identified 61 athletes who camped at Sang’oro High School. Most of them have been locked out of this year’s event due to age,” noted Ochieng. Ochieng’, however, said that they have already identified potential replacements who have been training for the pre-trials. “We decided to give the athletes time to prepare for the event. I’m sure by June 19, they will be ready,” added Ochieng. The World Athletics certified field judge further noted that they are focusing on sprints and field events. “Our area of specialisation is in sprints and throws but we have few middle-distance runners. We want to select a strong squad to represent us at the national trials,” said Ochieng. Elsewhere, the AK Central region will conduct their pre-trials at the Thika Stadium on June 12. In an invite, regional chairman David Miano called on all athletes from the region born between 2002 to 2004 to show up for the event as they seek to raise a team for the national trials next month. "We wish to ask parents and teachers with talented individuals to assist them to come and try their luck in forming the regional team to the national trial, and finally, the World Under 20 Championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in August, said Miano. Southern, Central Rift and South Rift regions have already staged their pre-trials in Machakos, Kapsabet and Kericho respectively while Nyanza South will stage their championship on June 11 at Kisii University.