Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana has called upon Kenya to drive lasting impact and transformation through leaders who are enduring values for inclusive well-being and sustainable development. Speaking at the International Leadership University's 36th graduation, he said Kenya, and by extension Africa, should focus on developing leaders of integrity. “To the graduands today, this is a testament to your discipline, resilience and working smart. Indeed, knowledge without values is futile. "I congratulate the university for their training designed to drive, among other things, good stewardship of resources and societal transformation based on enduring values for inclusive well-being and sustainable development. "These are the kind of leaders Kenya and Africa at large need to drive lasting impact and transformation,” Kivutha said. He presided over the event that saw students virtually graduate from doctorate, master's, bachelor's and diploma programmes in Leadership and Governance, Education and Social Sciences, Theology and Christian Ministry, and Counselling Psychology. ILU vice-chancellor Timothy Kiruhi said they build not only competencies but also the character and contextual relevance of their graduates. He said the values the graduates get from the institution go a long way in ending corruption. “We believe character is quintessential for leaders of integrity, who manifest values and lead societal transformation such as restoring equity and human dignity and putting an end to corruption,” Kiruhi said “We are proud of today’s graduating class who are going back to impact their respective spheres as a true demonstration of ILU’s mandate for developing leaders of integrity for holistic societal transformation.” Court of Appeal president Daniel Musinga, who is the of varsity's Board of Trustees, was in attendance. ILU is a Christian university that seeks to develop leaders of integrity to transform society holistically. It is formally known as the Nairobi International School of Theology. As it marked 40 years of Developing Leaders of Integrity it also celebrated its first PhD graduation—a Leadership and Governance candidate. It admitted its first four students in 1981 and has since graduated over 1,500 leaders from 20 African and other nations, who are leaders in all societal domains, including government, the corporate sector, NGOs, universities and schools, and churches.