County governments are facing a prolonged cash crunch despite the release of Sh43.48 billion by the National Treasury to alleviate the dire situation. Treasury released the cash on Tuesday evening as a stop gap measure to avert the looming shutdown of the devolved units due to lack of funds. It catered to equitable share for April and all conditional grants. “The National Treasury and Planning wishes to confirm that an additional Sh43.5 billion was released to county governments on Tuesday, June 22, 2021, thereby clearing dues up to April 2021,” CS Ukur Yatani said in a press statement on Wednesday. “Accordingly, the National Treasury and Planning will continue to call on individual county governments to prioritise the payment of pending bills owed to suppliers alongside their statutory dues.” Governors had last week threatened to stop crucial services starting Thursday if the Treasury failed to disburse the cash. “Unfortunately, if the National Treasury fails to release the funds, counties will not be able to offer basic services thereby forcing suspension of services or total shut down by June 24,” Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora said last week. However, the Star has established that the funds released are a drop in the ocean for devolved units whose operations have nearly been crippled. A report on the status of the funds – equitable share and the conditional grants – released by the office of the Controller of Budget shows Treasury is yet to release Sh101.78 billion to the counties. This was on Tuesday. “The National Treasury is not likely to give the amounts in this financial year. They may try early in July to catch up,” CoB Margaret Nyakang’o said. Last week, CS Yatani told a Senate committee that his ministry may not clear the outstanding arrears for the counties before the end of the financial year. “My undertaking is that we will clear pending months of March and part of May. For May, I cannot authoritatively tell you how it is going to behave. It will be subject to inflow and trickling of revenues,” he said. “It is most likely that the disbursement for June will go into the next financial year,” he told the nine-member panel. Yatani cited the underperforming revenues due to Covid-19 pandemic for the cash flow problems that he said has hit the entire government. According to the report, Treasury has disbursed Sh271.80 billion out of the Sh373.59 billion allocated to the counties in the current financial year ending June 30. The county with the highest disbursement is at 80 per cent. The lowest is at 54 per cent, with the average disbursement standing as at 72.8 per cent. The report shows that Tharaka Nithi, Siaya and Bomet have received the highest allocation. Tharaka Nithi got 81 per cent of the Sh4.54 billion it was allocated, Bomet and Siaya are both at 80 per cent. They received Sh5.04 billion and Sh5.21 billion. Other counties that have received high amounts are Busia, Kajiado, Mandera, Wajir and Nyandarua. They have all received up to 79 per cent of their annual allocations, with only a week to the end of the financial year. Counties with the lowest disbursements include Nairobi, which has only received Sh9.07 billion out of Sh16.80 billion it was allocated for the year. This represents 54 per cent. Others are Mombasa (61 per cent), Uasin Gishu (68), Kwale (68), Kilifi (70), Isiolo (70), Kiambu (70) and Tana River (72). Edited by Henry Makori