National Youth Service recruits who qualify will be able to take courses in medicine, nursing and clinical officers' work, among other professional fields. The government plans were announced on Thursday by director general Matilda Sakwa. Vocational training will continue. “We have 250 youths doing medicine, something we never had before in NYS," Sakwa said. "Most of our recruits have very good grades and they can do degrees in different fields besides the usual vocational training courses,” Sakwa said during a visit to the Mwatate NYS unit. The government recruits about 30,000 to NYS annually. They are trained in paramilitary skills, engineering, fashion and design, business management and catering. Other courses include agriculture, secretarial work, plant operations, construction and driving. The director general asked the service men and women to identify courses they would like to pursue. She said the Public Service ministry is committed to ensuring the comprehensive youth empowerment master plan is well executed. “It is our mandate to ensure all recruits get a skill by the time they leave the service. So those who are in the service, count yourselves very lucky,” the DG said. Sakwa also announced that Police IG Hillary Mutyambai will recruit at least 1,000 NYS service men and women to join the National Police Service. She said the chances will be given to the best recruits across all the NYS units. “President Uhuru Kenyatta wants to see progressive growth of our youth. The government is creating opportunities every day to tap the skills acquired in our units,” she added. The DG was accompanied by the Mwatate unit commanding officer Hamisi Kazungu, Mwatate deputy county commissioner Damaris Kimondo and NYS Coast region commander Zephania Magoha. Kimondo saidthe close working relationship between NYS and the National Government Administration Officers (NGAO) had greatly helped to instil peace and tranquility. “We have seen the fruits of having this unit in Taita Taveta county. It has helped the security team in maintaining law and order,” she said Additionally, the DG ordered  a water rig be brought to drill water at the unit to solving perennial water shortage . (Edited by V. Graham) 