Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei is hopeful all the 214 member countries of World Athletics will send representatives to the World Under-20 Championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on August 17-22. Tuwei said a bumper entry into the biennial championships will boost the level of competition and create a memorable event for years to come. "We sent invitations to all the member countries and quite a number have so far responded positively and expressed an interest in coming to Nairobi. I would like to urge the others who are yet to confirm participation to do so because we want to have a successful championship. This is the first event of its kind in Africa and everyone in the continent is ready to welcome the rest of the world," Tuwei said. He added that the ongoing preparations to welcome thousands of visitors to Nairobi for the championships have not distracted AK from the need to form a strong team for the host nation. "As much as other countries are confirming their entries for the event, we will also enter a team and that is why we are focused on selecting a Team Kenya strong enough to compete against other countries, and win. at the highest level. We want to give them the best opportunities to train and to prepare well for the championships," he said. Part of the groundwork laid to select a strong Team Kenya is a series of mini-trials in AK's 12 regions to identify talented and eligible athletes who will thereafter battle to make the final team during the national trials on July 1-2 at Moi Stadium. Tuwei attended the South Rift region pre-trials at Kericho Green Stadium on Saturday where he expressed satisfaction with the athletes' levels of performance. "The South Rift region has always produced strong athletes who have given us medals and on assessment today, I think they have a strong team that we will rely on for more medals," Tuwei said. "We started the pre-trials in Machakos and Kapsabet and will be moving on to other regions in the coming weeks. We want to cover every corner of the country to ensure no athlete is left out." He said AK have identified weak areas during the pre-trials, which they will work on to improve before the championship.