Kwale cops say they want to be friends with boda boda riders, saying they can help each other. "When you see us ,don't disappear, we are your friends and share what you have because you are informed, " Kwale traffic police commander Lucy Muriithi said on Monday. She was addressing the launch of the Boda Boda Safety Association in Mvindeni. Traditionally the two have been adversaries, divided by a lack of trust. Police are calling on boda bodas to report accidents and indiscipline cases to help curb insecurity and uphold justice. Muriithi said most boda bodas are being taken advantage of by motorists because the riders lack driving licenses. Most acquire driving skills from friends in the streets. Some are under age but want to ride motorcycles. Muriithi said sometimes the boda bodas get involved in accidents caused by motorists but because they don't have driving licenses, they take the blame and don't report it. She told the motorbike operators not to fear police and seek justice with or without the licences. "Sometimes you are the ones suffering from mistakes made by others but due to fear you run away, " she said. Muriithi said their rights are violated and many are injured while the culprits walk away. Increasing road accidents are often caused by the arrogance of heavy commercial truck drivers who disrespect boda bodas, tuk-tuks and small engine vehicles. The county recorded more than 200 accidents last year. Crashes occurred along the Likoni-Lunga-Lunga road and Mombasa-Nairobi highway within Samburu. In October 2020, three teenagers were killed after being crushed by a lorry while riding a motorbike in Ng'ombeni along the Ukunda-Likoni road. Muriithi said motorbike youth play a crucial role in the community and their work must be appreciated. She said the few "evil-minded" people in the sector must be eliminated. Msambweni subcounty police commander Fanuel Nasio also urged the boda bodas to visit police stations for peaceful talks without fear whenever they feel oppressed. He urged them to maintain a high sense of discipline and become responsible citizens. Many times the motorbike operators have been accused of committing crimes or aiding criminals. Last week, county police commander Steve Oloo praised boda bodas for improving their discipline. Police ordered all underage operators to go back to school and leave the sector to mature and qualified drivers. (Edited by V. Graham)