In 2019, Celestine Njeri noticed that many youths enjoyed watching her roller skate around Runyenjes town. This gave her the idea of starting roller skating classes to get an income to support her family and as a sport to keep the youths occupied. Njeri, now 23, said her jobless parents needed help to put food on the table and raise school fees for her sister’s secondary education. She has now trained more than 100 youths to skate. She charges Sh300 per session. Njeri, a Form 4 leaver, said she advertised her venture through friends in 2019. The response was overwhelming. She offers skating classes for adults and children. Njeri said she finds motivation from her parents, who have been supporting her since she started showing interest in the sport. She started skating in high school out of passion. “I first watched the sport on television and admired it. I bought a pair of skating shoes and started training. People now appreciate my work by enrolling their children for skating classes,” Njeri said. She said her students come from all over Embu county and she trains them daily. “I provide skating shoes to my students, although I prefer anyone enrolling to make an effort of buying their own gear,” Njeri said. She said skating refreshes her and keeps her active, besides giving her income. Trainees expressed their contentment, saying the sport helps build character, creativity, individuality and keeps youth from harmful habits such as drug abuse. It is an alternative to mainstream sports, such as football, which are more formally organised and controlled by adults. “It feels more like a family to be around her. I don’t know how she does it, but I'm always happy to be in her class, and it’s total fun. She is very creative, you cannot go home without having learnt something new from her,” Joseph Muchoki, 20, said. Njeri said despite having trained over 100 youths and children, they lack a proper skating field. She is pleading with the Embu county government to set aside a skating field in the town. Njeri has also urged motorists to accommodate skaters on the streets. “We train from 3.30pm daily on Runyenjes town street, so we struggle with vehicle traffic as well,” she said. Edited by A.N 