Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has denied the existence of talks for the revival of the National Super Alliance (Nasa). This followed a report by the Star that said the Nasa co-principals had hinted at working together again, during the requiem mass of late Gem MP, Jakoyo Midiwo on Thursday. According to Mudavadi, there is no such conversation going on. "No such conversation. Distortion of issues," Mudavadi tweeted on Friday. Speaking on the future of Nasa during the service, ODM leader Raila Odinga said Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula and himself need to work together to move the country forward. This comes even as ODM and Jubilee are working on a pre-election alliance that will see the parties field a single candidate for presidency come 2022. Kalonzo Musyoka insisted that the Nasa principals will strive to work together as he called on his counterparts to mend broken bridges. The Wiper party leader said they hope the Court of Appeal will deliver favourable ruling on the Building Bridges Initiative case. "Let’s wait for the outcome of the process before the Court of Appeal. Let us hope that justice will prevail and the reform process for the good of this country will continue. I think these are the higher ideals," Kalonzo said. Mudavadi on his part called for trust among coalition partners in order to find solutions to the problems bedevilling Kenyans. He added that Kenya belongs to all citizens hence all leaders have a duty to protect the interests of the country. "Let us work together, build bridges and underpin everything we do with trust and I am sure good solutions will be found for Kenyans," the ANC leader said. A few weeks ago, President Uhuru Kenyatta in a meeting with leaders from the Eastern region called for the unity of Nasa, saying that he would back whoever the team will front as their flag bearer in the 2022 general elections. "Steve (Kalonzo), listen to your people and what they are saying. Unite in Nasa then we shall see what will happen. Whatever you will agree on is what I will go with," Uhuru said.