 A Court of Appeal and a municipal court will be built in Meru for Sh630 million and Sh55 million respectively. The appellate court will be built through a partnership between the Judiciary and the Meru county government. The county has donated three quarters of an acre for the building to be put up in Meru town. The municipal court will be built by the county government. Meru presiding judge Edward Murithi said the Court of Appeal will serve Meru and the greater Mount Kenya region. Murithi spoke on Wednesday after he toured the land where the buildings will be put up. "We are very happy as the Court of Appeal matters have been handled by the Court of Appeal in Nyeri. Now with the construction of this six-storey building we shall be be serving some of the counties in this region," Muriithi said. "It's one of the efforts of the Judiciary to bring services closer to the people." The judge said the building will also house a High Court, Environment and Land, Labour and the magistrate's courts. Murithi said construction will take two years and the building will be ready for occupation in June 2023. Jaffar Mosheh, assistant director for architectural services at the Judiciary, said the contractor will begin the works next month. "The land is very steep, but we have designed and given it to the contractor," Mosheh said. Meru Lands executive Jeremiah Lenya said they gave out land to Judiciary in 2020. He said the Court of Appeal will help serve justice, earn the county revenue in housing and other developments. "Meru is a big town and is growing very fast and we need such a facility, which is very important," Lenya said. The municipal courts building will also house two magistrates' courts together with other municipal offices, he said. Murithi said the building will deal with municipal matters and regular court cases dealt with at the magistrate's court. He said the construction started in January and is expected to end in the course of the year. The three-storey municipal court will ease the backlog of cases at the magistrate's court, Muriithi said.  Edited by P.O