Kirinyaga residents yet to receive the Covid vaccine have been urged to visit the nearest designated centre for the jab. Kirinyaga Central deputy county commissioner Daniel Ndege said the vaccine is safe and crucial in boosting immunity as the world grapples with the virus. He noted that it provides 80 per cent protection, thus should not be shunned. Speaking on Monday, the administrator took on those perpetuating lies about the safety of the vaccine and urged the public to ignore such propaganda. “It is disheartening to hear some people spreading lies about the vaccine. The government cannot order for vaccines that would hurt its citizens. Take the opportunity given and get the jab as failure to do so would be a costly medical affair,” he said. He said many families have borne the brunt of huge medical bills due to the virus that infected some of their loved ones. “In many medical facilities within and outside the country, coronavirus treatment is expensive and is proving to be burdensome to many families. So take advantage and get injected,” he said. He urged those who had received their first jab to visit their respective hospitals to get the second. Ndege spoke at the county headquarters during the launch of a three-day campaign to sensitise the masses to the need to adhere to Ministry of Health Covid-19 protocols. The campaign, he said, will be conducted across the county under strict adherence to all protocols through the office of the county information and public communication. County information officer John Irungu hailed the programme as a game changer in the fight against the spread of the virus. He noted that his team is willing to take the message to the people so that the public can change it’s thinking and comply with all the laid out protocols. “We will reach all corners of Kirinyaga as far as Kiumbu, Kamwana, Kiangai, Karitu and even Makutano. We have a powerful set of  public address systems to communicate the government's  message to its people. We will visit many public places which bring together a high number of people like markets.” The medical department earlier in the year unveiled four county hospitals that the residents can visit get the jab. The facilities are Kerugoya county referral hospital, Kianyaga, Sagana and Kimbimbi subcounty hospitals. Reports from the county medical services indicated that as of May 13, Kirinyaga had inoculated 15,820 residents with the Astrazeneca jab. Among those injected were 2,217 health workers, 3,052 teachers, 944 uniformed officers  and 9,553 ordinary citizens that included those above 58 years. Edited by Henry Makori