Kirinyaga residents are set to benefit following the construction of a bridge in  Tebere area  which will end their long trek to access the market, schools and health facilities. Residents say the Gacuria Moyo bridge, connecting Murinduko and Tebere wards across the crocodile-infested Nyamindi river will be a big relief to farmers, school going children and traders. The bridge which is due for completion by the end of the year, is being constructed by the county government and will serve over 5,000 people living in Ndindiruku, Kiumbu, Marurumo, Miatuini and South Ngariama in Mwea constituency. ‘Gacuria Moyo’ literally means “putting life on the line”. Residents say for a long time, they had to cross the river using the wooden makeshift footbridge that sometimes would be washed away when the river swells. Ndwiga Njoka, a resident of Miatuini village, says the thought of the wooden bridge gives him nightmares as he remembers vividly some years back when two pupils were washed away while crossing the river. “The wooden structure is our bridge of death, many lives have been lost here, anything can happen when crossing. You can slip and fall into the river or the structure can be washed away any moment,” he said. “There are people who have been washed away together with the makeshift bridge never to be seen again,” added another villager Rosemary Wanjiku. Governor Anne Waiguru said residents from the five villages had to endure using a makeshift wooden bridge to cross the river posing a risk to their lives and making transportation of farm produce costly. The governor said the bridge will spur economic growth by easing transportation of agricultural produce like tomato, french beans, watermelon and rice to the market and increase employment opportunities in the transport sector such as for the boda boda riders. "The county has embarked on a massive road improvement programme that will open up the interior parts of the county for sustained social and economic development. We are building bridges to ensure our farmers and traders have easy and fast access to markets," she said. The governor said bridges and better roads have led to improved household incomes since families can easily transport their farm produce to the market. Currently, the residents have to travel for around 50km to access Wang’uru market.  The governor has already commissioned another bridge across river Nyamindi and Mahiga-ini. Several vital bridges being built by Waiguru's administration that are lined up for completion are Kiamanyeki-Ciagini, Kaimiri-Gakarara, Matonguini, Karoboti, Kandakame, Kahuhoini and Kibukure. The county is also putting up the Getuya, Mutonga and Munjuha foot bridges to ease movement. The bridges will open up most of the areas which had remained cut-off and will give the residents access to public institutions such as schools and health facilities. Tebere MCA Gudson Muchina lauded the governor for allocating additional funds in the 2020/21 financial year to ensure all bridges and roads are under construction in the county are completed. Muchina said the good working relationship between the Executive and the MCAs had resulted to speedy completion of development projects. "This permanent bridge will be the new lifeline for people living in these farming villages. I am happy the long wait for a permanent bridge is over. Those living on the other side of South Ngariama can cross river Nyamindi and access healthcare at Ndinduruku health facility which has also been built by the county government," he said. -Edited by SKanyara