The chef-de-mission for Team Kenya to the Tokyo Olympics, Waithaka Kioni, has said it is too late for a contingency plan after the Japanese city of Kurume pulled out of hosting a pre-games camp for the Kenyan delegation. Kioni said the memorandum of understanding between Kenya and Kurume was signed in 2019 and it had been expected that both parties would follow through but for the coronavirus pandemic. "It is too late now to come up with a backup plan since this is a deal that was signed two years ago and we are less than two months to the Games. We will just have to adjust our itinerary in light of these new developments, including the dates slated for departures from the country," Kioni said. He said it was understandable for the city to pull out considering the prevailing Covid-19 infections in the Asian country. "We have all seen what is happening in that country with regards to corona. We are consulting with various stakeholders to see the best way forward and adapt to the current circumstances," he said. Olympics Kenya on Wednesday afternoon revealed that Kurume City had pulled out due to the spiralling cases of Covid-19 in Japan as well as in the Fukuoka Prefecture — where the city is located. "On some days, the number of positive cases per 100,000 people has risen to several times the number in Tokyo and Osaka. In addition, the nationwide spread of infections did not subside even in May and in Fukuoka Prefecture, the number of new infections and the number of hospitalised patients have reached a record high," acting secretary general Francis Mutuku said. Mutuku said the facilities initially set aside for them have been converted into vaccination centres. As per the MoU, Kurume were to host the team for 12 days and cater for their local transport, meals, accommodation and training venues. Team Kenya were to leave the country for Kurume from July 7, starting with all qualified teams except middle and long-distance runners as well as swimmers. They were then to head for Tokyo five days before the opening ceremony. "Kenya is therefore making alternative arrangements for the team to prepare adequately and in consideration of the period of stay guidelines from the organisers. Consultations have started with the technical benches of the qualified teams to re-work the activity schedules of the teams to achieve the best results under the current circumstances," Mutuku said.