Jakoyo Midiwo would use reason when it worked. But whenever it failed, force would do and most of the time it achieved his goals. That's why his supporters and associates called him 'Otada', Luo for forceful, sometimes, violent. Family members and friends said when circumstances allowed, Jakoyo tried dialogue and diplomacy. But when that failed, he would not hesitate to throw the first punch. He died on June 12 aged 54. He is survived by four children and two widows. Minority Leader in the National Assembly John Mbadi on Thursday told a memorial service that in December 2014 when the controversial security laws were debated, Jokoyo played abig role. It was Jakoyo, then serving as Minority Leader, who instructed him alongside other MPs to get in a scuffle to thwart the proceedings. Mbadi recollected that at a caucus meeting of ODM lawmakers, Jakoyo told them to ensure that the laws would not pass and "to get physical if need be" — and they did. "When Senators James Orengo and Johnson Muthama were being pushed  from the Speaker's Gallery, Jakoyo came to me and asked, 'What are you doing here? Climb up and save Orengo and Muthama'." "And I did it without thinking," Mbadi said. Mbadi, who is also the ODM chairman, said that they engaged in "nasty fistfights that I'm happy were not recorded and no one got to see them. They were bad," he said. Jakoyo's second wife Rose Olayo told the congregation that his politics back at home involved talking, but when appropriate, he forcefully insisted on his way and they did it his way. For example, she said, when reports emerged about some youths causing mayhem in the constituency, he would cordially call them to his home, have the 'charges' put to them and let them explain themselves. If the explanation did not meet his standards, he would unleash his youths on them to "teach them discipline." "That was Jakoyo for you," he said. In another instance, when they were on a road trip, she said, they reached a police roadblock and found another motorist stopped and giving what looked like a bribe. Jakoyo suddenly stepped out and advanced toward the officer  and motorist.  When they recognised him, they took off, Olayo said. His immediate family members described him as a straightforward, honest and dedicated father who never hesitated to enforce his law with the cane, and he was proud of it. "For my father, it was either his way or the highway," Linda Midiwo, his first-born daughter, said. Politicians including ODM leader Raila Odinga, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka eulogised Midiwo as a trusted foot soldier who was skilled in political strategy and debate. He never hesitated to reach across the aisle, they said. "When he led us in the House, he would always tell me 'Nyikal, forget about what the party wants, we must do what is good for the country'," Seme MP James Nyikal said. He served as Gem MP since 2002 for three terms until current MP Elisha Odhiambo defeated him. From 2008 to 2013, Midiwo served as the Chief Government Whip in Parliament in the Grand Coalition. He will be buried on Saturday. (Edited by V. Graham) 