The government will not block the internet or ban any social media platform as the 2022 elections approach, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has said. Speaking on Tuesday during the launch of the National Cohesion and Integration Commission's strategic plan in Nairobi, Matiang'i said Kenya is a robust democracy with fundamental rights and freedoms protected in the Constitution and that they won't be interfered with. He said the government is confident of public support and therefore the state won't resort to measures that have been seen in other parts of the world to curtail the freedoms of the citizens. “Ours is a confident government. We're sure of public support and we don't have to resort to measures like in other parts of the world such as blocking Twitter or interfering with the internet,” he said. The CS also said the security sector stands ready for the elections and that they are more prepared for 2022 than they were in 2017. Matiang'i also challenged the commission to not just focus on enforcing anti-incitement laws, but also enlighten the citizens to vote for the right leaders who will meaningfully impact their lives. “We'll soon be calling you to take up an additional mandate to enlighten our citizens to take part meaningfully in our democracy,” he said. Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, who presided over the launch, said the judiciary is also ready to handle cases relating to electoral offences, including hate speech and incitement to violence, only that the investigation must be thorough and evidence cogent. “No one will be convicted without cogent evidence. We are ready to work with you to fulfil your mandate, but please get us credible evidence. So do your job well,” Mwilu, who represented Chief Justice Martha Koome at the event, said. She said the courts will abide by the set timelines in settling election disputes, which is six months. NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia on his part asked the judiciary to set up a special court to listen to the incitement cases so that they don't last in the courts for a long time. He complained that the hate speech and incitement cases were taking long in the courts, making the commission's efforts to curb the vice a nightmare. “We ask if a special court to try some of these cases to curb the vices. Just like corruption cases have special courts, we hope we can work with you in this respect.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris