It is time Kenyans returned the favour and make ODM leader Raila Odinga the country’s fifth president, Mombasa businessman Suleiman Shahbal has said. Speaking when he met elders from the Akamba and Luo communities living in Mombasa, Shahbal said Raila has suffered for the greater good of the country. He said the freedom Kenyans are enjoying today is in great part because of Raila’s selflessness Shahbal endorsed Raila for the ODM ticket to vie for presidency in 2022 and welcomed a possible Raila-Kalonzo ticket just like in 2013. “We are sending Baba forward because he has suffered for the people of Kenya more than anybody in this country,” Shahbal said. “If you can stand in public today and criticise your government and demand your right, it is because this mzee suffered at Shimo la Tewa jail.” He said Raila pushed for the current Constitution and the changes through the BBI that Kenyans endorsed by ensuring that it passed. “This man has paid for our democracy with blood, sweat and tears,” Shahbal said. The businessman has strong ties with Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Raila’s ODM party. He ventured into politics in 2010 and first joined ODM whose ticket he sought to vie for the Mombasa governor seat in 2013. “However, two bulls do not stay in one house. We fought with Governor Joho for the ticket by I was eventually elbowed out and I had to look for another house,” Shahbal said. He found solace in Kalonzo’ Wiper party, whose ticket he used to vie for the governor seat against Joho. Joho beat him to the seat in 2013 and again in 2017 when he vied for the seat on a Jubilee ticket. “I have now removed the red jersey for the orange one. I have come back home,” Shahbal said. He said for years he has been trying to make Raila and Kalonzo work together again. Raila and Kalonzo on Friday hinted at reuniting ahead of the polls to defeat thieves during the burial of former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile. Raila said he and Kalonzo have never broken ranks, adding that they would team up to defeat people they described as hyenas in sheep’s clothing. The duo worked together in the moribund Nasa that gave Jubilee a run for its money in the 2017 elections and were also in Cord in 2013. “By the grace of God, these two will come back together because unity is strength,” Shahbal said. On Friday, he met elders from the Akamba community at the Methodist Hall in Tononoka as he seeks to consolidate his support base for a third stab at the governorship in 2022. “I am committed to having a people's driven agenda, and I understand the need of having all Mombasa residents onboard our train,” he said. The group comprised of representatives from the Akamba Handicraft, Magongo market, Kongowea market, beach operators, tyres association members, fruit vendors, professionals, church, women and youth leaders all from the community.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris