Two requiems have been planned for the late and former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile ahead of his interment next Friday . The central funeral planning committee led by Kibwezi West MP, Patrick Musimba on Friday announced that the first requiem will be hosted at St Veronicah Catholic Church in Syokimau estate on Tuesday at 4pm; the second one which will be open to members of the public will be held at the Holy Family Basilica in Nairobi on Thursday starting 10am. Makueni County MP Rose Museo, who read out a statement on behalf of the central funeral planning committee, said a condolence book for the late lawmaker has also been opened at the National Assembly for current and former MPs to mourn the departed politician. Museo sent out a passionate appeal to friends and well wishers to make financial contributions towards offsetting burial and medical bills. “We wish to sincerely express our gratitude to those who have contributed towards the dignified send off of our beloved brother, and urge those not yet to kindly do so to help cater the for the huge medical and funeral budget,” said Museo. She however noted that the planning committee was working to address the logistical challenges relating to management of the expected crowd on the burial date. “In the light of Covid-19 protocols, which we fully support, but are also alive to the fact that Kalembe was a renowned politician, we are consulting authorities on the number of mourners to be allowed at the funeral ceremony,” said the MP. The planning committee’s coordinator, Mwengi Mutuse, said a main funeral fundraising event shall be held at Ole Sereni Hotel in Nairobi. “During his long and eventful political career, Kalembe interacted with many ordinary people as well as leaders and we are inviting all those willing to make contributions to the event,” said Mutuse. The former MP succumbed on May 30 while undergoing treatment at a city hospital. He will be buried at his rural home in Mbui Nzau, Nguumo Ward of Kibwezi West constituency in Makueni County.