Hats off to all the outdoorsy Kenyan chicks who heighten the adrenaline levels of our footballers by faithfully gracing local football matches. They light up the stands with their innate sense of style and fashion, and leave behind a glorious picture that sticks in the mind as their gorgeous frames cruise through the scene. From hair to toe, they conjure up colourful images as they make pompous entry into the arena with their queenly gaits while wobbling their hips. Their presence is instantly enunciated by the lovely aroma reminiscent of Carolina Herrera's Good Girl fragrance. In so far as hairstyles go, they spot everything from the cornrows, faux hawk, pixie cut, wavy lob, to lemonade braids and the long voluminous locks. Their necks are accentuated by the cameo, pearl and diamond necklaces, including the Kwiat Riviera and Kalahari Dream. Their ears and noses glitter with hoop earrings, clips, and diamond studs. And as they wave to their pals at the stands, you'll notice charm bracelets twinkling in their velvet-smooth hands. These hotties are not the type cut out for bolero cardigan or the bell-sleeve jacket. You won't spot them donning a ruffled or over-sized silk blouse or even a silk peasant top. They usually prefer the split neck tunic, spaghetti straps camisole, baby doll, the sweetheart top and the Bardot Sexy Top. You won't see them alive in floral print, tulip and wrap skirts. Their curves are accentuated by the colour-washed skinny jeans, pencil skirts, stretch pants, leggings, microminiature skirts and banded bottoms. The skimpy drapes expose the rotund and fleshy, thy puissant, shapely inner, honestly beautiful and plump thighs. But wait a minute! The legs...yes...the legs. I’ve seen all kinds...shapely, curvy, athletic, scrawny, stumpy, thin, plump, muscular, long, stubbly, sleek, and hairy. Their pedicured feet are slipped into sling-back open toed shoes, the Sequin pumps, the Birkenstocks, Hepburn flats and the Thong sandals. But there is one other thing that pronounce their character. They are permanently inebriated. Perhaps, this gives them the valor to scream themselves hoarse from the rooftops. At the blow of the final whistle, they'll spurt to the pitch to embrace almost all the players, in an embarrassing manner. Such women remind me of Sarah Gamp, a nurse in Dickens’s ‘Martin Chuzzlewit’. She is extremely fond of liquor, carries a big baggy umbrella, and makes frequent references to a purely imaginary friend of hers named Mrs. Harris. The present-day utopian Sarah Gamps are behind the endless woes that befall our football luminaries. While the presence of these gorgeous girls in the stadium buff up matches, they should desist from trailing footballers to their rooms because this is where all the trouble begins. Cases abound of local players who have been duped into amorous escapades that milk their pockets dry. The players skip training sessions and focus more on their dream girls. Soon, their dwindling fortunes and sapped energy become evident in matches. Once their taps are closed, the women instantly jump on to the next train.