Security officials say they are keen to arrest politicians who flout the Covid-19 containment measures. Eastern regional commissioner Ezekiel Nakoru was speaking in his office in Embu town on Monday when he banned political rallies to prevent another wave of infections. "We are keen on arresting those politicians who convene meetings against the containment measures. The law has to be followed by everybody including those who make them, so we will spare no one who will go against the law," he said. On June 22, Nakoru flagged off the third Covid-19 pandemic awareness campaign. The commissioner said that ordinary citizens have not caused much problem in fighting the pandemic compared to the politicians who lead in going against the set measures. He appealed to the members of the political class to respect the containment measures set by the Ministry of Health to avoid subjecting the people of Kenya to coronavirus. "Wananchi follow their leaders who are hosting rallies all over  but I urge them to follow what the ministry is telling them because the government wishes the best for its people. Let them know that the disease is real, avoid those rallies," he said. Eastern region has reported over 12,000 positive cases since the eruption of the pandemic. The awareness campaign will go to all the 47 counties. It is spearheaded by county information officers who will ensure the public is fully informed about the dangers of the pandemic. Nakoru called on the public to wash their hands, wear the mask properly and maintain social distance. These are the common measures which the public seem to assume, he said. He said government officers will work with the information officers to make sure they inform the public and alert them to adhere to the measures. The campaign is set to take three days in Embu county. "Coronavirus is a threat that needs to be tackled by every Kenyan and it is everyone's responsibility. Our county is among the Eastern counties experiencing low numbers of the positive cases and this campaign will alert people to continue taking care," he said. Embu Star of Hope Director Taratisio Ireri called on Kenyans to follow the set measures. He urged the people to take responsibility and stop following what others are doing. "I also urge government officials to take stiff measures in handling the politicians who are hosting huge gatherings without observing the containment measures," Ireri said. He said all Kenyans should be treated the same in eradicating the deadly virus. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)