Public health experts have welcomed the tightening of curfew restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19 in 13 counties in Nyanza and Western regions and parts of Rift Valley. The government on Thursday ordered that curfew hours will start from 7pm to 4am in the regions until further notice. All public gatherings have also been banned in Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori counties. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe who announced the directives said the 13 counties constituted 60 per cent of the national Covid-19 caseload. "The positivity rate in the aforementioned counties averages 21 per cent against a national average of nine per cent," Kagwe said. However, the government did not lock down the counties as was widely expected. “Except for essential and emergency services, movement between the hotspot zone and the rest of the country is strongly discouraged,” Kagwe said in a statement. The cases appear to have been the result of increased gatherings during the Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu on June 1. Kagwe said all cross-border cargo drivers will be required to possess valid certificates indicating a negative Covid-19 test. The test must have been conducted no more than 48 hours. Each cargo truck will be limited to only two persons per vehicle. Weekly non-food and livestock markets were also suspended for 30 days, as well as all public gatherings and in-person meetings. The government also suspended worship in churches, mosques and temples for 30 days. “The attendees, officiators, and facilitators of weddings, celebrations of marriage or traditional unions, ceremonies of rites of passage, and all other similar events or ceremonies is maintained at 30 persons in total until further notice,” he said. The order also says all funerals and interment ceremonies within the hotspot zone will be conducted within 72 hours after confirmation of death. “Attendees for funerals within the hotspot zone are capped to a maximum of 50 persons until further notice,” the order said. Vigils and overnight processions prior to funerals remain prohibited. Health facilities within the region will allow only one visitor for the hospitalised patients. Kagwe pleaded with employers to allow employees to work from home, except for those working in critical or essential services. The order notice was also gazetted by Interior CS Fred Matiang’i. Global public health expert Bernard Muia, who had predicted Covid-19 cases will rise in Nyanza, said the restrictions were welcome. "We need to protect the people there and also prevent the infections from spreading rapidly to the rest of the country," Muia told the Star. He noted the country is entering the cold season, which is traditionally the flu season in Kenya and this could lead to more cases. “We don’t have vaccines, so we must fight the virus with what we have – the health protocols: social distancing, handwashing and wearing of masks,” he said. On Monday, Kisumu health executive Boaz Nyunya said public and private hospitals in the county had overstretched their capacities as more cases of Covid-19 were detected. "We have a weekly positivity of 28.4 per cent. The county has cumulatively reported 139 deaths since the outbreak of the virus in March last year, reflecting a case fatality rate of 2.4 per cent. We have 687 active cases. Out of this, 112 are in hospitals," Nyunya said. Kisumu Central remains the epicentre of the disease in the county, followed by Kisumu East and Kisumu West. All subcounties have cases. “On vaccination, we have so far vaccinated 32,587 people, with 4,635 having received the second dose by the end of last week,” Nyunya said. Last week, head of Amref Dr Githinji Gitahi had also predicted the current wave and said the best strategy was to prepare. "Governor Anyang' Nyong'o, I request you, quickly stockpile oxygen delivery systems (oxygen, health workers and critical care beds). In a pandemic, the best strategy, like in war, is to over-prepare," Gitahi said. 