Coach Gareth Southgate said England’s past defeats to Germany at major tournaments have no bearing on Tuesday’s Euro 2020 last-16 game and his players will go into the match focused on their own performance. England have not defeated Germany in the knockout match of a major tournament since the 1966 World Cup final, losing at the 1990 World Cup, 1996 Euros and 2010 World Cup, the first two defeats coming after shoot-outs in the semi-finals. Southgate, who missed the crucial spot-kick in their Euro 96 loss, said history meant little to his young squad. “I don’t need to demystify it. The history is an irrelevance for them,” Southgate told ITV Sport. “Of course, they are watching that stuff and getting a bit of an understanding of it but it’s not something we’re speaking to them about. “This team has put down lots of historical performances in the last couple of years, made their own history, made their own stories and this is how they should view this game.” England have never won a knockout match over 90 minutes at the Euros. Four of their knockout stage games went to shootouts and England progressed only once — against Spain at Wembley at in 1996. “It’s an opportunity,” Southgate added. “We’ve only won one knockout match in a European Championship as a country, so they’ve got a great chance to go and be the first team since 1996 to do that.” The winner of Tuesday’s game will face either Sweden or Ukraine in the quarter-finals on Saturday. Meanwhile, England defender Luke Shaw said he found it “strange” to be the subject of continued criticism from Jose Mourinho, his former manager at Manchester United. The pair had a strained relationship during Mourinho’s two-and-a-half-year tenure at Old Trafford, with the 58-year-old Portuguese publicly criticising the left back’s performances on several occasions. Mourinho, who has been working as a pundit on TalkSport during the European Championship, described Shaw’s set-piece delivery in England’s 1-0 win against the Czech Republic as “very poor”. “There is no hiding that we didn’t get on,” Shaw said. “Clearly I am in his head a lot and he thinks about me a lot. I don’t know why he is still going on and wanting to point at me. I don’t feel like the set-pieces ... were as ‘dramatically bad’ as he says. “I think he was a brilliant manager but ... the past is the past. It is time to move on. I am trying to move on but, obviously, he can’t.” Shaw said he was able to shrug off negative comments from Mourinho now because they paled by comparison to the criticism he received from him at United. “What he says now is nothing compared to how it used to be, if I am being totally honest,” Shaw added. “I am so past it now. I have grown up a lot. The three years I had with him, I learnt a lot. I am used to him saying negative stuff about me now, so I just pass it by.”