For Simon Makato it was a case of being at the wrong place at the wrong time. A Nyeri court agreed with him and acquitted him of robbery with violence and possession of stolen property charges. It however found two of his co-accused, Paul Kinuthia and James King’ori, guilty of killing a county government engineer six years ago. Makato, Kinuthia and King’ori were accused of robbing George Muraguri Gikonyo of a Toyota Harrier on the Nyeri-Karatina road and killing him on October 13, 2015. The trial magistrate said there were contradictions in the two accused persons’ evidence and only Makato’s account was consistent. Senior resident magistrate Faith Muguongo read the judgment on behalf of chief magistrate Wendy Kagendo on Thursday. The court ruled Makato’s account placed Kinuthia and King’ori in the vehicle before Karatina to the Ruiru weighbridge. Makato told the court that he had visited his father, Jackson Makato, in Nyeri and spent the day with him. At about 8pm he set off for Nairobi but there was no vehicle headed to the city so he went to try his luck at Karatina town. He went to Karatina in a vehicle driven by Simo Njagi. There were no matatu there either. As he was waiting with Njagi and a woman, a vehicle came along with two occupants whom he identified as his co-accused. Makato and the woman were given a ride after paying Sh500. The woman alighted at Sagana. Njagi negotiated for the ride on their behalf. With King’ori on the steering wheel and Kinuthia on the front passenger seat, they proceeded towards Nairobi but were intercepted by police at the Ruiru weighbridge. Makato was on the back seat. A search recovered Gikonyo’s driving licence, some tablets, money, a mobile phone and a brown leather jacket. The jacket, which belonged to Gikonyo, was won by one of the accused. The deceased's licence was in the jacket's pocket. The recovered drugs were suspected to have been used to sedate Gikonyo before killing him. A government analyst said there were traces of sedatives in his body. Acquitting Makato, the magistrate said no incriminating evidence was found on him during the arrest. “The court finds that the third accused [Makato] took a great risk in exposing the first and second accused persons in his explanation as to how he came to be in the vehicle…It created some doubt as to his involvement,” she said. The state called 11 witnesses, among them Gikonyo's widow, Faith Njoki. Njoki told the court that at around 9pm she received a call from a car track company informing her that her husband’s vehicle was heading towards Karatina. The car was being driven at high speed and Gikonyo could not be reached on the phone. The car had been fitted with a tracking system with certain parameters, including speed. The device would send out signals when the parameters were breached. She called her husband and when he did not respond, she alerted his father before proceeding to report at Umoja police station. “She found that a report had already been booked. While at the police station, she learned that the vehicle had been stopped at the Ruiru weighbridge and rushed there,” the court said. She found the vehicle with the three suspects, who were taken to Ruiru police station. Gikonyo’s body was found at Hohwe dam along Nyeri-Karatina road the next day. A pathologist who performed the postmortem said the probable cause of death was lack of air. The magistrate noted that the vehicle belonged to Gikonyo and the logbook was produced to prove that. “That vehicle was driven from Nyeri to the Ruiru weighbridge where it was recovered. This movement was not with the owner’s consent and so it was stolen on the use of violence,” she ruled. She said the perpetrators also went ahead to kill the owner, terming their action extreme cruelty and beastly conduct that "goes beyond even definition of violence". Kinuthia and King’ori will be sentenced on June 29. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya