Bold Network Africa CEO and founder Makena Njeri has denied she is in a relationship with Marini CEO Michelle Ntalami. Speaking to Massawe Japanni on Radio Jambo, Makena said it's wrong for people to assume Ntalami is her wife. She said they are good friends. In March, Makena made headlines after she came out as a member of the LGBTIQ+ community. "I remember for the first time in my life after very many years, I looked at the mirror and said to myself 'I am gay', I am unique and this is my truth'." She told Massawe; "It is a very big mistake to say that Michelle Ntalami is my wife. My relationship with Mitchelle is that we are very good friends, when you check my Instagram page, you will find I have posted very many people. "I live my life very openly. If it comes a time when I will need to introduce my wife publicly, I will." Asked whether she is seeing someone, Makena replied; "Let's focus on Bold Network Africa. There is nothing like a wife right now, as long as you are in my inner circle, I appreciate my friends a lot," she said. The former BBC journalist went on to say was living a lie when she dated a man. "I do not want to talk about this issue since that is my past and it was also a very private relationship. The pressure was too much and I was living a lie, and the problem is that you end up hurting the other person." Addressing the issue of social media trolls, Makena said she is okay with everyone's perceptions. "It only becomes an issue when it is used as a weapon against you," she said. "The biggest challenge is that people are not informed about the LQBT"Q community. That is the opportunity that BeingBold will use to educate people." Earlier she recounted the time when she trended for weeks, saying it was Michelle who held her hand. "I was so scared of what the universe will say or do, you were always there to remind me of who I am," she said. "Our relationship and friendship was questioned so many times and you were dragged [in] the mud together with me so many times but not once did you fail to stand by me."