Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya has said they now have their eyes fully trained on the Betway Super Cup final after cruising to a comfortable 2-0 victory over Division Two side Tandaza at Utalii Grounds on Wednesday. “Our ultimate target is to proceed to the final and we are working hard towards that objective,” said Muluya. Muluya extolled their opponents for shaking off their underdog tag heading into the match to put up a worthy fight. “Quite a good game. Tandaza have shown they are not an easy team to run over,” said Muluya. The Sharks tactician promised a bruising battle against KCB in the next round of the competition. Tandaza coach Ken Angili was full of good words for his charges, whom he said surmounted an abrasive challenge from a top-flight side. “We managed the first half well. The energy levels went down in the second half. It's a learning process and we've picked a lot of positives from the match," said Angili. “We are playing three levels above us. Save for the penalty and the easy goal we gave away, we should have won the match," added Angili. Tom Teka put Sharks ahead in the 59th minute with a thunderous low drive on the after pouncing on a loose ball in the area before skipper Geoffrey Lemu extended the advantage from the spot in the 72nd minute. John Njuguna scored in the 5th minute and Oscar Wamalwa on 42 minutes as soldiers Ulinzi Stars brought Sofapaka's hunt for their first title to an abrupt halt. Bidco United made light work of Twyford after thrashing them 7-0 at Thika Stadium on Wednesday with Zachary Gathu and Stephen Obukoi bagging a brace each. Eric Gichimu, Nelson Chieta and David Orem also got their names on the score sheet. AFC Leopards overcame Posta Rangers to advance to the next round in the second match at the same venue, with Collins Sichenje netting the all-important goal. Tusker beat Marafiki 4-1 at Kinunga Stadium as Bandari saw of Dimba 5-1 at Mbaraki Sports Club. Murimi Benjamin bagged a brace in the 14th and 81st minute, with William Wadri, Darius Msagha Guelord Mwamba each netting a goal apiece in the 70th, 76th and 90+3rd minute respectively. Dimba got their consolation through Rashid Athman in the 72nd minute. Gor Mahia face Cusco at Ruaraka Grounds this afternoon.