North Rift counties are projecting better internal revenue collection and faster recovery in the 2021-22 financial year after the Covid-19 pandemic. The pandemic caused the counties to lose more than Sh8 billion in uncollected revenues, land rates and stalled projects. Governor Jackson Mandago, chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc, said many businesses which had been shut down are expected to bounce back even as residents will continue fighting the disease that remains the main threat to economic growth. Private and public investors in the region are foreseeing a brighter future, but also want Kenyans to guard against Covid-19. Jambo Jet acting CEO Karanja Ndegwa said the airline expects to start full recovery from effects of Covid-19 next year because many travellers, including business people, are yet to resume normal operations. Karanja said they have developed partnerships with other players in the hospitality sector so that they market tourist attractions to boost airline services and general business. “The economy is recovering slowly but we hope for an even better future, especially as from 2023,” said Karanja. He said they are still keen on ensuring safety of travellers because Covid-19 a still a major threat to lives. In the last year and a half, the counties have been grappling with many challenges associated with effects of the disease. “Last year was the worst economic period for the counties in the region but we are already seeing signs that the future is bright and we will recover faster,” said Mandago. He said counties will partner with the private sector to provide the necessary support required to help businesses resume full operations within the shortest time. He said the counties in the region were in the process of harmonising their trade tariffs, licence fees and other charges so that investors get the ease of establishing new businesses. “We desire to have the same kind of regimes in our region so that we give investors support to venture into any of our counties as we encourage regional unity,” said Mandago. At the same time he urged traders to resume full payment of licence fees, parking fees and other charges which had been slowed down because of the pandemic. “The counties now require the taxes due to them so that we can offer the necessary services and jointly support our economies to grow faster so that we can create more jobs for our youth,” Mandago said. He said the county has automated most of its operations to enable residents to transact all operations including application and payments for licences online. Mandago said his county has resumed work on most projects and they are working with the national government to complete major projects in the region. In Uasin Gishu Mandago, who is serving his second term, has planned to complete mega projects valued at more than Sh10 billion ahead of next year’s elections. Governor Stephen Sang says Nandi county is also putting in  place measures to collect more than Sh500 million in the new financial year. In Elgeyo Marakwet, the administration of Governor Alex Tolgos is targeting Sh300 million as local revenue. Edited by Henry Makori