The six judges President Uhuru Kenyatta rejected have been handed a lifeline after the High Court temporarily stopped the Judicial Service Commission from convening and recommending any action against them. Justice James Makau said there will be no interference in the functions of the six judges based on the alleged report sent by the President. Justices Weldon Korir, George Odunga, Joel Ngugi and Aggrey Muchelule, who were to join the Court of Appeal, as well as Evans Kiago and Judith Omange, who were to join the Environment and Land Court, were left out. Makau also stopped any investigation or prosecution or consideration of any petition or recommendation for their removal from office. Also granted was an order prohibiting the publication or making public of the report or any connected report that is injurious to the integrity of the judicial officers. Makau granted the order after Nairobi-based advocate Benard Odero Okello said the President violated the Constitution by refusing to appoint the six judges to their deserved positions as recommended by the JSC. “Uhuru has discriminated against the six judges by refusing to appoint them. All citizens have the right to equal treatment, including the right to equal opportunities,” Okello said. Makau, issuing the order, said: “I have considered for issuance of the interim order and am satisfied that the petitioner has demonstrated a prima facie case with a likelihood of success. If interim orders are not issued, he will suffer prejudice." Makau further allowed the advocate to amend his papers and fixed the matter for June 28. In an affidavit, Okello said Article 166 1 (b) (f) (g) of the Constitution gives to the President the power to formally appoint judges. The President does not have the power to hand-pick whom to appoint and not to, he said. On July 23 and August 13, 2019, the JSC, after vetting and interviewing, recommended persons for appointment as judges of the Court of Appeal, the Environment and Land Court and the Employment and Labour Relations Court forwarded 41 names to be appointed by the President. The appointments never took effect until June 3 this year when the President appointed 34 judges and declined to appoint six. One of the nominees, Harrison Okeche, who was to be appointed as a judge of the Employment and Labour Relations Court, succumbed to his injuries after a road accident last year. At the same time, the judge referred a similar case to the Chief Justice for the empanelling of a bench to hear the matter. In that case, Nakuru-based doctor Magare Gikanyi claims that the action by the President to only appoint the 34 was unconstitutional, as there is no room for cherry-picking JSC nominees once forwarded to him. Gikanyi had sued the Chief Justice and the Attorney General. He also named CJ Martha Koome and Kihara Kariuki in their personal capacity. Their names were, however, removed following an application by Counsel Emmanuel Bita who said their names were not necessary.  