A Kibera court has convicted two members of the outlawed Mungiki sect charged with kidnapping a woman, assaulting and gang-raping her after she failed to hand them Sh120,000 in Kiserian. George Kimani Kamweru and Michael Njenga were convicted on Thursday by Kibera senior principal magistrate Phillip Mutua. The magistrate said the prosecution proved the case against them. Court prosecutor Violet Ombati had urged the court to grant them a tough penalty even if though they were first-time offenders. The charge sheet says the offence occurred in Kiserian on August 7, 2013. The two were allegedly with Beth Nyambura Kirika, also accused, when they abducted Susan Mwihaki Ndungu then tortured and raped her after failing to get Sh120,000 from her family. The three had also been charged with engaging in an organised criminal activity for being part of the outlawed Mungiki sect during at the time of their arrest. The court heard that Nyambura lured the victim, leading to her abduction but she did not rape her as the male counterparts did. She will serve five years' jail term for kidnapping. The magistrate also convicted the trio to three years in jail for assaulting the victim. The complainant had testified that she had received a loan of Sh40,000 from her friend and he had failed to pay it on time. On the day she was abducted, they had gone to Kiserian to see the creditor so that they could agree on how he would pay. She told the court that the accused persons assaulted her, causing her serious injuries. “One of the accused persons was hitting me with his shoes on my head and they were beating me all over my body; another accused person strangled me and hit my jaw with a fist and I passed out,” she testified in court. During sentencing, the magistrate noted that the accused persons humiliated the victim before committing the offence. He ruled that long term sentencing was no longer applicable following a precedent set by the Supreme Court. In mitigation, the suspects pleaded for mercy and told the court that they were remorseful. The convicts have 14 days to appeal the decision.   (edited by o. owino)