Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Monday supported Education CS Gorge Magoha's order to parents to pay school fees. “I think people misunderstood the minister, what he meant is that parents who are able to pay school fees must do so and principals and head teachers know these students,” Duale said. The former Majority leader spoke at NEP Girls High School where he distributed revision books for both primary and secondary students. He regretted the backlash that followed Magoha's statement, saying that he saw it wise to come out and defend him. "Let us be honest with each other our; children who are in school need to eat and we also have other bills that need to be cleared like electricity. When we all refuse to pay, how will the schools run?” Duale said. He urged head teachers to be sympathetic to parents who ‘can genuinely not pay school fees', noting that they know them. “Amongst us are parents who lost their jobs during the pandemic, some were forced to close their businesses. Our teachers are human beings and they understand this, they have the conscience [to judge for themselves],” he said. Magoha told parents last week to pay third term school fees arrears for their children. Those who fail to do so will have their children sent home, he said. He directed principals to ensure parents settle fees arrears but noted that students from humble backgrounds or whose parents lost jobs due to the pandemic, should not be sent home. “I ask the principals to double-check and confirm that the child they are sending home is not from a poor family or a family where the parent lost a job,” the CS said. The directive by Magoha has since been criticised and lauded  by a section of parents. Those who hit out at him described the directive as insensitive, accusing the CS of not being alive to the fact that the majority of Kenyans were still struggling as a result of the effects of the coronavirus. The government has released Sh9.3 billion capitation funds for primary and secondary schools countrywide. The CS said the government will soon release another Sh6.5 billion funding to the schools. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)