 Residents of Quarry in Joska, Machakos county have faulted police laxity for the killing of a 62-year-old watchman in the area two weeks ago. Hudson Waifafu was brutally murdered by thugs at Rockland Garden Makuti restaurant on May 25. He was at work that night. The matter was reported to the KBC police station in Matungulu subcounty. A senior police officer at the station told the Star the matter was under investigation by detectives from the DCI. No suspects have so far been arrested. The restaurant’s manager Elisha Olwalo a brand new TV set worth Sh17,000 was stolen from the establishment days before the watchman was murdered. The theft was also reported to police but no arrests have been made. “The TV set was two days old and was bought by the club’s proprietor,” Olwalo told the Star on Sunday. Olwalo said he was with Waifafu on the morning of May 25 and they both left for Nairobi town on different errands. “I left him here as I went to town. He said he wanted to go to Kibera to see his sick grandchild,” Olwalo said. He added, “So, I left and he also left afterward. We spoke during the day and he told me that he got to Kibera and found that the grandchild had died. He returned to the club for work that evening.” The body was taken to Kangundo Level 4 Hospital mortuary. Waifafu had worked at the club as a watchman for many years. His previous employer sold the club after the Covid-19 crisis before the new management took over. Olwalo said the guard had worked for them for less than two months before he was murdered. Not much is known about Waifafu or his family. He lived alone at a servant quarter at the club. Not much was known about his family by his colleagues and neighbors. When reached on phone by the Star, his sister declined to comment. “Yes, I am the deceased’s sister but I can’t discuss the matter on phone with a stranger,” she said. Muthwani MCA George King’ori condemned the murder. He blamed it on police laxity. “It can't be that people have retreated to their homes as curfew sets in yet some thugs are allowed to kill freely because police are not on patrol," King'ori said. He criticised the police saying they were readily available to enforce the wearing of masks and curfew directives but cannot hunt down criminals. “It is sad that police harass residents to wear face masks and obey curfew hours but cannot guarantee their security." Butcher Samwel Magara said Waifafu's killers did not steal anything from him. Magara's butchery is next to the club. He described the slain watchman as a sociable character.  