Former World cross country junior bronze medallist Mathew Kisorio will be the key highlight as he seeks to defend his Eldoret City Marathon on Sunday morning in Eldoret town, Uasin Gishu county. The two-time Africa Junior 5,000m and 10,00m champion will, however, be up against formidable opposition including Robert Korir and  Justus Kangogo among others. At stake for the prestigious marathon title will be Sh3.5 million for the winners in the 42 Km races. Eldoret City Marathon will be the first physical marathon on Kenyan soil since the Covid-19 pandemic struck over one year ago. The Sunday race has attracted 838 athletes among whom 570 will feature in the men's race. The event has attracted 10 countries and the top 20 runners across the finish line will be rewarded. With women defending champion Valary Aiyabei Jemeli out of the contention, 161 athletes will battle for the top honours. According to the final entry list, the race has attracted runners from Argentina, Austria, Poland, Russia, South Sudan, Taiwan, the USA, Uganda and the United Kingdom. Race director, Moses Tanui,  said the number of entries for the race had increased compared to previous editions and this, he attributed to lack of races due to Covid-19. “We have registered a good number of athletes.  The athletes have been in the cold and are looking forward to the Sunday race. They welcome the chance to run in the Eldoret Marathon,” said the two-time Boston Marathon champion. The race will start at the University of Eldoret stretching through the Chepkoilel junction, before taking a turn towards Mwanzo estate through the veterinary junction. The athletes will then make numerous turns within Eldoret CBD before exiting through Kisumu road to Elgon View area then connect to Kapsoya estate before proceeding to the Zion Mall finishing point through Uganda Road. All the roads will be closed by 5.00 am and race director Moses Tanui has urged residents to bear with them since this is common with marathons across the globe. “We are looking forward to a good race and we are happy that it is finally happening after numerous hiccups. This year is different because it is happening when we are in the middle of a pandemic and no fan will be allowed on the course. I would like to urge everyone to just follow the race on local channels,” said Tanui.