Two years before he was killed in May 2016, businessman Jacob Juma had sued a Nairobi man for plotting his death. He produced phone records and testified in court how the man also threatened him verbally. The threats began with a phone call. "I received a call from a man who informed me that another man had requested my number," Juma told the court. Days later, he said, he was in his kitchen balcony, which faced the T-junction on Brookside Drive, when he saw a Toyota Landcruiser with some men inside. He told the court that he then saw one man alight from the car and others who were all dressed in suits. The group of five conversed for a moment. "When they a lightened, I called an officer, Ali from Spring Valley police station, and informed him that some people had come to kill me," Juma told the court. After making the calls, he went to the house alone. The officer came to his apartment after 20 minutes. Joseph Muindi, an officer attached to the Gigiri police station, also testified. Muindi said he was on patrol when he received a call from the late DCIO Ali Hasan who informed him to proceed to Brookside Drive in Westlands where he was to meet with Jacob Juma. "He gave me Jacob's contact and I called him. He received the call and gave me directions and upon arrival, Juma informed me that he had spotted five men outside his gate," the court heard. Juma took Muindi to the scene where the five men had been spotted. While they were driving along Brookside Drive, they spotted one of the suspects. Muindi arrested him and caught up with the others as well. They took the suspects to the police station and upon search, they recovered a Taurus pistol and 11 rounds of ammunition. The investigating officer was to testify and close the case but was unavailable on Friday because of the Safari Rally. In the case, Samuel Brian Otumba has been charged with threatening to kill Juma in 2014. He allegedly used two different numbers on November 8, 2014. Otumba denies the charges. The charge sheet says that he sent a text message to Juma which says: "U tried to a grab land in Karen yesterday and Magelo warned you . U now think wifes are plot!!! lets meet tonight my wife is not Kate." Otumba alongside Patrick Ochieng Okumu, Kennedy Otieno Omwanda and Salmon Njoga Otira were together charged with planning to commit a felony.  They denied the charges and are out on bond. The case will proceed next month. 