Vihiga Queens' coach Alex Alumira is worried about the threat posed by 'dark horses' Wadadia  ahead of the Kenya Women's Premier League playoffs that start on June 19. Queens are bidding to win the WPL title for a fourth consecutive time in their history but will face an uphill task against a rapid-improving Wadadia should the two sides meet at any stage during the playoffs. The venue for the playoffs is yet to be known. Alumira is concerned that despite their inexperience in the playoffs, the Godfrey Mabonga-tutored side, who are primed for a second place finish in Zone 'B' with two matches remaining, are a dangerous outfit that always throw caution to the wind thus will be hard to play against. With striker Ruth Chebungei in imperious form, Wadadia are a force to reckon with. "Wadadia have come of age and it's one of the teams we have to be cautious about. They are very dangerous in how they play. They always fight without worrying about risks or negative results so they are a tricky opposition. The other five teams (Vihiga, Thika, Nakuru, Gaspo and Ulinzi Starlets) have played in the playoffs before and know what is required at that level especially with regards to game management," the serial winning coach said. Alumira, however, promised to stick to his guns tactically and said the predictability in his team selection will not be detrimental as far as their chances of going all the way is concerned. Nonetheless, he wants his charges to get the job done when they play Kisumu All Starlets and Trans Nzoia Falcons in their last two matches as the season gets to the business end. "Vihiga are predictable and everybody knows who'll start or who plays where. Teams will come with the agenda of stopping us but we will have different solutions depending on circumstances. Queens need to collect maximum points against Kisumu and Trans-Nzoia teams. The away match to Kisumu All Starlets will be tough but winnable," Alumira said. Vihiga Queens have registered 34 points from a possible 36. The defending champions have drawn only once in their last 12 matches with the 2-2 all draw against Nakuru West Queens the only time the county-sponsored team has dropped points. Queens will also represent Kenya in the Cecafa women's Champions League in August on home soil.