Students from private schools were discriminated against in the Form 1 selection by being placed in secondary schools that did not match their performances. Kenya Secondary School Heads Association and Knut officials have accused the Education ministry of deliberately working to disadvantage learners in private schools. They said they had received complaints from parents and school owners about the Form 1 selection which was concluded last week. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary-general for Embu branch Josphat Kathumi said most private schools feel their 2020 KCPE candidates were not placed in schools that marched their performance. Kathumi said the skewed selection will discourage students from working hard because they see no reason to put in hard labour when they won't access the best schools. "I call upon Education CS Prof George Magoha to consider selecting learners according to their performance because there is classification of schools from subcounty schools to national levels, one of the reasons teachers and students work hard to attain the marks that can secure them places in top schools," Kathumi said in his office on Thursday. He said teachers often motivate learners to work hard so they can secure places in the best schools. "So when a student works hard and gets a good score but fails to secure a place in the top schools, he or she feels demotivated," Kathumi said. The official claimed the selection was unfair and did not follow the procedure. Candidates are often asked to choose schools where they would like to be placed before sitting their Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams. Kathumi said those choices should be considered when placing learners in secondary schools. While Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman for Embu branch Benson Njiru downplayed the claims and asked parents to take their children to local secondary schools, the Knut official thought otherwise. "I can't compare a school with all facilities to a school with some because that makes a huge difference and plays a big role in boosting students performance. I also disagree that a child can perform better in any school because teachers teach differently depending on their students. Students who scored poorly often feel under pressure to do well in a class of fast learners and this leads to dropping out because they feel misplaced," Kathumi said. Njiru said it would be unfortunate for the ministry to discriminate against private schools. He called for an end to such discrimination if the claims were true. He said he had also received similar complaints.  Edited by P.O