A supplies company has refunded Sh20 million to Turkana county for a fire engine worth Sh50 million. The money had been paid in advance for the fire engine. The supplier had failed to honour the purchase, leading to court cases including criminal charges approved by the DPP. The county had sued Winston International Limited for breach of contract in a Civil Case No. 384 of 2018 and the High Court ordered the company to pay back the advance money. Through Ondieki and Ondieki Advocates, the company on Thursday wrote to the Director of Public Prosecutions, requesting the case be resolved after they refunded the money. The county still doesn't have the fire engine. “The company has duly refunded Sh20,180,050 to the Turkana county government, we would appreciate if you  resolve the matter within the meaning of the Article 159 (2) (c) (e) as read with Preamble, Article 10 and 252 (1) (b) of the Constitution.”  the letter from the law firm said. In its defence, the company said it had tried to refund the money last year but the county did not provide bank accounts. In March, the DPP approved recommendations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to charge eight Turkana county officials involved in irregular procurement of the fire engine worth Sh50 million. EACC also recommended that directors of Winston International Company Limited which won the tender to supply the engine be charged because the company had received advance payment. In April, the eight county officials were charged in Eldoret. They included finance executive Joseph Emathe Namuar, former director of procurement Emuro Oboo, former chief officer for lands Mark Ewesit. Also charged were Mohammed Akram Khan and Naweed Akram Khan, the  directors of Winston International. They faced 19 charges including conspiracy to commit an economic crime, abuse of office, unauthorised spending of money and unlawful acquisition of public property. The accused did not however take a plea and the matter is still pending. In the 2014-2015 financial year, the county assembly allocated Sh50 million for the procurement of a fire engine. The department was to spend the balance of Sh7.4 million to set up a fire station.  The company was to deliver the fire truck before the end of October 2016. Meanwhile the Kenya Pipeline Company will collaborate with counties to help them train experts in fire fighting and handling other disasters. KPC managing director Macharia Irungu says the country needs more experts to handle disasters like fire which is a common occurrence in most urban areas. The company partnered with Uasin Gishu county to train 30 youth in fire handling at the Morendat Institute of Oil and Gas. Irungu said they will help to enhance the county's capacity to handle fire incidents. He was speaking on Saturday during graduation of the youth in Eldoret. During the event, Governor Jackson Mandago urged youths across the county to take advantage of government's programme of strengthening technical education. He said the county identified  huge potential and expertise in Kenya pipeline and decided to collaborate so that the city is well prepared. "We are aspiring to be a city and part of the requirement under the Urban Cities Act is disaster preparedness. Wwe cannot attain that without well trained fire fighting and disaster management experts," Mandago said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)