Kenya is set to hold this year’s African Green Revolution Forum summit in September. The AGRF Summit convenes players in the agricultural sector to share lessons and make commitments to moving African agriculture forward. The Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa said the forum is scheduled for September 7 to 10 and will have 500 in-person participants. Another 10,000 participants will join virtually from more than 150 countries. Former Ethiopian PM and AGRA board chair Hailemariam Desalegn said the summit will help the Kenyan private sector to showcase their innovations towards sustainable food systems. Desalegn spoke on Friday during a private sector breakfast meeting in Nairobi. “AGRF 2021 will also provide you with an opportunity to seek and build new partnerships with organisations that can work with the Kenyan private sector towards sustainable food systems, as we have only nine years to SDG 2030 goals,” he said. Desalegn said an agribusiness deal-room will be set up at the forum to attract investment into the Kenyan private sector. “Those seeking investors will be able to share their investment needs with over 50 global investors with an interest in African agriculture. Over the past three years, more than 300 African companies have shared investment needs in excess of $1.4 billion (about Sh110 billion),” he said. Desalegn said Kenya remains a beacon of success in the agriculture sector and the AGRF Summit is a chance for the world to see what progress the country is making. AGRA president Agnes Kalibata said the forum is designed to build political will and advance policies, programmes and investments for sustainable agricultural transformation across the continent. “The forum works explicitly to help African countries and the continent make continuous progress to achieve the visions set in the Malabo Declaration and related Comprehensive Africa Agriculture Development Programme, the Sustainable Development Goals, and Africa’s Agenda 2063,” she said. The latest FAO 'State of Food Security and Nutrition in the World' report shows several states are off track to achieve the commitment to end hunger, food insecurity and all forms of malnutrition by 2030. “In 2020, the Covid-19 pandemic, as well as unprecedented desert locust outbreaks in Eastern Africa, are obscuring economic prospects in ways no one could have anticipated, and the situation may only get worse if we do not act urgently and take unprecedented action,” FAO said. Desalegn said private sector firms are investing to support farmers access the right yield enhancing technologies (seed, fertiliser, crop protection chemicals), finance, markets, post-harvest technologies, irrigation, and mechanisation services. “I want to urge you to lead in developing innovative ways in which we support smallholder farmers as they are major players in developing sustainable food systems,” he said.  