Shipping lines and agents operating in Kenya will now be mandated to use the Maritime Single Window System as the country moves to comply with the International Maritime Organization rules. The system will be used to electronically prepare and submit vessel pre-arrival and pre-departure declarations to the government agencies at the Port of Mombasa. Kenya Trade Network Agency (KenTrade) has partnered with the Kenya Maritime Authority (KMA in the implementation of the maritime single window system as an E-Maritime module of the Kenya TradeNet System, to comply with the International Maritime Organization Convention on Facilitation of Maritime Traffic known as FAL Convention. The country is among the 120 governments (member states) that have ratified the FAL Convention. The FAL Convention recommends the use of the “Single Window” concept in which the agencies and authorities involved exchange data via a single point of contact, in a move aimed at improving port services with reducing vessel delays expected to save traders from demurrage charges. This is a charge payable to the owner of a chartered ship on failure to load or discharge the ship within the time agreed. For instance in 2017, Kenya paid an average $23 million (Sh2.5 billion) as demurrage on oil imports alone. With the new system, it eases the process of vessel clearance for arrival and departure where shipping agents can share information almost immediately to numerous state agencies. They include KMA, Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Ports Authority, State Department of Immigration, Port Health, National Environment Management Authority, Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service and the Kenya Coast Guard Service. The new directive took effect on June 2. Documents which have been automated includes the IMO General Declaration form, cargo declaration, ship’s stores declaration, crew’s effects declaration, crew’s list, passenger list, dangerous goods manifest, last ports of call and maritime declaration of health form. Others are waste and fuel declaration form, international ship and port facility security and SOLAS (The International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea) forms and ship certificates (IMO, Flag state, class society, radio equipment). “ As part of our mandate for trade facilitation, the Kenya Trade Network Agency (KenTrade), through the E-Maritime Module (Kenya Maritime Single Window System) seeks to provide harmonised and simplified ship to shore clearance procedures to the maritime stakeholders,” Kentrade and KMA said in a joint statement. The duo have received support from TradeMark East Africa, which has been instrumental in supporting infrastructure and systems development, aimed at improving trade in the region. KenTrade) is a state corporation under the National Treasury and Planning whose key mandate is to facilitate international trade in Kenya by managing the Kenya TradeNet System which is credited by the World Bank for enhancing customs clearance, increasing competitiveness and reducing the cost of doing business in Kenya. The Kenya TradeNet System is the online platform that serves as a single-entry point for parties involved in international trade and transport logistics to lodge documents electronically, for processing, approvals and to make payments electronically for fees and levies due to the partner government agencies, on goods imported or exported in Kenya. Migrating to the electronic platform will play a critical role in boosting cargo handing at the Port of Mombasa which serves up to 58 vessels a week, mainly container vessels, conventional vessels and oil tankers.