Manchester United forward Mason Greenwood has been withdrawn from England's provisional squad for the European Championship due to an underlying injury, the Premier League club announced on Tuesday. Greenwood was part of England's 33-man provisional squad named last month as manager Gareth Southgate played for time before whittling the numbers down. Southgate was set to trim his squad down to 26 players later on Tuesday. United said Greenwood had pulled out to recover fully from the injury that also forced him out of the Under-21 European Championship in March. "Mason's club appearances were managed carefully to maintain his availability through the intensive 2020-21 Premier League and Europa League schedules," the club said in a statement. "But a further spell of tournament football would not be beneficial and Mason will remain at United to recuperate and prepare for pre-season training." The June 11-July 11 Euro 2020 is being held across Europe, with semi-finals and the final at London's Wembley Stadium as well as some group stage games. England play Austria in a friendly on Wednesday and meet Romania on Sunday, before their Euro 2020 Group D campaign starts with games against Croatia, Scotland and Czech Republic. Meanwhile, Barcelona on Tuesday confirmed that Manchester City defender Eric Garcia would join them on July 1 when his contract with the Premier League champions expires. Garcia will return to his boyhood club on a deal until the end of the 2025-26 campaign after three years at City and follows striker Sergio Aguero in making the switch from Manchester to the Camp Nou. Barca said they had included a 400 million euros ($489.52 million) buyout clause in the 20-year-old Garcia's contract. The defender was limited to 12 matches in all competitions during the 2020-21 season due to injuries and illness. He is set to be unveiled at the Camp Nou later on Tuesday. Aguero, the Cityzen's all-time leading goalscorer, was unveiled on Monday at a press conference and expressed his eagerness to play alongside long-time friend Leo Messi.