Turkana leaders have urged the government to recruit and vet National Police Reservists to curb banditry in Turkana East. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok and Turkana East MP Ali Lokiru have deplored the attacks in Turkana East that forced more than 6,000 people to flee for their lives. “Residents of Lopii in Turkana East fled their homes after Pokot bandits attacked them and stole their livestock. We have come to console them, give them hope and urge them to go back to their homes,” the governor said. “We will do all we can as leaders to make sure peace prevails. We want the government to recruit National Police Reservists so that they can protect people and livestock,” he added. Governor Nanok said his people are ready for peace, but Pokot bandits are camping in Turkana East to attack and displace his people. “Security officers don't know our people best and that’s why we need National Police Reservists to protect our people. The government had operation Kapedo to mop up illegal firearms and flush out cattle rustlers, but it was stopped," he said. "Many security officers were disarmed and dropped from the service, where they lived among communities. They are to be recruited, revetted, retrained and live in police camps. We were not even informed why it was stopped." He said the lifting of the dusk-to-dawn curfew in Kapedo has given bandits the audacity to raid Turkana. MP Lokiru said the attacks are not normal, saying they are well-planned and funded by government officials. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said they are not 'normal' cattle rustlers but criminal gangs. “There is no way suspected Pokot bandits can exchange firearms with security teams for more than seven days. Where do they get ammunition without being funded by politicians? We are aware of leaders with interests in geothermal and other resources at Suguta Valley,” Lokiru said. He said leaders are fuelling banditry attacks to displace Turkana residents and take over their resources. On June 10, bandits believed to have come from Tiaty, Baringo county, raided Lopii in Turkana East. They shot and injured a police officer, damaged four police vehicles and drove away many animals. Lopii chief Benjamin Ebenyo said donkeys, goats, cows and camels were stolen from 50 households during the attack. More than 6,000 residents, including schoolchildren of Lopii Primary School, have fled to Nakukulas, he said. Turkana East subcounty police commander Edwin Ongwari said while security officers were pursuing the bandits, they were ambushed in Kachalanga village in Lokori. “The officers engaged the bandits in a fierce one-hour fight, injuring a police officer attached to lorry police station. He was shot near the ankle. The security team overpowered the bandits and repulsed them towards River Kerio. In January, a senior police officer was fatally shot by bandits in Kapedo, Turkana county. Three other officers were wounded in the attack. The government imposed a 30-day curfew in parts of Baringo and Turkana counties to restore order. Authorities recovered 43 firearms. (Edited by V. Graham) 