Political parties are having a hard time controlling their members in the assembly. The Jubilee Party has directed its MCAs not to vote on amending the Standing Orders to remove the role of political parties in determining the assembly leadership. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju in a letter dated May 28 said  Jubilee does not approve of the attempt to undermine the mandate of the political parties as envisaged in law. Last month, a section of ODM legislators said they wanted to change the Standing Orders and prevent parties from choosing majority and minority leaders. “We have learnt with dismay of an attempt by some MCAs to change the Standing Orders of the County Assembly to remove the role of the political parties in determining the leadership in the House,” the letter read. Tuju said changing the Standing Orders will diminish the role of the Jubilee Party in determining party leadership in the assembly. “This is to communicate to you the party position: that you withdraw the participation of all Jubilee MCAs in this matter,” he added. The letter was addressed to Majority leader Abdi Guyo and copied to Majority Whip Paul Kados. Political parties have been appointing leadership at county assemblies — majority and minority leaders, their deputies, majority and minority whips and their deputies. Standing order number 20 states, "... the largest party or coalition of parties in the County Assembly shall designate member of the Assembly belonging to the party or coalition of parties to be the leader of the majority party, deputy majority leader, majority whip and deputy majority whip. The same applies in Standing Order 21 , where the minority party designates the leader of minority, deputy minority leader, minority whip and deputy minority whip. In a letter dated May 26,Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi proposed to delete Standing Orders 20 and 21 that refer to county assembly political parties leadership. The letter was addressed to Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura and seconded by Huruma MCA David Okelo and Waithaka ward rep Antony Kiragu. In the new proposals, Oyugi wants the Standing orders be amended to read: "The largest party or coalition of parties in the assembly shall elect [instead of delegate]. This means MCAs want the power to designate assembly leaders removed from political parties, and instead elect their own leadership. Oyugi has also proposed MCAs should consider the need for gender balance and any existing coalition agreement entered into pursuant to the Political Parties Act. To remove the elected leaders, two-thirds votes of all MCAs of the majority or minority party or coalition of parties in the assembly will be required. Justifying his proposals, Oyugi explained the amendments accord with Commonwealth practice on the management of parties in the House and legislature generally. “These amendments are intended to ensure that Standing Orders improve on the existing arrangements and clearly detail the processes by which these leaders shall come about and related procedures,” he said. The Star has established the letter had already been committed to the Rules and Procedures committee, which met on May 27, to deliberate. The resolutions by the committee ought to have been submitted to the speaker who would then communicate the matter on the floor of the House. The proposal came at a time when leadership wrangles had persisted in the ODM party at the assembly. On the same day, the Raila Odinga-led party dewhipped seven MCAs for going against the party position and acting contrary to party instructions. ODM chairman John Mbadi called upon embattled Minority Whip Peter Imwatok to take action and remove the MCAs from all assembly committees. "As the party pursues avenues in resolving issues bedeviling the minority party in the assembly, you are hereby instructed to discharge the following members from all committees until such a time to be communicated by my office," the letter read. The seven included Oyugi, Lower Savannah MCA Nicholas Okumu, Kabiro’s Clarence Munga, Fredrick Omondi of Kayole Central, Jared Okode of Mathare North, Redson Otieno of Ngei ward and his counterpart Maurice Gari of Nairobi West. These MCAs took part in a coup attempt to attempt to remove Makongeni MCA Imwatok as the minority whip. In the changes, Okumu replaced Imwatok as the minority whip, a culmination of a two-week-long process to remove him from the office. The move began early last month, led by Oyugi who claimed to have collected 32 signatures, out of 56 ODM members, in support of the move. Nonetheless, Imwatok said the actions amounted to gross misconduct and insubordination under ODM's constitution and party disciplinary rules. However, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the party had not sanctioned such a move and was investigating the actions of the MCAs. “Kindly note that the party has not made any changes to the leadership and the same did not originate from us. While my office attempts to ascertain the propriety or otherwise of the actions taken, we urge the status quo ante be reverted to immediately," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)