Kandara MP Alice Wahome has told Jubilee Party to ready itself for more defections to UDA party. The MP, a diehard supporter of Deputy President William Ruto, on Tuesday said mismanagement of Jubilee has caused it to lose favour with Kenyans. She said the party is characterised by deceit and dishonesty, and its leadership has demonstrated unwillingness to put its affairs in order. Wahome while addressing her constituents said that a number of political leaders including several governors are on their way to UDA. She said this a few days after Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba decamped from the Jubilee Party in a move that caused jitters in the ruling party. Wamuchomba, formerly a strong supporter of the President, said she had consulted her constituents before making the move. Wahome welcomed Wamuchomba and her counterparts Gabriel Kago (Githunguri) and David Gikaria (Nakuru East) into the party. “Wamuchomba realised that she was losing ground and it is her right to try her luck elsewhere,” Wahome said. “I have consistently said that Jubilee Party is dead as a dodo. This is regrettable because we did a lot of work on it but it is just filled with conmanship, there is nothing we can do because we cannot save a dying horse,” she said. She accused the leadership of Jubilee of killing the party off to shield Ruto from using it as his vehicle in the next elections, saying it is led by people with questionable integrity. Wahome said that the UDA party has opened its doors to anybody willing to join, adding that it will not mismanage the country when it forms the next government. UDA party is doing everything possible to ensure it wins in the Kiambaa constituency by-elections. “Let them prepare for a major political battle with UDA. We are in Kiambaa and we are not shying away. We want to bring the seat home under UDA,” she said. She challenged ODM party leader Raila Odinga to focus on preparing his political vehicle, saying the UDA party has already established its structures and is now busy undertaking recruitment. The MP who is also a lawyer dismissed calls by some quarters to push for the postponement of the elections until BBI is passed. The Constitution provides for elections every five years and Kenyans are ready for new leadership even in the grassroots. She expressed optimism that the seven-judge bench hearing the BBI appeal will make the right decision. “We know their decision will be guided by the constitution and the law. I have faith in the judiciary and I know the judges are full of wisdom,” she said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)