Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has challenged those criticising Deputy President William Ruto to change tack instead of mentioning him every now and then. Mutua said that both President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are strengthening Ruto politically by mentioning him in events. Speaking in the Pipeline area, Embakasi, NairobiThursday, Mutua challenged the two and other political leaders to change their strategy. “The politics of Kenya has become about strategising how people will oppose William Ruto. When you hear how Uhuru is speaking, how Raila is speaking, and how other leaders are speaking, they are commonly planning how to defeat William Ruto,” Mutua said. "...speaking on things touching on Ruto, it gives him more credit. Leaders, let us stop talking about Ruto and discuss what we will do to the citizens, and what agenda we have for them because the more we talk about Ruto every time, we are giving him more marks which makes him appear in the newspapers.” The governor’s remarks come days after the State House meeting that brought together leaders from the Ukambani region, of which he was among the attendants. Mutua boarded the Nairobi commuter train from Nairobi CBD to Pipeline interacting with the people before addressing them as he popularises his Maendeleo Chap Chap (MCC) party by registering voters as party members. He asked the residents to consider him as the best man for presidency come 2022 general elections, adding that it is time that the country gets new leadership from the names which have been heard before. “When the time comes, I will be on the ballot to say that the time to liberate Kenya has come…that is where you will find Alfred Mutua who will take the country ahead in terms of progress.” “I urge you to support me. I will transform the politics of Kenya and the country’s matters will progress.” Mutua also asked Kenyans to unite and stay in peace. During the State House meeting, the President asked Ukambani leaders to work in unity as the 2022 elections approach.