The TSC has opened talks for a better pay deal for teachers after the resignation of abrasive Wilson Sossion as head of the of Kenya National Union of Teachers. Teachers Service Commission CEO has invited Knut on Tuesday for negotiations on a new CBA at the Safari Park Hotel. The current contract expires at the end of June. It will cover 2021-25 and, among other things, seeks to negotiate a pay rise for teachers. The letter dated June 25 corresponds with the date of Sossion’s resignation. It states that the agenda  be “tabling of the commission’s offer and negotiating the 2021-2025 CBA”, among other issues The letter comes days after the Kenya National Union of Teachers election and the elevation of Collins Oyuu to the position of the secretary general. Oyuu had openly opposed contentious Sossion's style of leadership. He will oversee the negotiations for the Knut side while Akello Misori will lead the Kuppet delegation for  the Kenya Union of Post-Primary Teachers. The negotiations will also include Kenya Union of Special Needs Education Teachers under the leadership of James Torome. On Monday, Oyuu told the Star the union looked forward to the negotiations. He said that they would ensure their members rightfully gain what they deserve. “The union is now back and running and we promise teachers a new CBA,” Oyuu told the Star. Knut could now be headed on a path to mending the collapsing relationship that has defined the union and TSC in the last three years. Over the last year, the TSC stopped engaging the union and even sought to revoke the recognition agreement with the union. Sossion, like Kuppet chairman Omboko Milemba, had been deregistered as teachers for their political affiliation, which became grounds for Sossion to exit. He had been appointed to Parliament. When it opened negotiations for a new pay deal for teachers, the TSC  had exclusively engaged KUPPET and requests by  Sossion to initiate the negotiations failed. The negotiations have not yielded much, with Kuppet rioting in June and accusing the TSC of being sluggish in negotiating. Kuppet said it had submitted its offer and has been expecting a counter offer six months ago. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)