Human rights lobby groups want the Murang’a county assembly to halt the renewal of the Kakuzi land lease for its alleged poor treatment of workers and residents. Kenyan Human Rights Commission on Sunday lobbied the UK market to sustain a boycott of Kakuzi’s products. The boycott was meant to compel the firm to make changes on its poor human rights record by starving Kakuzi of the lucrative UK market. The efforts are intended to cut off its revue flow in a bid to hold its feet to fire until it addresses all the human rights concerns against it. The lobby says it will also engage other players that the firm depends on to broaden the boycott on Kakuzi products “until there is a demonstrable change in attitude and behaviour on the part of Kakuzi.” Kakuzi, KHRC and Ndula Resource Centre have been engaged in feuds over allegations of human rights abuses of its employees and the local communities. The abuses are alleged to have been meted against residents by the company’s guards. The guards are alleged to have let the company’s vicious dogs on members of the local community accused of trespassing into its space. KHRC has partnered with a UK-based law firm Leigh Day to sue Kakuzi’s parent company Camellia PLC at a London High Court over the alleged abuses. The parent company entered an out of court settlement on February 11, promising to spend up to Sh645 million in settling individual claims and legal fees related to the human rights abuses committed by the Kakuzi security guards. The London suit had 85 claimants who lived around the Kakuzi firm. However, KHRC and Ndula Resource Centre released a statement on February 14 asserting that the efforts were not enough. It called for sustained pressure on the company as it detailed other alleged crimes attributed to the firm. Kakuzi sued the two lobbies, accusing them of slander. It sought that they should withdraw the press statement and apologise. But the two lobbies, while reiterating their February demands on Sunday, said they would assert more pressure so that the company becomes more accountable to the local community. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)