The Livestock department is on the spot over missing bulk milk coolers that were procured in the financial year to June 2019. The department procured 350 coolers of 3,000 litres capacity at Sh2.3 billion but only 190 have been delivered, of which 120 have been installed. In a review of the department’s accounts as at June 30, 2020, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said no status report was provided to indicate where or whether the remaining 70 coolers had been installed. “In the absence of a status report, it is not possible to confirm whether the remaining 160 bulk milk coolers with a value of Sh1 billion were ever delivered and installed,” she said. The auditor further revealed that some of the coolers were either not functional or being under-utilised by 14 bulk milk coolers cooperatives in Kisumu, Nakuru, Narok, Kitui, Embu and Nyeri counties. “In some cases, the coolers had been vandalised and had missing parts as there was no security, others had not been fully installed, while others were simply idle,” Gathungu said. She held that it was not clear whether key stakeholders had been fully involved and sensitised in the conception of the project. The project was to be implemented in collaboration with the county governments, the Kenya Dairy Board, farmer cooperatives, among others. Milk farmers have for years grappled with storage challenges making  them sell their produce to brokers—some unscrupulous—at throwaway prices. The Kenya Dairy Board has over time called on farmers to use the facilities saying only 37 per cent of the installed capacity (3.4 million litres per day) is being used. The milk coolers headlined the queries at the state department with the auditor further raising issues pointing to possibilities of loss of taxpayers money. For instance, the department has been cited for irregular management and control of imprests amid revelations some officers were issued with multiple imprests of Sh40 million. Gathungu cited a violation of the law providing that no payment be extended to an applicant with outstanding imprests. The auditor is also concerned that the value of Kabete Veterinary Farm L.R No.189R (1,634 acres) and L.R No.2952 (1,278 acres) has not been included in the fixed assets balance of Sh3.8 billion. Undetermined parcels of land and buildings spread all over the country whose details in regard to size, location, value and ownership could not be determined, were not included in the balance. The auditor said the department did not also provide its asset register for review hence a breach of the law as it could not be confirmed that its assets had been properly safeguarded. Gathungu further decried the situation of the department lacking an assets management unit yet it holds valuable property across the country. “It was noted that some of the properties were poorly maintained. No reason was given for the failure to have them (a ceiling at Beekeeping Institute) repaired.” Two legal suits that have caused outstanding bills compounded by huge interests and penalties are also a cause of concern. One case involved Halal Meat Products Ltd versus the Agriculture ministry which the court awarded Sh5.4 billion, later negotiated to Sh4 billion out of court. The other case involved the claim of Sh25 million interest by Associated Architects —a firm which was awarded a contract through direct procurement for consultancy services in the construction of Mifugo House. “It is not clear, and no satisfactory explanation was provided on why the consultant should be paid the contract sum, yet no construction was undertaken,” Gathungu said. The department’s Sh230 million pending bills was also queried in the report for the year to June 2020. -Edited by SKanyara