 Workers at the Nzoia Sugar Company on Friday blocked suspended MD Michael Makokha from accessing his office despite a court directive that he resumes duty. Makokha was on June 7 suspended by Agriculture CS Peter Munya who cited several complaints from both farmers and workers at the miller. Munya appointed Chrispine Omondi to replace Makokha in an acting capacity. But a labour court on Tuesday lifted Makokha's suspension and allowed him to resume work. But irate workers and sugarcane farmers say Makokha is no longer welcome at the factory. They have blocked three attempts by the suspended managing director to access his office after the court order. The irate workers, who sang circumcision songs, accused Makokha of running down the factory during his two-year tenure. They said Munya was right to suspend the director. Nzoia Sugar Workers Union secretary-general Benard Wanyonyi said Makokha had worsened the suffering of farmers. He assumed office when farmers were owed Sh160 million. That debt has risen to Sh700 million, Wanyonyi said. He said workers could go without salaries for only two months. But that had worsened to even 10 months during Makokha's time. "We as workers have not been paid for 10 months," Wanyonyi said. Farmers led by Kennedy Kibeti said they will not allow Makokha back to the factory. Makokha was with his lawyer Byran Khaemba when irate farmers and workers blocked him from accessing his office. Khaemba said his client was illegally suspended. "It's only the board of directors at the company that has powers to suspend or fire the MD but not any other person," Khaemba said. The lawyer defended his client against accusations of running down the firm, saying Nzoia Sugar's woes were beyond Makokha and required concerted efforts by all stakeholders. "We have cheap sugar that is being smuggled into the country that has ruined the market and other issues that Makokha has tried to address since taking office," Khaemba said. He accused politicians of inciting residents against the factory's management. Makokha said he was back in office and was ready to steer the factory to greater heights. "As you all know, I am a respecter of law and as the court has ordered, I am back in office and ready to continue with the good work I have been doing," he said. Khaemba said the debts that farmers claim had accumulated were there even before Makokha took over. He said his client had the interests of farmers at heart and ought to be supported to fully revamp the state mill. "The incitement by politicians is uncalled for and they should not put their interests ahead of those of farmers," Khaemba said. He said political leaders from the larger western region were to blame for the collapse of Mumias Sugar Company and asked residents to be wary of such people.  Edited by P.O