A businessman accused of attempting to kill Ronalo restaurant owner William Osewe in 2016 has urged a Nairobi court to acquit him. The judgment will be handed down on August 11. Tom Oywa Mboya said on Monday he was defending himself from Osewe who was armed. Evidence showed he was not armed. He also previously said he was provoked beyond human endurance when Osewe allegedly threatened to chop off his penis and kill him. In any case, the sentence should be lenient, he said. The two men were fighting over Osewe's wife; he accused Mboya of sleeping with her. Osewe, the owner of the popular Ranalo or K'osewe Foods along Kimathi Street, Nairobi, was shot on December 1, 2016. Senior counsel Prof Tom Ojienda asked chief magistrate Martha Mutuku to acquit his client Mboya and warn Osewe to stay away from him. "The complainant had threatened to kill the accused. We urge you to consider that the prolonged provocation of Osewe to Tom was too much. He alleged Tom was so close to his wife," Ojienda said. He added: "Mboya was threatened and he acted because of the threat by Osewe. Any settlement should be done in civil court." Prosecutor Anderson Gikunda asked the court to find the accused guilty of attempted murder, saying it's by luck that Osewe is alive today. "The intent was kill the complainant. The accused knew that Osewe was dead when he went to report to the police station," Gikunda said. He added that the complainant was not armed. "No firearm was produced to prove that Osewe was armed. We plead with the court to find Mboya guilty of the offence," he said. Mboya admitted shooting the restaurateur in self-defence. He told chief magistrate Mutuku that he aimed for Osewe’s hands because he wanted to disarm him. “The complainant ... cocked his gun twice but could not shoot and my aim was to shoot his hands,” Mboya told the court. Mboya said Osewe had threatened him even before the attack in 2016. Mboya is accused of trying to kill Osewe and another man, Wilfred Ombunya Tembula. He pleaded not guilty to a charge of attempted murder in 2017 and is out on Sh300,000 bail. In December 2016, Mboya testified that he was on Garden Estate when Osewe came shouting that he was going to kill him. “He is a loud person and he attracted the public. I tried to walk away from him. We moved to an area near a river as he followed me. I saw Osewe draw his gun, a pistol and cock it twice, so I felt unsafe and decided to draw mine,” he said. There were people around them who wanted to know why they were fighting. “If you cock a gun twice and try to trigger and it does not shoot, it jams, that's what I was taught by the GSU,” he told the court. Mboya said he shot once at Osewe's hand and shot again twice in the air. The court will give its judgment on August 11. (Edited by V. Graham)