Bodaboda operators in Nairobi will now have a special hospital floor dedicated for them in the soon to be completed Mathare- Korogocho hospital. This comes at a time where many lives are lost and pillion passengers get serious injuries following boda boda accidents. The hospital which is being renovated by Nairobi Metropolitan Service at Sh400 million will be a Level 5 facility. According to NMS director general Mohammed Badi, the hospital will be a five-storey building, having one complete floor for women, children, bodaboda drivers, men and a morgue. “We are happy to report that NMS is finishing the Korogocho- Mathare hospital and the Ministry of Health donated medical equipment worth Sh400 million,” he said. The facility had been constructed in the early 1990s but was grounded and NMS is overseeing its revival. Badi said that an additional Sh200 million is needed for the hospital to be commissioned next month offering full range treatment. “We are requesting Treasury for another Sh200 million to make sure that the facility is opened by the first week of July,” he said. “I promise that this hospital will be finished If there are funds.” The making of  Korogocho- Mathare to a Level 5 hospital will reduce overcrowding and intake at Mama Lucy Hospital, the main health facility in Eastlands. Already, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology has approached NMS to seek partnership in the area of medical training at the Mathare-Korogocho Hospital Due to unemployment, many people living in slums especially the youths have sought to join the bodaboda sector just to get earnings. Kenya ushered in higher motorcycle imports in 2008 when it zero-rated import duty to create jobs for the rising youthful population which witnessed 51,412 motorcycles registered up from the previous year’s 16,293. During rush hour and intense traffic, a section of city residents uses bodabodas to reach their destinations on time. Some bodaboda riders in the capital can make between Sh 2000- Sh3500 daily, depending on the area of operation and distance of the destination. Last year, NTSA reported that there were 1,393,390 motorcycles registered in Kenya as of February 2018 while another 1.6 million licenses have been issued since 2019. However, bodaboda operators have been put on the spot over breaking traffic rules, involvement in crime and rogue behaviours. In 2019 the National Transport and Safety Authority said there was a 41 per cent surge where 348 pillion passenger deaths occurred compared to 247 reported in 2018. Rider deaths rose by 22.7 per cent to stand at 725 from 591 in 2018. The same year also saw 836 pillion passengers suffer serious injuries up 67.5 per cent from 2018’s reported 499 with 1,391 riders sustaining serious injuries, being a 92.1 per cent rise compared to 698 reported in 2018. At the same time, the NTSA and regional authorities have been enforcing the Motorcycle Regulations 2015 in an attempt to tame rogue cyclists. Level 5 health facilities are known as county referral hospitals and should have more than 100 beds and be built on at least 10 acres. They must have inpatient and outpatient pharmacies, a burns unit, staff quarters, paediatric, surgical, gynaecological, in-patient ad out-patient, radiology services, tuberculosis management, pathology, chemotherapy and forensic services. The facility is among the 24 hospitals President Uhuru Kenyatta last year directed NMS to construct within Nairobi’s informal settlements. Nineteen out of the 24 health facilities are being built from scratch while the other five are being rehabilitated, including Korogocho-Mathare. Already, the President commissioned four of the 24 hospitals in February. The Uthiru-Muthua Hospital is Level 3 while the other three Kiamaiko, Soweto and Ushirika are Level 2 facilities or dispensaries. Twelve more facilities are expected to be commissioned within a month.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris