A 23-year-old woman kidnapped by unknown people who demanded a Sh5 million ransom has been rescued. Police and the family of Hafsa Mohamed Lukman yesterday said she was found abandoned and locked in a house in the Matopeni area of Kayole, Nairobi. No ransom was paid. She was alone in the house when police arrived at around 7am. This was long after her captors had left the area. She did not know when they left and was taken to the local police station and later to hospital for examination. Those who saw her said she was shocked, weak and injured but in good health. She told police the kidnappers fed her juice, water and rice. According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, a 24-year-old suspect was arrested and was being interrogated. DCI chief George Kinoti warned any person harbouring the intention of committing such crimes that no efforts will be spared in their crackdown on criminals. Lukman was kidnapped on June 15. A multi-agency team was mobilised the following to search for her. It is not clear why the kidnappers abandoned her there, but the police said the scene was among those they had been focusing on. She was kidnapped from the Kamukunji area of Nairobi. Days later, an image of a girl believed to be her went viral on social media indicating she was being tortured by her captors. The family said the people holding Hafsa had demanded a Sh5 million ransom or they would kill her. The captors had sent a video to the family showing Hafsa badly injured on her face and had her eyes covered by a piece of cloth. They sent at least three videos and messages to the family. “Nimeshikwa na wanataka pesa tafadhali mtume pesa (I am under captive and they want money; please, send the money),” she was heard saying in the video. This was in response to demands by one of the men telling her to speak in Kiswahili. He spoke in Somali. The gang also sent a message to the family asking why they shared images of Hafsa that had been sent to them and demanded the money be sent to them. The family made a missing report at the California police station in Eastleigh on June 15. Since then, the kidnappers have been sending videos of the girl to the family, a family member said. Police said the gang had been shifting bases within Kayole while making the demands. Teams of police visited in vain at least three sites where they thought the woman was being held. Hafsa was last seen at her clothing shop in Kamukunji at about 5pm she was kidnapped. The incident came amid concerns among security officials that kidnap cases are on the rise. A meeting of regional commissioners and county commissioners said kidnapping is emerging as a leading threat to Kenya's stability ahead of next year's general election. Police say they have been receiving missing reports at an alarming rate. They say teams have been formed to deal with the trend.