The High Court in Eldoret has declined to set aside orders stopping Agriculture CS Peter Munya from effecting the appointment of five new directors of Kenya Seed Company. The court will now proceed with the hearing of the row over the appointments on June 22. Justice Stephen Githinji had issued the orders against Munya after directors whose appointment to the company had been revoked by the government obtained an injunction. Githinji issued stay orders against Munya’s decision to appoint the new directors while revoking the appointment of three other directors who had been serving at the Kitale-based firm. Munya made the decision through Gazette Notice No 3075 of March 29, 2021. “Pending the hearing and determination of the application filed in court there be stay orders of the first respondent’s decision appointing the five," said part of the court order. Munya is named as the first respondent in the application filed by six petitioners including Paul Kandie, Levis Sagala, Francis Musau, Simon Cherogony, Nathaniel Tum and Soet Kenya Limited. The five have sued Munya, the AG and the five directors appointed by the CS. The petitioners argue that Munya illegally made changes at Kenya Seed Company. Munya and the newly appointed directors had filed an application seeking to have Justice Githinji’s ex-parte orders lifted but the court noted that the orders were not ex-parte because Kenya Seed was represented in court at the time the directives were made. All parties in the case have been ordered to serve each other ahead of mention of the case to set a hearing date. Farmers in the Rift Valley had welcomed the appointment of new directors of Kenya Seed. In a Gazette Notice, President Kenyatta appointed Francis Okwara as chairman of the board of directors at the company for three years. Munya then appointed Okwara, Alice Chesire, Gitonga Kamiti, Kipkorir Menjo and Samwel Mecca as members of the board of directors for three years starting March 27. Munya revoked the appointments of Samwel Chelule, Elisabeth Tolu and Gikonyo Ruiru from the company's board. He had directed the new directors to take charge of the company. Githinji has ordered those sued to file responses within seven days. Farmer’s spokesperson Jane Kiptoo said, “We welcome the changes because Kenya Seed is a major player in the agriculture sector, yet it has been having challenges in dealing with some of its obligations in relation to the supply of quality seeds to farmers.” Edited by Henry Makori