Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua has said that President Uhuru Kenyatta cannot be the accuser and judge in the appointment of judges. Karua insisted that Attorney General Paul Kihara should advise the Head of State to obey court orders, and appoint the six judges whose names were not gazetted. "Thereafter provide any evidence if at all concerning any or all of them to JSC for consideration. He cannot be the accuser and judge period," Karua tweeted on Saturday. She went on to say that President Kenyatta's continued attacks on the judiciary through innuendos does not affect individuals, but the entire judiciary and the rule of law. "... undermines judicial credibility, independence and ultimately the rule of law. It must be addressed now," she added. Karua's words come hours after President Uhuru Kenyatta presided over the swearing-in ceremony of the 34 judges whose names were gazetted to serve in the Court of Appeal, ELC, and ELRC courts, at State House Nairobi. Uhuru gazetted 34 of the 40 judges he had been pressed to appoint since 2019 on Thursday. He, however, rejected six names including; Aggrey Muchelule, George Odunga, Weldon Korir, and Prof Joel Ngugi who were recommended for the Court of Appeal. Others are Judith Omange and Evans Makori as Judges in the Lands and Environment court. According to the president, the six judges have integrity issues which had been detailed by the National Intelligence Service and other security agencies. On Friday, Martha Karua led lobby group, Linda Katiba, moved to court to stop the swearing-in of the 34 judges. The Law Society of Kenya through its Chief executive Mercy Wambua said that the president's action of omitting the names of the six judges was unlawful and reeks of impunity. "The action of the President to omit or fail to appoint the 6 Judges is in contravention of Article 166 of the Constitution and contrary to the finding in Constitutional Petition No.369 of 2019, Adrian Kamotho Njenga –v- Attorney General, where the Court held that once the Judicial Service Commission makes recommendations, the President has no other option but to formalize the appointments," Wambua said.