 The telecommunications firm Safaricom has donated 350 desks worth Sh1.4 million to Katikomor Peace Border School. Safaricom territory account manager Stephen Karanja handed over the desks to the school. Karanja said that the telco decided to help the school as its enrollment had increased and pupils were sharing desks. “The institution lacked enough desks and chairs to accommodate the growing population. Some pupils had to share available desks and some had to sit on the floor and write on their laps,” he said. West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo said that the school has helped in uniting communities in the region. “My administration is keen on achieving sustainable peace through education in areas which had been marked as insecurity hotspots,” he said. Lonyangapuo said that he was encouraged by the growing number of pupils in the institution. “Over 150 pupils are from Uganda and this is a great improvement; it clearly shows that residents have embraced peace,” he said. He said that cases of insecurity had drastically dropped in the region since parents have embraced education. He urged other well-wishers to help them in equipping the schools to benefit the children from the community. “We want them to board so that they can learn to coexist with their neighbours at an early stage,” he said. Lonyangapuo said that the county is setting up teachers' quarters in the peace schools so that they can stay with the pupils and help in their performance. The governor asked the foundation to help in improving network coverage in the region. West Pokot county has constructed six peace border schools which are integration centres for pupils from different communities living along the borderlines previously marred by insecurity. The county has also several cross-border development programmes which have been tailored to accommodate the peace process. “The approach of using education as a tool for peacebuilding has been fruitful in this county,” the governor said.  (edited by o. owino)