Malkia Strikers tactician Paul Bitok is spoilt for choice as the Kenya Volleyball Federation prepares to name the final national team to the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. Bitok said both the experienced and upcoming players have shown hunger and mentality to represent the country and expects the youngsters to compete for the available slots. Four players will be axed from the current squad of 16 players, who have been in a bubble training camp at the Kasarani Indoor Arena. Kenya are determined to improve on their 11th placing at both the Athens 2004 and Sydney 2000 Games in the deferred Tokyo Games that start on July 23 in Japan with the team back at the global show after a 16-years hiatus. "The youngsters have been hard at work in training and are going to upset the form-book and sneak into the team judging from their performances. We are spoilt for choice because all departments are competitive and we will look at the finer details before deciding on who makes the cut," said Bitok, who became the first Kenyan player to play professional volleyball outside Kenya after moving to Tunisia in 2003. "The final team will be balanced, for sure. Some players might be angry after missing the cut but decisions will be based on statistics. We are back from a four-day break  and this last lap is crucial," Bitok told the star Nonetheless, the remaining time will prove decisive as the African giants train their eyes in amending their weaknesses before landing in Japan on July 9. Meanwhile, Bitok admits it has been a Herculean task to measure the competitiveness of his players without friendly matches. However, plans to have the team face Fukuoka University are underway. "All our focus from now onwards will be on reception. On the flip side, our players remain untested having played no matches — making it hard to gauge our preparedness," Bitok observed. "There are plans to play Fukuoka University but they are yet to be concluded. It will be ideal if we can test the team before the competition serves off." Kenya are in Group 'A' alongside hosts Japan, South Korea, Serbia, Dominican Republic and Brazil. Malkia Strikers face hosts Japan in their first fixture on July 25.