Police at the weekend seized fake gold bars from a strong room belonging to Swissport transit freight station, at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Nairobi. The fake gold bars concealed in 31 boxes and received from Uganda, had been stored at the airport by shadowy businessmen, police said. Directorate of Criminal Investigations said they have established the multi-million shilling conspiracy is executed with the assistance of various agencies, including some government institutions. The businessmen behind the latest developments were dealing in the lucrative gold business on the pretext that it was cargo waiting transit to different destinations across the world. Detectives who raided the station said the phoney traders settled on Swissport freight since it provides ground and cargo handling services in major airports across the globe, to store their fake consignments  to avoid detection by detectives. In a clever gold scam that has seen businessmen from across the world lose hundreds of millions of shillings, the cons have been luring unsuspecting investors to view the gold at the customs offices at JKIA, the region’s preferred international aviation hub. "Once at the airport, a prospective buyer is lured to Swissport’s strong room, where what appears to be genuine gold bars are displayed. The client is advised that once the transaction is completed, the gold will be shipped to any destination of his choice across the globe," DCI said in a statement. Immediately the buyer is convinced that the transaction is above board he makes payments including customs and shipping costs. In one such deal gone sour, a businessman lost over Sh34 million to the tricksters, who immediately went underground after they received the payments. In a well-coordinated and orchestrated scheme that detectives have been monitoring closely, the fraudsters began by acquiring posh premises in high-end estates, guarded round the clock by police officers. It is in these upmarket establishments, where they perfected the art of international organised gold scam fraud, by luring unsuspecting genuine investors from across the world to part with millions of money in exchange for fake gold. "Detectives stormed many such premises and spoilt their party. The criminals thought they were smarter than detectives and acquired bank safe deposit boxes as their next safe haven," DCI said. They exploited the services of custody of private memorabilia and treasure banking and started depositing fake gold in banks. Investors armed with genuine bank documents were herded to the same banks to confirm the gold deposits and parted with millions in exchange for the fake gold. In an operation led by the DCI director in March 2019, detectives had stormed a prominent international bank with tentacles across major world capitals and discovered dozens of fake gold deposits, that had been shown to many traders who fell victim to the scheme. "Following the collapse of this gimmick, the fraudsters have now reinvented themselves, and creatively devised a seemingly smart way of luring investors to airports, to be shown the gold," DCI said. "The DCI is cautioning anyone within or outside the country intending to venture in the gold business, to be on the lookout not to fall prey to these fraudsters, who keep changing tactics and mode of operation," the DCI said. "When the deal looks too good, think twice and where necessary, kindly confirm the authenticity of the gold deposits with relevant government agencies and more so the DCI, that has come to the aid of so many victims." A number of fake gold dealers are facing charges in courts in Kenya. -Edited by SKanyara