A shopkeeper was on Saturday night shot dead in a robbery mission in Nairobi’s Mukuru slums. Another man, a pedestrian was also shot and seriously wounded in the thigh. A gang of about five people had been roaming in the area robbing pedestrians when they bumped onto Dennison Mutunga, 40 who they shot at close range in the chest as they grabbed an unknown amount of money from his shop. Police and witnesses said Mutunga was closing his general merchants shop when the gang struck and demanded cash from him. After a brief confrontation, they shot him before hitting one Ronald Obomba who was walking past. Obomba is in stable condition in hospital. Senior officers visited the scene as part of the probe into the incident and promised justice to victims families. The body of the deceased was moved to the Machakos mortuary as the hunt for the gunmen continues. The incident is the latest in a series of violent crimes that have happened in the city. On June 2, a woman was shot dead as she resisted a robbery in Nairobi’s Pipeline area. Phelidah Moraa, 41, was shot in the abdomen and later succumbed to her injuries after being rushed to a local hospital. The gang grabbed her bag which police and her workers say contained an unknown amount of money. Police said the gang rode off to an unknown place and efforts to trace them are ongoing. Police suspect the gang had been monitoring the victim’s movements while hanging around there before they struck. No arrest has been made so far. Meanwhile, two suspected and armed gangsters were on Friday night shot dead by police after they attacked a woman and robbed her of her mobile phone and other valuables in Langata area, Nairobi. The thugs who were armed with a pistol had accosted the woman who had just been dropped off by a taxi along Muhoho road. A scuffle ensued prompting the woman to scream, which attracted the attention of police on patrol, who rushed to the scene as the gang escaped towards Nairobi West. They were chased and killed few meters away and a Blow P99A loaded pistol, with five rounds of 5.56 mm calibre, recovered. Police say they have intensified operations to address such incidents.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris