A well-known  contractor and businessman abducted along the Lamu-Mpeketoni road two weeks ago is yet to be found. Yassir Ahmed, 43, had just left Mpeketoni town in Lamu West to visit his mother-in-law. He was heading back to Lamu island with his wife, son and another individual who had hitched a ride. They were forced to stop by a Landcruiser that blocked their way at Mkunumbi on the Lamu-Garsen road at around 4.30pm. The father of four who works as an ambulance driver for the county government of Lamu is a renowned contractor and businessman in Kiunga, on the Lamu-Somalia border. His wife Yumna Ali said the three men who took her husband wore what appeared to be the Kenya Defence Forces uniforms. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said he was aware of the missing man but denied claims security officers were involved. “The family has reported to us. Involvement of security is far-fetched and unsubstantiated. DCI is investigating.  We are calling on anyone with information to share with security agencies.  We pray that he is safe,” Macharia said. Speaking during a prayer vigil for her husband’s safe return at their home at Mtamuini area in Lamu town, Yumna said they had searched in all police stations and prisons in Lamu but haven’t been able to locate her husband. His mobile phones have been switched off since the day he disappeared. “I am a Kenyan and I know how security agencies here dress. I saw the men who took my husband and I know they were KDF. Let them produce my husband. Not knowing where he is and how he is depressing,” Yumna said. Yassir’s stepmother Sauda Kassim pleaded with the government to either release her son or inform the family of where he is and his status. “His phones are off. He is not in any police station here in Lamu or neighbouring counties. We have even searched in mortuaries here and beyond but we haven’t found him. Let them have mercy and give him back to us,” Sauda said. Human rights activists in the region have raised the alarm over increased forced disappearances in Lamu and the Coast region as a whole. Lamu community activist Rukia Rashid urged the government to boost security on the Lamu-Garsen road to stop abductions. “It's obvious that we are not safe even when security agencies are close-by. Such incidents create unnecessary tension and instil a lot of fear and stress. "We want to hear what the government has to say about Yassir’s case. If they have him,we want him produced,” Rukia said. Umulkher Ahmed, a field officer with Muslims for Human Rights (Muhuri), Muhuri-Lamu branch, said the implication that most cases of forced disappearances involve security officers is concerning (Edited by V. Graham)