Since Wednesday, the entire country seems to have caught a fever as the countdown to the World Rally Championship Safari Rally  whittled down to mere hours. On social media, Naivasha town was the trending topic, encapsulated by various memes and jokes depicting the fun times awaiting those who have made their way there for the global showpiece. Many of the rally enthusiasts who will be spending the weekend in Nairobi must have been forlorn at missing out on a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to be part of history — the return of the Safari Rally after a 19-year absence. Not to worry though as the 38 rally drivers participating in the event put on a show for them during the spectator stage at Kasarani. "I have only heard about the Safari Rally but I've never seen one. It seems to be a big thing going by the kind of interest it has gained in the past week. It must be a really big event — even bigger than any other sporting event we've ever hosted if they have to close the roads," Martin Kimani, a conductor of the bus which this writer had boarded, said. Inside the matatu, the conversation among passengers and the conductor was all about the World Rally Championship Safari Rally amid the revving sounds of rally cars as they sped to Kasarani for the spectator stage. Traffic came to a standstill as President Uhuru Kenyatta's motorcade snaked its way to Kasarani, trailed by rally car after car, which were greeted by cheers from onlookers and the flashing sounds of camera phones clicking away for a piece of keepsake. Thousands thronged the entire stretch of Thika Superhighway, from Pangani flyover to TRM Mall, to catch a glimpse of the cars. Kenyans of all walk — young and old; male and female; able-bodied and disabled  — braved the midday sun and the dusty conditions, trekking to the venue of the spectator stage while reminding each other of the yesteryears when Safari Rally was the icing on the cake that is the Easter weekend. For those who were not yet born circa 2002 — when the Safari Rally was last held in the country — their older trekking counterparts were on hand to enlighten them on the event. "It used to be quite a spectacle for me. I remember spending lots of time on the TV or even waiting anxiously to watch sports news so as to update myself on the happenings of the Safari Rally. Now, I have the chance to see these rally cars with my own eyes," James, one of the spectators, said. He seemed to have been a true motorsport fan from the way he would throw in the names of the who-is-who in the global rally scene in our conversations. "These days, Subaru are not the leading champion in the world of motorsport. Nowadays, Toyota GT Yaris are the giants of motorsport as well as Hyundai and Mitsubishi. I am only here to watch the first 10 cars and then am off because that will the cream of the cake," James said as we neared the spectator stage. It was a long walk to the venue but — to borrow from Nelson Mandela's Long Walk to Freedom — it was a worthy 'long walk to happiness' for many of those on their way to the stage. Security officers, including traffic police, General Service Unit and National Youth Service, were hawk-eyed to ensure everything flowed smoothly — much more the Covid-19 protocols. Despite being armed to the teeth, they mingled freely with spectators to discuss their own memories — or lack thereof — of the Safari Rally having been undoubtedly caught in the euphoria of the event. "Mukitaka kuona hii watu vizuri, kujeni Naivasha kesho. Mutaona hata gari ikipaa juu ya hewa (If you want better views, you can make your way to Naivasha tomorrow. You will even see them flying in the air)," one GSU officer told a group of spectators as he restrained them from spilling onto the road where the rally drivers were using after completing their rounds in the spectator stage. Some of the rally drivers were touched by the patriotic gesture of the spectators and would afford to wave back to the crowd despite the pressure of making it to Naivasha in the fastest time possible. Others — like Izhar Mirza — were joined by their family members for a photo op and emotional support before revving off to Naivasha. It was a memorable day for all those in attendance — worthy of the famed primary school composition, "A day I will never forget." Onward to Naivasha for the competition proper.