Three Limuru MCA aspirants have criticised the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for its statement that only those with degree qualifications will be allowed to run. Paul Macharia Wambui, Joseph Karanja Muchai and David Kimani Njenga have accused IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati of disregarding an ongoing court case that seeks to stop the implementation of the requirement. They filed a case at the High Court in Kiambu on May 3, 2021, suing the IEBC chairman, the National Assembly Speaker and the Attorney General. The trio seeks suspension of Section 22 of the Electoral Act that requires an election hopeful to have a degree. The matter will be heard on September 23. They say the respondents were served and received the copies of the case and stamped the notices as received, hence they were shocked by Chebukati's move. “We were shocked when we saw the chairman making the announcement. We wondered if he disregarded the case in court,” Kimani said. Even if the law was enacted before the 2017 election, the National Assembly successfully pushed for the suspension of its implementation after the election in the hope that all aspirants would have obtained those credentials before next year's general election. In this court case, they seek the exemption of MCA seats, saying the county legislators interact with the common people all the time. “The MCA seat requires a person who understands their regions well, interacts with people on the ground, approachable and available, thus too much education cannot be a must,” Macharia said. They plan to seek a court order to quash the requirement and bar the IEBC from implementing it, saying the issue will lock out many hopefuls. Kimani and Karanja ran for Limuru Central MCA, while Macharia sought the Limuru East seat. They said with their diplomas, they plan to contest for the seats again and have been working with the people ahead of next year's general election. However, another politician, Josephine Wanja, said the degree requirement must be enforced as MCAs also vet professionals and must be well educated to know how to go about it.