Kenya has failed to have India allow Covid-19 vaccine exports to African countries, which are battling a new wave of infections. The exports were discussed during a three-day visit by India's Foreign Affairs Minister Dr Subrahmanyam Jaishankar to Kenya, which ended on Monday. The two countries, however, agreed on a new multi-billion deal for joint manufacturing of medicines. “There is so much more that can and must be done, especially in a world that is recovering from the Covid-19 pandemic,” Jaishankar said during a joint press conference with Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo in Nairobi. India - the pharmaceutical powerhouse of the world - stopped all exports of Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine manufactured there, in April after infections in the country rose sharply. Manufacturing was also affected after the United States and European Union banned exports of key raw materials used to make vaccines. In a statement, Omamo confirmed they had discussed vaccine exports. “We deliberated on the impacts of Covid-19 situation globally and called for joint efforts to combat the disease as well as consolidate economic collaboration during the pandemic and post-Covid-19 period,” she said. Jaishankar and Omamo also chaired the third meeting of the India-Kenya Joint Commission meeting, which reviewed all aspects of the bilateral relationship. “We agreed to continue to strengthen our relation through structured and systematic engagements. The challenging circumstances of Covid-19 pandemic has made our resolve in this regard even stronger,” Omamo said. Last month, Reuters reported that India is unlikely to resume major exports of Covid-19 vaccines until at least October. The Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest vaccine maker producing the AstraZeneca vaccine, also said it hoped to restart deliveries to Covax and other countries by the end of this year. "We would like to reiterate that we have never exported vaccines at the cost of the people of India and remain committed to do everything we can in support of the vaccination drive in the country," SII said in a statement. Millions of doses bought by India's neighbours also remain undelivered. Globally, export restrictions have not been exclusive to vaccines. More than 80 countries had banned exports of medical and personal protective goods when the pandemic began last year. Nearly 60 per cent of these curbs are still in place, experts say. The ban on raw material export by US and EU means that restrictions on exports of a product by one or two countries can easily derail the entire vaccine production and distribution effort.  