President Uhuru Kenyatta has sent a message of condolence to the family, relatives and friends of Mama Dorcas Pedelai Ntimama, who passed on Friday night at a Nairobi hospital. Mama Dorcas was wife to the late former heritage minister William Ole Ntimama. In his message of comfort and encouragement, Uhuru described the late Mama Dorcas Ntimama as a gracious woman who worked tirelessly for the wellbeing of the society. “Mama Dorcas always built strong bonds of friendship, which ensured harmony and peace in her community,” he said. He wished the family of the Ntimama God's grace and comfort as they come to terms with her demise. “We are praying to God to grant the family fortitude and grace to bear the loss of their mother,” Uhuru said. On his part, ODM Party leader Raila Odinga said that Dorcas championed Maa culture and promoted education of girls. “I have learnt with pain the passing of Mama Dorcas Ntimama, widow to the late Ole Ntimama. She was bedrock of her husband’s politics, matriarch to the Maa. I experienced your generosity, friendship and kindness,” Raila said. While condoling the family, Narok Governor Samuel Tunai said Dorcas will be fondly remembered for the profound community development initiatives she drove. “Mama Dorcas generously led initiatives for the development of churches such as Olomayani church, Nairasiras church and Oletukat church among many others. She was the compassionate mother of many in Narok County who supported many orphaned children,” Tunai said. He added that Mama Dorcas was successful on many fronts right from the family level to entrepreneurship and was a great farmer, evidenced through large scale farming of barley and wheat in Mau Melili. “On behalf of all the residents of Narok County, I convey our sympathies to the family, friends and neighbours of Mama Dorcas for the loss that we all share. "To the larger Ntimama family, we wish them great strength and peace that only God Himself can provide at this time of distress, to bear the unimaginable sense of loss they now have. May her soul rest in eternal peace,” the county boss said.