A copyright case pitting a Nairobi-based music distributor and two Congolese musicians has taken a new dimension with the court instructing the company to produce royalties’ it has collected in the claim. The late Congolese Musicians Kiambukuta Londa Joseph (Josky Kiambukuta) and Djo Mpoyi Kanyinda through Hellen Arika an applicant in the case sued Tamasha Corporation as the first defendant over copyright infringement claims. Other defendants include Liberty Africa Limited, Xpedia Limited, Google, Mdundo Kenya, Boom Play, Kenya Association of Music Producers, and Apple T/A iTunes. In a recent proceeding at the High Court, Tamasha stated that it has never held and/or distributed any musical works by Djo Mpoyi Kanyinda. It adds that it acquired the copyright to some of the musical works by Josky Kiambukuta from Polygram Records (K) Limited (“Polygram”) through a sale agreement dated August 14, 1992 (“the Agreement”) by which it acquired the right to distribute the musical works in the said recording. It also stated that due to the age of the musical works it did not have all the current contacts of various artists particularly those from the Democratic Republic of Congo such as Josky Kiambukuta represented by the Plaintiff (Hellen Arika) as such it was unable to contact some of these artistes in respect of payment of royalties. Nevertheless, it kept records of revenue from these works should a valid claim be made and that this position was communicated to the Kenya Copyright Board. “The first defendant admits that it has the revenue records in respect of the royalties to the Plaintiff’s artists and it does not oppose producing any such information,” read ruling by justice David Majanja. He added, "I, therefore, direct the first defendant to produce the records in its possession in respect royalties and any other money it has been collecting, transferring, charging, assigning or in any way dealing with in the name of the artists and music creators from the date of incorporation of the 1st Defendant.” According to Charles Walioli Wabwoba, Arika’s advocate the nature of infringement dates back to 1996 He notes that since 1996, Tamasha Corporation has been collecting royalties and monies from the musicians’ artistic and musical intellectual properties, keeping and investing illegally acquired royalties and monies arising from unlawful exploitation of their work, and representing to the public that it has the rights to sell and receive royalties on their behalf. “Following the raid on Tamasha premises, we have evidence showing that the musicians' rights have been violated,” he says. In the case number HCCOMM/E545/2020, the court however failed to grant Plaintiff’s prayer to have the first defendants directors, employees, and servants be arrested, charged, and prosecuted for the crimes of copyright infringement under the copyright act. “It is true that the Copyright Act provides for prosecutable offences but there is nothing therein that gives the court powers to order for the arrest and prosecution of suspected offenders." "I am in agreement with counsel for the 1st Defendant that the discretion to charge a person with an offence and institute criminal proceedings lies with the Director of Public Prosecution under Article 157(6) of the Constitution.” “Further, the court does not have the jurisdiction or power to direct the DPP on carrying out of the functions of the DPP’s office as set out in Article 157 (10) of the Constitution. This prayer by the Plaintiff must therefore fail.”