A bill to ban access to pornographic websites is causing ripples in the 'august' House (pictured) where it is due for second reading. We understand some MPs want it withdrawn. A little bird whispers to Corridors they don't like the proposed law but fear a public backlash if they oppose it. And their plot to deny the Bill the necessary quorum is proving to be an uphill task as many members, some them victims of cyberbullying, want the law. Kenyans are waiting with bated breath to see the next steps the MPs will take. Do they savour pornography or is this about freedom of expression? *** Four top executive members of a county in Nyanza are facing the axe as MCAs have vowed to send them packing. On the line are the governor, his deputy, county secretary and Finance CEC. They're accused of looting more than Sh12 billion in the last four financial years, putting the political life of MCAs on the chopping board by the electorate. A source whispers the same looted cash is what the four are using to succeed their boss in 2022. MCAs have mobilised two-thirds of the assembly to kick out the governor and his deputy. CECs can be removed from office by a simple majority. Let's watch the plot. *** Recently, we told you of a deputy governor in haste to succeed his boss after the latter was taken ill and stayed out of the county for weeks. Corridors is apprised that the youthful deputy county chief did not just plot a takeover but had even shifted his operations to his boss’ office. This came as a  shock to many staffers who have complained of the man’s high-handedness for the short period he held brief. The county chief returned last week, bringing a sigh of relief to the troubled workers. *** A politician from Central Kenya eying a parliamentary seat got a rude shock when he gatecrashed a sporting event in his constituency, hoping to sell his 2022 bid to the huge crowd that had gathered for the event. Activities came to an abrupt halt when the crowd demanded that the politician be thrown out soon after his arrival. The organisers did not make matters any better as they also declined to let him stay, saying he neither contributed a single cent nor participated in putting the event together. Embarrassed, the politician left the venue together with his entourage.