Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni has appointed new members of the Cabinet who will help him to fulfill the promises he made during campaigns. Museveni said that his move was by virtue of the authority given to him by Articles: 108(2), 108A (1), 113(1), and 114(1) of the 1995 Constitution of the Republic of Uganda. He appointed (Maj. Rtd) Jessica Alupo as his Vice President. Alupo is a politician, educator, and former military officer and has served in the Cabinet of Uganda as Minister of Education since 2011. Nabbanja Nabbanja has been appointed as the Ugandan Prime Minister, replacing Ruhakana Rugunda, who was named Special Envoy for Special Duties in the office of the president. She will also be a leader of government businesses in Parliament. Rebecca Kadage has been named as the 1st Deputy prime Minister for East African Community Affairs, Gen. Moses Ali as 2nd Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Leader of Government Business in Parliament. Lukia Nakadama is the 3rd Deputy Prime Minister without Port-folio. The president has also appointed his wife Museveni Janet Kataaha as Minister of Education and Sports. Mariam Dhoka Babalanda is the Minister in the Office of the President (Presidency), while Jim Muhweezi has been appointed as the Minister, Office of the President (Security). Musenero Monica is the Minister, Office of the President, Serviced by the State House Comptroller, in charge of Science, Technology, and Innovation. The Minister for Kampala Capital City and Metropolitan Affairs is Hajati Misi Kabanda. Kasule Lumumba is the Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister (General duties). Tayebwa Thomas is the Government Chief Whip, Onek Hilary (Minister in the Office of the Prime Minister), Maria Goretti Kitutu (Minister for Karamoja Affairs), Frank Tumwebaze (Minister of Agriculture), Kiryowa Kiwanuka (Attorney General), Vincent   Ssempijja Bamulangaki (Defence and Veterans Affairs), and Ruth Nankabirwa as minister for energy and minerals development. Matia Kasaija is the Minister of Finance, Jeje Odongo (Minister of Foreign Affairs), Betty Amongi (Minister of ender, Labour and Social Development), Jane Aceng (Health), Chris Baryomunsi (Minister of Information, Communications Technology, and National Guidance), and Kahinda Otafire as Minister of Internal Affairs. Museveni won a decisive re-election victory in general elections which were held early this year, defeating his close rival Robert Kyangulanyi, alias Bobi Wine. Museveni won 5.85 million votes, equivalent to 58.6 per cent of the votes that were casted, while Wine got 3.48 million votes according to the Electoral Commission.