The enthusiastic reception accorded to Deputy President William Ruto in Kisumu on Tuesday has energised his camp ahead of a planned visit to the Nyanza region. Ruto was warmly received in Kondele as he made his way out of the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Mamboleo after Madaraka Day celebrations. Residents, especially the youth, in uncharacteristic excitement stopped the DP’s motorcade after the celebrations led by President Uhuru Kenyatta. ODM leader Raila Odinga was among the guests at the fete. Ruto—Raila's chief critic—was following the President to the Kisumu State Lodge when he stopped briefly to wave at the huge crowd that was chanting his name. They charged towards his motorcade. Those who were in the DP's entourage told the Star that Ruto wanted to address the crowd but could not because the vehicle carrying his public address system was metres away. It is also said that he instructed his driver to proceed as “the event was a state function and he would have inconvenienced the rest of the guests who were also exiting the stadium.” The DP is expected to visit Kisumu county anytime from next week. He is expected to host leaders and professionals from Nyanza who have been crafting the region’s blueprint. Ruto has been hosting leaders and professionals from various parts of the country as he receives proposals on what will be contained in his campaign manifesto. Management consultant Eliud Owalo who has been leading the Nyanza team said the reception the residents of Kisumu accorded the DP was a clear indication that next year's campaigns will be based on issues and not personalities. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday in a phone interview, Owalo said Ruto’s bottom-up economic model resonates with Kenyans. “Never again in this country will we be playing political ethnic conglomerations against each other. The repugnant type of politics belongs to the past and it is as dead as a dodo,” Owalo said. He said plans for a grand reception of the DP in Kisumu were at an advanced stage. “We will soon be taking Ruto on an intensive tour of the entire Nyanza region for direct interface with the hustlers at the grassroots,” he said. Due to the political differences that existed between Jubilee and Cord/Nasa since 2013, Ruto has avoided the Luo Nyanza counties. Most of his trips have been to Kisii and Nyamira, with Migori, especially Kurialand, getting occasional visits. The DP has, however, been to Kisumu county when he accompanied Uhuru in 2019 to launch development projects. Raila was present. Former Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale said the “heroic reception of the DP was politically symbolic of how 2022 will look". He described it as "time for true liberation". "What we saw is historic and a step in the right direction as far as our democracy is concerned. That reception tells you that Kenyans across the country are yearning for change and that the hustler movement is the real deal," Khalwale said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany applauded Kisumu residents, noting that Kenyans should always show respect to all leaders. "The people of Kisumu have set the tone for the 2022 campaigns. We want all our leaders to freely move to market their agenda without feeling unease while visiting any region," Kositany said. He added, "We have always said 2022 is about issues and not personalities. Kenya has stagnated because our previous politics have been defined by ethnic leaders who are after their own personal interests. We have now said we are changing the conversation to be about the common mwananchi." 