Kenyan taekwondo Olympian Faith Ogallo wants to be the first Kenyan to compete at the  World Taekwondo Grand Prix after becoming the third to represent the country at the Tokyo Olympics. Dickson Wamwiri (now deceased) and Milka Akinyi made history as the country's pioneer Olympians in taekwondo at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games and Ogallo believes she can go a step further. "My focus is not only on Tokyo but on the Grand Prix as well. I want to make history as the first Kenyan to participate in that competition, insha'Allah. However, my performance will determine whether I am able to set foot on this stage. It is through that that you get an invitation to participate in the Grand Prix," Ogallo said. Ogallo is part of the Kenyan contingent waiting to compete at the African Taekwondo Championships in Dakar, Senegal, which kicks off on June 5. She is using the competition as part of her build-up for the Olympics and is hopeful her hard work in training will pay dividends. "After the competition, we will be able to tell whether our training has been beneficial or not. Though some athletes have not trained enough, I believe we will do our best. It has been a pleasant experience so far in Dakar even though we celebrated Madaraka Day away from home," she said. Ogallo, who is a champion for environmental conservation, also admitted it has been difficult juggling between training, studying, and other activities not only for her but other sportspersons – especially during the Covid-19 period. "It is not easy mentally and so much has to be done to improve on it. As for my case, am still in school, and managing classes and training has not been easy. For other athletes, it is financial issues, sicknesses, and injuries," Ogallo, who has been training under the keen eye of coach Linus Marangu, said. The team has been going through their finishing touches in the Senegalese capital even as they acclimatize to the hot, humid weather in the portside city – a stark contrast to the recent cold weather in Nairobi. "Our matches begin on Saturday and Sunday. We're still training from this end, on the shores of the Atlantic Ocean, as we acclimatise to the weather. We're taking plenty of water because it is hot over here, just like Mombasa."