Nairobi Metropolitan Services has almost completed acquiring land that will convert Globe Roundabout into a bus terminus. NMS is aiming for finishing the process taking over the site within a month, director general Mohammed Badi said. The acquisition is part of the decongestion strategy including construction of at least six bus termini outside CBD that will be used once matatus will be banned from the city centre. Badi said his team had completed the legal framework for the exchange. He explained that the process to acquire the three parcels of land began late last year but dragged on since the land was privately owned by three different communities who chose different compensation. “We have had a very successful meeting with the owners and we are meeting them again this month,” Badi said. NMS has been working closely with the Ministry of Lands and National Land Commission, which is the authorised agency to buy land from Kenyans on behalf of the government and negotiate with landowners on compensation. Early this year, Badi announced the roundabout will be converted to a bus terminus used by matatus plying Juja Road from Eastleigh and a section of those from the Thika Superhighway. For many years, the roundabout has been used as a parking bay for matatus such as North Rift Sacco and others. In October 2019, City Hall had also announced plans to convert the Globe Roundabout into a bus terminus to ease traffic flow. This was after the County Assembly Transport committee raised concerns about the disorganised matatu operators on routes leading out of Nairobi. The Globe Roundabout is one of the six bus termini being built by NMS at for Sh350 million; others are Green Park, Desai, Park Road, Ladhies Muthurwa, Fig Tree terminus and Bunyala-Workshop Road. Bunyala-Workshop Road Terminus will be reserved for matatus plying Mombasa Road, South B, South C, Industrial Area, Imara Daima, Athi River, Kitengela and Machakos routes. All matatus currently using Tea Room and Accra Road plying the Thika Superhighway and long-distance matatus from Mt Kenya will move to Desai and Park Road termini in Ngara. The terminus at Muthurwa-Ladhies will handle matatus from Jogoo and Lusaka roads The Sh250 million  Green Park terminus is so far the biggest and will be the drop-off and pick-up point for matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes. (Edited by V. Graham) 