Al Shabaab gunmen killed three people in a miraa van on Monday in Mandera and in a separate attack kidnapped two road workers and burnt their truck. They escaped to the Somalia border. The gunmen tried to stop the miraa van in Jabibar area but the driver sped toward them, killing one, police and witnesses said. Then they fired on the three passengers in the van. In the other attack, the driver and his turnboy stopped few kilometers ahead and escaped on foot, leaving the vehicle behind. The militants burnt it. The terrorists captured the driver and turnboy. Northeastern police boss Rono Bunei said more personnel had joined in the hunt for the gang that has been terrorising motorists. “Locals can help us tame this trend. We urge them to help us in dealing with the menace,” he said. Persistent attacks are grounding operations in the region. Two weeks ago, Mandera county stopped official vehicle movement because of increasing attacks in the area. At least four attacks have taken place in the last two weeks in the area. At least six people have been killed and 15 wounded. The attacks have been linked to both al Shabaab and inter-clan fights over boundary issues. There are fears of more attacks after residents reported sighting more gunmen roaming in separate places while apparently planning to strike. Mandera county secretary Abdinur Hussein issued a memo on June 10 and explained strict regulations concerning movements of vehicles. “The current prevailing security situation is very volatile and we  have to exercise extra caution on the movement of our official motor vehicles," he said. He told the county executive committee members to take full responsibility for vehicles under their care by ensuring that no vehicle should be on the road past 5pm on any weekday. Hussein said until further notice no vehicle will be authorised to travel to subcounties. The only exceptions are ambulances, health utility vehicles, Covid-19 response vehicles, fire engines, skip loaders and sanitation trucks. On June 9, at least three people were killed when a Kenya Wildlife Service vehicle ran over an IED in Qoqay area, Takaba. The attackers shot at survivors as they escaped. They torched the vehicle. On June 6 gunmen thought to be al Shabaab terrorists attacked two passenger buses and killed three people, including two police officers. The gang also torched a police vehicle after the ambush in Banisa, Mandera county. Officials believe the attack was staged by local militia. At least seven police officers and 11 civilians were injured in the attack. On the same day, another gang shot into a police camp in Kutulo, Wajir, in an apparent reconnaissance mission. The area of the attack, which is northern part of the county has been a safe area since 2013 but has lately been a soft target. Police have been mounting operations to thwart terrorists. They have been targeting and destroying security installations in a series of raids. The attacks have forced tens of nonlocal teachers to flee. The border region has borne the brunt of repeated attacks from the militants who are at times aided by residents. The area is near the Somalia border and the militants cross at will and stage attacks before escaping back. Militants have been attacking in Mandera and Garissa after breaching security zones, leaving dozens of civilians and security officials dead or wounded. They have been planting explosives on the routes used by the security agencies and attacking them. (Edited by V. Graham)