Has a vocal Coast MP dropped his bid to run for governor in Mombasa? Recent political developments in the county could have triggered fresh realignments. The MP who had wanted to replace Governor Hassan Joho (pictured) on the ODM ticket is now said to be contemplating defending his seat instead. The MP reportedly has met some advisers and hinted at the plan to back off the governor's race. The entry of businessman Suleiman Shahbal into the ODM fold has tightened the battle to succeed Joho in 2022. However, the MP faces a threat from his ally who has been campaigning to succeed him in his constituency. *** A commission chairman is trying to influence the management to bend the law to award a multimillion-shilling contract for finger biometrics to a foreign firm. It has emerged that while the CEO has maintained the procurement should be aboveboard, the chairman has constantly been pressuring him to award the contract to the firm. Worse still, the bid of the firm linked to the chairman is said to be higher than that of other bidders. Under the law, a company quoting the lowest bid should be awarded the tender, except in extraordinary circumstances. The chairman has vowed that if the firm does not land the tender, the CEO's term will not be renewed next year. *** Nairobi county government staff are under pressure from one of their bosses to pay a firm associated with a Kanu-era politician over Sh140 million. Employees fear the payment may turn out to be a scam and they will be in trouble with the EACC since they will be the ones signing it. But the senior member of the Executive pushing for the payment will not be anywhere. They hope the county assembly will get wind of the deal and scuttle it. The politician known for his appetite for land deals since the 1990s has been chasing deals of similar nature and payments for 20 years. *** Following intense pressure from affected parties, the procurement department at an Eldoret-based security agency is now under the microscope. The boss has read the riot act and told off the affected staff. He has warned he will not spare anyone who is guilty. Some officers under investigation are now frantically calling some affected suppliers. They are begging them not to let the cat out of the bag. Meanwhile, a little bird tells us that an intense review of the procurement process has started. Could we be at the gateway of a new era free of malcontents in procurement departments who bite the hand that feeds them? 