The 30km Gatukuyu-Kairi-Mataara road in Gatundu North should have been completed in February last year, but it hasn't. Residents say the Sh1.5 billion project overseen by Kenya Rural Roads Authority is moving at sluggish pace and construction is poor. The road was commissioned by Deputy President William Ruto in February 2018, but only 17 kilometres have been done one year after scheduled completion date. Residents told journalists at Gituamba village on Wednesday that they were taken for a ride by the government. They said the project has stalled despite a promise by Ruto that there was cash and no delays would be experienced. Residents hoped the road would help farmers get milk, tea, coffee and avocados to the market faster. Peninah Wanja accused the contractor of failing to do the job. “We raised the alarm the other day about the tarmacked section which is full of potholes and the contractor sealed them. We are worried that the road will wear out in less than two years and we will go back to where we were with a deplorable road. Something has to be done, even if it means kicking out the contractor,” Wanja said. They said failure by the government to monitor the progress of the road is the reason for the delay of works. Matatu operators and boda boda riders also lamented that they have been incurring huge losses in weekly repairs. The residents urged the government to contract another firm that can do a quality works. They fear the road could be a waste of public resources should the current contractor resume the works. “We plead with the relevant authorities including Kerra and the Ministry of Transport to intervene and cancel the contract and give it to another contractor who will do quality works and observe timelines,” said Mathew Mbogo. Meanwhile, Mang’u residents hailed the contractor doing the Mang’u-Bob Harris-Ndarugu road for speedy and efficient work. The road is being constructed by the government through Kerra for Sh800 million. It is expected to be complete early next year and will link up Thika Superhighway with the Nairobi-Nakuru Highway through Juja and Gatundu North. “We are happy with the pace and quality the contractor is maintaining and we are optimistic that our suffering that we have endured for decades with the deplorable state of the road will come to an end. We are also optimistic that our villages will be opened up for investments and the economy will boom,” Ephantus Githae said.   (edited by o. owino)