The government has identified Marsabit, Turkana and Mandera as the counties hardest hit by the current drought. The counties have been placed under the ‘alarm stage’ as the state, through the Hunger Safety Network, moved in to cushion victims. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa on Monday admitted that the drought was taking its toll on the country in the last one year. Wamalwa said projections by the National Drought Management Authority painted a grim picture, with fears that more counties would be affected. “We have placed Marsabit, Turkana and Mandera under the alarm stage due to the ravaging drought and we are working with the counties to support affected families,” he said. Speaking in Naivasha during a meeting with governors from the affected counties and senior NDMA officials, the CS said the government was keen to prevent any death from the drought. He said the government had increased the number of counties benefitting from the Hunger Safety Network from four to eight. Turkana, Marsabit, Wajir and Mandera benefitted from the first phase while Garissa, Samburu, Isiolo and Tana River would benefit from the expanded list. Wamalwa said the cash transfer programme in the affected counties targeted over 100,000 vulnerable families that were finding it difficult to put a meal on the table. “In conjunction with the affected counties we have embarked on the process of supplying water using trucks and we shall roll out the Inua Jamii programme by September,” he said. The CS added that they would harmonise the cash transfer programme and digitise it to avoid double allocation of funds to the same persons. Marsabit Governor Ali Mohamud admitted that the drought had affected nearly all the counties in Northern Kenya. While calling for donor support, he said the cash transfer was the way to go, adding that more water was needed in the counties so that the residents could embark on irrigation. “Currently the drought in Northern Kenya is severe with many families finding it difficult to get water. Turkana, Mandera and Marsabit being the most affected,” he said. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)