Concerns have been raised over a resurgence of female genital mutilation in the country, despite President Uhuru Kenyatta’s target to end the vice by next year. Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji and Court of Appeal judge Agnes Murgor said on Monday perpetrators have devised ways of dodging the law and members of the public are increasingly adopting the outlawed practice. They said there is a resurgence in hotspot counties where the practice was seen to have reduced. The counties include Elgeyo Marakwet, Pokot, Baringo, Turkana, Tana River, Kajiado and Samburu. The two spoke during a meeting to validate standard operating procedures for prosecuting FGM-related offences. The forum was convened by the office of the DPP at a Nairobi hotel. Haji said eradicating the vice as envisioned by the President might take longer than expected, as the initiative has received hostility from society, especially women in hotspot areas. He said some doctors are medicalising the outlawed practice. There is also poor reporting of cases and in places bordering neighbouring countries, Haji said. He said perpetrators and victims take advantage of the porous borders to escape accountability from the law. Despite government efforts to prosecute offenders, members of the public have become hostile against the law enforcement process, stigmatising those reporting and giving evidence, he said. Anti-FGM Board chief executive Bernadette Resian Loloju said getting convictions for FGM cases has become increasingly difficult because “no one is willing to turn up to give evidence.” “The vice is often done at the household level, so a witness may be testifying against the father or mother, and they are afraid of attracting curses.” Ahmed Omar, the county commissioner of Elgeyo Marakwet told the meeting that women, some aged 30 and above, were voluntarily going for the cut, viewing it as a rite of passage. Omar said married men have complained to him that they are shunned from elders’ meetings because their wives have not been circumcised. “They complain that this discrimination locks them out of important decisions made by elders’ committees and serves shame to them.” “Even educated girls in universities are proud to go back home during breaks to be circumcised," Hassan said. Edited by A.N