A Deputy county commissioner in Nyanza has shocked his colleagues after openly bragging that he is at the forefront of planning Deputy President William Ruto's (pictured) tour of the lakeside city. Corridors has learnt that the administrator is bragging that the DP’s political star is rising and can only rise higher. The man, whose predecessor is now a county boss in the administration, is claiming that the Covid-19 restrictions in the 13 counties in the Western region were intentionally ordered in place to bar the DP from touring Nyanza region. Concerned citizens are baffled that a public officer of his calibre could openly be seen to have taken sides in politics. *** A senior politician is planning to fly abroad between now and next month. Reason? It is believed the finer details of a big political formation for the 2022 presidential race will be discussed during his trip. Corridors of Power is abuzz with information that the 2022 succession seems to have been finalised and only the details and final touches are left. We understand that the trip was organised to avert any leaks. A little bird whispers that the politician is keen on keeping his cards close to his chest on grounds it is still too early for his moves to be exposed. *** The choice of a team crafting the ODM-Jubilee coalition has sent shivers down the spines of some Nasa chiefs. The lot was overheard lamenting that it was obvious whom they would settle on as the alliance's 2022 presidential flag-bearer. People around the bigwigs say this was the cause of the recent heightened political attacks and counter-attacks pitting members of the coalition that gave Jubilee a run for its money against each other. *** A politician from Nyanza has been called out for using a family’s sombre moment to vent personal attacks on his opponent. The man, who is a friend to the grieving family, is being cited for going overboard in using the platform to attack the area MP. Members of a committee helping the family with burial arrangements were recently baffled after the fellow incited the family not to accept contributions from the lawmaker. We understand the family was not amused and has since pushed him from the centre of the burial plans, some saying he sought to use the same to advance political goals. (Edited by V. Graham)