The government has banned all human activities in the Eastern Mau Forest Complex after three teenagers aged between 14 and 17 years were killed in Logman block. The three – Hillary Kipyegon, Solomon Kiprotich and Brian Kiptoo – were killed on Monday. Four others sustained injuries during the raid, which is being blamed on assailants from Narok county. The announcement was made by Nakuru county commissioner Erastus Mbui during a peace meeting in Mauche, Njoro subcounty. He said cases of cattle rustling, community clashes, murders and injuries were emanating from the forest as two communities along the Nakuru-Narok border fought over pasture, land and livestock. Mbui said although the law allowed communities neighbouring forests to exploit it sustainably through the Community Forest Association, the privilege would be withdrawn in sections of Mau Forest because of the constant community clashes. He said the entire Mau block that was affected by the fighting was in Nakuru and that he did not need consultations with the neighbouring county to stop activities therein. “Regional commissioner George Natembeya had ordered no human activities in Mau and that stand should remain because what is happening is not a sustainable use of the natural resource. Communities are clashing within the forest and causing deaths,” Mbui said. He said the government would commence a security operation to ensure no one enters the forest, adding that a contingent of the Rapid Response Unit had been deployed from Nairobi to implement the operation in the region. The area and its neighbouring locations of Mariashoni, Nessuit and Tinet have been marred by insecurity for close to two decades, with the most recent one being late last year that left 18 people dead. Mbui said if allowed to continue, and with incitement from local leaders, the clashes might escalate to massacres. “The government will not allow a massacre to happen and we might get International Criminal Court candidates here,” he warned after some political aspirants vowed revenge attacks. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui condoled with the families that lost their kin in Monday attack, saying Kipyegon, Kiprotich and Kiptoo, were promising young men whose lives were brutally cut short. He also wished quick recovery to those who sustained injuries. Kinyanjui said the law must take its course and ensure those guilty of the inhumane act were arrested and prosecuted. “The county administration will not rest until they are found. This was murder and it has to be dealt with as such without counting it as community clashes or cattle rustling,” the governor said. He said the culprits were individuals and not an entire community or county. However, Kinyanjui said his administration would lead peace talks with the leaders and residents of neighbouring Narok county to find a lasting solution to the disharmony. “The residents of the affected locations should work with security agents and inform them of those who are guilty of incitement leading to the insecurity,” he added. Edited by Henry Makori