The Teachers Service Commission has declared 5,000 teaching vacancies in secondary schools and 1,000 in Primary schools. The teachers recruited will serve on Permanent and Pensionable terms of service. In a notice on Tuesday, TSC said Interested and qualified candidates should submit their applications online through the Commission’s website, www.tsc.go.ke under ‘Careers’ or teachersonline.tsc.go.ke not later than 12th July, 2021. To qualify for recruitment, a candidate should be a Kenyan citizen, must be a holder of at least a diploma in education and must be a registered teacher with Teachers Service Commission. A candidate should  be a holder of a PI Certificate; Be a holder of a Bachelor’s Degree in Education with two teaching subjects. They must also have attained at least C+ mean grade at Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education or its equivalent and C+ in the two teaching subjects or it’s equivalent. Applicants must ensure that certified copies of the degree certificate and academic transcripts are filed at the Commission through TSC County Directors within one (1) month from the date of this advert. Successful candidates under this category shall be appointed at T-Scale 7, Grade C2 under the Career Progression Guidelines for Teachers and shall be deployed to secondary schools where vacancies exist. To qualify for the primary slot recruitment, a candidate should meet the following basic requirements: Must be a holder of a PI certificate; must be a registered teacher with the Teachers Service Commission. Successful candidates will be posted to serve in any part of the country and not necessarily in the county where they were recruited. Successful candidates must not fill more than one Application for Employment Forms. Filling of two or more Application for Employment Forms will lead to disqualification; Manually filled applications will not be considered;  Preference will be given to applicants who have not previously been employed by the Teachers Service Commission. The Commission is also advertising 2,987 vacancies for primary and 927 vacancies for secondary schools to replace teachers who exited Service. Visit the Commission’s website for details. The Teachers Service Commission is an equal opportunity employer and persons with disabilities (PWDs) are encouraged to apply. A total of Sh202.8 billion was set aside for the education sector recovery programmes following lost time since the outbreak of Covid-19 in the country in March 2020. The outbreak led to the closure of learning institutions for nine months. Treasury CS Ukur Yattani also said Sh12 billion will cater for free primary education, Sh2.5 billion for recruitment of teachers and Sh62.2 billion for the free day- secondary education including insurance for learners. "Sh4 billion is for the examination fee waiver for all class eight and form four candidates and Sh1 billion for the school feeding program," Yattani said. In addition, the Treasury has allocated Sh420 million for the digital literacy programmes and ICT integration in secondary schools.