Major development projects are expected to be rolled out in Nairobi next year after the  National Government allocated  Sh9.2 billion to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. This is out of the Sh27.5 billion  Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani yesterday allocated to Major General Mohammed Badi’s team with Sh18 billion for recurrent expenditure. The new allocation is an increase of the current financial year’s budget where the Treasury had set aside Sh26. 4 billion. At least Sh111.2 million will be utilized for the construction of footbridges across Nairobi. NMS intends to splash Sh1.4 billion as it plans to extend the Non-Motorised Transport across the capital. This will include the 116 Km construction of pedestrian walkways coloured in grey and cycle track in red that will not only offer safety to Pedestrians and Cyclist but also contribute to decongestion on the roads. The above is highlighted in the Nairobi County Fiscal Strategy Paper for Financial Year 2021-22. NMS is yet to complete some of the major projects which were launched last year. At Sh2 billion, NMS was to set up the hospitals in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. Nineteen out of the 24 health facilities would be built from scratch each at Sh70 million while the rest (five) would be rehabilitated for Sh300 million. 10 out of the facilities to be built entirely will be level two hospitals and the rest will be level three. of the 24 hospitals, only four that were commissioned in February by President Uhuru Kenyatta are operational. Badi on Wednesday said 12 more hospitals were completed, fully equipped and ready for commissioning. He said  NMS was waiting for the President’s guidance on how they will be opened. Additionally, Treasury CS Yatani said the government was working to come up with legislation that will see transfer is fully reinforced in law. “To ensure that the process of such a transfer of functions is fully reinforced in law, The National Treasury is developing a legislation to operationalize articles 187 and 189 of the constitution on the transfer of functions and cooperation between the national and county governments,” he said. On February 25, last year, at State House, former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa signed the deed which saw Nairobi County’s health, transport, public works, utilities and ancillary and planning services handed over to the National Government for a tenure of two years. A month later, Uhuru established NMS and placed it under the watch of Major General Mohammed Badi. Despite budget struggles, payroll sagas last year, NMS  managed to launch various projects in Nairobi including drilling of 193 boreholes with Athi Water Works. Badi also declared Kibra, Mukuru, Mathare and Korogocho as Special Planning Area where development was meant to take place.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris