Kenya’s push for a temporary waiver of patents on Covid vaccines and other treatments is bearing fruit. The World Trade Organization has agreed to start formal negotiations on this proposal on Wednesday. If it goes through, it could allow more manufacturers in Africa to produce vaccines to bridge the biting shortage. Less than two per cent of Africans have been vaccinated, compared to more than 20 per cent in the rest of the world. The patent waiver proposal was initially submitted to the WTO by South Africa and India in October last year and was co-sponsored by Kenya and 59 other countries. Formal discussions will begin on Wednesday and the outcome is expected by July 21-22, during WTO's general council. “According to the proponents, the objective is to avoid barriers to the timely access to affordable medical products, including vaccines and medicines or to scaling up of research, development, manufacturing, and supply of essential medical products,” says the WTO, which is coordinating the talks. Kenya is banking on a proposal to waive intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccines to achieve its goal of vaccinating most citizens by the end of next year. The proposal suggests that by waiving patents for three years, developing nations could copy Covid-19 products and use their own manufacturers to produce vaccines, thereby increasing access. The waiver would cover copyrights, patents, trademarks and undisclosed information procedures. “The waiver should continue until widespread vaccination is in place globally, and the majority of the world's population has developed immunity, hence we propose an initial duration of [three] years from the date of the adoption of the waiver,” the proposal reads. The patent waiver proposal gained the support of US President Joe Biden's administration on May 5 after weeks of pressure from the international community as cases surged in India and other countries. Public health expert Bernard Muia said patent waivers are not a new thing and were applied in 1996 to tame the HIV pandemic. That year, a consortium of pharmaceutical companies shared their patented HIV-Aids drug formulas with Indian generic manufacturers, ultimately bringing down annual treatment costs from nearly $10,000 (Sh108 million) to less than $100 (Sh10,800). “Again, we are in an extraordinary time as the human race. One of the solutions is to allow countries with the capacity to manufacture vaccines to do so in large volumes without compromising standards,” he told the Star. “Unfortunately this is being fought both politically and professionally.” Those opposed to the Kenya-backed proposal say the waiver will not end the shortage immediately because it takes anywhere from 60 to 120 days to produce a single batch of vaccines. They also blame the current shortage on hoarding, rather than on patents. For instance, Canada has procured enough doses to vaccinate all of its citizens 10 times over while Britain has enough to vaccinate all Brits eight times over. 