Deputy President William Ruto has insisted that the review of the Constitution must be geared towards bettering the lives of the people. Criticising Building Bridges Initiative proponents, Ruto said that it was selfish for a few leaders to engage in the change of the laws of the land for their own interest. “We must reconfigure our politics to be heavy on issues that will benefit ordinary Kenyans,” Ruto said. The DP spoke on Friday in Nakuru County during the consecration of Bishop David Macharia of the Full Gospel Churches of Kenya in Nakuru East. Ruto was accompanied by Governors Lee Kinyanjui (Nakuru), Stephen Sang’ (Nandi) and MPs Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Lizah Chelule (Woman Rep., Nakuru), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati), David Gikaria (Nakuru Town East) and Samuel Gachobe (Subukia). Others were Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango), Joseph Tonui (Kuresoi South), and George Koimburi (Juja). Senator Kihika urged leaders to adhere to the rule of law. Kihika regretted that it was increasingly becoming fashionable for those in power to bend the laws to fit their own aspirations. “We must serve the country with dedication. And once our time is over, we should facilitate a smooth transition that will guarantee the stability of our country,” she noted. Her sentiments were echoed by Ngunjiri and Gikaria who noted that leaders have a duty to ensure harmony prevails in the country. “Do not dare to extend the 2022 election date. It is upon Kenyans to decide their own leadership and they must be given that chance,” Ngunjiri said. Jumwa argued that it is only the Constitution that can guide the conduct of elections in Kenya and “not the whims of individuals”. Insisting that the BBI is dead and its proponents must accept its fate, Kandara MP said Kenyans were determined to go to polls peacefully to vote for leaders of their choice. She was supported by Osoro who argued that “when your time in leadership comes to an end, leave in peace”. Governor Sang’ reiterated that it was time politicians copied the conduct of the church. “They (churches) have smooth leadership transitions that ensure minimal disruptions of their operations. It is time we were faithful to our constitution”.