News Anchor Shiksha Arora has narrated how robbers strangled her ahead of her debut at Kenya Broadcasting Corporation. The incident happened at around 5:20 pm at the globe roundabout flyover. "Guy one knocked my side mirror bending it backwards and walked away. While I was rolling down my window slightly to reposition the mirror, the second guy started banging the front seat passenger window loudly," she said. In a series of tweets, Arora said as she was looking to her left, another man slid his hand in through her window and unlocked her car and got into the back seat. "..grabbed my purse and asked for my phone, at this point in time I was in panic mode, couldn’t say anything. He asked for it again and reached for my neck, strangling me," she said. "As he was strangling my neck, I desperately gasped for air, I started hooting loudly to get some attention hoping somebody would help me. People started getting out of their cars and that’s when he let go and fled. " Arora said the guy stopped and left with her purse. "...but I am traumatised that he attacked me. These thugs work in teams in broad daylight during peak traffic, don’t roll down your window no matter what when on globe roundabout," she said. "I got lucky, he didn’t manage to hurt me much despite strangling my neck and getting away with my purse. I am okay but traumatized." The incident comes a day after the DCI urged members of the public who may fall or have fallen victims of mugging within the Nairobi CBD to make formal reports at the Nairobi Central DCI offices. This follows the numerous complaints from members of the public on the uncertainty of their safety while going about their daily activities in the CBD. DCI said that in as much as victims take to social media to narrate their ordeals in the hands of mugger gangs (which is good sensitisation), they should formalise those complaints as guided, to facilitate the prosecution process once arrests are effected. "Many are scenarios when suspected muggers go scot-free even after they have been arrested along various streets and walks within the CBD, as the few who report at the station fail to pursue their cases or never turn up for hearings," DCI said. DCI said it remains committed to ensuring the safety and security of every citizen while subjecting any acts of criminality to the unforgiving arm of the law.