Chief Justice Martha Koome has set among her targets a quick conclusion of matters before courts by judicial officers. Koome wants no case to stay in a trial court beyond three years and appeals finalised in a year. The CJ says her main objective will be to have a judiciary that is efficient in the delivery of justice. She spoke in Mombasa during a meeting with tribunal representatives. Koome said she envisions a time when a case will be heard within 60 days and judgments issued within three days. “I wonder why the High Court or Court of Appeal should mention a matter. That can be done at the registry so as to allocate that time to hearings,” she said. The Supreme Court president said they intend to use a bottom-up approach where the lowest levels help drive policy at the top. “Under this approach, litigants will experience the Supreme Court treatment across all other courts,” she said. To achieve this, the CJ said the judicial officers will be encouraged to innovate and adopt measures to increase their efficiency. She said courts will be allowed to develop their own unique interventions such as case management systems. “We hope to see the Anti-corruption, Commercial and Economic Crimes court adopt night court where they sit between 5pm and 8pm to ensure timely resolution of cases,” she said. The CJ also noted they were in the final stages of setting up desks in every Huduma Centre across the country where litigants can file their cases. This will be an additional avenue as the courts are already embracing the E-filling system which was propelled by the Covid-19. Koome said that the Judiciary has been marked with several challenges such as delays and high costs which she has to confront while she embarks on her tenure as the top judge. She said that unlike the Office of Public Prosecution, which has more than 1,000 prosecutors, the Judiciary only has 400 magistrates who have to deal with thousands of cases. Koome said the Judiciary is still viewed by many as inefficient, inadequate and inaccessible to many. Justice Koome said there has been a slight change as the Judiciary is now perceived as a responsive institution.  