The Kilifi government has unveiled a digital development application platform to help investors get speedy approval of their building permits. The Kilifi Electronic development Application and Management System, known as Ki-Dams, aims at ensuring registered architects, planners, surveyors, engineers and contractors easily and conveniently process applications and get clearance for development services. With the new system, those intending to do construction in the county will now apply for permits from the comfort of their own homes or offices, as opposed to the past where one had to physically visit the offices to get the services. Governor Amason Kingi, who officially launched the e-government service said Kenyans will now be able to access devolved services at the click of a button on their computers or mobile phones. The governor said the online system will save lots of revenue that has in the past leaked through corrupt officials who were taking advantage of the physical contact with investors and developers. “The old system had discouraged many local and foreign investors from putting up their investments in the county, but this will no longer be the case because everything will be done online,” he said. He said his administration will continue to align projects and programmes aimed at enhancing seamless service delivery. The governor thanked the World Bank, the International Finance Corporation and the British High Commission for partnering in the project. “Through the partnership, we managed to put resources together, put a team together to start the journey by anchoring the building permit sector on the E-government platform." He said the journey that started in 2019 finally come to reality, ending congestion that was caused by developers who frequented county headquarters to follow up on their summonses. “That journey will no longer be necessary. Again, time wasted by developers, walking from one office to another will come to an end with the launch of this platform,” he said. Kingi said their plan is to create an investor friendly environment to attract more investors and create more jobs for residents. The governor revealed that he at times witnessed the pain Kenyans go through while seeking government services. “With the new electronic system, things have changed and Kilifi can now work seamlessly with all sector players for enhanced service delivery,” he said. He said the objective of any government if to offer services in a timely, transparent and efficient manner, adding that a government that offers services without the three pillars may not be appreciated. Kingi said the system would also enable foreign investors to apply for the service from their countries. Some of them have had to travel to the county to get approval of their building plans. Finance and Planning executive Samuel Nzai said the county government has the potential to collect more than Sh2 billion in annual local revenue. He said with the manual system, it had been difficult to collect even Sh1 billion. "We believe that the new system will go a long way in enabling us to reach our target revenue as many investors and developers will be roped in and corruption will be minimised." Roads and Public Works executive Maureen Mwangovya said relevant officers and engineers had been trained in the use of the new platform. The system was developed at a cost of about Sh100 million. World Bank Group’s Kenya Competitiveness Enhancement Programme manager Sarah Ochieng, who attended virtually, said the virtual engagement enabled by the system has come at a time when the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the world, causing minimal human interaction. “Because of the pandemic, what we are seeing is technology-oriented solutions take shape. Kilifi has taken a huge step in improving service delivery. The World Bank has assisted in ensuring this technology comes in handy to ease the cost of seeking government services and in Kilifi. We can attribute the successful launch of this system to your (governor's) leadership and commitment to improving service delivery,” she said. -Edited by SKanyara