Kenya's chances of scooping a medal in taekwondo at the forthcoming Tokyo Olympics have been boosted after the Korean Embassy donated various training equipment to the Kenya Taekwondo federation through Olympics Kenya on Friday. Sports CS Amina Mohammed who graced the ceremony as chief guest described the gesture as generous and timely and an inspiration to many Kenyans who are gradually being drawn to the sport. "This is one sport that is currently gaining a huge following and interest in Kenya, with many people embracing it,” said Amina. “Indeed, we already have a qualified female athlete for the upcoming Tokyo Olympics competing in the women with over 67kgs category and is already an inspiration to other Taekwondo players", remarked the CS,” she added. Korean Ambassador Choi Yeonghan said sports has afforded the two countries a perfect platform to express their deeply ingrained friendship. “This equipment is just an extension of the many opportunities to enhance this solid relationship between the two countries," observed Yeonghan. “As the country where taekwondo originated, it is our great joy and pleasure to extend this support and partnership to the athletes in Kenya as we wish them success in Tokyo and other competitions," the ambassador further said. Waithaka Kioni, Team Kenya's Chef de Mission to Tokyo 2020 Olympics thanked the Korean government for their continued support, noting it wasn't the first time they extended such a favour. "We at Olympics Kenya value this generosity and assure you that it will put impetus to our training for Tokyo and other major Games", said Mr. Kioni. He also thanked Amina for her unmatched enthusiasm and support for sports development, especially the interests of athletes in Kenya. Taekwondo Kenya Secretary-General, George Wesonga said they would put the equipment to good use in preparing Kenya's only representative Faith Ogalo for the Olympics. "Equipment is everything, especially during these very evolving times in sports with advanced countries using the latest technologies. We are now hoping that we also get 2nd Gen electronic scoring system soon for the athletes to acquaint themselves accordingly", observed Wesonga. The ceremony was graced by members of the Olympics Kenya including Secretary General, Francis Mutuku and Treasurer Eliud Kariuki, as well as the Taekwondo Federation President Major Suleiman Sumba.