Kabuchai MP Majimbo Kalasinga has declared war on Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati after his bodyguard was roughed up at a funeral in Kimalewa village. He linked Wangamati to the incident. Kalasinga said were it not for his intervention, the incident would have escalated and resulted in many casualties. Speaking at Chwele market on Sunday, Kalasinga claimed hired goons were being used to intimidate critics of the county government. “I am shocked by the hooliganism. The war between Wangamati and I has officially started,” the MP said. Kalasinga recounted an incident in Kimilili, where a supporter of the governor confronted MP Didmus Barasa. He said he cannot let this happen to him and claimed he reported the incident to the governor but no action was taken. “The governor has failed to deliver,” he said. Wangamati did not respond to calls or messages, but county director of communications Tim Machi denied Kalasinga's allegations. Machi said Kalasinga should overcome the excitement of being an MP and focus on serving the people who elected him. Kalasinga was elected in a by-election on March 4 following the death of former MP James Lusweti in December last year. “He should be reminded that after the election victory comes hard work and the realisation that it's not possible to satisfy the expectations of all those who supported him. When that happens, and he loses some of his previous supporters, he should not blame others. To do so is an extreme act of cowardice,” Machi said. The official said the governor and the MP were both elected by the people. “He should stop the threats because he has no more rights to Kabuchai than the governor. He needs to step up as a leader,” Machi said. "The governor does not have any goons and has never thought of having any.” He advised Kalasinga to file a complaint with the police for proper action to be taken. Wangamati has been facing opposition from eight Bungoma lawmakers and a section of MCAs, less than 13 months into the 2022 General Election. Mt Elgon MP Fred Kapondi, Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and Kanduyi MP Wamunyinyi Wafula are the only MPs supporting the first-term governor. Wangamati fell out with Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula after a failed Ford Kenya party coup that he claimed he was part of.  Edited by A.N