Tana River is set to become one of the largest producers of cotton with the revival of the Hola Irrigation Scheme by the National Irrigation Authority. Already, farmers and pastoralists have begun planting on hundreds of acres with pest-resistant cotton seedlings distributed by the authority. Large scale cotton growing was done there in the 1960s. Hamisi Kofa, the Umoja United Farmers group chairman, said their 300 members expect a bumper cotton harvest. He said genetically-modified Bt cotton is good, adding that there are no challenges as they are farming on contract signed between them and Makueni Ginnery. The farmers are also getting support from Agricultural Finance Corporation and the National Irrigation Authority that is supplying them with water for irrigation throughout. “Most of us are from a farming community, we learned from our fathers and used to see what they were doing and have experience in cotton farming,” he said. This season, he said, they expect to harvest two tonnes per acre or even more going by the current state of the crops. Ramadhan Igu, another cotton farmer from Umoja 5, said long ago, the area used to be the largest cotton producer until the 1970s when it collapsed. He said River Tana changed its course, making it difficult to continue irrigation farming, which forced farmers to abandon cotton. Igu said there have been attempts to revive cotton farming in 2011 and recently in 2019 through the help of AFC but was not successful due to pests. This year, he said, they began planting cotton in March after they got seeds resistant to pests. “Unlike maize which has a challenge in marketing, cotton has a guaranteed market because there is somebody ready to buy. AFC is providing funding for fertilisers and seeds,” he said. Igu said Kitui millers is set to buy their cotton at Sh50 per kilo and expect to be successful after harvesting to increase the acreage. He said as a group, they have planted 100 acres of cotton. Maimuna Shehe another farmer said they started cotton farming in March this year and expect to harvest in July. She urged the sponsors to continue supporting them until they become successful. James Kirimi, the manager of the Tana Irrigation Scheme, said they normally use a participatory approach in farming where there is a role they play as National Irrigation Authority, farmers and partners. He said financial institutions like AFC, Equity Bank and Kenya Commercial Bank offer loans to the farmers to buy seeds and fertilisers while NIA ensures water supply is adequate and furrows set up all over to reach farms. Kirimi said they are now setting a new reservoir with a capacity of 200,000 cubic meters of water which will increase supply to farmers. Farmers are charged Sh3,400 per acre per season, that is from planting to harvesting time. “Currently we have 2,250 acres under different crops, the farmers can even do more than one crop, so our total population of farmers 1,450,” he said. What motivates the farmers is the fact that there are good returns out of their work as yields have improved because of farm inputs. Kirimi said crops do well because of the availability of fertilisers and water, adding that due to the availability of credit for farmers, more are coming in. He said because of the favourable climatic conditions in Hola, farmers can plant a variety of crops such as green grams, maize among others. "Within the scheme, we have 10 reservoirs which will add up to the newly constructed one that is the largest. With the new one we will be able to increase the acreage with an additional 1,500 acres,” he said. Irrigation Users Association chairman John Asumbi said they have mechanisms of distributing water to farmers after NIA pumps them to the canals from the water source. “We have lines and what we call subs used to distribute water into blocks, there are also feeders used to distribute water in the blocks,” he said. Asumbi said as the scheme's chair, he works together with line leaders who take water from canals, after which they direct them to blocks through block leaders. With the revival of cotton farming which used to be the cash crop in the area, it gives hope of not only farmers benefiting but even revamping of the ginneries that collapsed. -Edited by SKanyara