Kenya men's beach volleyball coach Patrick Owino believes adequate preparations can help them break their Olympics jinx by qualifying for Tokyo Olympic Games for the first time in their history. Owino said all teams competing in the final African Olympic qualifiers — slated for June 21-28 in Morocco — have equal chances of gracing the quadrennial event. "The team will train with the ultimate goal of entering the third round and possibly book a ticket to the global show. If we can maximise the time we are left with, we stand a chance. All teams are on a level playing field and opportunities in the game are equal. The only difference is some teams are more exposed than others-giving them an edge," he noted. "We have never qualified for a tournament of this magnitude. The furthest a Kenyan team has ever reached is the world championships in 2015 but if we can get our act together, then the team can fancy their chances," Owino added. The team is expected to hit residential training camp in Mombasa over the  weekend in readiness for the  qualifiers. The coach says he would have preferred the team to be in camp by now but they have been limited by what he termed as unavoidable circumstances. "Ideally, the players should be in camp for at least one month. We are behind schedule and ought to work things out faster," he said. Owino said the residential camp will be an opportunity to work on mobility and defence. "Mobility of the sand is important. We have had a long break without training and we have to be spot on with the defensive side of the game," the coach explained. He added that he was impressed by the performance of his team at the Nyerere Cup in Dar-es-salaam last weekend. The Kenyan pair of Ibrahim Oduor and Jimmie Mwaniki were outright winners. "The team did well considering they had not trained. They are experienced players and depended on the fitness of the indoor version of the game. Oduor and Mwaniki have played together for a while and even though the tournament was not highly competitive, it was a good starting point in gauging the player's fitness and preparedness."