The debate over the search for President Uhuru Kenyatta's successor in Mt Kenya politics seems to be far from over. This is after a youth lobby group cautioned that selfishness and a sense of entitlement by a section of leaders eyeing the post would fuel divisions and cost the region a good leader. Mount Kenya Youth Caucus chairman Linford Mutembei yesterday said leaders from the region should settle for the right person through consensus. The process, he said, should be devoid of selfish, short-term and personal interests by leaders who he said have created different camps. Mutembei said these camps isolate key players in succession politics as they push their individual interests at the expense of the region’s unity and future. “Everyone has the right and freedom to eye the Mt Kenya kingpin post, but leaders should know that you cannot force yourself to become one. It’s something that comes naturally and honestly. Most of those purporting to be best-suited for the position do not meet the cut,” he said. Mutembei spoke in Ruiru, Kiambu county. “Peter Kenneth has on several occasions been touted as the possible heir apparent in Mt Kenya politics due to his character and background in national politics," he said. "While Agriculture CS Peter Munya has emerged as a factor in Mt Kenya East since he is now the senior-most politician serving in government from the Ameru community. How can people purport to look for the way forward without including them?" The lobby said Kenneth, who prior to the 2017 General Election shelved his presidential ambitions in favour of Uhuru, cannot be ignored in succession plans. Mutembei said Munya is the only minister in Uhuru’s government who has managed to intertwine his official work with politics, something they said was helping the President restore confidence in the electorate. Mutembei was reacting to the growing divisions in the region after National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi was coronated as the region’s spokesman. He said some people feel Kenneth is better placed for the position because he built a national image. Others, especially those from Mt Kenya East, feel Munya deserves it. Mutembei said former CS Mwangi Kiunjuri is eyeing the post, while Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua has started projecting himself as the best choice for Deputy President William Ruto's running mate in 2022. “The competition they are engaging in only fuels dangerous political division and we should be very careful not to end up in the so-called 'elusive unity' or put us under a selfish regional leader,” he said. 