Champions Gor Mahia seem to be turning their dreams of clinching their fifth consecutive title real by the day. Whereas such an eventuality tickles K'Ogalo's ardent fans, it only serves to unnerve their opponents and especially their arch-rivals AFC Leopards, who are thirsty for their first title since 1998. Matters took an interesting twist when Gor toppled Leopards from third spot after their successful away trip to Bidco last Sunday where they won 1-0. And on Wednesday, Gor Mahia fans will be crossing their fingers in anxiety and hope as the 18-time Kenyan Premier League champions lock horns with Wazito in a rescheduled Football Kenya Federation Premier League tie at Thika Stadium on Wednesday afternoon. A win will propel K'Ogalo to 40 points, two behind leaders KCB Tusker are currently second with 41 points. Vaz Pinto's charges have now registered 12 wins in a row, evenly distributed across the league and FKF Cup matches. But they must tread cautiously in their battle against a Wazito side that heads into the match on the back of an emphatic 2-0 win over Kariobangi Sharks in their last league assignment at Utalii Grounds. Wazito, currently under former Harambee Stars tactician Francis Kimanzi, have blown hot and cold this season to place 10th on the log with 26 points. A win could fire them to sixth. Leopards must ensure they emerge the better side against relegation-threatened Mathare United when the two sides face off at Ruaraka on Wednesday. Although the general expectation is that Ingwe will make light work of the Slum Boys, the match might not be a walk in the park. Mathare have proven to be a hard nut to crack in their last two encounters where they fell to Gor and KCB by identical 1-0 margins. Leopards equally have a chance to ascend to third if they collect maximum points. Tusker will look to reclaim top spot when they flex muscles with Western Stima. On Friday, high-riding Nairobi City Stars have a date with Nzoia Sugar at a  yet to be confirmed venue. The FKF-PL returnees have exhibited great mettle in the league, where they sit comfortably in sixth place with 29 points. On the other hand, Nzoia look shaky at 14th with 17 points. Bidco will host Vihiga United at Thika Stadium while Sofapaka and Ulinzi Stars will square it out at Utalii Grounds. Leaders KCB have a tough battle against Kakamega Homeboyz at a yet to be confirmed venue. Bandari will host to Kariobangi Sharks at Mbaraki Grounds, Mombasa. On Saturday, Mathare United will be up against Posta Rangers at Ruaraka in a match that will precede the encounter between Wazito and AFC Leopards. Western Stima will play away to champions Gor Mahia at Thika Stadium.