Kenya's top-ranked junior tennis player Angela Okutoyi will team up with Alicia Owegi, Rosehilda Asumwa and Cynthia Cheruto for the Billie Jean King Cup set for Lithuania later this month. Team Kenya will be hoping to improve on their 12th place finish at the event two years ago  in Montenegro. Okutoyi, who is based at the ITF Training Centre in Marrakech  in Morocco will link up with the team next week with coach Francis Rogoi exuding confidence that they will improve on their last position. The Billy Jean King Cup  was formerly known as the Fed Cup. Asumwa, Owegi and Cheruto have been training for the past one month at the Nairobi Club and Rogoi said training on murram surface will aid their push when they encounter clay  surface in Lithuania. “The girls are in good shape and we have one more week to to finalise on our training hence we are looking forward to competing against the best teams,” he added. Rogoi said Owegi, Asumwa and Cheruto have played a couple of tournaments in the past three months and he expects that to boost their morale ahead of the event. "The girls have been playing in a number of continental events and are in good match  fitness and shape. We hope they can deliver on the big stage,” added Rogoi The Kenyans are expected to face the likes of Albania, Armenia, hosts Lithuania, Kosovo, North Macedonia, Norway, Rwanda and South Africa among others. The countries will be divided into five groups of four teams with one group featuring three countries. The group winners will contest a play-offs draw to determine which two teams are promoted. Elsewhere, Team Kenya will field a strong squad for the Africa Junior Championship slated for Egypt from June 20-27.  The team will be represented in the girls' under 14 and 6 categories after dominating the qualifiers in Tanzania last year. Tennis Kenya (TK)  administrator, Nancy Nduku, said they will announce the final team by the end of the week and expressed confidence that the squad selected will do the country proud in Egypt.