Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has intensified distribution of free seedlings for alternative crops to farmers to enable them diversify and stop relying on maize growing. Other counties within the North Rift Economic Bloc including Nandi and Trans Nzoia have also launched similar programmes, urging farmers to shift from maize growing which they say has caused them heavy loses over the years. “The only way we can now fight the poverty we are in and ensure farmers have money in their pockets is to diversify our activities and go into commercial agriculture,” Mandago said. So far, Uasin Gishu has distributed 20,000 banana seedlings, 8,000 for macadamia and 400,000 coffee seedlings to farmers across the six subcounties in the region. The county is also in the process of giving out 75,000 seedlings of grafted avocado to farmers. The distribution is promotional and aimed at sensitising farmers on the need to diversify. The demand for the promotional crops is growing after the county government launched the programme early this year. Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno says farmers across the region are embracing the idea leading to more demand for coffee, macadamia, avocado and tissue culture seedlings. “The demand compared to the stocks we have which are running out quite fast, shows that our people are gradually embracing diversified agriculture,” Chemno said. The diversification programme was initiated in 2014, after the county government realised that maize farmers were making losses every year. “Something had to be done to give farmers some hope,” said the deputy governor. Besides free seedlings, the county offers technical advice to farmers and also links them to buyers and markets. Mandago and his deputy distributed the seedlings at Cheptiret and are leading farmers in planting high value crops. They also led farmers in Megun, Kapseret subcounty in planting over 700 tree seedlings of macadamia. "We want to create wealth. In the next five years, we want every farming family to earn at least half a million, then we will be able to take our children to school without calling for fundraisers," Mandago said.  -Edited by SKanyara