No major incidents were reported on Monday as the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exam began smoothly across the country. This year's exam came amid the Covid-19 pandemic that saw the test delay for five months following the closure of schools. The exam is being conducted under strict health protocols to curb the spread of the virus. On Monday, candidates sat their mathematics test in the morning and English and composition later in the day. On Tuesday, they will take science, Kiswahili, and insha before finishing with social and religious studies on Wednesday. There are strict guidelines to curb cheating. Invigilators checked candidates' face masks following reports that some were planning to use them in cheating. A handful of candidates sat the exam in hospital beds owing to illnesses and parturiency. Homa Bay county commissioner Moses Lilan said they had recorded four cases—three of girls who had delivered and one of a sick boy — who are taking exams in hospital. No case of Covid-19 ill students has yet been reported. The government had earlier indicated that students who might fall sick with Covid-19 symptoms during the exam period will have to do the test in isolation rooms. Some 1,191,725 candidates in 28,467 schools are registered to sit the exam, which will end on Wednesday. They rehearsed on Friday. Education CS George Magoha led top government officials in the opening of exam containers at the Thika West subcounty offices. Kenya National Examination Council chief executive Mercy Karogo supervised the opening of exam containers in Nairobi City county. Karogo asked head teachers to be on high alert and ensure they deliver credible exams. She warned against any malpractices. “No malpractice should be witnessed during these exams," Karogo said. Basic Education PS Julius Jwan supervised the exam distribution exercise in Kisii county while TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia oversaw the opening of exam containers in Kisumu. Other officials who took part in the exercise included Knec chairman John Onsati who was in Mombasa, Education CAS Hassan Noor in Garissa, CAS Sarah Ruto in Machakos, CAS Mumina Bonaya in Isiolo and Kenya Institute of Curricullum Development director Charles Ong’ondo who supervised the opening of exam materials in Kakamega. At Kisii Primary School, the commencement of the exam was delayed after four of eight invigilators deployed to man the test failed to show up for work. PS Jwan said new invigilators will be deployed and disciplinary action taken on those who failed to show up. “Once you sign to become an examination officer you must adhere to set rules and regulations. We must take this seriously… We will deploy new invigilators,” Jwan said. In Tharaka Nithi, the exams started smoothly in the five sub-counties despite a heavy downpour in Maara and Meru South areas. At the Meru South subcounty collection centre in Chuka town, county commissioner Beverly Opwora and county director of education Bridget Wambua supervised the exercise.  Edited by P.O