"I will not wait for my hair to start falling out from chemotherapy. I will have a barber shave it before then." That's what veteran journalist and women's rights advocate Mildred Ngesa said about her recent breast cancer surgery - and her urgent need for chemotherapy and radiotherapy. And for help paying for treatment. Though she dragged herself from the room where she had been holding a training session for her former employer, her voice retained its strength and cheer. “I speak not only because I need financial help but also to help kill the stigma that comes with cancer affecting our private parts,” she told the Star in an interview. She estimates she will need Sh2 million to Sh3 million to complete treatment after surgery. For 27 years, Ngesa worked for media houses, including the Nation Media Group, the Standard, the Kenya Times and Germany's Deutsche Welle News Service. She left the African Women's Development and Communications Network (Femnet) where she was head of communications to start her own corporate business. Ngesa, 45, was diagnosed with breast cancer in January this year — it started as a small, painful lump in her right breast. She assumed it was normal for mothers who have breastfed before and used a hot towel to massage the lump and ease the pain. “Swelling in a breast is not strange. I did what an African mother would, go to the bathroom, grab a hot towel and squeeze and massage the lump,” Ngesa said. The pain kept recurring, so Ngesa went to a clinic where she was diagnosed with mastitis — inflammation and often infection of the breast tissue. A misdiagnosis. “I was a little skeptical as mastitis commonly affects breastfeeding women. Still, I took the medication religiously," she said. A month later her mother pushed her to get a second opinion on the swelling that had extended near her armpit. Tests confirmed the lump was cancerous, news that turned Ngesa's life around. “When you pray, be specific. I had asked God for a testimony, forgetting that to get that, you have to be tested,” she said. Ngesa said she was well-prepared for the news psychologically, but her family and friends were not. After putting it off and evading questions from her 14-year-old  daughter, she opened up. “When my sister who accompanied me to the hospital for the test results broke down at the news, I knew a huge burden of breaking the news to my family awaited me," she said. Her doctor, Edwin Otieno, is a breast surgeon and had prepared her psychologically for the test results. "When I broke the news to him, I was calm and cheerful as usual and he told me later he thought the results must have been negative," she said. Usually strong, resilient and jovial, Ngesa has had moments when she almost gave up fighting the pain and financial constraints. Some days she just stayed in her dark bedroom, shades drawn, blanket pulled over her. "I was completely lost and out of control when a stranger who had been referred by my doctor video-called me. She is a breast cancer survivor," Ngesa narrated. The woman removed her dress and bra and showed her the scars of her mastectomy. She said Ngesa too could be one of the many survivors if she remained resilient and got fast treatment. "A stranger showed me breast cancer is normal and not a death sentence. Such support from everywhere has been greatly helpful in this journey," she said. It was difficult to tell her two children she had breast cancer. “My eldest daughter looked at me in the eye one day and asked if I had breast cancer. I felt my world shatter, I couldn’t handle it. I could handle the diagnosis from the doctors but I couldn’t handle my daughter telling me,” she said. To her seven year old, Ngesa simply said she was unwell, The two children spent the night crying and consoling each other, fearing they would lose her. "I planned counselling for my children and I asked the teachers to help them. "Society thinks cancer is a death sentence and with that comes a stigma that makes it hard for family and friends to accept and be positive with cancer patients," Ngesa said. She had an urgent mastectomy in February. It cost Sh700,000, which she paid. Ngesa has been getting post-surgery support before starting chemotherapy. The last phase her her 10-month programme involves radiotherapy and psychosocial support. Ngesa emphasised the need for swift detection and treatment, which she believes saved her. "Speed is critical," she said. "Some people get diagnosed and delay for months before treatment. Then the cancer metastasises and spreads to other parts of the body," she said. Breast cancer is the leading type of cancer in Kenya, with about 6,000 new cases every year. In July last year, the Health ministry announced a cancer policy to address the growing disease burden. Chief Administrative Secretary Dr Rashid Aman said many cancer deaths are due to delayed diagnosis and treatment. "Cancer is an expensive disease. The cost and risk are even higher when the disease is discovered at an advanced stage,"  Ngesa said. According to the M-Changa platform where friends and relatives are contributing, the cost of treatment is estimated at Sh2.7 million to Sh3 million. She will remain on drugs and management for five years. Breast cancer doctor Otieno said patients need chemotherapy for six to 12 months, depending on the severity and extent of the cancer. Patients then need at least 25 radiotherapy sessions. Otieno said even though most people have important information about breast cancer, they do not out it into practice. "Out of 100 per cent of people who are aware of breast cancer, only 50 per cent practice it, and less than 20 per cent do regular breast examination," he said. "Some people have  good medical cover but still do not go for screening for fear of the unknown. Others do not have the money and before they are diagnosed, the cancer has advanced. Despite Kenya having made great strides in handling cancer, Otieno said in-depth research and guidelines are needed for cancer affecting black people. "Breast cancer that affects Africans is more aggressive and kills faster. It is important that the guidelines for treating cancer are tailored to our needs," he said. Ngesa emphasised that because there's not a cure for all cancers doesn't mean it's an early death sentence. It often can be managed. “None of us is walking out of this life alive anyway, so I refuse to accept cancer as my death sentence,” she said . Ngesa is among many cancer patients who are misdiagnosed with other ailments. It is estimated 10 to 20 per cent of all cancer cases are misdiagnosed and some misdiagnoses can be fatal. Ngesa urged women to regularly do a thorough breast examination once a month. To contribute via M-Changa: Dial *483*57*45355# or via M-Pesa on PAYBILL: 891300 ACCOUNT: MILDRED