Some 2,509 prisoners have petitioned the Power of Mercy Advisory Committee to recommend their release by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Of the 2,509, 1,626 are on death row, 219 on life imprisonment, 454 determinate and 172 on the President’s pleasure. Imprisonment at the President’s pleasure refers to detention for an indefinite length of time. The President, in accordance with the advice of the committee, may grant a free or conditional pardon to a convict, postpone the carrying out of a punishment, substitute a less severe punishment or remit all or part of a punishment. In an interview with the Star, acting POMAC secretary Lydia Muriuki said the Power of Mercy is exclusively conferred upon the President by the Constitution and entails granting pardon to reformed and rehabilitated convicted criminal offenders deserving early release from prison. Muriuki explained that any person who is a convicted prisoner and is not serving a noncustodial sentence or having a pending court process can apply for a pardon. CRITERIA USED Applicants apply individually or through their advocates in writing or virtually to POMAC. “A petition becomes admissible if the offender has served at least a third of the sentence. Those on life or death sentence must have served at least five years,” she said. In assessing an applicant, Muriuki explained that the committee considers amongst others, age, circumstances, nature and seriousness of the offence, period served, as well as the personal circumstances of the offender. Other considerations include the interest of the state and community, post-conviction conduct and reports from prison and probation officers. “The intention of mercy is to ensure that once you are released, you become a useful citizen. You are approved under observation and out under certain conditions. In the event you breach those conditions, then the mercy can lapse. One of the conditions is that beneficiaries should refrain from receding to crime,” she said. Once one applies, the application goes to the POMAC registry. Applicants usually attach a prison, probation or home report. The documents are interrogated and the committee subsequently conducts interviews and hearings of convicted criminal offenders eligible for the exercise of the power of mercy. During the interviews, the committee assesses whether the applicants are remorseful. At that juncture, applicants have an opportunity to prove that once they are released, they will be gainful citizens and that they have acquired skills that will enable them to make a living. “But before the application is processed, Prisons must also confirm how the applicant has been conducting himself in prison.” The Prisons department plays a big role when it comes to pardoning. It advises inmates and pardon officers regarding POMAC so that they know what is expected of them. Allan Thigo, a representative from the Kenya Prisons Service, said they assist applicants in preparing their petitions, compile necessary documents, testimonials, judicial records, family and prisons history that are up to date. The service also prepares their biodata, behaviour, attitude and performance in rehabilitation programmes. “They should also have a home report prepared by probation offices and an extract from a prisoners record, record of disciplinary issues if he has committed minor offences or aggravated ones while in prison.” All this is needed to inform the committee so that they know if the applicant is suitable for pardon. The prison report should accompany the petition to POMAC. Prisons also provide an environment conducive to interviews. Other reports needed are those from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations pertaining to the applicants’ criminal records. The process, which takes roughly three to six months, also goes through a further check with the National Intelligence Service. DISQUALIFICATION Thigo cited a number of issues that may disqualify an applicant from being pardoned. One of them is an inconclusive home or probation report. “If the report indicates they are not ready, it automatically disqualifies them. The home report includes interviews of the family, victim and neighbours on account of the offence committed.” Others are the victim’s unwillingness to forgive, a negative prison report meaning the applicant has not reformed or undergone proper rehabilitation and pending court cases as a result of appealing against their convictions. But applicants are given the opportunity to appeal or re-petition but only once after rejection and on new grounds to the President through the committee. Muriuki said that if one is a serial offender, then their chances of being pardoned are minimal because the chances of that person getting back to crime are high. But for those found eligible and are pardoned under the power of mercy, considerations are put in place to have their criminal records expunged, Thigo said. “These are people who have served 20 years and above. We know they have reformed, gained skills and paid for their crime. Records at the DCI ultimately cause them to be denied a certificate of good conduct,” he said. He mentioned that the service has put in an application with respect to that and that they have had an interaction with POMAC and the DCI. Consultations are, however, ongoing. Stigma Pete Ouko, a beneficiary of the Power of Mercy programme, shared the same sentiments. Ouko says the committee should consider lobbying for a clearance process that will in turn help alleviate stigmatisation. “Are we doing justice to the people we are saying have been rehabilitated? The probation and aftercare have already checked home and found his fit but still cannot get a certificate of good conduct. Let us give ex-inmates an opportunity because it’s really hard for them in the streets,” Ouko said. Ouko spent 18 years in prison for a crime he did not commit. He received an official pardon from Uhuru in October 2016. Apart from the pardon, he had also taken a leap of faith and opted to write a personal letter to the President. In the letter, he made it known that he respects the court decision but does not agree with it. Ouko was among 100 people released that month. He has since filed a case at the High Court in Milimani seeking to be exonerated. The matter is still pending in court, five years down the line. This, he says, has demoralised him. Ouko has also been running an organisation called Youth Safety Awareness Initiative from the time he was on death row to date. The Initiative is better known by its brand name Crime si Poa. They started the organisation in 2007 to get young people off crime and address risks of recidivism because 75 per cent of people in prison are of young age. “By engaging the youth at an early stage, the chain changes and makes communities safer for the better. Insecurity also draws away investment. That was also another drive,” he said. Thigo said that since 2016, POMAC has not sat owing to a Supreme Court decision in the case of Francis Kariuko Muruatetu in which the mandatory nature of the death sentence as provided for under the Penal Code was declared unconstitutional. The court held that all offenders who had been given a mandatory death sentence have the right to a new hearing to determine whether they should still be subject to the death penalty, or should get a different sentence. It ordered the Attorney General and others to set up a system within one year to conduct these new hearings. As a result of the decision, those on life and death sentences have since petitioned the court for re-sentencing. “It is these re-sentencing cases that have delayed POMAC from sitting,” Thigo said. Efforts to reach the Attorney General who is POMAC chair were unsuccessful.Since the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010, the number of long-term offenders pardoned has been 196, while those on commutation from death row to life imprisonment are 2,427. During President Mwai Kibaki’s era, the country had the biggest known mass commutation of condemned prisoners than anywhere in the world.  Kibaki, on August 8, 2009, committed 4,000 death row prisoners to life imprisonment. Prior to that, he had commuted 223 death row convicts to life in 2003. In 2016, President Kenyatta commuted all death sentences to life imprisonment, removing 2,747 convicts from death row, including 2,655 men and 90 women. Although cases of relapse are rare, Muriuki said POMAC is presently conducting research on those who were pardoned but receded to crime. “I cannot say such cases are not there, but it is important to await the conclusion of the research that will determine such queries,” she said. POMAC also conducts post-release monitoring visits to see how ex-convicts are fairing. The most important thing is to have them reintegrate into the community. In addition, Thigo said a discharge board helps those released reintegrate into society. Board members include reformists, potential employers, probation officers, religious groups and pardon officers. “When inmates are released, the board meets and looks at the needs of the prisoners. They are interviewed and their needs assessed for further action. POMAC also makes a follow up on released prisoners. They help them settle,” Thigo said.  INFOGRAPHICS Long-term offenders pardoned since 2010 - 196 Short-term offenders pardoned since 2010 - 7,247 Commutation from death to life imprisonment since 2010 - 2,427 133 prisons countrywide One pardon officer in each station