The National Hygiene Programme or Kazi Mtaani has positively impacted youths from Nyamira county who had been impoverished due to the effects of Covid-19. The local youths incorporated into the programme have not only managed to sustain themselves but also their dependants while initiating small economic projects which will sustain them when the project ends. Nyamira county employed a total of 2,533 youths and 87 supervisors under the Kazi Mtaani programme to cushion them from the adverse economic effects occasioned by the pandemic. One of the youths, 30-year-old Victor Gitenyi working in Magombo ward in Manga subcounty, has managed to lease a piece of land at Sh4,000 which he is currently utilising to make construction bricks, a venture he was not able to start initially due to lack of capital. “Before I was recruited to the Kazi Mtaani programme I could only be hired by other people to make them bricks at a cost of Sh1 per brick, a very small earning that could not enable me to save sufficient money to hire land and also make my own bricks,” Gitenyi said. “When I got a chance to be enrolled in the programme, I invested my very first earnings to the brick making project which will definitely bear fruit not too long from now,” he said. Gitenyi said apart from renting a piece of land he also managed to employ one person who is making the bricks at a small fee, while he remains engaged at the Kazi Mtaani. Another beneficiary, Nehemia Asoti, 26, from Tombe, a National Youth Service graduate, was recruited as a supervisor and with earnings from Kazi Mtaani, he has managed to purchase seven Kenyan German Alpine goats and 95 chickens in a group they formed and registered during their engagement. “The now Sh35,000 investment is duly managed by my wife, while I’m away from home. I am optimistic that this venture will give us economic returns to enable us to sustain our young family for it has become difficult to secure white-collar jobs,” he said. Asoti hopes to be the leading supplier of healthy goats to a nearby slaughterhouse, famous for its supply of quality meat in Tombe and beyond. Vinic Nyakeoga from Manga, apart from buying goats and a young heifer, used part of her earnings to pay school fees for her two sons at boarding school following the sudden death of her husband early last year. At the same time, other youths under the programme have come up with varied economic projects ranging from growing nappier grass, starting tea and tree nurseries, purchase of motorcycles. Others are opening boutiques and saloons as well as formation and registration of youth groups to attract government funding, all aimed at ensuring the future sustainability of their livelihoods. The housing and urban development county director, Boaz Mirieri was still waiting for official communication after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that the programme will be extended. On Wednesday, Housing and Urban Development  PS Charles Hinga extended the programme. County commissioner Amos Mariba commended the government for engaging the youth, especially during the pandemic period, saying it helped to curb potential incidents of crime due to idleness and an unforeseen economic crisis.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris