The ODM party is expected to declare former Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority director general Pavel Oimeke as its candidate for the Bonchari Parliamentary by-election. The Star has established that ODM's National Elections Board chaired by Catherine Mumma has settled on Oimeke after extensive deliberations. It means ODM will not be conducting primaries for the upcoming May 18 by-election that was caused by the death of John Oroo Oyioka. Oimeke, who resigned from EPRA last week, was to face off with ex-Kisii Environment and Water executive John Bill Momanyi and businessman David Ogega. "The ODM candidate will be unveiled on either Wednesday or Thursday,"  a source within the elections board told the Star. The board had closed the submissions for nomination papers last week with only Oimeke, Momanyi and Ogega having applied. It interviewed the candidates and settled on Oimeke who is said to have scored highly. The decision will be submitted to the National Executive Council for ratification. Meanwhile, a group of activists and youth from Bonchari warned ODM against imposing a candidate, saying democracy should prevail. At a press conference in Kisii they said any effort by the party to bungle the process and hand-pick a candidate would lead to a backlash. Led by activist Duke Nyabaro and youth leader Alfred Ayieko they looked forward to the party fronting the best candidate. “We want the party to choose the best from the three who have applied for the ticket so that we support him on account of the love of the party ideologies and position on national issues that affect the party,” said Nyabaro. Ayieko said: “In the past, we have seen ODM bungling nominations. This time, we are warning the NEB that the nominations should be free, fair, and credible. Undemocratic ways of choosing a party candidate cost us in Kisii in the last general elections.” They also expressed their disappointment at the withdrawal of Kisii Agriculture chief officer Geoffrey Mogire from the race. Mogire, a former trade unionist and human defender and staunch ally of ODM Raila Odinga and Kisii Governor James Ongwae, failed to return nomination papers on Thursday last week citing limited time. “Mogire espouses the vision and mission of both the young and the old. He is a forthright leader who has for many years fought for what is right and voice of many on issues affecting the people,” Nyabaro added. They also appealed to political parties that will field candidates in Bonchari to adhere to the electoral code of conduct during the campaigns and carry out peaceful campaigns. Those seeking the seat include Oyioka's widow Teresia Bitutu who will contest on a UDA ticket, Party of Economic Democracy has nominated Lake Victoria South Water Works Agency director Victor Omanwa, former MP Zebedeo Opore of Jubilee Party, former Kisii Woman Representative Mary Otaraa of United Green Party and youthful new entrant Jonah Ondieki of ANC, among other hopefuls. 