The Ministry of Lands has resettled over 100 farmers in Ndabibi area of Naivasha who have been living in settlement schemes for about 50 years. The ministry also issued title deeds for public land in Tarambete area with a view of keeping at bay unscrupulous traders targeting public land. Residents lauded the move saying there had been reports that some politicians and government officers were eyeing prime land that had been set aside for the community facilities. For years, residents of the centre located 40kms from Naivasha town, have clashed over land ownership leaving tens injured and property worth thousands of shillings damaged. According  Tarambete-Ndabibi farm chairman Joseph Mburu, they had undergone untold suffering and intimidation as they sought title deeds. He claimed senior government officers were planning to grab part of the land meant for a school, hospital and community’s water tank. “This is a special day for residents of Tarambete as they have received their title deeds and managed to get 17 acres for community land,” he said on Monday. Mburu added that the move would allow the community to construct a school, church and a water tank on the land that was targeted by the encroachers. “We thank the Lands ministry and the county government for coming in handy in this process which has benefited the poor in this village,” he said. A surveyor involved in the process Jane Gituko said the process started back in the 1960s, with many of the original owners having died. She admitted that land disputes in the area had undermined development projects, adding that the latest move was a major achievement. “Many of the original owners of this farm have even died and it’s their off springs that will benefit from the land,” she said. Gituko noted that the office of the land registrar in Naivasha had played a crucial role in the process of sub-division and issuance of the title deeds. An ECDE teacher Vivian Naini said the issuance of the title deeds paved the way for the county government to construct a school on the land. This was echoed by beneficiary Geoffrey Mwangi who said the area would now develop and lock out potential land grabbers who were targeting the public land. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara