Lawmakers summoned by the cohesion commission for fanning poll chaos on Monday accused the agency of covering up perpetrators of malpractices during last week’s by-elections. The five lawmakers who appeared before the National Cohesion and Integration Commission said the agency had shown bias in handling the cases. Those levelling the accusations were MPs Ong'ondo Were (Kasipul), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Millicent Omanga (nominated senator) and Feisal Mohammed (Msambweni). They said the Samuel Kobia-led commission is being used by powerful forces to pursue selfish political interests. The four spoke after hours of grilling at the NCIC headquarters in Nairobi. Only Omanga and Feisal recorded statements. Washiali asked to bring his lawyer. He will appear before on Tuesday at 1pm. Ong’ondo declined to record a statement until the commission put in writing accusations against him. NCIC head of legal department Kyalo Mwengi said they had received complaints from more than 35 residents of Kabuchai and Matungu constituencies. Some leaders were caught on tape brandishing guns, beating election officials and engaging in other violent acts during the polls held last week. “We are treating them as suspects to help us in investigations,” Mwengi said. Washiali said the commission is partisan in the handling of the poll chaos. The former National Assembly Majority Whip wondered how the summonses left out the 'real masterminds' of the chaos. “They have decided to act on the wrong people. [Kakamega] Senator [Cleophas] Malala took away a presiding officer and ballot box. He even harassed the officer in the full glare of the camera. I don't know if this is what I was told is the deep state,” Washiali said. “The people who should be here are not here. The chaos in Matungu was between ANC and ODM.” Were said he was not served with any allegations as required by law. “I just received a general letter with no content. The letter was only quoting the powers of the commission,” Ong'ondo told journalists. "They [NCIC investigators] said they have summoned me based on the reports from the media and social media sites so I did not make any presentation and insisted that they summon me a fresh with the details of the accusations." The lawmaker also denied involvement in the Matungu chaos. Feisal termed the summons a political witch-hunt. “The commission is established in the Constitution and should not be used to harass and intimidate. I will continue supporting a political side which I believe means well for Kenyans,” Feisal said. The Independent MP is an ally of Deputy President William Ruto. Omanga denied involvement in the Kabuchai by-elections chaos, saying the perpetrators were captured on video. She told journalists that she never received any letter summoning her and only turned up after seeing her name in the news. "There was no accusation levelled against me; they are actually seeking information from me. It was a knee-jerk reaction by the commission," Omanga said. The commission also grilled MPs Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Fred Kapondi (Mt. Elgon), and John Walukhe (Sirisia).  (edited by o. owino)