Final touches are underway at Green Park terminus constructed by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Once complete, the terminus located at Railways Club will be the drop-off and pick-up point for at least 110 matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes. This will be functional once the NMS directs all matatu out of the central business district to help in decongestion. Construction works at the terminus began last year around October. NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi blamed design issues and consultation with stakeholders for the delay. The pulling down of structures at the former Lunar Park consumed a lot of time as traders did it. Consultation with stakeholders, including matatu Saccos, also contributed to the delay as the NMS had to engage them on why the CBD will be a no-go zone for them once all termini are completed. "I'm contented that Saccos were pleased with the progress we've made so far and they have encouraged us to finish with the termini fast because they want to occupy the spaces,” Badi said. NMS has erected blue and grey shades fitted with seats for commuters to sit as they wait for matatus. The NMS plans to boost the environment by having garden beds around the terminus, hence the name Green Park. Solar energy will be used to provide lighting within the terminus. For security purposes, a police station will be set up to ensure the safety of commuters, matatu crews and staff. With about 3,000 people using the terminus daily, the NMS has already constructed a mini dispensary that will offer medical assistance in cases of emergency healthcare needs. The dispensary started its operations in January. A modern restaurant and a mini-supermarket will also be built to offer services to passengers and matatu crews. Two modern ablution blocks will also be set up—one at the drop-off point and another at the pick-up area. Badi emphasised that they are determined to make the ablution blocks hygienic and user-friendly to everyone, including the physically challenged and children.