The boda boda sector, just like the others, has many challenges. Some of the riders do not own motorcycles. This means that they are employed by those who own boda bodas. Some companies have also taken advantage by selling boda bodas to riders who are supposed to pay daily. However, when a rider fails to pay, such companies confiscate their motorcycles. Some riders do not have licenses and insurance and that's is why the government has stepped in to train members. Furthermore, the money they get at the end of the day is so little. Another challenge is that whenever a boda boda is involved in an accident with motorists, police heap blame on the riders. Generally, the sector started without any form of regulations. Today, however, we have a form of leadership. The government should empower our leaders as they will talk on our behalf and let our voices be heard. We have also seen the government has started training some of our members. This is a step in the right direction as the government has not been empowering us in any way. The boda boda riders will now start gaining recognition as an important sector in the economy. Other than these challenges, the riders have their undoing. Some buy bodas bodas not because they want to use them to economically empower themselves but to commit crimes. This is because there are loopholes.  Those who use them to commit crimes can only be eliminated by ensuring that all the boda boda in the country are registered including the areas they operate. This is because boda boda is just like any other office. The genuine riders have children to take to school, to feed, and other bills to settle. Boda Boda members have always appealed to the government to come up with a system that can be used to register them. The motorcycles should also have a number plate in front for identification because of the existence of people with different missions. This will not only help in doing away with criminal activities on Kenyan roads but also restoring order. The boda boda rider and Nairobi County Boda Safety Association of Kenya secretary spoke to the Star