Celebrated journalist Winnie Mukami was on Friday buried at her rural home in Mathioya, Murang'a county. Mourners who flocked ACK Kiamuturi Church eulogised her as a God-fearing woman who served the nation and the church. Mukami died on August 18 from Covid-19 complications. She was 40 years old. She began her career in 2002 as a news presenter at national broadcaster KBC before joining Nation Media Group as a newscaster on NTV. She  eft the company in 2010 and established a consultancy firm, Winners Frontiers International. Mukami was decorated with the Order of the Moran of the Burning Spear (MBS) by President Uhuru Kenyatta in December 2017 for her selflessness and diligence in making a difference as a patriot. She served as board member at the Kenya Pipeline Corporation for two years from 2018 to last year. Karey B, a renowned vernacular artiste and Mukami's sister, eulogised her in songs, while her nephew, Sam Gioche, said she was a loving aunt who dedicated her life to her family and friends. Jane Kiyo, a journalist with CGTN and who worked with Mukami at NTV, eulogised her as a mentor who helped shape her career. She said her death left a mark in her life. Mathioya MP Peter Kimari, who is also Mukami's cousin, said she worked hard to save people from Covid-19 and that it was devastating that the virus claimed her life. "Let us all protect ourselves from the virus and ensure we continue observing the safety protocols. We are not living in normal days. I have attended so many burials in the last one week. Let us take care and be each other's keeper," Kimari said. The MP urged Kenyans to take the vaccine when they get the chance and ignore rumours of its side effects. Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege emphasised on the need for Kenyans to get vaccinated. Chege, who also passed the President's condolences, urged Kenyans to take the responsibility of checking up on their friends and relatives as the pandemic continues to ravage the country. Ahadi Kenya CEO Stanley Kamau said Winnie had a "good heart and was very outgoing". Kamau, who is also a board member at Kenyatta National Hospital, said the facility has no ICU bed available and urged Kenyans to continue taking care and avoid intermingling with the elderly who are more vulnerable. Edited by EKibii