@robertomollo3 The Homa Bay government should not impose new taxes on local produce, Senator Moses Kajwang' has said. Kajwang' wants the county government to relieve residents of the high cost of living. This even as fishermen threatened to increase fish prices because of the high cost of fuel. Last weekend, the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority announced new rates for petroleum products. The announcement saw a litre of super petrol, diesel and kerosene rise by Sh7.63, Sh5.75, and Sh5.41 per litre respectively. The new rate has prompted the fishermen to consider increasing the price of the commodity to compensate for the cost of fuel. A ripple effect has already been reported on essential products and services, including transport and food supply. Many fishermen use boats that are powered by engines that use petroleum. At night, they also use kerosene to light their lanterns, which attract fish near the water surface for easy catches. Suba Beach Management Unit chairman William Onditis on Thursday said many fishermen fail to get into Lake Victoria because they cannot afford it. “Most of us use fuel-powered engines for fishing. Life has become unbearable for many and we can’t go into the lake for fishing,” Onditi said. The BMU official said they will start increasing the price of fish to compensate for the high cost of fuel. Homa Bay has the largest Lake Victoria water cover in Kenya and the highest fish producer in the Nyanza region. “Instead of suspending the activities that enable us to get our daily bread, we’re considering increasing fish prices to replace the new adjustment,” Onditi said. But Kajwang’ appealed to Governor Cyprian Awiti not to impose new taxes on residents until the economy is stabilised. He said some fishermen have approached him saying life will be unbearable should the Homa Bay government come up with new taxes. Kajwang said Covid-19 has also worsened the situation. “Instead, the county government should ensure a tax relief for residents and business operators. Let’s do what will promote development and stabilise the economy,” he said. In January, Awiti directed that all revenue, including sand and fish sess, be collected. However, Kajwang appeal to the county government to rescind the directive. “We are still in the jaws of Covid-19 and the cost of living is high. It is not the right time to force residents to start paying revenues when the economy is unstable,” he said. Homa Bay budget is expected to increase from Sh7 billion to Sh9 billion from in shared revenue from the National Treasury. “Let’s use the additional funds for development instead of taxing residents,” Kajwang' said.