The inaugural Saudi Arabian Grand Prix will take place on the sport’s fastest street circuit, claims Formula 1. The track will be on the coast about seven miles north of Jeddah and will be the second-longest on the F1 calendar, at 6.175km (3.84 miles). Simulations suggest the average lap speed will be 155mph, among the highest on any F1 track. F1 managing director Ross Brawn said the track should “provide exciting wheel-to-wheel racing for our fans.” Brawn added: “The design brings out the best of a modern street circuit but also has fast-paced free-flowing areas that will create fast speeds and overtaking opportunities. The setting is incredible, on the Red Sea.” The race weekend is scheduled for December 3-5. The circuit will have 27 corners and has a combination of high-speed S-bends and chicanes. The track is slated to host the race in Saudi Arabia until a new purpose-built track is ready in Qiddiyah, which is scheduled to be in 2023. Meanwhile, Sebastian Vettel will want to show he still has the speed and spirit of a four-times world champion as he makes a fresh start with Aston Martin this season, but the German already has some catching up to do. Through no fault of his own, the 33-year-old ended Formula One’s pre-season testing in Bahrain with less mileage than any of his rivals and with the first race looming at the same Sakhir circuit on March 28. Such a situation would have alarmed him back in the day when he won four successive titles with Red Bull but Vettel, winner of 53 races, is older and wiser now. “Probably 10 years ago I would finally panic now,” Vettel told reporters. “But then again, if I were to panic now would it help? Probably not. We are just trying to do our things and use the time now we have. We still got some running, And for me it was super, super useful. “It could be better, but it could be worse. So I think it’s about remaining calm, doing one thing at a time and moving forward when it’s time to.” Vettel arrives at the Mercedes-powered, Silverstone-based team after six years at Ferrari, the last two spent uncomfortably alongside rising star Charles Leclerc, and with a new role.