Police on Monday disrupted a press conference in which families of two of the five suspected gangsters shot dead in a Saturday dawn raid at a house in Mbungoni gave a differing account of events that lead to the deaths. The police said the presser was illegal as they had not been informed. However, Muslims for Human Rights chair Khelef Khalifa said the police were only trying to cover their mess, which started last Saturday. Residents of Mbungoni in Nyali subcounty on Saturday woke up to sounds of heavy gunfire. The aftermath? Five people, who police said were suspected criminals, dead in a single-room, some of their faces blown out. Nyali subcounty commander Daniel Masaba identified them as Benedict Mugure aka General, Michael Kimani aka One Man Army, Netwon Kibara aka Kaparo, Bakari Hassan aka Beka and Salim Ndegwa aka Kidevu. He said the five were preparing to leave on a motorbike but when they saw the police, they retreated to the house, defied orders to surrender and instead opened fire at the elite squad officers who were in an operation to flash them out. Police said they recovered an AK-47 rifle and over 30 rounds of ammunition. The five, according to police, also operated the River Trinity Miracles Church and are led by pastors John Kamau and Lawrence Kamau. “They have terrorised residents here and in other places in Mombasa,” Masaba told journalists on Saturday. However, a different and contradicting version of the events has emerged. The families of Mugure, 62, and Kibara, 43, say their loved ones were abducted on March 17 by people suspected to be police officers, only to be found at the Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital morgue on March 27, the day of the raid. Juliana Nyambura, Mugure’s sister, said she was called on March 17 and told Mugure had been taken away from his house in Mtopanga at 11am by armed people in balaclavas who identified themselves as police officers. “I went to Mbungoni police station, Dog section and the following day Bamburi police station, who sent me to Kadzandani police station,” said Nyambura. She got OB numbers 23/18/03/21, 15/20/3/2021 and 25/21/3/21. On March 27, she saw on TV the news of his brother’s death. “I was confused. For 10 days, where was my brother?” asked Nyambura. Mugure, according to Nyambura, operates a tuktuk, which he had taken to a garage in Kiembeni on the day he was taken. Juliet Mugure, wife to Kibara, said on March 17, nine people with balaclavas surrounded her house soon after Kibara came home at around 2pm. “They had big guns. They entered the house and started beating him. They pointed a gun to my head and told me to tell them when my husband usually gets home, what work he does,” she said. Kibara, she said, sells construction stones and moves around in a motorcycle. Juliet said the men torched her husband’s motorcycle before leaving with him. She reported the matter at Dog Section police station under OB 45/17/3/21. Muhuri chair Khalifa and rapid response officer Francis Auma said they conducted their own investigations and neighbours accounts differ from that of the police. “Police arrived at the house and ordered all neighbours to move out of the scene. In particular, women who were pregnant were told to stay far away. This shows clearly, the intention was to murder this people,” said Khalifa. He questioned the move to shoot the five dead when they security officers say they had information about them prior. “If they had that information, why not apprehend them so the law can take its course, rather than shoot them? Shooting them buries the evidence these people might have,” said Khalifa. The human rights defender said their probe showed no evidence of a shootout as there was no evidence of fire from inside the house. “We went into the room and all the bullets holes were on one wall meaning they were coming from one direction. There is a possibility these people were not armed at all,” said Khalifa. He said neighbours and the owner of the house said they had never seen four of the five before. “These people could have been dragged into the room and shot dead,” he noted. Muhuri said they have at least six witnesses who saw Mugure and Kibara at police stations. “Suspects should be taken to court. Anything apart from that is extrajudicial killing,” said Khalifa. As the families narrated their accounts to journalists, heavily armed police circled the Muhuri Leal Aid Clinic about four times before disrupting the press conference. They ordered all out of the premises saying no public gathering are allowed. Khalifa however said the police were using intimidatory tactics to cover up their mess. “It is clear what they are doing. They are trying to scare the families, activists and, sadly, even journalists away,” said Khalifa. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara