Three major police commands in Nairobi have received new commanders in changes announced by police headquarters. This follows a recent wave of promotions effected by the National Police Service Commission. They come in the wake of renewed operations to enforce Covid-19 pandemic rules. More than 100 Sub County Police Commanders popularly known as Officers Commanding Police Division were affected in the changes announced on Tuesday. John Nyamu is the new Central OCPD, William Kahindi (Nyamache), Samson Thuranira (Gucha South), Dorothy Mugarisha (Juja), Anderson Njagi (Isinya), Andrew Muturi (Kilimani), Timon Odongo (Makadara), Peter Nyaga (Kasarani), James Ngetich (Kisumu Central), Mohamed Guyo (Thika West) and Stephen Kirui (Lari). Several County commanders were also affected by being confirmed to their positions. The new Kisii county commander is Patrick Macharia while Robinson Mboloi will be the deputy regional police commander in Rift Valley. Police headquarters will have to get a replacement for Vihiga police command after the newly posted boss Benjamin Ongombe died out of Covid-19 complications on Monday before reporting. The new Kajiado county police commander is Muthuri Mwongera, Beatrice Kiraguri (Nakuru) and Geofrey Mayek (deputy regional Eastern). There has been concern over enforcement of the Covid-19 pandemic rules with some officers being accused of lenience at the expense of revelers. For instance in Nairobi, top commanders have had to circulate a list of bars that are said to be notorious in flouting the rules to prompt operations from local officers to stop the trend. The bars have been operating with impunity even after being branded super spreaders. At the weekend, police from Kilimani had to be used in raiding a bar along Ngong Road, which is in Dagorreti command and arrested 57 revelers who were in the joint. Those arrested were produced in court and committed to community service for a week.The government has imposed various rules to contain the spread of the pandemic. Enforcement has however been a challenge. The spread of the disease has overwhelmed the health care system in the country.