Rubis Energy Kenya has reiterated its commitment to the market with the transfer and rebranding of acquired Gulf Energy and KenolKobil petrol stations to the Rubis banner. This follows the unveiling of seven new rebranded petrol station at Ngong Racecourse, Karen, Matasia, Embakasi, Kimalat, Thika, and Karatina. Rubis Energy Kenya Group Managing Director - East Africa Jean-Christian Bergeron said that the rebranding of the 220 petrol stations nationwide will ensure the sustainable accessibility of Rubis products. “Globally, we have a strong petrol station networks of over 1,065 units and we hope to introduce the Kenyan customers to more of our products and services through the stations. As part of our strategy to establish our footprint in the country, we are looking at meeting our customers need for mobility, heating, and cooking through our petrol stations,” Bergeron said. Bergeron added that Rubis' strategy is to gradually bring the entire network of acquired petrol stations under one brand while adhering to international standards of safety and environmentally-friendly practices. “We are working on innovative concepts aimed at satisfying the needs and desires of customers on the go. These will include additional mobility-related services, quality hot spot and fast-food services, stores with a modular approach and automotive fuel cards offering exclusive offers and services to promote customer loyalty,” Bergeron said. Besides fueling and servicing, customers will soon be able to shop and eat at all Rubis, KenolKobil and Gulf Energy subsidiaries. As part of its diversification strategy, Rubis Energy Kenya has partnered with leading retail outlets within its petrol stations for the provision of convenience services through restaurants, banking halls, outpatient clinics, garages, and ATMs. Last year, Rubis welcomed a partnership with French-inspired bakery and coffee shop Brioche in major towns. The oil marketer has also introduced its convenience store brand, RUBiS Express, to provide world-class convenience to motorists on the go, saving time and money. Motorists will continue to enjoy total control of their fuel-related expenses using the Rubis Card. Besides convenience and efficient payment at fuel stations, the card is based on Smart Card technology provides a convenient Bill Payment service.