Nairobi Metropolitan Services boss Mohammed Badi has built roads, collected garbage, built a bus terminus, upgraded medical facilities and told cartels where to go. But has the NMS boss met his match in the hawkers swarming around the Central Business District? They are blocking roads and pavements, crowding out pedestrians and blocking business entrances, thus denying business to legitimate traders. Some are stealing, picking pockets and committing other crimes. The CBD is their work station. Still, a lot of people buy from them — face masks, fruits, vegetables, second-hand clothes, shoes, handbags and cutlery. They perform a service, of sorts. Over the years, these 'CBD owners' have proved they cannot be evicted or persuaded to move, despite vigorous attempts by successive county governments. Heavy-handed roundups don't work. They just surge back. For years, hawker and street families have always been at odds with enforcement officers. Enter Mohammed Badi. In an interview last week, he said his team is readying a building near Utalii College, along Thika Road as hawkers' permanent working station. The building will also host mechanics in separate areas. “We want them out of the CBD and we have located a site near Utalii College where NMS will set up a building to house mechanics and hawkers,” Badi said. But will they go and wait for buyers to come to them, instead of accosting them all day in the CBD? They don't always have to accost them, their little spots are crowded with buyers. As early as 11am, hawkers camp brazenly along Kenyatta Avenue. Along Latema and River roads, the hawkers are stationed from mid-morning to evening, always alert to impending sweeps by enforcement officers. It is a cat-and-mouse game along Ronald Ngala and Mfangano streets between the hawkers and enforcement officers. The hawkers stuff their wares in a sack and run whenever they see enforcement officers, some in navy blue uniforms with a yellow NMS logo, others in plainclothes. Despite the general desire to clean up the CBC and see them gone, hawkers say they are just trying to make a few coins to sustain themselves and their families. Martha Nyaguthii, 27, a mother of two, has been selling grapes, oranges and apples along Mfangano Street for 18 months. The the location is strategic as there are always ready customers, especially from afternoon through evening rush hours. Allan Were, a father of three, is the breadwinner for his family, selling women's shoes and leather jackets. “If I stay at home my family will sleep hungry. When coming to town and selling, I have never gone home with less than Sh1,000 daily. I have to do what I can to feed and educate my children," he said. Along Haile Selassie, the hawkers have taken over the roadside, selling food to passersby. Some are stationed there until just before the curfew at 10pm  FAILED ATTEMPTS Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko announced in October 2017 that hawkers will only be allowed to operate in the city centre from 2pm. As usual, the order fell on deaf ears. Sweeps by inspectorate officers didn't work. The Nairobi City County Trade Licensing Act, 2018, passed in April by MCAs sought to license hawkers and street vendors. Within the CBD, they would pay Sh500 per month, outside the CBD, they were to pay Sh30 daily. It was never implemented. The Nairobi City County Pop-Up Markets and Street Vendors Bill, 2019 proposed flea markets for hawkers in gazetted areas twice a week. It was also intended to protect hawkers who are sometimes extorted and harassed by inspectorate officers. It was never implemented. Following construction of Sh389 million Mwariro Market in Kariokor, hawkers were told to relocate. The market hasn't been commissioned and many hawkers said they didn't want to leave the CBD. Last month, President Uhuru Kenyatta said traders who had occupied the land where the market was built will be given first priority once it's commissioned. “Soon I will open Mwariro Market but I don’t want to see any incitement over who will occupy the space. We want a fair process to ensure everyone will have equal opportunity to occupy," he said. From his remarks, it was not clear whether hawkers will be given space or still left in the CBD. Will they forsake the CBD for Badi's separate plan for a market near Utali College? (Edited by V. Graham)