The Thursday by-elections were marked by violence, claims of voter bribery and outright ill behaviour. We are saddened as a commission that even after many warnings, our leaders assume that they can continue to behave with impunity. The very fact that a leader can slap a public servant is not just a slap in the face of the public servant but of all Kenyans. We cannot tolerate this anymore and as a nation, and a commission, we must take a stand. The list of wrongs today is too long and too depressing. But we must rise to the occasion. We as the NCIC are calling for a multi-agency approach – where our partners the police and the DCI will move swiftly to arrest the perpetrators of violence. This is not business as usual. We must defend our nation and her peace tooth and nail. Further, we are working with the DPP to ensure arrested offenders have their day in court. We will also be filing a suit, after investigations, to bar anyone found breaching peace from running for office in 2022. The Registrar of Political Parties is working with us to ensure that this happens and these criminals (for they are no longer waheshimiwa) must pay a criminal, social and political price for these atrocities. Kenyans must indeed be rest assured that we will not let these matters rest. We will use every tool in our arsenal to ensure justice and accountability. The days when politicians could act with impunity are long gone. Let this be a warning bell—it is not business as usual. We are dedicated to a peaceful Kenya and that means we will have to force out these vices by hook or by crook. This warning should also be sounded to those who call themselves gangs and goons for hire. We are coming for you too. We will find, arrest and produce you in court. If you allow yourself to be used for this criminal enterprise, then also be ready to pay a stack and steep price for your actions. At the same time, we would like to thank the politicians who have acted with decorum during this period. We would urge all politicians to do the same and handle themselves with restraint and handle their responsibilities with dignity. Campaigns are not everything in life. Finally, we urge all Kenyans to keep the peace and continue being the peaceful people we are, undivided by petty politics. We also urge Parliament to amend the NCIC Act and allow us to have the reach needed to ensure criminal, political, and social liability for such behaviours. The NCIC chairman spoke to the Star