Public sector trade unions have expressed concern over what they term as a continued efforts by the government to suffocate and kill unions. The unions on Monday said the rights and freedoms of workers should be respected and upheld at all times. Rogue government officials have continued to execute well-choreographed schemes aimed at weakening unions and depriving Kenyan workers of their rights, they said. They include officials from the Kenya National Union of Teachers, the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union, the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers, the Kenya National Union of Nurses, the Kenya County Government Workers Union among others. “Some unions have been affected by the bullish and puerile behaviour of the responsible government offices and officials,” KMPDU SG Chibanzi Mwachonda said. They gave an example of the wrangles between KNUT and the Teachers Service Commission, which have seen KNUT membership reduce from more than 240,000 to just 13,000 due to withholding of union dues. “TSC has continued to overlook KNUT members on promotion and salary upgrade through making changes that are illegal, unconstitutional and against the collective bargaining agreement,” Mwachonda said. “The same attack has also not spared union of Kenya civil servants, that has lost 35,000 members, two CBAs signed and registered in the industrial courts but with no agency fee,” he said. They also said contract employment in the public sector has become a norm, it is disenfranchising to workers and denying them the right to participate in trade union activities, pension benefits and amounts to the casualisation of labour. They further hit out at the Salaries and Remuneration Commission for what they termed as embarking on salary reviews and remuneration benefits for doctors and other civil servants in the context of fiscal sustainability. “The targeted outcome to scrap off allowances and benefits for doctors, clinical officers, nurses, teachers and other public servants. This exercise is part of the greater schemes of stifling trade unions and an affront to the right to collectively bargain for the workers.” They have called on the SRC to stick to its mandate and not overstep by setting remuneration benefits for public servants.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris