Turkana County Government has called on stakeholders in the water sector to collaborate to cushion residents from effects of the impending drought. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok called for joint response and better preparedness to support vulnerable communities. Nanok spoke during a stakeholders' forum of partner organisations implementing Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) programmes in Turkana. "In different places of the county there is an emerging crisis of drought. I witnessed this during my visit to Turkana North and have received reports from communities. The water table has gone down, boreholes have either dried or are over stretched and the health condition of livestock has deteriorated. We have to find ways to leverage resources to solve the crisis," he said. Nanok informed the partners that the county government was prioritising resources to deal with food shortage and water needs for communities. He said a new cycle of relief food distribution commenced late last week. He commended World Food Programme and World Vision for logistical support to transport the food consignment, but encouraged support on distribution of nutrition supplements. In a report presented by assistant director drought contingency planning and response Josephat Lotwel, the National Drought Management Authority (NDMA) has ranked Turkana East, Turkana North and Kibish as the worst hit on food security with over 230,000 people estimated to be in dire need of food relief. Governor Nanok called for prioritisation of severely hit areas for response, warning that water shortage would be the biggest cause for malnutrition. He proposed investment in large surface water harvesting infrastructure as a long-term solution to the county's water challenge. "To ensure better management of water systems, the new urban water company registered to replace Lodwar Water and Sanitation Company and the rural water company, will ensure better management of infrastructure developed by the County and partners," Nanok said. Nanok decried the slow implementation of major water projects, including the Napuu Water Project implemented by the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority and the Kalokol Water Project, funded by the Equalisation Fund, which is halfway done. He said the projects, once complete, will provide water to communities and solve shortages currently faced. Deputy Governor Peter Lotethiro, who doubles up as the acting county executive for Water, said the county government will lead a response plan to ensure the situation does not worsen. He admitted that despite the impending drought, investment by the county government had reversed past occurrences where Turkana was always the epicenter of famine in Kenya. Turkana County Chief Officer for Water Services Moses Natome revealed that the department had identified needs to be addressed that will cost more than Sh300 million. He said the county government will commit Sh100 million for responses across the county, including repair and equipping of boreholes and water trucking to areas with no water sources.