Over 7,000 KCPE and KCSE exam candidates from Kiharu constituency will benefit from a feeding programme during their national examinations. With KCPE exam expected to start on Monday, many parents who have been affected by Covid-19 financially have been crying out for help saying they could not afford the charges imposed by schools. But a well-wisher has taken it upon himself to buy over 200 bags of rice that have been distributed to 165 primary and day secondary schools for consumption during the exams. This will ensure the candidates fully focus on their examinations and none goes without food. Karanja Mburu Wamatangi said many parents, especially in the dry areas of the constituency, have been struggling to stay afloat financially during the pandemic. Without assistance, many would be unable to adequately support their children during the exams which could jeopardise their results. Karanja spoke at Kiangage Primary School on Tuesday while distributing the bags of rice. He said parents will only be required to provide accompaniments such as vegetables. Karanja also provided geometrical sets and pencils to the candidates. He called on the government to put measures in place to ensure a feeding programme is carried out in schools, especially during national examinations. This, he said, will go a long way in equalising candidates from public schools to their private schools counterparts. "Such a programme would give all children an equal opportunity to learn and focus on their examinations," he said. Karanja, a philanthropist, started supporting candidates with food in 2013 and has provided bags of rice to all schools ever since. He underscored the need for counsellors to be deployed to schools to ensure candidates are mentally prepared for the exams. "Many children, just like adults, have experienced difficulties during the pandemic," he said, noting that counsellors would help the candidates sit their exams in a relaxed manner. He also appealed to the government to review the hiked fuel prices that he said will have a major effect on food prices and aggravate an already bad situation for many Kenyans. Nephat Njira-ini an alumni of Kiangage primary school said the feeding programme has relieved parents of the extra cost while motivating children. He said the programme will have a major impact throughout the constituency and that parents will have peace as their children sit the exams. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara