Political parties whose activities will be marred by violence ahead of the 2022 general elections risk being deregistered, registrar Anne Nderitu has warned. The registrar said political parties have signed and committed to abide by the code of conduct provided in the Political Parties Act. Nderitu cited reports of electoral malpractices in the Matungu and Kabucha constituencies and in London and Hell’s Gate wards by-elections. She said the code obliges political parties to regulate the behavior of members, officials, aspiring candidates, candidates and supporters. This is with a view to promote good governance and eradicate all political malpractices, including electoral violence. “Political parties concerned should immediately read their riot act to errant members including instituting disciplinary measures in line with their party constitutions for the respective breaches,” Nderitu said. She told political parties to take note that one of the grounds for deregistration, is violation of Article 91 of the Constitution and the Political Parties Code of Conduct. The Constitution says political parties shall not engage in or encourage violence by, or intimidation of, its members, supporters, opponents or any other person. Upon registration, parties sign a Code of Conduct where they commit that they shall not engage in or encourage violence by its members or supporters. Parties also vow not to engage in or encourage any kind of intimidation of opponents, any other person or any other political party. They also agree against influence peddling, bribery or any other form of corruption; use of illicit or illegal money; and use of public resources other than those allocated to the political party through the political party fund. Parties also sign up against advocating hatred that constitutes ethnic incitement, vilification of others or incitement to cause harm as well as not to obstruct, disrupt a meeting, rally or demonstration of another political party or its leadership. Nderitu, in a statement, said her office shall not hesitate to issue the necessary sanctions to political parties should they not take immediate action on their members. She said this will follow if such actions of malpractices continue, specifically on election violence largely witnessed during the by-elections. The Registrar further condemned the harassment meted on electoral officials in their course of duty as was witnessed in Matungu. Former Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa was released on a Sh1 million bail on Tuesday on charges of assaulting an IEBC official. Nderitu said “political parties must rein on their members to desist from such uncalled for behavior.” She said the events do not only disparage the political parties’ ethos but also denies an enabling avenue for the citizenry to exercise their constitutionally-guaranteed political rights. Nderitu said her office will work with other duty bearers and institutions in the electoral management field to ensure sanity is restored. The parties’ registrar said those found culpable of meting violence will be brought to account. The just-concluded by-elections were marred by violence as the various parties fought it out for the seats. Incidents of fistfights, some involving senior leaders and elected MPs, were commonplace during the heavily contested Matungu MP, and in Nakuru’s London ward mini-polls. Ten MPs were on Monday grilled by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission over chaos at the various polls.