Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti says his government is focusing on agriculture to improve the county’s economy during the Covid-19 pandemic. Awiti spoke on Wednesday when he delivered his state of the county address, the first since his re-election in 2017. He said his administration is supporting residents to grow food crops and fishermen in Lake Victoria arguing that it contributes significantly to the creation of employment and business opportunities in Homa Bay. Some extension officers have been given 20 motorbikes to help residents at Kimira Oluch Irrigation Scheme improve their farming activities. “Homa Bay’s population depends majorly on agricultural activities to grow its economy. Let our people embark on agriculture because it’s the source of our livelihoods,” Awiti said. He said his administration is working closely with the national government to support cage fishing in the lake. Homa Bay currently has about 1,000 fish cages in Lake Victoria. Awiti who is serving his second and last term said his administration is working on a policy to regulate cage fishing activities to benefit local fishermen. “We’re going to streamline the issuance of licences to cage investors. This will ensure our people also benefit from fishing activities,” Awiti said. The governor was in the company of his deputy Hamilton Orata, Senator Moses Kajwang’, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe and Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo. Others present were Finance CEC Nicholas Koriko, Richard Muga (Health), Aguko Juma (Agriculture), Dickson Nyawinda (Water) and Fredrick Odero (Sports). Awiti also announced that the county government will operationalise the newly constructed Sh25.7 million Kigoto Maize Mill in two weeks to cushion farmers from post-harvesting losses. “The project is aimed at ensuring sustainable grain supply, stabilising grain market prices and enabling farmers to get value for their produce,” he said. Residents were urged not to get tired from abiding by Covid-19 protocols. He said the county has a ten-bed intensive care unit for Covid-19 and increased the number of health facilities from 143 in 2013 to the current 210. His deputy said devolution had led to the implementation of many projects which are transforming the lives of the people. “Devolution enabled a proper fight against Covid-19 in this county. Let’s continue following the laid down protocols to prevent the disease,” Orata said. Kajwang’ told Homa Bay MCAs to be cautious with the imposition of taxes to the county residents. “Residents are still undergoing harsh effects of Covid-19. Protect them from taxation,” Kajwang’ said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris