A disabled passenger has sued Lufthansa airline for confiscating his long walking stick, saying it looked like a weapon. Daniel Orwenjo, a passenger living with a disability, sued on grounds Lufthansa's actions amounted to discrimination against him. He said he was told the walking stick was too long and could be used as a weapon. Crew members said it should have been placed in his checked baggage. The walking stick is one metre long, he said. The airline was said to be strictly applying its anti-terrorism, anti-hijacking policy. Orwenjo in his suit papers said the airline crew members confiscated his walking stick on July 3, 2018,when he boarded the plane saying it was too long and looked dangerous. And as a result, he slipped and fell several times as he moved around, using the slippery metal rod offered by the airline, “Indeed, he suffered immeasurable musculoskeletal pains, joint pains and soreness,” Orwenjo's suit papers said. Orwenjo was flying on Lufthansa on July 3, 2016, from Leipzig/Halle airport in Germany to JKIA in Nairobi. He said he was unable to go to the washrooms in the aircraft for more than 10 hours. On arrival at JKIA, he said, he could not find his walking stick and was informed that it had been left in Germany. It was not in the cargo hold. “It was unfair that a person who was subjected to ill-treatment of the kind suffered by the plaintiff should be denied his walking stick,” Orwenjo said in his papers. When he demanded to see the airline manager, he was given a metal rod to use for his trip to Accra on July 4. He said he was told his walking stick, which is his lifeline, would be delivered to his hotel the same day in the evening. It was not delivered. Orwenjo told the court that he has suffered heavy blow due to his disability. “This is inhumane and a direct consequence of the defendant’s (airline's) choice to discriminate against the plaintiff by seizing his walking stick, stripping him off his dignity and now, denying his physical injury and ongoing boundless depths of trauma,” Orwenjo said. He said it was not his first time travelling with Lufthansa. He said the distance from his seat to the facilities on the aircraft was too far to be accessed without his walking stick on the flight that took more than 10 hours. “The plaintiff reiterates the undignified treatment he was subjected to as he was denied his only means of movement and help to access the facilities,” he said. “As a result of this reckless and negligent choice made by the defendant (airline) to hold onto the plaintiff’s walking stick, he was forced to endure great humiliation in pleading for help from strangers to give him a hand to get around,” he said. Orenjo said the walking stick does not fall under the regulations list of prohibited articles for passengers and cabin baggage. “The walking stick is not a firearm, a stunning device, sharp-edged, a workman’s tool, a martial arts equipment or an explosive,” the court was told. The case will be heard on May 18. (Edited by V. Graham)