The Pharmacy and Poisons Board has advised Kenyans against self-medication for antimicrobial medicines or sharing drugs with relatives. The board said members of the public should only access such medicines using valid prescription from registered pharmacies and hospitals. Board CEO Dr Fred Siyoi said antibiotics are only effective against bacterial infections. "They are not the solution for infections caused by viruses such as common colds and flu. The correct diagnosis and the decision about whether antibiotics are necessary can only be made by a qualified healthcare professional,” he said. The World Health Organization has declared Antimicrobial Resistance as one of the top 10 global health threats facing humanity. It occurs when viruses, bacteria fungi and parasites no longer respond to medicines. According to the board, misuse and overuse of antimicrobial medicines in humans, animals and food production poses a health risk to the public as few new antimicrobial medicines are being discovered. “Antimicrobial resistance leads to inadequate treatment of infections, longer hospital stays, higher medical costs and increased deaths,” he added. This comes amid fears that some Kenyans might be using antibiotics to try treat Covid-19 symptoms. Health experts have warned that Covid-19 is a virus and viruses cannot be cured by antibiotics. “Since Covid-19 causes respiratory diseases people who are infected or suspect that they have been infected with Covid-19 may feel the urge to take antibiotics which is unnecessary treatment in this instance,” WHO Kenya Representative Rudi Eggers said. Health CAS Rashid Aman said continuous emergence of resistant microbials restricts the country’s ability to treat diseases. “Studies indicate that many patients diagnosed with mild Covid-19 disease received antibiotics even when there is no accompanying pneumonia or there was no indication for this,” Aman said. According to KEMRI, resistance to antimicrobial agents is one of the most important emerging threats to global health. Kenyans have also been advised to return unused antibiotics drugs to the pharmacy or the nearest hospital instead of disposing them of in waste bins or toilets.