Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has upset Deputy William Ruto's efforts to penetrate Ukambani with his resounding victory in the Machakos senatorial by-election. Wiper's Agnes Kavindu won the seat garnering more than 104,0802 votes against her closest competitor Urbanus Ngengele of UDA who got less than 20,000 votes. Kalonzo's party got 78 per cent of the total votes cast, while UDA, a party associated with the Deputy President,  managed 15 per cent. However, returning officer Joyce Wamalwa on Friday decried the low voter turnout, urging for stakeholders to educate voters on the importance of casting their ballot. UDA congratulated Kavindu for the victory and said it would live to fight another day. UDA chairman Johnstone Muthama, a confidante of the Deputy President and former ally of Kalonzo, was under pressure to deliver the Machakos seat to Ruto, who has been making inroads in Ukambani region. Political commentator Joseph Mutua said Wiper's victory affirmed that Kalonzo is still Ukambani's kingpin. “The victory is a clear indicator that Kalonzo is still the king of Ukambani politics. It is also an indicator that Ukambani people believe Kalonzo is taking them in the right direction,” he stated. In September last year, Ruto allies in Ukambani hatched a plot to oust Kalonzo as the region's kingpin. Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai said it would be fatal for the community to head for the next election under Kalonzo's stewardship. But another group led by Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua defended Kalonzo, saying  he was the only leader with authority to sit at the national negotiating table with President Uhuru Kenyatta to represent the region and its interests. On Friday, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said he was sure the Wiper candidate was going to win. “The Wiper candidate is going to beat the UDA candidate  with a huge margin. The UDA candidate is advised to concede or wait for landslide shocks,” he said moments before the results were officially declared. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, an ally of Ruto, however said UDA supporters did not come out in numbers to vote for their candidate because they had been intimidated government officials. “President Uhuru Kenyatta can have a better legacy if he allows people to vote for people of their choice,” he said. He added: “You saw what happened in London ward in Nakuru” ANC  leader Musalia Mudavadi thanked the people of Machakos for "not letting Kalonzo down". Mudavadi, Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) traversed the county campaigning for Kavindu up until Friday, when political gatherings were banned over a spike in Covid-19 cases. “The winning alliance has done it again in Machakos. Agnes Kavindu Muthama is the next Senator of Machakos county,” Mudavadi stated. Days before the poll, Mudavadi told voters in Machakos that by electing Kavindu, they would be sending a national message that they are united behind their leader. “On March 4, 2021, Kenyans received the message that the people of Matungu and Kabuchai sent when they rejected political merchants planted by divisive elements to act as spoilers. The people of Machakos should affirm the same this week,” he had said. 