Mombasa port stakeholders on Monday raised concerns about inefficiencies at the facility, leading to high costs of doing business. Transporters, clearing and forwarding agents, manufacturers, ship agents and other private sector players accused government agencies of being responsible for the delays and congestion at the port. They met East Africa Community PS Kevit Desai to discuss ways of collaborating  to improve the efficiency at the port. “We need a collective approach so as to be able to resolve many of these issues that affect our ability to trade competitively in the region,” PS Desai said. West European Container Lines, a shipping line with over 30 years of experience in the sector, said they usually experience difficulties with red tape occasioned by rogue government officers. WEC Lines regional manager Roger Dainty said political influence and corruption mar the clearing process leading to delays, which raise demurrage charges. “Get government out of these processes because government is the root cause of a lot of the inefficiencies,” Dainty suggested. Kenya Association of Manufacturers said cargo owners and businesspeople are the most hurt by all the delays and inefficiencies. KAM’s Susan Gitau said the inefficiencies make Kenya uncompetitive in the East Africa Community. “It is difficult to do business in Mombasa and in Kenya. How can we be competitive in the EAC?” posed Gitau. She said they have had a lot of meetings with the Tourism CS Najib Balala, National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, Transport PS Esther Koimet among other government officials but things are not improving. PS Desai acknowledged that Kenya is not exporting enough and that the transport sector is not competitive as it should be. “That is why we should be looking at elements of policy, regulation and other systems so as to create a super-system that is efficient, effective and more competitive. We need to work together so as to find solutions,” the PS said. Kenya Transport Association CEO Dennis Ombok said the red tape at the border points makes truck drivers delay and in the process the cost of transportation increases, the extra costs of which are transferred to the consumers. “Delays in the EAC region increase the cost of goods by about 1.5 per cent,” said Omok. According to KTA, freight costs per kilometre in EAC are estimated to be about 70 per cent higher than in the US and Europe. They are also about 30 per cent higher than in the Southern Africa countries. “This is because of relatively poorer transport network including roads, longer transit periods caused by poor road infrastructure and complicated customs and documentation processes and unofficial charges (bribes),” Ombok said. The stakeholders said the Simba system is yet to be fully implemented five years after its rollout. PJ Shah of Maritime Freight Company Limited said in most cases the government wants to protect revenue at the expense of the country’s economy. “Congestion at the port needs unusual steps to be taken,” he suggested. He cited a case in Tanzania where President Magufuli ordered all cargo at the Port of Dar es Salaam to be cleared without much ado and within 48 hours all cargo had left the port and efficiency achieved once more. PS Desai the rollout if the new Integrated Customs Management System is 90 per cent complete, with 37 out of 41 modules already fully implemented. “Only four modules are yet to be implemented and this will be done by the end of June,” he noted. Edited by Henry Makori