Gor Mahia head coach Vaz Pinto has praised his team, saying they never lacked character despite crashing 2-0 to KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday. The loss has left the defending champions rooted in the middle of the table and handed a huge blow to their already slim title hopes, but Pinto is still convinced they were the better side. "We dominated the match but KCB made good use of their chances. That's what made the difference. I believe we are still a better side than KCB despite the loss," said the dejected Portuguese. He added that Brazilian striker, Wilson Silva failed to live up to the hype due to fatigue from their match against Kakamega Homeboyz, where he snatched a last-gasp winner. His KCB counterpart Zedekiah Otieno has urged his charges to train their sights on their next match, warning that the win shouldn't get into their heads because the battle is still far from over. "It's still too early to talk about the title. We are taking each game at a time," said Zico. He said the bankers had discovered their spark again because most of the players who had been ruled out of their matches after picking injuries had returned to the squad. "We now have the team that started the season on a high note," he added. Gor looked the better side in the initial stages of the game and almost went ahead in the 15th minute but Kenneth Muguna nodded Geoffrey Ochieng's cross inches wide. Second half-substitute David Simiyu pounced on a loose ball in midfield and drove the ball past Bonface Oluoch to put the bankers in front in the 77th minute. Victor Omondi converted from the spot in stoppage time to earn the bankers their second goal after Oluoch brought him down in the box. KCB have regained their second spot on the log on 29 points while Gor remain eighth with 19. Elsewhere, Kakamega Homeboyz piled more misery on a hapless Mathare United side after thrashing them 2-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. Chris Masinza converted from the spot to put Homeboyz in the driver's seat early on before Sylvester Owino extended the advantage in the 22nd minute. Tyson Otieno pulled one back for the Slum Boys just seconds before the break.