The government is set to develop the Swahili culture and package it to promote tourism in the country, CS Najib Balala has said. Balala said for many years, Kenya has been using the Maasai culture to promote tourism in the international markets. The Tourism CS said the Swahili culture has a rich history, dating back to before the 17th Century, which will be attractive to tourists. “Kenya uses different cultures to market and promote its tourism industry. The culture that has been used for many years is that of the Maasai and the second-most known recognised culture is Swahili,” Balala said. Speaking on Friday during the opening of the Swahili Literary Festival at the Mama Ngina Waterfront, Mombasa, the CS said they now want to develop Swahili culture for tourism promotion. “We are looking at ways to develop Swahili culture and use it for marketing Kenya’s tourism for the benefit of residents and the country,” he said. The CS said they are working with the National Museums of Kenya, the Swahili Cultural Centre and the Research Institute of Swahili Studies East Africa (RISSEA) to develop these products. In the next few months, Balala said they will organise a three-month Swahili exhibition at the Kilindini Cultural Centre at the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park. “We will showcase the history of Mombasa and all the Swahili towns along the Kenyan Coast. We want to celebrate the rich culture,” Balala said. A state-of-the-art fully fledged Swahili library will also be opened at the Kilindini Cultural Centre at the Mama Ngina Waterfront Park, according to the CS. Balala said the library will be used by students, scholars and tourists who would love to learn the Swahili culture and language. “Swahili language is profitable just like French, German and others. You can earn a living by teaching Swahili to foreign nations,” he said. The CS said Prof Mohammed Bakari, a Swahili scholar, has volunteered to champion the establishment of the Swahili library. “We have had talks within the Ministry of Tourism to ensure that the team is facilitated and the library is opened within the next three or four months,” said he. Balala said a Swahili Heritage Trust, which will comprise Swahili scholars; Ambassador Salma Ahmed, Prof Bakari, Prof Abdulatif Abdullahi, Dr George Abungu and Ibrahim Khamis, will be working to ensure the Swahili cultural projects are implemented. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara