Raila Odinga's ODM party has expressed confidence with the performance of its candidate David Were in the just concluded Matungu parliamentary by-election, saying he braced a united force. Executive director Oduor Ong’wen said Were faced a combined efforts of ANC, Ford Kenya, Kanu and Wiper parties but still came a strong second. “Even though the result is not exactly what we had aimed for, coming a very strong second with close to 11,000 votes against 14,000 combined efforts of ANC, Ford Kenya, Kanu and Wiper parties  confirms that ODM remains the party to beat nationally,” said Ong’wen. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula had termed the poll as a referendum on the Luhya unity. Were lost to ANC’s Peter Nabulindo in the mini-poll on Thursday. According to results released by the IEBC, Nabulindo garnered 14,257 votes against Were’s 10,565 votes. Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA candidate Alex Kakai came a distant third with 5,513 votes. Mudavadi,  Wetang'ula, Kanu’s Gideon Moi and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyioka jointly campaigned for ANC and Ford Kenya candidates in Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies. Kanu and Wiper did not field candidates in the polls and instead opted to support ANC and Ford Kenya as part of their plan to consolidate their votes as they craft an alliance for 2022 elections. Ong’wen congratulated their campaign team led by Deputy Party Leader and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya for its sterling work. However, ODM retained Kiamokama Ward in Kisii after its candidate Malach Matara beat his competitors. Ong’wen condemned the violence witnessed during voting in various constituencies and wards and called for serious soul searching ahead of the 2022 General Election. “Finally going forward, we have to choose as a nation whether electoral contests are to be settled through violence or vote—bullet or ballot.” “The degree of violence and intimidation visited upon hapless women and aged voters during yesterday’s voting portends a very bleak future for our electoral democracy,” he said. Chaos and violence marred the polls on Thursday with several leaders arrested for allegedly planning to cause chaos or bribe voters. “This must not only be harshly condemned but calls for the State, IEBC and political parties to introspect, rethink our democratic tenets, and retool. The law of the jungle should have no place in the choice of leadership in civilised polities,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara