A Milimani court on Thursday said the evidence given in chief by state witness Jennifer Wambua was very intense having finished testifying. Chief magistrate Francis Andayi said he had noted that after being stood down for cross examination on February 18, Wambua was said to be sick and had vomited that morning while in court. The second time, the magistrate said, Jennifer had been involved in an accident and was in hospital. Jennifer, an NLC official, was murdered and her body dumped in a thicket in Ngong before being taken to City mortuary on Monday. She had testified in a case where Lugari MP Ayub Savula and former Principal Secretary Sammy Itemere are charged alongside 16 others with conspiring to defraud the state of Sh122.3 million. The DPP, through prosecution counsel Henry Kinyanjui, said they were saddened by the incident and to avoid speculation, he has asked the Inspector General to do thorough investigations into the murder and file a report for review. “Your honour we have not established whether her death is related to the case. However, the DPP is aware that her death has caused anxiety among members of the public and it is important to know the cause,” Kinyanjui told the court. The prosecution added that once investigations are completed, the DPP will review the file and ensure the culprits are brought to book. He sought for a mention date to confirm status of the investigation and take further directions on the hearing of the case. Defence lawyers also said they were saddened and shocked over Jennifer's death. Lawyer Kiraithe Wandugi said because of the sensitivity of the matter, the defence agreed with the DPP that they condole with the family. “The defence had come at the time to cross examine her and we all agree with the DPP that the incident be investigated so that there is no suspicion on our side”, the defence said. “We would like the police to carry out independent investigations into the death of Jennifer as life is sacred. It saddens all of us that we lost her after seeing her last month. We all need justice so that Kenyans and the court know the truth” Wandugi said. Lawyer Cohen Amanya raised issue with what he termed as sensational reporting  by the media. He said there were reports on social media that Andayi was asking for security since he handles the case. We need justice. Most of our clients feel it is tragic, so let investigations not take forever, Amanya said. He added that Jennifer was one of the witness the defence really wanted to cross examine because of her intense evidence. The magistrate, however, urged the prosecution to continue with the hearing as soon as the investigations are done. Andayi asked the media to report factually and avoid speculation. He said whatever is reported in the media always inspires the court from the public. “I have not asked for security because of this case. I have never asked for it since I started practising so let investigations be concluded,”Andayi said. He adjourned the case until April 22. Edited by EKibii