Media personality Pinky Ghelani has spoken about her tough journey to motherhood, which involved a total of three miscarriages. In a recent interview with Grace Msalame, Pinky revealed that she lost two pregnancies before welcoming her firstborn child. She conceived her first pregnancy a year into her marriage. "I was on holiday in India and I am like, could I be having food poisoning? My husband was like, you are pregnant, but I refused. I later realised that the feeling was an indication of what was coming." During the holiday, she said she was always sick and had to cut short their trip and come back to Kenya. "My husband bought a pregnancy test at the airport and it came out positive. We went to the hospital but the doctors said they could not feel any heartbeat," she narrated. "I did not understand what was happening but my gynaecologist told me to go home and come back after two weeks. Just before the day I was going back to see my gynaecologist, I had a dream that my baby was with Jesus." She did the scans, which showed there was nothing. She lost the pregnancy at 10 weeks. That was how she began the journey of becoming a mum after she felt connected to the foetus. She said that a year later, she got pregnant again. "At six weeks, the doctors said there was a pregnancy but there was no foetus." She again got pregnant for the third time. "After a few weeks, they went for a check-up. "We cried when we got pregnant for the third time and the doctors confirmed that there was a heartbeat," she said. "My daughter came two days early. I did a Caesarian-section only because I was afraid of the pain and afraid of the complications." Pinky said she blamed herself when she lost her first pregnancy. "Some people said I do too much yoga and that is why I was losing pregnancies." She later got pregnant again when her daughter was one year old but lost it at nine weeks. Three years later, Pinky welcomed her son. "To me, motherhood has brought a sense of humility, and to know that you are nurturing someone in the society, just humbles me." Pinky Ghelani and husband Raj Singh Semhi recently clocked 13 years in marriage. Her message to women who are struggling to get children is, "There is nothing wrong with them and there is nothing wrong with wanting to be a mother. There are so many ways to be a mother. Give your love and don't deny it to other persons and things."