Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka’s efforts to have former party chair David Musila return to the fold are likely to bear fruit. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, Musila said he is poised to return to his former party and bolster Kalonzo’s 2022 presidential bid. “Kalonzo gave me the challenge. I appreciate the recognition that I can lead and offer leadership. I will discuss with him to shed more light on this matter,” said Musila, the chairman of Museums of Kenya. He was reacting to last Saturday's remarks by Kalonzo in which he expressed his wish to have Musila in his core 2022 presidential campaign team. The Wiper leader told Musila that he needed him back to boost his presidential ambition. Kalonzo and Musila met at the burial of Sheria Musyoka in Nguni ward, Mwingi Central, Kitui county.  Sheria, who died in the USA on February 4, was the son of local politician Musyoka Wanzili. “I want to tell Musila to grab the cane and to politically streamline the Kamba nation, for us not to disintegrate and become useless,” said the Wiper leader. He was referring to his differences with Musila. Musila acrimoniously left wiper and resigned his position as national chairman in 2017 accusing Kalonzo of rigging the party primaries for the Kitui governor seat which he had sought, in favour of then Kitui Governor Julius Malombe. He said he has variously had one-on-one meetings with Kalonzo and the two have since forgiven each other. “The most important thing is that we have forgiven each other, opening the opportunity to meet whenever we feel like,” said Musila. He said he was positive about advances made by Kalonzo. “I am eager to listen and to work with Kalonzo. I am very open to that suggestion. I still want him to elaborate more and I will do the needful for the sake of the unity of our people,” he added. Musila noted that no one was more important than the unity of the people of Ukambani. He added that whatever decision they make as leaders should prioritise the community. He disclosed that having held several meetings with Kalonzo, everything had now narrowed down to almost a deal. “We are not very far away. Just a few clean-ups on some issues and then we will reach an agreement,” said Musila. In 2017,  Kalonzo was not happy with the resignation of Musila from Wiper and is on record initially declaring that the chairmanship would remain unoccupied and reserved for Musila until he decided to return. However, at some point, the Wiper leaders appeared to have lost hope in Musila making a comeback and instead replaced him with Chirau Ali Mwakwere. Mwakwere has however since left Wiper for ODM, leaving a soft landing for Musila should he decide to go back to the party. During the Saturday burial, Kitui Woman Rep Irene Kasalu and Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna urged Musila to return to the fold and help boost Kalonzo’s chance of clinching the presidency in 2022. The legislators together with local politician Mutati Nzoka said by returning to the fold, Musila would be instrumental in Wiper's 2022 Presidential campaigns as the party would tap into his political experience and wealth of ideas. Kitui executive for Natural Resources Patrick Musau said Musila's return will boost the Kamba community bid to win the presidency, adding that Governor Charity Ngilu had agreed to work with Kalonzo. “Kalonzo needs Musila in his team so that they can reach out to other Kenyan tribes to back Kalonzo as he takes a shot at the presidency. We will work with MPs to ensure Kalonzo's home turf is unshakable as we also lay the ground for Ngilu’s second term,” Musau said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 