The Sh60 billion Nairobi Expressway is now 33 per cent complete, Transport CS James Macharia has said. Macharia who was on an inspection tour on Wednesday said the multibillion-shilling project is progressing well, expressing confidence that it will be ready for use by the end of the year. The 27.1km highway starting from Mlolongo through Uhuru Highway and terminating at the James Gichuru in Westlands was estimated to take two years. The expressway was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in October 2019 and was expected to be completed and opened for traffic early next year. Macharia noted the expressway will provide a critical link with the Northern Corridor which is the main gateway for exports and imports to and from the port of Mombasa to the landlocked neighbours of Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, South and eastern DRC. “The new highway will also carry about 85 per cent of all cargo and commuter traffic for the highly built areas of Athi River, Kitengela, Mlolongo, Syokimau, Utawala, Embakasi, South B and South C, and surrounding areas,” Macharia said in a statement to newsrooms. “The new expressway will also be the main transport artery that will carry traffic to Westlands where it will connect with the James Gichuru-Rironi highway.” According to the CS, the new 66 KVA power lines that will facilitate relocation of electricity lines have arrived in the country and the exercise is progressing on well. “The prefabrication of box girders is almost complete and these will soon be installed on site,” he said. “The project is now 33 per cent complete and we expect the elevated highway, which is progressing at 60m per day (from both ends), to be completed by the end of 202.” The concessionaire, China Roads and Bridge Corporation, is responsible for designing, financing and building the expressway, and will maintain and operate it during the concession period. “During this period, it will also collect toll charges from motorists who choose to use the elevated highway. The concessionaire will then transfer the road to the Government at the end of the30-year concession period,” the CS added. The CS also assured that residents will be prioritised in the works and supply of materials and to do jobs that can be done by the local youth. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara