A doctor who wants FGM decriminalised and recognised as a cultural rite has lost the legal battle after the constitutional court dismissed her case. A three-judge bench of the constitutional court held that the practice of FGM violates the right to health, dignity and in some instances the right to life. The three judges are Lydia Achode, Kanyi Kimondo and Margaret Muigai. In their decision which was a major boost to the fight against FGM, the judges said that the evidence adduced before them by witnesses showed both short- and long-term negative effects of the practice. “In sum there is no doubt that FGM was central to the culture of some communities in Kenya including the Kikuyu to which the petitioner belongs. However, from the medical evidence, and as discussed earlier, we are left in no doubt about the negative short term and long-term effects of FGM/C on women’s health,” said the judges. They added: “We are not persuaded that one can choose to undergo a harmful practice. From the medical and anecdotal evidence presented by the respondents, we find that limiting this right is reasonable in an open and democratic society based on the dignity of women.” Their decision arose out of a case filed by Dr Tatu Kamau who challenged the government’s decision to ban FGM in 2011. The judges also noted that culture is dynamic and not static and as such ban on FGM practice cannot be said to be violating culture. “The Constitution grants the freedom to exercise one's culture. However, that freedom has to be carried out in line with the other constitutional provisions. From the law we observe that culture entails various modes of expression. Therefore, what is limited is any expression that will cause harm to a person or by a person to another person. FGM/C falls into the latter category." The judges added: “It therefore follows that while our Constitution has a general underlying value of freedom, this value of freedom is subject to limitation which is reasonable and justifiable.” In the case of male circumcision, they noted, it does have medical benefits while the female circumcision does not. Dr Kamau who has practised medicine for 31 years had argued that FGM in an African set up is meant to reduce promiscuity and sexual desire among women. She wanted the court to allow women above the age of 18 years to be able to practice circumcision, saying they have a right to choose what they do to their bodies at that age. She argued that that no particular culture is superior to another. The rights of willing women from communities that practice the rite of female circumcision have been violated; and, that their consent has been disregarded, she said. Her case was opposed by a number of NGOs among them FIDA, CREAW and Equality Now. Dr Kamau says her culture and cultural practices are protected by the Constitution and stopping her people from practising FGM will amount to a violation of her rights. “Every citizen has a right to equality and freedom from discrimination, but the said Act shows open intolerance to women who wish to undergo female circumcision even for the purposes of upholding their culture,” she had said. She cites Article 19 of the Constitution which seeks to protect the dignity of an individual or communities. In her view, the authors of the Constitution left it open for an individual to interpret what will dignify them. In her case, undergoing FGM both as a culture and rite of passage dignifies her. “If an adult woman feels that she will be dignified by going through FGM or celebrating her culture that should be protected,” Dr Kamau said. However, she argues that the excesses of a cultural practice ought to be limited and not abolished altogether. For example, she suggested that a more inclusive approach would be to retain FGM but put in place measures such as the age at which it should be done, how it should be done and who does it. Argument against FGM is that it falls short as a cultural practice because it conflicts and inflicts harm on women and girls thereby infringe on their worth and their dignity. Several NGOs which opposed her case said there is no external cultural practice that has been imposed on Dr Kamau, on the contrary, it is the harmful cultural practice of FGM that has been outlawed. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara   