The newly appointed Gor Mahia assistant coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo says the 18-time Kenyan Premier League champions still possess enough energy and ammunition to charge for the title this season. Omollo, who has been part of Koga'alo's technical bench in the last three matches against Nzoia Sugar, Kakamega Homeboyz and KCB, said a number of factors beyond their control had connived to deny them a perfect run to the season. K'Ogalo are currently eighth position with 19 points, 13 adrift of runaway leaders Tusker. They fell 2-1 to Nzoia at Sudi, Bungoma, bounced back against Kakamega Homeboyz to collect a hard-fought 2-1 win before succumbing to KCB 2-1 in their last outing. Omollo, however, believes the season is still in it's initial stages and he expects Gor to step on the gas pedal in their coming matches to place themselves comfortably among the top five title hopefuls. "We are not badly off. The team is under transition; there is a new coach and a new assistant. "We also have ten newly recruited players. Given those factors, the team requires some time to gel," he said. Omollo says the team has put a short term remedy in place to arrest the current situation and to ensure they don't veer off completely from a podium finish. "We've sat down as a club and discussed the urgent need to start winning as many games as possible because that's the only way we can be assured of remaining in contention going forward." Omollo pointed out that Gor's current form shouldn't necessarily be misconstrued to mean they have a weak squad this season. "It's only that some teams have really improved considering their squad members have been together for a long time and therefore know each other quite well," he added. The former Posta Rangers head coach said KCB, Tusker and Kariobangi Sharks posed the greatest threat to K'Ogalo's title charge this season. Omollo said besides the top flight title, K'Ogalo also had their eyes trained on the Shield Cup, adding that he believes in coach Caz Pinto's capacity to deliver both the title and the Shield or either. "Pinto is a very good coach and his capacity to deliver both silverwares this season remains real," he concluded. 