An ally of Deputy President William Ruto is said to have hosted a celebratory party at his Karen home on Monday night after it emerged that the handshake was standing on shaky ground. The MP invited a few political allies within the Tangatanga faction and tossed glasses throughout the night. The celebrations are said to have continued into the wee hours of Tuesday morning when his colleagues left. The lawmaker, a critic of ODM leader Raila Odinga, is happy because the former PM is allegedly suffering the consequences of his dalliance with Ruto's enemies. It has emerged that the politician might throw another party any time after he shared on his WhatsApp group some details of a planned merry-making event, saying Ruto's State House bid is unstoppable. An MP from Central region with massive investments in the hotel industry is in a rude shock after it emerged that his business could be in trouble. His hotel, located in Kiambu county, has been earmarked for auctioning over a Sh10 million debt. Months after the politician failed to honour the payment plan, auctioneers have moved to put the hotel on the hammer. Sadly, the broke MP is also facing a case in court over graft-related charges, a matter that has seen his financial fortunes dwindle significantly. It may turn out to be a double tragedy for the lawmaker following the twin assault on his fortunes. In one of the cases, he is charged with obtaining money by false pretence from a wealthy businessman who has deep connections with an influential family. A former Kanu politician from the Rift Valley who had dumped party chairman Gideon Moi has found his way around the Baringo senator. The politician, who served for two terms as MP elected on the Kanu party ticket, is planning a return in the 2022 elections. He will run on the Kanu ticket in what is billed to spell doom for a key ally of Deputy President William Ruto. The wealthy politician has been accompanying Gideon to political events to market the BBI across the country as he schemes for a senatorial battle. A fight of titans is shaping up in the Rift Valley county as the elections draw closer. A senior Jubilee official is an unhappy man. Reason? Some influential MPs have launched an onslaught against him in the recent days. The lawmakers have formed a caucus that wants the official kicked out from an influential position for leaking key and confidential party decisions and plans. It is alleged that the official has been leaking out internal matters to the media in what has cast a bad light on the Jubilee leadership. While his defense of the handshake and BBI has not been questioned, it is believed that his loose tongue could be his bane. 