A group of youths in Thika subcounty, Kiambu county, has started a programme to help the poor in the region. The Voice-Kiambu County is targeting children's homes, street children and vulnerable families in slums like Kiandutu, Gachagi and Matharao. The group launched their charity work at Dadas Children's Home in Athena where they treated over 100 orphans with food, clothes and other personal effects, including sanitary towels. Chairman Humphrey Njenga said the group contributed Sh50,000 for the event, which marked the beginning of their journey of helping the needy in the region. The group comprises youths working within Thika town in diverse businesses including salons, barber shops, hawkers and mechanics. Njenga said they have a common goal of giving back to society by extending help to the needy. “We decided to embark on this journey to put a smile on the faces of the destitute like the orphans,” he said. “We will ensure that once the orphans complete their education we can accommodate them in our ventures and train them, so they can get hands-on skills to help them improve their lives." The chairman said the group is planning to spread its wings to other parts of Kiambu county, urging other like-minded youths to join The Voice-Kiambu County for the noble cause. Njenga said the group is planning a mega rehabilitation programme for all street children in Thika, saying more than 500 children will benefit. He urged local leaders to chip in and support the group to address some of the socio-economic problems facing society in Thika. Dadas Children's Home matron Mary Wanjiru expressed gratitude for the kind gesture by the youth group. She said most of the children at the orphanage were from slums within Thika and that such help extended to them was of great significance. “We have accommodated other children from vulnerable families in our school, but sometimes it becomes hard to feed them and such donations from The Voice group are the ones that keep us going and helping more of these children,” Wanjiru said.