MPs on Thursday staged protests over delays in disbursement of CDF cash. The lawmakers staged a quorum hitch paralysing the evening sitting. The afternoon sitting was also cut short for lack of numbers, throwing the debate on the Division of Revenue bill into disarray. The lawmakers, who are supposed to proceed for a short recess from Friday, initially refused to attend the 7pm sitting and instead sat at the members lounge. The dozens of MPs started chanting 'CDF' immediately the Speaker's procession entered the chambers. The Division of Revenue bill was to be concluded on Thursday for presentation to the Senate for concurrence. The lawmakers shouted "CDF" and danced their evening away, scuttling the sitting. However, the MPs finally returned for the sitting. So far, most Constituencies have received Sh16 million out of the allocated Sh137 million for the current financial year. There are arrears of Sh18 billion, dragging from the last fiscal year, with others dating back to 2011. The Budget Committee and Treasury had reached a deal on the disbursement on Wednesday. Speaker Justin Muturi, after the House settled, said the bill will be considered immediately the House resumes from recess. "In this regard, the Bill is scheduled to undergo consideration in Second Reading, Committee of the Whole House and Third Reading immediately the House resumes from the short recess, so that the process may be concluded by Saturday, March 27, 2021," the speaker said. The DORB is considered passed by Parliament if supported by a majority of the Members of each House. The speaker said the Executive should read the mood of the House and act fast, lest MPs return the bill to the Treasury. “Anybody who cares listen and if people have to take the House seriously that message is loud and clear.” “The end of this financial year is just two and half months to end. Nobody can explain how the CDF funds for this financial year have not been disbursed to some constituencies. It is a situation that must not be allowed to continue at all.”