The recent military recruitment should be revoked over bribery and corruption and a fresh 'clean' one carried out, a number of senators have said. Lawmakers were turning up the heat on investigative and anti-corruption agencies for not taming graft in the disciplined forces. They claimed last month’s recruitment was marred by corruption and bribery claims whereby the highest bidders — bribe givers—landed slots. “It is my appeal that the recent recruitment that took place last month be rejected, disbanded, and a fresh professional one done,” Bomet Senator Christopher Langat said. Last month, the Kenya Defence Forces carried out nationwide recruitment of officers for specialist officers, general duty, tradesmen/women and constables. The recruitment was, however, marred by corruption and bribery allegations. A number of people were arrested attempting to bribe KDF recruitment officers. On February 10, two people were arrested with over Sh500,000 trying to bribe the recruitment officers. A week later, a recruit was arrested for allegedly inscribing a 'Sh300' mark on the inside of his foot with intention to briber officers in Kisumu. However, the military dismissed the widespread bribery claims and blamed unscrupulous individuals for fleecing unsuspecting Kenyans. The legislators said the bribery allegation that dogged the exercise were embarrassing and called for the revocation of the previous drive and a new one conducted by a new team. “I am so sure these people who are corrupting their way into this profession will finally be compromised in whatever they do. The military is a very important department in this country that is mandated to defend our country from enemies outside,” Langat said Narok Senator Ledama Olekina said the entrenched culture of corruption  continues to characterise recruitment to the security services. This cruelty, he said, disadvantages candidates from poor backgrounds who cannot raise the bribes, dashing hopes and opening the door for disillusionment. “There is something terribly wrong with a system that rationalises and rewards corruption at the expense of merit and transparency,” he said. Olekina said last month’s recruitments as well as the latest one by the National Police Service were not above board. “In both cases, families were asked to pay as much as Sh500,000 in bribes for their kin to join the armed forces, with Sh400,000 being the standard figure, which is unbecoming,” the senator claimed. He took issue with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, Independent Policing Oversight Authority and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and questioned their efficiency and commitment to tame misconduct in disciplined forces. “Measures should be put in place to ensure there is sobriety in the security services sector. The idea that corruption has been rendered the only window to serve in the police and military should be a moment to reflect for any right thinking citizen,” he said. In 2005, the government cancelled the police recruitment drive due to alleged corruption that had marred the exercise. The EACC warned at the time that 80 per cent of the candidates had either paid bribes, or used high level connections to get jobs. A total of 60 senior officers were suspended. “It is doubtful that Kenyans can expect individuals recruited through corruption to uphold ethics an integrity in their future careers,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara