It’s just a matter of time before Kisii-born left back Bolton Omwenga becomes a regular in the national team. The24-year-old has been the picture of consistency ever since he helped Nzoia United gain promotion to the topflight league five years ago. “It’s a good experience and I am looking forward to one day play for Harambee Stars. I’ll work hard to get called upon. It always feels good to represent the nation,” said Omwenga. The stocky defender was cut out to thrive in high pressure situations having played in the National Super League while still in school. “I can say it was God’s plan that I become a professional footballer because before I finished high school, I had already started playing in the National Super League. Then after high school, I moved to Nzoia Sugar where I grew as a professional and helped the team to be crowned NSL champions and get promoted back to premier league,” asserted Omwenga. The former Kenya Under-20 international faced few challenges when he started off in football as the schools he went to were serious about curricular activities and football was always top of the list. He admired legendary World Cup winning Brazilian left-back Roberto Carlos and tried as much as he could to emulate him. “I loved the way Roberto Carlos played particularly when it came to the attacking side of his game. He proved that fullbacks did not have to necessarily concentrate fully on defending but could also contribute to the attacking moments. Now, that is a requirement for the position in almost all the teams in Europe,” said Omwenga , who notched his first goal for his new club Nairobi City Stars in a 2-0 win over Mathare United last week. Omwenga began playing club football at Raiders Youth, a lower league side coached by Kepha Mogire. Impressive performances for his high school team Gekomoni Secondary in Kisii earned him a chance to move to Bungoma and join Nzoia Sugar. “These two coaches Kepha Mogire in Raiders and then Bernard Mwalala in Nzoia Sugar helped me take a huge step in my football development. I owe alot to them,” said Mogire. Alongside current international Lawrence Juma, they were part of the all conquering Nzoia side that steam-rolled their way into the Kenyan Premier League, losing only once at home to his future side Kariobangi Sharks. “We had a squad of talented players and a coach (Mwalala) with terrific tactical ideas who believed in our ability and gaining promotion into the KPL was not much of a surprise to us. It was an achievement that the people of Bungoma and western Kenya at large were grateful for and proud of,” said Omwenga. With the popularity of Kenyan football on the rise and Kenyan football becoming more professional, agents and scouts increased the opportunities of playing outside the country. After stints at Sharks and KCB, it was Omwenga’s turn to ditch local football and move to neighbouring Tanzania featuring for Biashara United. “It’s a good feeling playing away from home in a different atmosphere. I learnt that with discipline, hard work and believing in yourself, everything is possible. The most important thing also is putting God first and everything will fall to your wishes,” the current City Stars first choice left-back said. With the benefit of playing competitively in the two top leagues in the country, Omwenga has not had to endure the experience of being tormented by pact and tricky wingers. He says that being mentally prepared has been instrumental in giving him an advantage. “Football is all about moments. If you can’t perfect your roles, you will  be caught flat-footed. So far, I haven’t faced any tough winger even though there are several,” he said. Two wins in a row have helped the Jonathan Jackson funded City Stars to stave off the threat of a relegation dogfight some expected them to be part of. Omwenga insists that as a club, they had never contemplated such a scenario. “Ours is to take each game at a time and not to look too far into the season. I am there to help the team get positive results in every match,” said Omwenga. Despite his brief sojourn down south to Tanzania, the player remains keen on another shot at playing outside Kenya. “My goal remains to play abroad and that is why I am not involved in anything else when I am not playing football. I am so focused with football until I make my dream come true,” he concluded. PLAYER BIO NAME: Timothy Bolton Omwenga AGE:24 EDUCATION: St.Benedict Kiombeta Primary School, Gekomoni High School) POSITION: Left-back CURRENT CLUB: Nairobi City Stars PREVIOUS CLUBS: Raiders Youth, Nzoia Sugar, Kariobangi Sharks, KCB and Biashara Mara United. ACHIEVEMENTS: NSL champions (Nzoia Sugar); GOtv winners (Kariobangi Sharks)