Kibera Soccer boosted their chances of survival in the Football Kenya Federation Women's Premier League following a comprehensive 3-0 win over Makolanders at Ligi Ndogo grounds on Sunday. A double from new signing Laventine Lihemo powered the slum girls to their third victory of the season with Cynthia Atieno also on the score sheet. Coach Ramadhan Vijago was relieved after his side opened a five-point gap against their beaten opponents to move out of the relegation dogfight that also involves Mathare, who got their first point of the season in a 2-2 all draw with Kayole Starlets at Stima grounds. "This is our third win of the season and very special in the manner the team played. We utilised our chances and it's a good reaction from the girls. This is just the beginning of the second leg and there are more matches to come," he said. Vijago was impressed with Lihemo's contribution in the final third and believes she will solve the team's goal-scoring woes. Kibera had only scored eight goals in seven matches and the former Gaspo player will come in handy. "We are delighted with how she has quickly settled in and we hope she will score the goals for us in the remainder of the season," he said. His Makolanders counterpart Mike Okanga blamed the loss to the poor timing of the game and unavailability of senior players. "Three of my senior players had fever and could not take part. It was not appropriate to reschedule the match to nine o'clock in the morning. The match was to be played on Saturday but the venue was not available. We requested the match to be played in midweek but our sentiments fell on deaf ears," he said. "Players arrived at the venue 20 minutes before kick-off and we conceded a goal in the opening five minutes and from there on, it was difficult to stage a comeback. With the team facing an uphill task to maintain their top-flight status, Okanga said his focus is on building a competitive team for the future. Meanwhile, two second-half goals courtesy of Mwanahalima Adam and Cate Adongo were enough for Thika Queens to down Ulinzi Starlets 2-0 at Thika Stadium. Queens have won all their eight matches in a row and are sure of a playoff spot.