Top African leaders on Monday relived their last moments with former Tanzanian President John Pombe Magufuli as they addressed mourners during his state funeral in Dodoma. Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan narrated how she came to know Magufuli when he was a legislator, revealing that the late head of state made immense contributions to her political career. “I spoke with him a few days before his death. I was telling him I was on my way to Tanga for a government event and he asked me to pass his greetings to the people. That was our last conversation. I did not know he was not going to call again,” she said. Suluhu said Tanzanians are grateful to Magufuli for giving them the first female vice president, who is now the President. “For those who are doubting if I will fit in his shoes, I want to tell them the person standing here is the President,” she stated. The Tanzanian President added that she knows all the regional leaders who had gathered at the Jamhuri Stadium and was sure they would give her a helping hand. “All these leaders who are gathered here are my brothers. We know each other and they will support me,” she stated. African leaders who graced the event included Uhuru Kenyatta, Cyril Ramaphosa (South Africa), Mokgweetsi Masisi (Botswana), Lazarus Chakwera (Malawi) Felix Tshisekedi (DR Congo), Azali Assoumani (Comoros), Edgar Lungu (Zambia), Emmerson Mnangagwa (Zimbabwe), Filipe Nyusi (Mozambique), vice presidents Prosper Bazomanza (Burundi), Nangolo Mbumba (Namibia) and Rwandan Prime Minister Edouard Ngirente. Uhuru, who chairs the East African Community, praised the departed leader for the work he did for his country. “Africa and the world has lost a lustrous leader whose vision, passion and immense leadership propelled the nation of Tanzania forward and also steered the East African Community to closer integration,” he stated. He noted that Magufuli was a champion of pan-Africanism. “I have lost a friend, a colleague and a visionary ally,” he said. Chakwera recalled that he was with Magufuli 166 days ago in Dar es Salaam. “We had dinner together but I did not know it was the last time I was going to be with him,” he said. Lungu said Magufuli made great contributions to the Southern African Development Community, which Tanzania is also a member of. “In October 2019, we opened a One Stop Border Point together. I remember how he mesmerised the people of both sides in his address,” Lungi said. Mnangagwa termed Magufuli as a great friend, comrade and a brother. He recalled how Magufuli stepped in to help Zimbabwe when Cyclone Idai struck his country in March 2019, affecting 270,000 people. “He called me and asked what he could send to us. I told him food, blankets, medicine and mosquitoes; only for him to ask me what the insects were for. I then clarified that I meant mosquito nets,” said the Zimbabwean President. Suluhu further revealed that she went through a difficult time announcing Magufuli's death. “I felt like I was making a big mistake. We know we are all headed that direction but it is just that we did not expect his death to come so soon,” she added. Zanzibar residents will view Magufuli’s body on Tuesday, while those in Mwanza will have their chance on Wednesday. On Thursday, Magufuli’s body will be taken to his home in Chato, where family members and people from neighbouring places will bid him farewell. Magufuli will be buried the following day, Friday. Edited by Henry Makori