National 100m champion Mark Otieno has lauded Athletics Kenya's plan to invite foreign teams for this weekend's World Relay Championships trials in Nairobi. Otieno said their presence will bring the best out of Kenyan runners in a bid to secure tickets to the global showpiece set for Selesia, Poland on May 1. "That is a great challenge because it will bring out the best performances from the local runners. This is, especially important in the 4x100m relay, where we need to improve on our time to not only excel in Poland but also secure qualification into the top eight of next year's World Championships," he said. Among the countries invited for the relay trials include Uganda, South Africa, Botswana, Ethiopia, Tanzania  and Nigeria, among others. AK said the participation of the international athletes will enable Kenyan relay teams meet one of the qualifying standards, which is having at least three have  federations in the qualifiers. Comparing Kenyan sprinters to their African counterparts, Otieno said proper coaching and training is required for local runners to fulfil their potential. "If you look at the Nigerian sprinters, especially the 4x100m men, all of them have run 10.01 and below and are thus a very strong team. It all comes down to their individual coaches and their training. For us, at the last World Relay championships, we finished fourth so this time we are hoping to go one better especially for the men's 4x200m," he said. Otieno, who also competed in the men's 100m during the 2017 World Championships, still harbours ambitions of qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics and is working hard towards it. During the second AK Track and Field Weekend meeting at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, he clocked 10.24 to finish first ahead of Ferdinand Omanyala (10.40) and Tazana Kamanga (10.49) who finished second and third, respectively. "It was a good race. I had hoped to meet the qualifying time but I had a problem with my calf, which was a bit too tight. All in all, 10.24 is not a bad time and not too far from 10.05. I am looking to picking up more and more speed and hopefully qualify for Tokyo in the next few weeks," he said. Apart from the World Relay Championships and Tokyo Olympics, Otieno will also be targeting a podium finish at Senior Africa Athletics Championships in Algiers, Algeria in June.