Kiambu bar owners have rejected the amendment to the Alcoholic Drinks Control Bill, 2020 passed last Friday, saying it will hurt their business. The bar owners said it was unfair for all bars to be penalised if one bar violates the rules on the opening and closing time. "When one applies for a bar license, we do not go as a group. It is an individual's initiative. Why would all bars be penalised because one bar has decided to flout the law? This is unfair," bar owner John Wainaina said. Governor James Nyoro said on Friday that they are going to hold all the bars in that region accountable if one bar violates the law. "If you know there is one bar that is breaking the law by selling either too early or selling too late, the bar owners should come to us and say this person is violating the law. Failure to do so, we are going to penalise all the bars within that area because we have asked those bars to form an association,” he said. Kiambu Liquor Welfare Group chairman Richard Kagiri said bar operators are not happy with the amendments. He said the law was not followed since their views were not well-received during public participation. He said bar owners have been in court battles with the county government since 2012 over the Alcoholic Drinks Act and the county government lost in all instances because of not following the law. “We are going to court until the law is followed. We are saying all stakeholders should be brought on board and issues discussed and the outcome be followed according to the law,” Kagiri said. Some of the amendments include having all liquor licences consolidated into one licence, a move the bar owners said was a way of forcing them into paying more than they are supposed to. The amendments also recommend that those operating wines and spirits outlets convert them into bars. Any bar premise must be 300 metres or more away from a residential area, a school and a church. “If you want to operate a retail wines and spirits shop, please convert it to a bar. Sell your wines and spirits and other drinks together. We shall not allow any premise to be allowed to sell only wines and spirits. Our licensing team will be ready to come and license you as a bar,” Nyoro said. The county has also included the restaurant alcoholic drink license. “We know Kenyans can eat half a plate of food and drink 10 beers. There will be ways and means of emphasising and assuring that the particular clause is not misused. We are authorising restaurants to convert part of their premises into a bar so that there is no conflict. This applies to nyama choma outlets," Nyoro said. Bar owners, however, said the amendments should be looked at in relation to national law so that there is no conflict that will hurt their businesses.