Nairobi Metropolitan Services could lose Sh 1.2billion due to low absorption of funds. In the proposed 2020-21 financial year Supplementary Estimates No. 2 that is currently before the National Assembly, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani indicates that NMS budget will be reduced from Sh 5.1 billion to Sh 3.9 billion. This is as a result of low absorption of Nairobi Water Renewal project , installation of street lighting and implementation of Nairobi City County projects. Low absorption of funds is normally attributed to poor planning by implementing agency or delayed release of funds from the exchequer. In 2020-21 financial year Supplementary Estimates No. 1, Yatani had proposed an allocation of Sh5.1 billion to NMS to cater for the increase on account of provision for the settlement of pending bills and the Health Services Improvement Plan. The plan involves the construction, equipping and staffing of 19 levels 2 and 3 health centres, construction and refurbishment, equipping and staffing of Mama Lucy Kibaki, Mathare and Korogocho hospitals and improvement of infrastructure of street lighting and water in informal settlements. The 2020-21 financial year Supplementary Estimates No. 1 has been prepared pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012. “It seeks to address post-Covid-19 related interventions, provisions for security-related expenditure, pending bills, salary shortfall and Phase 4 of job evaluation, changes in development partners funded project and scaling down of expenditures to achieve the overall fiscal deficit level,” reads the document in part. The supplementary budget has proposed Sh1.97 billion to the Office of the President under which the funds have been allocated to NMS for health services. “The provision is to address the emerging challenges as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic to the densely populated informal settlement areas as well as decongesting Kenyatta National Hospital,” the document reads in part. Also in the current financial year, the Nairobi County Assembly allocated NMS Sh27.1 billion — Sh18.0 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh9.1 billion for development for the transferred functions. Under NMS, the health sector was to receive the lion’s share of Sh8.1 billion, transport and public works Sh3.6 billion, urban planning and lands Sh891 million, water and natural resources Sh3.3 billion, housing and urban development Sh1.1 billion, energy and lighting Sh3.3 billion, and ward development funds Sh1.3 billion. Still on money matters, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has raised queries and wants NMS investigated over the irregular withdrawal of Sh32.38 million meant to fight Covid-19. This is even as the auditor questioned the whereabouts of Sh180.07 million raised to aid in the fight against the virus as she flagged irregular direct procurement by the agency. According to her report, since NMS took over in March last year, Sh 32.38 million is said to have been irregularly withdrawn from the KCB imprest account reportedly for the facilitation of health workers. “The management could not explain the basis of the facilitation, the authority to pay facilitation and expenditure could not be supported,” read the report in part. The money was withdrawn at the height of the pandemic on June 30, 2020, allegedly for payment of facilitation of health workers on Covid 19 rapid response activities.