ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday asked party-sponsored governors serving their final terms to seek nomination for the presidency. Governors Hassan Joho (Mombasa) Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Wycliffe Oparanya are among ODM county chiefs serving their last terms in office. The party won 13 governorship races in 2017. Oparanya and Joho, both deputies to Raila, have declared interest in contesting for the presidency. Only Joho has presented papers to the party secretariat. On Thursday, Raila said more candidates seeking the party ticket would be a sign of ODM's democratic vibrancy. “In the United States, [President] Joe Biden had to compete with nine other candidates for the Democratic Party ticket. Even us in ODM, we believe in democracy and everyone is invited on board,” Raila said. The Opposition chief said Joho, Kingi and Oparanya stand a chance to be ODM flag bearers, if they vie. The former prime minister spoke in Kongowea, Nyali, during a rally to popularise the Building Bridges Initiative. He is at the Coast on a five-day tour. Raila urged other Coast leaders, especially Kingi, to remain in ODM and stop pushing for the formation of a regional political party. On Wednesday, Kingi clashed with Raila, saying there is nothing wrong with the formation of a Coast party because other regions have their own. In Malindi, Kingi said, “I wish you (Raila) well in your political ambitions. You have advised us to stop the calls for a coastal party, but we will first have to sit down and discuss with our people. Let’s meet at the high table.” In Mombasa, Raila equated a regional party to a swimming pool and ODM to an Ocean. “I wish to ask my friend Kingi that he should stop focusing on swimming in a small pool, but in the deep oceans. Joho and I have a lot of experience in swimming in the deep seas. Stop this issue of a local party and come to a national party,” Raila told Kingi. Joho said he has been in ODM for a very long time and he believes the entire party leadership will support his presidential aspirations. “I have come a very long way with Raila Odinga. I have supported him since I was elected MP, then governor for two terms. I now believe they will support me if I win the ODM nominations for the presidential ticket,” Joho said. At Tudor matatu stage, the ODM leader failed to address the crowd after rival groups loyal to different MCA aspirants became rowdy. Tudor MCA Tobias Samba and Moses Aran (nominated) had mobilised youths to come and support them in front of Raila. In Changamwe, Raila did not finish addressing the rally after a sudden downpour.  