Survivors of gender violence will have at least one new safe city shelter in four months, and probably more to come. In the meantime, two interim safe houses have been set up and will be open this month, until a permanent shelter or shelters are ready. The opening date was not announced. A 76-bed capacity women’s and girl’s shelter has been set up in Kayole. A 20-bed shelter has been set aside for men and boys in Shauri Moyi. Executive for Education Janet Ouko said if a woman has been violated and needs somewhere to rest, the county will provide a place where she can take a breather and figure out their next steps. "Nobody solicits violations," she said. On March 12, Nairobi Metropolitan Services directed the county to set up a safe house for women. The Education Department said it could take two years to construct. But NMS director general Mohammed Badi said it could be done in four months. “In my vocabulary, there is nothing like two years. It should be completed in the next four months and so I’m asking the county to pull up their socks,” Badi said. The NMS boss further urged the county to convert a few county-owned houses into shelters, saying only a budget for renovation is required. “How many houses does the county have that are lying idle that require very little money to be transformed into a safe house or isolation shelter?" Badi asked. “Do not throw that problem to me. I’m throwing the ball back into your court. I want to see your budget for repairing those houses so they can be safe houses for women and girls. I  know you can do it,” he added. The Nairobi County Women's GBV caucus through Deputy Majority Whip Waithera Chege had requested a safe house for women survivors of GBV. In the last one year, NMS has integrated gender-based violence services in 21 health facilities. Last year, NMS reported 6,262 SGBV cases with 972 having been treated at Mama Lucy hospital. Of those cases, 50 cases were handed over for legal action. Nine perpetrators were arrested, two are in remand. Four convictions have been secured, so far. Once a safe house is set up, NMS Health director Dr Michael Oluga said support staff will be assigned to help residents. “We promise to assign staff and integrate health services," he said. Dr Oluga said NMS was integrating the SGBV services for both genders. “We are committed to supporting all women. Kenya's 45 per cent of women and 66 per cent of girls have have faced GBV of some sort. Even men, around 15 per cent, face GBV." (Edited by V. Graham)  