President Uhuru Kenyatta attributed Kenya's growing profile as a top sporting nation to strong partnerships between the government and actors in the private sector. While speaking when he presided over the closing ceremony of this year's Magical Kenya Open Golf tournament at Karen Country Club in Nairobi on Sunday, Uhuru called for more partnerships across all sporting disciplines. “I also thank the corporate world for joining hands with my administration, which has made this event possible. Indeed, it is this spirit of partnership with the private sector that has made us, as a country, make good progress in the fight against Covid-19," Uhuru said. He vouched for the decentralisation of golf to the grassroots saying the involvement of junior and amateur golfers will help the sport to grow much faster. “It is my hope that this collaboration will continue to enable the growth of golf throughout the country, from the junior and amateur ranks to the professional ranks,” Uhuru said. The president thanked tournament sponsors Kenya Tourism Board, Absa Bank, Hemingways, Coca-Cola, and EABL for making the 2021 Magical Kenya Open a success despite disruptions caused by Covid-19. “Indeed, Madam Jane Karuku leads our efforts at the Kenya Covid-19 Fund, a private sector-led body. Her organisation, EABL, is here as co-sponsors of this event alongside the Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund.” He continued that; “I would also like to thank the Kenya Tourism Board, Absa Bank, Hemingways and Coca-Cola for their support,” President Kenyatta said while applauding the 156 participants from 30 countries among them 13 Kenyans.” Uhuru also wished participants in next week's Savannah Classic, also part of the PGA European Tour, success and congratulated Kenya Open Golf Limited led by Chairman Peter Kanyago for Kenya's growing profile as a golfing destination. He said Kenya is proud to have successfully hosted the high-profile sporting event despite its cancellation last year due to Covid-19. Uhuru was accompanied by CS Najib Balala (Tourism) and Amina Mohamed (Sports).