Deputy President William Ruto has warned his political competitors to prepare for a tough battle in the 2022 General Elections. Ruto on Friday said the race will not be a walk in the park and those thinking will beat him at the presidency will be in for a rude shock. "Let them prepare for a tough race in the coming General Elections. It is not going to be a walk in the park. Let us compete on the platform of issues, ideologies and development track-record if we are to transform our country,” Ruto said. He said those aspiring to contest should get to work and share their agenda with Kenyans rather than wait for endorsement from some leaders and their tribes. Ruto maintained that he is best suited to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. He said the Jubilee Government had laid a solid foundation for Kenya’s economic take-off and required a leader with an understanding of its development road-plan to take the country forward. “We have sufficiently upgraded our infrastructure. Now, it is time to create jobs and make small enterprises grow and thrive,” he said. Ruto spoke in Meru County where he launched a number of development projects in Igembe South, South Imenti and Central Imenti Constituencies. He was accompanied by Mithika Linturi (Meru), Moses Kirima (Central Imenti), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South) and Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira). He said Kenya is past the politics of ethnicity and division. “We have a duty to share our development credentials with the people if we are to get their support,” he explained. The DP said Kenyans are Knowledgeable on the best leader to take over the leadership of the country. "Do you think the Kitendawili man who I supported till he became Prime Minister can run this Country? Or the watermelon person, or the man who waits for endorsement or the man who was beaten by his wife? Who understands this job more than Hustler?" Ruto posed. "I am the best suited to take over Presidency when President Uhuru Kenyatta retires," he said. Ruto said there are about 16 million Kenyans who are jobless. He said the government must therefore do whatever it takes to ensure they have recruited and their potential tapped for the job market and business to get away with poverty. He said he remains committed to ensuring that these people are assisted. "They must be recruited to economic cycle by ensuring they have Jobs and ordinary Kenyans have money to do business and that is how we are going to pay taxes all of us and avoid the problems of debts from China in Kenya," he said. According to the DP, this is the reason why some men are annoyed and obsessed with how to deny him leadership. Senator Linturi noted that they would continue rallying behind the Deputy President. “They can intimidate us. They can continue threatening us. But we will not be stopped from supporting Dr Ruto’s presidential bid,” he said.