Deputy President William Ruto has said there is no need for a contested referendum on the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). He said Parliament should debate and rid the report of contentious issues. “There are no gains in dividing Kenyans on matters of constitution. By doing this, we will have a win-win situation and a non-contested referendum," said Ruto. Speaking in Narok West Constituency on Wednesday when he presided over various empowerment programmes, Ruto said those looking for political contests should wait until 2022. In attendance were Narok Deputy governor Evalyn Aruasa,Senators Kipchumba Murkomen(Elgeyo Marakwet), Aaron Cheruiyot(Kericho),MPs Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Ken Aramat (Narok East), Johana Ng'eno (Emurua Dikirr), Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) Korei Ole Lemein (Narok South), Soipan Kudate (Narok) and former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto. "We should not divide Kenyans on this camp versus that camp. Those interested in political contests should wait until 2022 when we will sell the hustlers manifesto of empowerment as others will bank on their tribal groupings,” he explained. Meanwhile, Ruto said the current problems facing this country will not be solved by changing constitution but addressing the challenges facing Kenyans. Ruto said many problems Kenyans will only be resolved if people are given a conducive environment to do their businesses and youths have jobs. “The changing of constitution should not be an urgency but rather modifying the economy by creating wealth in their daily hustles,” said Ruto. He said the most pressing issue on the table of leaders was support to poor Kenyans by pushing the sharing of resources from the bottom up. “We do not have any issue with the change of the constitution but it should be based on creation of wealth and jobs for the ordinary people and not on the creation of positions for a few politicians,” he remarked. The DP regretted his opponents are using constitutional change as tool to divide the country and called on Kenyans not accept to be divided along tribal lines by a few leaders. “The constitution can be changed the way they want but the solutions to all these problems is to empower all the people regardless of their tribes, age or races,” he said. He added many Kenyans have no jobs and business and the elections campaign platform should be issued-based. “Now we are required as a nation to pay debts amounting to Sh1trillion out of the total budget of sh1.7trilion. We need sit as a nation and change the way the governance by not putting our country at risk,” said deputy president. Murkomen said the hustlers’ nation were focused on serving Kenyans not engaging in rhetoric politics. “We did not look for leadership positions to engage in the review of the constitution but improve the lives of Kenyans,” said Murkomen. Cheruiyot said more resources must be channeled to the base of the wealth pyramid and that should uplift the living standards of the people. Ng’eno urged all the communities to maintain peace and not to allow to be dragged into divisive politics which divided them. “Our focus should be on how strength the relationship with all people and ensure they live a better lives,” said Ng’eno On his part, Aramat claimed that the isolation that DP was experiencing in the political scene was as a result of the vision that he has in bettering the lives of the poor. Rutto said leaders should not drive a wedge between communities but unite all the people. “We are beyond the dividing of the country on tribal lines. Let leaders compete on the basis of issues and ideas,” explained Rutto.