The late Assistant Minister Wangari Maathai, a heroine who formed the Green Belt Movement, was Wednesday remembered as a powerhouse in environmental protection and conservation. In a speech read by Deputy Chief Conservator of Forest Francis Kariuki, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko said she will always "be remembered for her enormous contribution to environmental sustainability". He cited her involvement in "sustainable development of environment and natural resources in Kenya, Africa, and around the world". Kariuki represented the CS during the commemoration of Wangari Maathai Day. Necklaces made from old phone chargers and old cartoons stole the show during the event at Michuki Memorial Park. Decorations made from dried banana barks as well as plastics cleverly made into products such as earrings awed those in attendance. They were displayed for the guests who thronged the Park by Miracle Caregivers. Regina Muiruri and Evalin Muchavi explained that value can be derived from waste. Energy-saving Jikos and  hundreds of products made from Bamboo including furniture among others were also on display. Those present said the items on display reignites the passion Maathai had for the conservation and protection of the environment. Wangari Maathai Day was designated in 2012 by the AU to be observed in conjunction with Africa Environment Day. The goal of the day is to commemorate Maathai, pay tribute to her legacy and continue raising awareness of serious environmental challenges facing Africa today. The theme this year is "Reimagining the future: clean and green cities for all. Build Back Better.' The theme draws attention to the urgent need for safer, green, clean resilient, accessible, culturally relevant, and sustainable cities as per sustainable development goal 11. The day also coincided with World Wildlife Day. The CS said Maathai's life was a series of firsts as she was the first woman to gain a Ph.D. in East Africa and the first female chair of a department at the University of Nairobi. She was also the first African woman and environmentalist to receive the Nobel peace prize in 2004. Tobiko said green spaces have helped by creating a conducive environment to relate and relax with families during the lockdown as a result of Covid-19. The CS said green spaces have gained popularity as environmental conservation sites. Tobiko said the sites are being used world over to educate the public on the importance of environmental conservation. "These green spaces are ecological reserves, in which an ecosystem is shielded from urban development or certain species of plant and animals are protected from poaching," said the CS. Tobiko said cities can grow and transform without necessarily under cutting the natural environment. "Infact, green spaces show that cities and ecosystems can coexist alongside one another. Keeping this in mind is vital to the future of urban development,"Tobiko said. Tobiko said the government plans to conduct an inventory of all its green spaces to address the deficiency of information regarding the exact number of green and public spaces and their states. This, he said, will help in developing evidence-based strategy and policy for protection, revitalisation, creation, management and enjoyment of public spaces and their restoration. Tobiko said he is concern with how humanity is waging war with nature. "Our green spaces face complex challenges such as pollution, climate change, biodiversity loss, water scarcity, inadequate infrastructure, and rapidly growing population," he said, adding that there is need for a shift in the thinking to avoid threatening life support system. Green Belt Movement chair of the board Jane Gitau said Maathai did a lot of work in conserving green spaces such as Uhuru Park. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara