County governments have been urged to prepare spatial plans to protect public land. NLC commissioner Esther Murugi said the County Government Act says devolved systems are supposed to prepare such plans every 10 years. “Unfortunately, only four counties have done that, another 26 counties have done 50 per cent and the other 17, we do not even know what they are doing,” Murugi said. She spoke in Busia on Wednesday. She said some of the land challenges that Busia county face can be prevented through the spatial plan. “It is only through the spatial plan that we will be able to tell what constitutes public land, private land and what are the other uses of land here,” Murugi said. The National Land Commission chief said stern action should be taken against those who grab public land and those who issue them with title deeds. Commissioner Reginald Okumu urged stakeholders in the lands sector to follow due process in allocating resources. He said many stakeholders see the process as an obstacle, leading to delays in land acquisition. “I would urge our colleagues from the Lands ministry to desist from issuing title deeds if they are not supported by the required documents,” Okumu said. He said the move would prevent issuance of illegal documents. Okumu disclosed that 3,000 out of 12,000 public schools that applied for titles have been issued with the document. Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong said the county has land issues that require the commission's intervention. He said most government institutions, like schools, hospitals, stadiums and markets in the county, do not have title deeds. “There is need for government intervention because these institutions serve the interests of the public,” he said. Ojaamong said institutions such as Matayos Subcounty Hospital and Bumala market have their titles issued to private individuals. The governor urged NLC to come up with a long-term plan to solve the issue of land grabbing. “The government should secure its institutions by even carrying out free surveys and issuance of title deeds,” he stated. Busia county commissioner John Korir urged NLC to fast-track the documentation process of the land for the Kenya Ports Authority in Samia subcounty and the 93 acres set aside for Jumuiya market. The team visited Busia and Siaya counties to collect views from the two regional governments and residents on their plans to utilise the Yala swamp, a wetland shared by the two devolved units. Edited by A.N 