The High Court has set free a man convicted of attempted rape and defilement after he waited 30 years to have his appeal heard. Dickson Ndongai appeared before a Kiambu court on the charges of attempted rape and defilement and was found guilty of the offences. He was sentenced in November 1990. Ndongai moved to the High Court to appeal but his file could not be traced. The judge dismissed his case and told him to write to the Attorney General if he wished to be considered for a presidential pardon. The file has yet to be found. In its ruling, the High Court blamed the Kiambu law courts for the disappearance of court records containing the proceedings of Ndongai's case. Justice James Makau ruled that waiting for the appeal for 30 years by the petitioner was unlawful and a violation of his right. “I set aside the conviction and sentence because the records are still missing and the appeal has not been heard,” the court ruled. Judge Makau said sending the matter back for retrial after 30 years would not only be most unfair but almost impossible for lack of records. He reasoned that witnesses may no longer be available and ready to give evidence and even the police file may also not be available. The court noted that in 2001, some 10 years after Ndongai filed his appeal, Judge V Patel said the delay was due to the non-availability of the Kiambu court proceedings and judgments. Judge Makau noted that the court did not even give the executive officer time to have the court file traced but instead informed the petitioner to got to the AG. “It was not the duty or responsibility of Ndongai to trace and avail the court records for the matter to proceed,” the court ruled. The court ruled that Ndongai had a right to have access to his court records within a  reasonable time upon conviction. Judge Makau put the blame on the loss of the court records on Kiambu law courts since that’s where the case was handled. “The Kiambu Law court is to blame for the disappearance of court records and failure to furnish him with the court records which to date they cannot explain what became of the said court records,” the judge ruled. The court further ruled that since his appeal was not heard it cannot be said whether his conviction was correct or not nor can it said that it would have been upheld or quashed without the court records. The judge said the loss of court records is not a unique thing and the courts of appeal have addressed the issue before. The responsibility of taking care of the court records belongs to the officers of that station, he said. “I find that this is unfortunate for the petitioner as he never got an opportunity to have his first appeal heard as he did not get access to the court records,” he ruled. Justice Makau ruled that Ndongai's appeal cannot keep on pending indefinitely as that would be a mockery of justice and would continue to inflict unfairness on Ndongai. Ndongai had argued that he was never given an opportunity to be heard at the High Court and he had no proceedings or judgment to rely on from the court.   