Getting a flat tire is frustrating and can be time consuming, especially when you don’t know what to do. So we’ve put it down for you a list of things to remember when you have a flat. This will especially come in handy if you find yourself being the proud owner of the brand new car that's being given away for free on Kiss 100 Kenya #KissMyRide Before you set out on any journey, make sure that you have your Jack, Lug wrench, a fully inflated spare tire and your vehicle manual. You should also have a flashlight, incase this happens at night. The first thing you should do is pull your car to a safe space. You will be working at the side of the road, so make sure you are highly visible and have placed hazards so that other drivers can clearly see you. Never attempt to change your tire on a narrow shoulder near oncoming traffic. Keep moving slowly until you find a safer spot. While driving on a flat risks ruining your rim, replacing a rim is better than being hit by an inattentive driver. Once you have parked and your hazard lights are on, make sure that your parking brake is on and if you have them apply wheel wedges in front of or behind the tires so that you car does not roll. You can also use large stones or bricks. Next remove the wheel cover before lifting the car with the Jack. Now you can use your lug wrench to loosen the lug nuts. Turn the wrench counterclockwise until you break their resistance. This may require some force. Loosen the lug nuts about ¼ to ½ of a turn, but don’t remove them completely yet. Save that for when it’s time to remove your tire/wheel from the vehicle. Once you have placed the jack under the car, you can now raise the vehicle until the flat tire is about six inches above the ground. Now unscrew the lug nuts and remove them completely, then gently pull the tire towards you until it is completely free from the hub. Mount the spare tire on and return the lug nuts and tighten them as much as possible. Once you have lowered the car, you should tighten the lug nuts again. Now you can replace the wheel cover. Make sure you spare tire always has pressure because without it, you could easily get stranded. If you love things about cars, then you definitely don't mind owning a brand new showroom vehicle with zero mileage. You can do this for FREE courtesy of Kiss 100 Kenya and yes, this car could be yours right before the Easter holiday. How to win the brand new car and #KissMyRide First, simply register on the Kiss 100 website (https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmyride/ ) and leave your correct details. Sit back and make sure you're tuned in to Kiss 100 every day to listen if your name will be called out on air. Everyday 9am, 2pm and 5pm, there will be a draw. If you have successfully registered and your name is called out on air, you have exactly 15 minutes to call and claim your entry. That entry will be a key which gives you a chance to win the car. On the day of the grand draw, you will be invited to try whether your key opens the car. If your key opens the car, you'll be the lucky winner who walks away with a brand new, zero mileage car. Remember, register now and tune in to Kiss 100 every day to listen if your name will be called. You don't want your name mentioned and you didn't hear it. Click on the link below to register https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmyride/