Bahrain authorities on Tuesday determined the cause of death of a Kenyan, Anne Wanjiru, as consistent with suicide. In a dispatch dated March 16 from the Kuwait Embassy and signed by Ahmed Mohamud on behalf of the ambassador, Wanjiru, a Kenyan house help, hanged herself on February 20. Mohamud said a report from the Bahrain authorities said the deceased had suffocation marks caused by a cord found on her neck. “There were no external injuries that were present on the body and she was fully clothed at the time of death,” said Mohamud. He said there was no presence of substances in her urine and bloodstream and that the first responders (ambulance attendance) report indicated she had no pulse by the time of arrival at the scene. “In view of the report, the Embassy of Kenya in Kuwait will facilitate the repatriation of the remains of Wanjiru on March 16 and the body will arrive in Kenya the following day on Wednesday,” said Mohamud. He said as the embassy appreciated the efforts and concerns of the Kenyan community in Bahrain and assured the diaspora that all the necessary procedures for the deceased had been carried out. Wanjiru’s mother, Wanjiru Kamau, 70, told the Star she spoke to her daughter one day before she passed on and she complained of hunger and stomach pain. “She told us that she had been ill for close to a month and her boss refused her to seek treatment in hospital. Wanjiru also claimed her boss stopped serving her food,” Kamau said. She claimed that even after her daughter’s death on February 20, her phone was on data and no one responded to the messages the family members in Ongata Rongai, Kajiado, sent. The official at the foreign affairs office said that because of the complications involved, the repatriation process of the body might take a bit longer. “We need to unravel and clear all that is grey in this matter by organising for a postmortem so that we can be sure of the next cause of action." Wanjiru’s relatives in Kajiado are demanding salary balances of about Sh10,000 that they claim her employer used to deduct each month for the last 15 years since she started working. Wanjiru's employer is a retired civil servant in Bahrain, according to her brother Geoffrey Wanjama in Ongata Rongai. “She has only sent Sh40,000 in the last 15 months and yet my sister’s salary had been Sh23,000 per month. My sister was not allowed to go out of the house because of coronavirus, and therefore she did not spend her money,” claimed Wanjama. Her body has been reserved at Salmayian mortuary as Bahrain and Kenya plan a postmortem. An official in the Foreign Affairs department said on Monday the government was processing the repatriation of the Kenyan who died in Bahrain in unclear circumstances. Edited by Henry Makori