Eight North Rift counties this week will start administering the Covid-19 vaccine to front line health workers, teachers and security officers after they received 60,000 doses. Counties in the region are recording increased cases of Covid-19, the Ministry of Health said. Uasin Gishu and Trans Nzoia are among the counties with a major upsurge as the arrival of the vaccine gives hope. A survey in the counties indicates more than half the residents no longer use masks or use sanitiser frequently. Matatu operators have gone back to business as usual, carrying excess passengers in crowded vehicles. Most entertainment venues ignore all control measures. Kenya has received one million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, first of  24 million doses. First In line for the jabs will be health workers in Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Nandi, West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Turkana counties. Their vaccine is stored in Eldoret. Uasin Gishu Health executive Everlyne Rotich received the vaccine at the Eldoret Kenya Medical Supplies Authority stores where they were delivered from Nairobi. “We have trained staff on storage and administration of the vaccine, which we will distribute to each county in the region,” Rotich said. Huruma County Hospital, Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital and Moi Barracks in Eldoret will store doses. Rotich said they have confirmed storage facilities maintained the required low temperatures. "Storage will be a matter of seriousness by our staff,” Rotich said. Huruma will administer 15,000 doses, Moi Referral 6,000 doses while Moi Barracks will hold 3,000 doses. Rotich urged residents to continue observing Covid-19 control measures, including wearing masks, washing hands and observing social distancing. “As we get more doses in the near future more people will be vaccinated but now all Kenyans need to observe safety measures." Arrival of the vaccines should not cause residents to relax, she said. George Wata, North Rift regional vaccine stores manager, said they would keep all details on the vaccines for easy tracking and follow up. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago will launch administration of the jabs at Huruma Hospital. Mandago, who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc,  said they would carry out fresh education of residents on the importance of control measures. (Edited by V. Graham)  