Education CS George Magoha on Wednesday launched construction of Sh1.2 billion East African Maritime Institute at Chitsakamatsa in Kwale. The college will be a regional centre of excellence serving Kenya, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda and Burundi. The institute, which is being constructed on a 40-acre parcel of land, will be used to train students on the blue economy. The centre will initially serve over 1,000 students from the East African Community but it will later be upgraded to accommodate more. It will support other polytechnics as highly experienced teachers will be hired to offer international courses. It is expected to equip trainees with various skills in port logistics and marine transport. It is being constructed in partnership with the European Union, which supports blue economy projects in the six coastal counties. Magoha said the institution will provide sufficient knowledge to youth spearheading the full exploitation of the blue economy opportunities to tackle the unemployment crisis. "The expansion of the TVETs space is meant to ensure jobless youth are well catered for," he said. About 400,000 youth fail to progress further after KCPE each year in the country, Magoha said. He said the marine institute will be a game-changer to the Kenyan economy on educational matters. The construction was supposed to start in late 2019 but it delayed because of the political interference by local leaders. The school is expected to spur economic activity in Kwale. International flights will increase to and from Diani airstrip as students from abroad travel for studies. The Kenya Airports Authority is in the process of upgrading the Diani airstrip to an airport at a cost of Sh2.3 billion. KAA is expanding the Diani running way to 1.8km from 1.2km, but in phases. Governor Salim Mvurya said the learning institution will enhance international cooperation. He said communities living around will benefit directly and indirectly. "The youth will get work during the construction period and once completed students will enroll for studies," he said. Mvurya said the hotel industry will also boom as more rental houses to accommodate the surplus students would be required.