The Kenya Medical Training College is set to hire 150 additional lecturers to improve its services. The parastatal has set aside Sh200 million for the exercise, funds mostly from own source revenue which has increased from Sh1.2 billion in 2013 to Sh3.7 billion in 2020. The 150 lecturers will be distributed across the 71 campuses across the country. KMTC chair Prof Philip Kaloki on Thursday evening said the additional teaching personnel will be distributed on need basis, with areas of shortage given priority. “Due to the Universal Health Coverage, we have had many additional programmes. We have had requests for additional lecturers from different departments including the orthopaedic department, clinical medicine, nursing, nutrition, among others,” he said. Kaloki spoke at the Mombasa Beach Hotel during the institution’s celebrations of 94 years of existence, staff reward and recognition ceremony. There are 18 departments in the college. According to the Health ministry’s regulatory agencies, there is a minimum number of lecturers required for every department. For instance, the nursing department requires at least five lecturers per campus, just as the clinical medicine department does. “This is necessary to maintain high quality of teaching,” Kaloki said. At the moment, the college has more than 4,000 employees. Kaloki said the college is witnessing rapid growth in both student population, revenue and infrastructure. “We are releasing more than 10,000 graduates annually to support the Universal Health Coverage and fill gaps of human resource for health. Since 2013, we have released about 60,649 graduates,” he said. The 2020-21 academic year has 12,228 graduands distributed across two graduation ceremonies including December last year (4,114) and April 13 (8,114). With 71 campuses spread across the country, the college has grown in student enrolment from 19,546 in 2013 to the current 51,305. “This year’s ceremony comes at a time when Kenya and indeed the world at large is faced with the Covid-19 menace which has affected all aspects of life. “I'm glad to report that even in these turbulent times, the college has been steadfast and resilient, in the delivery of its mandate,” Kaloki said. KMTC chief executive officer Prof Michael Kiptoo said the college has developed good working relationship with about 1,250 hospitals and health centres across the country. These are institutions where KMTC students are attached to for practical training. The CEO said the college now uses a blend of technology and manual teaching techniques. “In the future, online courses will be more pronounced and almost mandatory. We must use technology. We have also introduced simulations to teach our students,” Kiptoo said. He said some courses will be purely online, like health records, while some must have face-to-face interaction because they will be dealing with human life. The college has also, through the government, partnered with the British government for the recruitment of nurses in Britain and Ireland. Director of Nursing Services in the Health ministry Mary Nandili said Kenya has an agreement with the UK for nurses from Kenya. “We are working to ensure we have adequate highly trained nurses to go work in Britain and Ireland. We need to identify students who will be flown to the UK,” she said. Kaloki said about 50 per cent of the graduates from KMTC work abroad. Other countries who recruit Kenyan nurses through government to government agreement include the US, Cuba and Australia. 