The nation on Tuesday woke up to news of the demise of a man mostly known by his deep voice and name: Robin Njogu. The veteran journalist who was as radio managing editor at Royal Media Services died at the Aga Khan Hospital in Nairobi where he was being treated for Covid-19 complications. Njogu’s mother died on Sunday, just two days before her son’s passing. President Uhuru Kenyatta sent a message of condolence to Njogu’s family, describing him as a progressive journalist whose contribution to radio and online journalism has gone a long way in transforming the country’s media and communication sector. “Robin was an excellent journalist who mentored many young people in the Fourth Estate. We will forever cherish his skills and expertise in mass media, especially in radio where he has left a huge mark of excellence," the President said. President Kenyatta remembered Njogu as an innovative, resourceful and open-minded journalist whose contribution as a past member of State House press corps will be cherished. Deputy President William Ruto described him as a friendly, humble and good man, traits many of the journalists who passed through his hands would attest to and affirm as true. “As the media fraternity can attest, Robin Njogu was friendly, humble and a good man. He was a skilled, dedicated and professional radio journalist who edited and reported on issues openly, independently and honestly,” Ruto said. ICT Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru who broke the news at 3am mourned Njogu as a journalist who contributed immensely to the growth of radio news in Kenya. “I am saddened to learn of the passing on of Robin Njogu and his mum." He was a consummate journalist and contributed heavily to the development of radio news in the country. "Sad loss for his young family, RMS and the media fraternity in the country. May God comfort his family,” the CS said. The media fraternity remembered Njogu as a good leader who mentored many and nurtured young talent and whose input has shaped the radio content. Kenya Editors' Guild president Churchill Otieno said Njogu’s death was a major blow to the media fraternity. “This is a most sad turn of events. Robin was part of the 2018 team that stepped forward to help revive the guild, where he served with selflessness, deftly deploying his smarts, digital-savvy and journalistic networks. Very sad indeed,” he said. RMS managing director Wachira Waruru said Njogu's death is a big loss not only to the Royal Media family but also to the entire media fraternity in Kenya. Waruru said his legacy and contribution to the media industry, and radio journalism in particular, will continue to impact many generations after him. Njogu’s career started at Capital FM where he joined as a reporter, became a news editor before moving to Nation Media Group as head of radio and finally RMS. He was at one time a member of the exclusive State House media corps. Njogu developed Covid-19 symptoms three weeks ago and had been undergoing treatment since.