Recipients of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Kenyatta National Hospital said they only experienced some pain on the upper left arm where they were injected. Acting director general of health Patrick Amoth was the first Kenyan to receive the jab on his left upper arm. He was followed by KNH chief executive Dr Evanson Kamuri, then a nurse at the hospital. “I can assure you the safety of this vaccine as it has gone through a rigorous process. I encourage health workers to take this important step and get vaccinated,” said Dr Amoth. He said he only felt some pain, heaviness of the arm, and a slight headache, which are normal side effects of injections. One dose is  0.5 ml, given through a small syringe with a long needle. The solution appeared colourless, slightly opaque and particle free. It came in small glass bottles each containing 10 doses. The bottle has a rubber stopper and an aluminium overseal with a plastic flip-off cap. Some bottles have eight doses. The second dose should be administered between four and 12 weeks after the first dose, but most beneficiaries on Friday were given April 30 as the date for the second dose. Amref Health executive director Dr Githinji Gitahi said he felt no discomfort at all. "Apart from the normal pain of injection, I feel great. Of course, I need to be observed for about 15 minutes. The vaccine is extremely good," he said. More than 10 frontline workers who include security officers and medics at the KNH became the first recipients of the vaccine. The vaccination began at midday on Friday. Jackson Juma, a 23-year-old security officer at KNH was worried about side effects before the jab. "I feel good and normal, just a little pain during injection. I had heard stories about side effects but they were not true," he said. The jab was given by nurse Lucy Kipkemei. The process at KNH is coordinated by veteran public health expert Dr Richard Ayah from the University of Nairobi. He said an intensive care unit health worker, a dentist, medical students and their lecturers were among the 10 pre-selected recipients. However, security officers were also vaccinated as the process continued. “We have already trained 600 health workers for the process. These are people who were already experienced in vaccinations,” Dr Ayah said. Kenya on Tuesday received 1.02 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine, which was manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, under the WHO-led Covax initiative assisting poorer countries to receive the vials. The Ministry of Health says Kenya will first vaccinate some 400,000 health workers before moving to other priority workers like police and teachers in a first phase estimated to last until June. Nairobi’s Mama Lucy, Pumwani and Mbagathi Hospitals are among city facilities that have been selected to offer the Covid-19 vaccine. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services will launch the immunisation of health workers next week. NMS director for health Josephine Kibaru-Mbae on Friday told the Star that immunisation will take place in both public and private health facilities. “Once Nairobi receives its share, we shall do the launching next week. The immunisation process will start with the county’s main level 4 hospitals,” she said. Nine public hospitals, four faith-based and three private health centres have been selected as Covid-19 vaccination centres by NMS.  (edited by o. owino)