Bomet county assembly on Tuesday rejected a motion by a member seeking to reverse its earlier decision approving the appointment of county secretary Stella Chepkoech Langat. Langat’s appointment was recently annulled by a Kisumu court following a petition by Nairobi-based lawyer Sigey Bett who argued due process was not followed. Bett further claimed that Governor Hillary Barchok filled the position left vacant after the dismissal of Evalyn Rono without subjecting it to the legal procedure. The official, a former deputy county commissioner, was seconded by the national government. The motion moved by Kipsonoi MCA Weldon Kirui sought to have the verdict by the house quashed as a result of the court ruling. High Court judge Stephen Radido declared the appointment null and void as it was in breach of the Constitution and the County Governments Act. Judge Radido ordered the executive and the county assembly to start a new process of filling the position in a procedural, transparent and legal manner. Langat’s nomination was published in a local newspaper. She was vetted last April by the assembly before being sworn into office a week later. In the debate, members rejected the move saying such a motion demeans the house. Those who contributed to the motion include Leonard Kirui (Siongiroi), Cecilia Mutai (nominated), Robert Serbai (Embomos), Alfred Langat (Singorwet). “The assembly made its decision, so we wonder where the mover was and has been all that time until now he when he wants us to rescind the decision‚” they said. The ward representative is also seeking a comprehensive statement from the labour and public chairperson committee on the measures taken by the executive following the nullification of Langat’s appointment. “Given the judgment issued by the high court, I seek to be informed on whether the county has initiated the process of recruiting a new county secretary and who is in an acting position,” Kirui said. He also wants to be furnished with a list of all the appointments and contracts executed by the former county secretary from the date of her appointment to date for purposes of mitigating any potential challenges.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris