Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire is upgrading public primary schools that have been in a pathetic condition for years. The legislator said more than 60 schools in the constituency were in bad state as children were forced to learn in mud-walled classes while sitting on blocks. Speaking after commissioning five new classrooms each with 20 desks at Misufini Primary School, the MP said the delay in launching the programme was due to withholding of the National Government Constituency Development Fund cash following mistakes by the previous MP. Mwambire said Misufini was among schools that were previously in a bad state as children were forced to learn inside mud-walled structures. "Eighty per cent of the budget of NG-CDF has been allocated to education projects. We have also set aside some funds for security to build chiefs and deputy county commissioner offices and police stations," he said. He said his constituency has 60 primary schools and 33 secondary schools, which depend on the NG-CDF. He said they have now targeted to upgrading the primary schools into modern standards for pupils to learn in a favourable environment. The lawmaker said some classrooms were donated by donors and Misufini now has enough. Mwambire said they  are in talks with parents to open a new secondary school to reduce the long distance students cover to access education. "We call upon all investors and well-wishers to come in and help in the development of infrastructure in the constituency," he said. Ganze is among the poorest constituencies in the country with bad infrastructure, low education standards and high poverty levels. Julius Kitsao, the headteacher of Misufini Primary, said he reported to the school in 2018 and found the situation bad. The school now has classrooms and he thanked the MP and the other donors who supported the development. "The challenge I still have is lack of toilets. I have only four toilets for a population of 360 pupils," he said. Kitsao said he is worried now  as the rainy season is about to begin the school could easily suffer an outbreak of diseases. Rashid Hamisi, the subcounty director of education in Ganze, said there are my schools with poor facilities, leading to poor education standards. "Around 60 per cent of the schools in Ganze have mud classrooms. The problem has affected performance and enrolment," he said. Harrison Masha, the chairperson of project management committee at Misufini, thanked the donors and the legislator for building the modern classrooms. Edited by Henry Makori