While the world was celebrating the International Women’s Day last Monday, Meru widows were on the streets demonstrating over detrimental culture and Kenyan laws curtailing their rights and freedoms. The women walked from Makutano to Meru law courts, about five kilometres, accompanied by human rights defenders as they demanded for the reconstitution of the Succession Act so that they can fully be involved in their matrimonial rights, property ownership and peaceful coexistence. Mercy Chidi of Ripples International said  were it not for the culture of her late husband's country, she would not be owning their property. “I am remarried but I retained our property. I empathise with widows who can’t remarry as they risk losing matrimonial property. There are so many widows engaged in consensual relationships but they can’t remarry. We are fighting for same rights to be accorded to women as it is to men,” Chidi said. Edna Mugure Limiri said she will continue championing for the rights of other women and their views to be considered in property sharing. Ripples International CEO John Baidoo  said the Act and Kenyan law grants men more powers in a polygamous marriage where they are entitled to inheritance of all property creating inequality to their spouses. Baidoo said they plan to petition the courts for a constitutional change to correct the atrocities committed to women through the same law that should be protecting them. "Muslims can’t use the Succession Act. This is why we will file a petition to challenge that law. Let’s not impoverish women, rather the law should be a pedal to bring women up and not pull them down,” he said. Generose Gacheri and Asman Rukia, both widows, appealed to lawmakers to help them bring down stigma, assault and denied access to or sharing of their husbands' property. “Widows without a son are considered outcasts. When one is remarried, they are not allowed to possess any property from the first marriage,” Rukia said. United Nations notes that women are still underrepresented in public life and decision-making, as revealed in the UN Secretary-General’s recent report. According to the report, women are heads of state or government in 22 countries, and only 24.9 per cent of national parliamentarians are women. At the current rate of progress, gender equality among heads of government will take another 130 years. Women are also at the forefront of the battle against Covid-19, as front-line and health sector workers, as scientists, doctors and caregivers, yet they get paid 11 per cent less globally than their male counterparts. An analysis of Covid-19 task teams from 87 countries found only 3.5 per cent of them had gender parity. The UN states that women, especially young women, are at the forefront of diverse and inclusive movements online and on the streets for social justice, climate change and equality in all parts of the world. Yet, women under 30 are less than 1 per cent of parliamentarians worldwide. This is why, this year’s International Women’s Day is a rallying cry for Generation Equality, to act for an equal future for all. The Generation Equality Forum, the most important convening for gender equality investment and actions, kicks off in Mexico City from March 29 to 31 and culminates in Paris in June 2021. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 