Fafi MP Abdikarim Osman on Tuesday castigated his colleagues from ODM who have hit out at some government officers they accuse of interfering with the BBI secretariat and trying to sabotage its efforts. Siaya Senator James Orengo, National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed and Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo have asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to remove Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho from Building Bridges Initiative campaigns. They said Kibicho was meddling in the work of the secretariat and his continued presence posed a risk to BBI ahead of the referendum. At a rally in Kamkunji grounds, Kibra, on Sunday, a section of ODM legislators said they were ready to walk out of the handshake instead of being taken for a ride. Junet alleged that Kibicho's interference in BBI matters could strain the chances of a favourable referendum result or make the BBI appear to be a state project. But speaking to the press in Garissa town, Osman said that while it was within the ODM leaders' rights to express their dissatisfaction with the manner in which things were being done, the channel they used mattered a lot. Osman said the timing of the accusations was also bad since the country was gearing towards a referendum, noting that any form of division would only serve to work against the document. “Allow me to honestly ask: If, for sure, they think PS Kibicho is meddling in the work of the secretariat and by extension frustrating the ODM leader in whatever manner, why did they choose a baraza to express their displeasure? I think the right thing to do was to follow the right channels and avoid a public spat,” the Fafi MP said. Osman and his Njoro counterpart Charity Kathambi were honoured by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) for upholding Chapter Six of the Constitution. The MP urged political leaders to weigh their words carefully before uttering them, lest they plunge the country into chaos. He said most of the time politicians utter words without giving a second thought only for the same words to end up causing division among Kenyans. “I want to join hands in supporting not only the withdrawal of firearms of my colleagues who misuse them but also prosecution of the same who are caught behaving badly. We all need to be ambassadors of peace because when we destabilise the country, it is the common mwananchi that we represent who will suffer,” Osman said. Edited by Henry Makori