The National Treasury has denied claims China could take over the Mombasa port if Kenya defaults on its Sh364 billion standard gauge railway loans. Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani said in a statement on Monday Kenya is servicing the SGR loans as provided in the loan agreements. He said the county’s main port “has no adverse exposure to any lender or category of lenders through existing loan agreements with the government". The sentiments were in response to an Auditor General's report that revealed the extent to which Kenyan taxpayers are exposed in the SGR deal. The story was exclusively reported in the Star on Monday. The report tabled in Parliament last Tuesday revealed for the first time Kenya waived its immunity in the event of legal disputes with the lenders. The auditor said owing to this, KPA assets are exposed to the risk of takeover by the lender – China Exim Bank — adding that the entity’s revenue would be used to pay Kenya’s debt to China. Clause 1.2 of the auditor general's report on KPA dated June 30 2018 which talks about Payment Arrangement Agreement states: "The Agreement in clause 17.5 also refers to Kenya Ports Authority as a borrower contrary to the aforementioned details that Kenya Ports Authority's only obligation Is to facilitate/guarantee minimum freight volumes to meet the requirements of the Long Term Service Agreement. Under the clause, the Agreement provides that each of the borrowers, in this case Kenya Railways Corporation and Kenya Ports Authority agrees that any proceedings against them or any of their assets ( present or future) in connection with the agreement, no immunity from such proceedings shall be claimed by it or with respect to its assets and they irrevocably waive any right of immunity whether characterized as sovereign immunity or otherwise". The concern is that KPA is referred to as the borrower, contrary to details that KPA’s only obligation was to facilitate or rather guarantee minimum freight volumes. The borrowers – KPA and Kenya Railways Corporation - gave up claim to any immunity from legal proceedings or any of their assets in case of default. But Yatani sought to allay fears KPA would be at risk of takeover by China or any other country. “There is absolutely no risk of China or any other country to take over the Port of Mombasa,” the Treasury boss said. He further denied assertions that the government has pledged public assets as security to publicly guaranteed debts. Yatani said, “Such an action would violate the provision of existing loan agreements with other bilateral creditors.” The government argues that the Mombasa port is a strategic asset it is financing, with support of multilateral and bilateral development partners. “Kenya will continue to honour its debt servicing obligations to safeguard its credit standing among nations, attract investment and promote growth and development of its people,” Yatani said. The CS said the payments are in accordance with the law on public finance management which provides that public debt be charged on the Consolidated Fund. The Treasury boss said the China Exim Bank loans are part of the public debt paid through the Fund. “Loans of SGR project are not paid and cannot be paid through any other fund or by any other entity without the approval of Parliament,” he said. Even so, the revelations in the audit report sparked fury among Kenyans  and lawmakers saying the situation would be probed further. Public Investments Committee chairman Abdulswamad Nassir said they will take  the up the matter immediately the House team concludes the Kemsa probe. “This is something that what we will look into, including how they tie up with issues at Kenya Railways. Members have already indicated the need to sort out the Kenya Railways issue.” The Mvita MP said the committee would invite concerned KPA and Kenya Railways officers to provide a detailed account of the agreements. Former Mandera Central MP Billow Kerrow, a renowned finance expert, termed the deal as "awful". He termed the SGR "a white elephant" citing the Sh7 billion paid annually to operate SGR, against revenues below half the stated amount. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya said the question is why there is secrecy around the project if it was done in good faith. “Was a deliberate attempt made to sacrifice an asset at the Coast for the purposes of benefitting other people because the money was not properly used?” he asked. Kenya is under obligation to repay the SGR loan it borrowed in May 2014. The five-year grace period lapsed last year. In September last year, a parliamentary committee recommended that the SGR operational costs be slashed by half and the loans be restructured to ease pressure on the taxpayer. (Edited by V. Graham) 