Politician and lawyer Karen Nyamu on Saturday revealed that indeed, singer Samido is the biological father of her secondborn son, Sam Junior. Karen shared a video of Samido soothing their son at her home, and captioned it, "A dad doesn’t tell you that he loves you, he shows you #muchokis." The post did not go well with some fans, who bashed her for dating a married man. A follower by the name Jane James wrote, "You're dating a married man and think he would never cheat on you." Karen savagely responded. "Hehehe hio nayo imetoka wapi. Mimi ndio sijui kucheat?" Another follower, hadassahnjagzz, wrote, "So what!! Sio wewe wamwisho... The truth is you’ll remain a mistress woman! Don’t think he will leave his wife and marry you and by the way, take care of your child!" The mother of two responded, telling her off."@hadassahnjagzz listen, I’m not a petty woman like you to be happy with a man who can leave his wife. That’s a boy. Does it pain you so much that he is taking care of his son? Kama chungu tema." The mother of two has constantly been denying her relationship with the singer, saying Samido is a “friend” and a very “good friend”. "I don’t care what people say about me, I don’t have the time, they can say all they want. I know my truth, I know him as a man who loves his wife and family," she said. In a past interview with Massawe on Radio Jambo, Karen was asked if she knows Samido's wife. "Yes, I know her, but our circles are different and I know she has no beef with me. Because she knows the truth. She knows Samido is my friend." Karen further went on a rant on her Instagram stories and said she will no longer hide her family. "I will never stop posting my family. I have nothing to hide in my life now," she said. "Oh wife, why are you assuming she is evil or that he is so reckless and irresponsible not to have sat her down. Oh, you are doing this to hurt his wife. You will be surprised, it is our men's other women that bother us, it is never the wife." Samido is married to Edday Kimani and together they have two children.