An anti-corruption court has for the second time issued an order requiring the ATPU to produce former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko in court on Thursday for the hearing of his Sh14 million graft case. Magistrate Peter Ooko had issued a production order through the OCS Anti-terror Police Unit requiring the attendance of Sonko in court today. The same has however not been complied with. Sonko's lawyers led by John Khaminwa told the court that their client is still unwell and is due for a hip operation in South Africa. "The court will be sailing in dangerous waters if a person who is in hospital and still receiving treatment should be produced in court," said Khaminwa. Khaminwa insisted that the court should not interfere with the hospital procedures and urged the court to mention the matter in two months. This he said will enable them to know the position of the accused and how they can proceed with the case thereafter. But Sonko's co-accused persons were opposed to the application saying they do not see any reason why the earlier production order was not complied with. "Any delay will be prejudicial to us. We are not a lesser party in this proceedings," they said. In the case, Sonko is facing corruption charges involving a Sh14.1 million tender for heavy equipment. He is charged alongside Fredrick Odhiambo trading as Yiro Enterprises, ROG Security Limited and its director Antony Otieno Ombok alias Jamal. They have all denied charges of conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption,  conflict of interest, money laundering and acquisition of proceeds of crime. It is alleged that the former governor in December 2018, received an indirect private interest of Sh8.4 million from Fred Odhoiambo in a contract connected with the county over the hiring of heavy equipment. ROG security and its director Jamal was accused of unlawfully receiving Sh14 million through Equity Bank from Fred Odhiambo. The money was in respect of a contract for hiring heavy equipment. ROG is accused of having received it while knowing it formed proceeds of crime. Sonko is also expected to appear in court on the same date in another corruption case he is facing before Anti-corruption Magistrate Douglas Ogoti. Ogoti had on February 17 directed that Sonko be examined by a team of three government doctors at Kenyatta National Hospital to ascertain his health status. The directive followed after Special Prosecutor Taib Ali Taib raised doubts regarding Sonko’s health after he failed to show up in court.