A police officer attached to the General Service Unit shot himself dead after he had opened fire on his two colleagues and seriously injured them at the Chepchoina camp, Trans Nzoia. The deceased was identified as constable Paul Kuria Kinyanjui. He died instantly after bursting his head through the lower jaw using his AK47 rifle on Tuesday evening. The motive of the incident is yet to be known. Officials said Kinyanjui shot both officers in the camp in the lower cheek and that they are in stable but serious condition. They were airlifted for further treatment in Nairobi. A senior officer had addressed the officers at a parade and informed them of a planned change over when the incident happened. Witnesses said there had been no argument in the camp between the slain officer and the victims. “He suddenly shot randomly injuring the two as others took cover. We don’t know the motive,” said a senior officer aware of the incident. An investigation has been launched into the incident. Officials say trauma is the main reasons police behave that way. According to Kenyatta University research, the major factor contributing to suicide and murder among officers in Kenya is work-related trauma. The study found out that police are generally at the receiving end of all community problems. They are expected to maintain law and order in very difficult situations, besides putting their lives at risk as soon as they leave home every day. It further emphasized that Police officers are often in touch with extremely painful issues in the community such as murder and rape which stresses them. Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai had last year launched a new programme-Muamko Mpya-Healing the Uniform Initiative- to give psychological support to officers. Mutyambai said police officers who are often exposed to trauma that creates deep emotional scars, need healing. “The ultimate goal of the initiative is to provide officers with knowledge, tools and a framework to assist them to support each other while handling traumatic situations,” Mr Mutyambai said. “They encounter most of these situations on personal and professional levels.” He ordered the Kenya Police, Administration Police and Directorate of Criminal Investigations heads to ensure counselling is integrated into the police training curriculum.