The national government has completed a Sh115 million bridge that will end cases of Magarini residents being attacked by crocodiles and hippos while crossing River Galana. The residents of Shakahola and Hawewanje had serious challenges after the previous bridge was destroyed by floodwaters. During that period, residents were forced to cross on foot or small canoes in the crocodile-infested river, leading to attacks. However, in 2019, the government, through the efforts of the area MP Michael Kingi, began the process of constructing the bridge. It was to take 11 months but due to technicalities was extended for three months. In January, the bridge was completed. It is wide enough to accommodate not only people but even a motorcycle and one car at a time. This means ambulances responding to emergencies can easily cross and save a patient who requires referral to Malindi. Karisa Kahindi, a resident of Hawewanje, said previously they used to have challenges in accessing health services and even getting goods. He said residents buy foodstuff and other household items from Shakahola trading centre and that has now been made easy by the bridge. “We had to walk long for long distances to the riverbank and then wade through the crocodile-infested water to cross to the other side,” he said. Kahindi thanked the government for ending their suffering. He said the contractor opened the bridge for the public and people are now crossing freely without fearing attacks. Currently, he said the project will help promote development in the area which previously lacked social amenities such as health and trading centres. Hawewanje area has only one school and children have to walk for a long-distance to access it, he said. Mathias Ngowa from Ropi village said he lost some relatives to crocodile attacks while others got serious injuries while crossing the river. He said the 200-metre crossing was deadly and to date, there are people with huge scars sustained in crocodile attacks. Ngowa said with the bridge, they expect to have no more attacks as it's safe and people do not have to risk wading through the waters. Apart from Hawewanje, the government is also constructing a bridge at Bombi at a similar cost. It will also address the challenge of hippo attacks. The government is also constructing a bridge at Baricho for Sh2.1 billion to help improve the economic development of the area by easing the movement of people and goods to the market.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris