The government has launched a booklet to curb rising violent extremism in schools. This follows reports showing extremist groups are targeting youth in schools, exploiting push factors such as inequality, marginalisation, unemployment, weak family ties and religious indoctrination. The recruitment has also been supported by other threats to student well-being such as gender-based violence, drug and substance abuse, poverty levels and gang membership. The report by the National Counter Terrorism Centre on Child Safety and Safety Against Extremism says inducement and radicalisation are methods that are allowing recruiters to interfere with curriculum delivery, lower access to education and undermine teacher authority. NCTC acting director Joseph Opondo, who spoke during the unveiling of the booklet in Machakos, said all stakeholders must work together to ensure children are protected. “We are a country that values the youth and for that reason the Ministry of Education and other stakeholders came up with this document. Tutors and teachers will now be able to spot the tell-tale signs and pathways of radicalisation in schools,” he said. The guide has an implementation matrix that will enable teachers to identify early warning and response strategies. It highlights behavioural characteristics of learners of interest to enable early detection and facilitate effective and timely response to radicalisation. The manual outlines interventions for various actors during the prevention and management of radicalisation to violent extremism. It is aimed at ensuring the safety of learners and schools from the determined attempts of violent extremists and gangs to target them for recruitment and disruption. The guidelines embrace a multi-sectoral and multi-agency approach rooted in early detection and response before the risk of criminal recruitment or attack reaches a tipping point. The guide explores the scope, rationale, legal and policy framework and highlights the likely behavioural characteristics displayed by the learner at various risk levels based on the threat of the affected learner. “We will be able to protect our children from individuals and groups preying on them. This is a collective responsibility. We will soon be distributing these books to institutions of learning and they will truly help teachers and help them protect our children,” Opondo said. The centre has also embarked on a familiarisation exercise, interacting directly with youth through online platforms to help curb violent extremism in the war against terror. The booklet says learners are easy targets for radicalisation into violent extremism and identifies education as a pillar in countering the vice. The kit has been designed in a manner that teachers are capable of knowing when a child is showing signs of radicalisation. “This kit is to help teachers to detect radicalisation in schools with the increasing cases of arson and students beating up teachers. It is these behaviours that can attract people who are looking for who to radicalise,” he said. The guide offers practical interventions to help an at-risk learner already affected by these vices. Push factors for radicalisation include dysfunctional families, pressure perform well at school, peer pressure  and socio-economic factors. Pull factors are search for identity, desire to rebel and attractive ideologies among others.