A 65-year-old man was on Thursday shot dead in fresh banditry attack in Mukutani, Baringo county. Gabriel Lekichep was shot dead during the 3pm attack.  Two others, Jackline Lekidogo, 36, and her two and a half year-old child are hospitalised after they suffered bullet injuries. “I was doing some chores in the house when the children who were playing outside ran in and shouted that some strangers armed with guns were standing outside,” Lekidogo said. The incident occurred barely 72 hours after Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya announced lifting of the Kapedo operation for the next 30 days to allow for leaders to preach peace. Lekidogo said immediately she ordered the children to run for their lives, the three bandits armed with AK47 guns had already entered the house and opened fire. “They sprayed bullets, killing Mzee Lekichep, whom we were chatting with, on the spot. They then shot me twice and my child,” Lekidogo said. She said she collapsed and lost consciousness after she was shot in the head and abdomen. No single livestock was stolen during the daytime attack. “The last thing I heard was my child screaming and asking for drinking water and then I lost consciousness. It is only until this morning in hospital bed that I got to know he was also shot,” Lekidogo said. Rapid Deployment Unit officers camping in the area rushed to repulse the bandits, though they arrived at the scene a bit late. The injured were ferried using RDU armoured personnel carrier to the county referral hospital in Kabarnet. They were then transferred to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Mukutani chief Benjamin Lekecher confirmed the incident, saying tension is high in the area and people have fled their homes to stay in the bushes. Local leaders, led by Marginalised and Minority Communities affairs head of department Amos ole Mpaka and lawyer Joseph Tarus visited the survivors in Kabarnet hospital. They made a special appeal to President Uhuru Kenyatta to urgently intervene into the persistent banditry attack in Tiaty, Baringo North and South. “The President should take a firm step of disarmament or allow them to own guns so they can protect themselves,” Tarus said. Ole Mpaka blamed the unending banditry menace to heightened political interference, saying some leaders funding the criminals were being listened to mostly by the government. “We are left wondering why and how the government agreed to lift the operation, which we had believed would help end banditry,” he said. He appealed to the government to consider reviewing and reinstating the National Police Reservists so they can help save lives, pursue bandits and recover stolen animals. Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol and his Mochongoi counterpart Kipruto Kimosop had earlier on Wednesday sent red signal after the lifting of operation. “We are no longer safe as neighbouring communities because the bandits have fled operation in Kapedo and they are now living with us,” Chepsongol said. They urged the government to embark on the operation immediately to safeguard people’s lives and property.