The handshake’s cardinal agenda was to deliver the Building Bridges Initiative. As you know, the document technically only awaits the verdict of the people in a referendum after overwhelming endorsement by the county assemblies. The elephant in the room is the 2022 succession. Various political players are angling for President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement. As a result, there is a lot of suspicion. However, the fact is that there are only two horses in the 2022 contest: Raila Odinga and William Ruto. As it is clear now, no sane person can expect Uhuru to back Ruto after their acrimonious divorce. It’s a fact that political players are seeking the attention of the state to outwit each other. The recent Matungu by-election provided a platform, coming just days after a bitter divorce within Nasa with accusations and counter-accusations. The sheer level of vote bribery in just that one constituency was mind-boggling. This is the highest level of electoral gerrymandering. A day before the by-election the Kakamega senator, who was ANC chief campaigner, prophesied violence in Matungu flanked by his party leader on national TV.  How does one prophesy election violence unless you are a prophet of doom? Irrespective of what happened in Matungu, Musalia Mudavadi's candidate barely made it to Parliament. The margin was too slim and that cannot be used to gauge Mudavadi's political clout at the national stage. ODM gave him a political battle of his life in his own backyard. Back to the question of whether the handshake will survive up to 2022, I think the truce was shrouded in mystery, only Uhuru and Raila can unpack it for Kenyans. In fact, the President has always reminded us that he has a deeper understanding with his “brother” Raila on matters handshake. As with any marriage, there are moments of tension and tempers can occasionally flare. That is what makes any union real and solid. It doesn’t mean every time you disagree, you file for divorce. So yes, the handshake will stand and will absolutely deliver its purposes come 2022. The handshake will surmount all odds against those praying hard for its fall. We should not listen to grapevines and red herrings. The writer is a political economist and university lecturer