A General Service Unit officer who opened fire on Tuesday at Chepchoina camp in Trans Nzoia and killed a colleague before taking his life was 'troubled'. Constable Paul Kuria injured another officer but the dead victim, Bernard Sulunye, was his best friend. Multiple sources told the Star Kuria had looked unhappy about the decision to leave his JKIA base for Todonyang in Turkana county. “All along he showed signs of discomfort suggesting there was something disturbing him. At one point the officers in charge had to give him a pass to go home,” an officer who sought anonymity said. The officers left their Nairobi camp at JKIA at around 5pm on Tuesday in a convoy of 15 vehicles. They were destined for Todonyang GSU camp in Turkana as part of the annual routine changeover of the paramilitary officers. They arrived at the Chepchoina camp at 4pm where they were to have a rest before continuing with the journey the following day. At around 6pm, the officers were briefed by the team leader before being allowed to take their evening meals at a nearby trading centre. As the officers dispersed, Kuria went back to the Land Rover, took his body armour and returned to camp as his colleagues went to take supper. "When we were leaving to the centre to take a bite I asked him what his problem was since he kept secluding himself but he refused to divulge it and instead went to the camp," said another officer. He added, "After some minutes, terrific gun shots rent the air forcing the officers who were nearby to lie down as they positioned themselves in preparation for a battle." Officers rushed to the scene as they took cover while acting on orders from their seniors. On approaching the scene, they found officer Sulunye lying on the ground having been shot twice on the back. Kuria had fired about 10 rounds of ammunition from a G3 rifle assigned to him. Constable Evans Kioko who was standing a few metres away survived narrowly as a bullet grazed his cheek. Investigations into the incident are ongoing. Last year, Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai launched a new program aimed at giving psychological support to officers. Mutyambai said police officers who are often exposed to trauma that creates deep emotional scars, need healing. 