Kakamega governor aspirants have ganged up in an effort to stop the incumbent from influencing his succession. MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani) and Justus Kizito have agreed to present a single candidate from the northern and central zones to forestall what they termed schemes by Governor Wycliffe Oparanya to have the seat retained in the southern zone. Kakamega has three zones—southern comprising Khwisero, Butere, Mumias East, Mumias West and Matungu constituencies; central comprising Ikolomani, Shinyalu, Navakholo and Lurambi; and the northern that has Lugari, Malava and Likuyani. Savula said they have also reached out to Deputy Governor Philip Kutima who also seeks to succeed his boss. "We've agreed and mandated Shinali to coordinate and organise a meeting where we shall make a declaration. Oparanya wants to succeed himself by fronting Fernandez Barasa, but we will beat him hands down," he said. The move followed a meeting between Oparanya and a section of contractors in a Kisumu hotel last Monday where a plan is said to have been hatched to push as many hopefuls in the northern and central areas to run and share votes to pave the way for a win by Ketraco CEO Barasa. There are claims the meeting agreed to have United Democratic Party leader Cyrus Jirongo join the race to help divide the central and northern vote blocs. Oparanya is said to be pushing for a Barasa governorship, deputised by one John Imbogo. The lineup retains Woman Representative Elsie Muhanda and proposes Nabii Nabwera for the Senate seat. But a contractor, Cleophas Shimanyula, dismissed the claims, saying the meeting in Kisumu did not discuss Oparanya's succession. "I'm the one who chaired the meeting as the chairman of contractors. We were just having a general talk and the governor said he has his deputy Kutima and Barasa as candidates but one is stronger than the other," he said. "We left it at the point where we said that we shall assess the candidates by around June before deciding the way forward." The meeting came a day after Oparanya met former Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga and current Deputy Governor Patrick Saisi in what was interpreted to mean building alliances ahead of next year's general election.