Politicians drawn from the North-Eastern region now want the late Senator Yusuf Haji's son Abdul Haji to take over the Senatorial mandate. The politicians led by Garissa governor Ali Korane Korane and Eldas MP Aden Keynan said that the best honour they can give to the late senator was electing his son to complete the remaining term left by his late father. While urging Garissa residents to rally behind Abdul, the politicians said negotiations by leaders together with clan elders to have Abdul to go unopposed are ongoing. Korane was speaking on Saturday at a Garissa hotel where together with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and other leaders helped raise Shs 7.5 million in aid of two Madarasa centers in Fafi sub-county. Haji’s family who last week picked Abdul for the seat got the backing of the late Haji’s Abdallah clan. Garissa County is made up of three major clans namely Abduwak, Aulihan and Abdallah. Clans play an integral role in the endorsement of candidates who in most cases end up winning. “The late Haji was an embodiment of peace and true leadership not only in our county but in the entire country. The best way to honor is having his son succeed him," Keynan said. The legislator while echoing Korane’s sentiments noted that since the family and clan have already given the nod, ‘it should be all system go’. “What we are doing as leaders together with our elders in fronting Haji’s son and urging the residents to support is not new. It has happened before and will happen again. After all, he is a capable son to take over the mantle,” Keynan said. He added, "The best reward we can give to our departed Hero Mzee Haji is to elect his son unopposed". Keynan who doubles up as Secretary, Jubilee coalition joint parliamentary Group said splitting the Ijara constituency and Wajir south remained top in the late Haji’s priority and the only way to honour him was by actualizing the dream. On his part, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi who is also Kanu national chair, said Garissa should support Haji’s son deliver the seat adding that unity of purpose was ‘required in this point in time’. So far no other candidate has declared interest in the senator’s seat. Present were senate majority leader Samuel Poghisio, MPs Abdikarim Osman (Fafi), Mohamed Hire (Lagdera), William Kamket (Tiaty) and several Members of Garissa County Assembly. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission-IEBC has already scheduled the by-election for May 18. The elections will be held together with those of Bonchari and Juja members of parliament as well as Rurii ward MCA in Nyandarua. Abdul, a renowned businessman is featured among private arm holders who played a key role in the rescue mission during the Westgate Mall attack. Abdul was among a small group of plain-clothes policemen who helped to rescue dozens of people from the Westgate mall. He had gone in search of his brother, armed only with a pistol that his late father had taught him to hunt with as a child.