Meru Senator Mithika has failed yet again to secure orders stopping his impending arrest by the DCI over a loan he took two years ago from Family Bank. Last week, the court did not issue the same orders as sought and directed Linturi to appear in court on Monday for inter-parties hearing. The case did not proceed as scheduled and the conservatory orders were not given. Through his lawyer Muthomi Thiankolu, the senator told the court that he had been summoned to by the DCI and if orders were not granted, he would be arrested. Justice Weldon Korir said he saw no reason to grant the orders until the application is heard. The state and Marriane Kitany’s lawyers had told the court that they were not ready to proceed with the hearing because Linturi had filed an amended petition they had yet to respond to. The case will be heard on April 14 before Justice Antony Mrima because Judge Korir will be on leave. In the case, Linturi sought court orders barring the DCI and DPP from arresting him and his business partner Emily Nkirote over the loan. Linturi said he may be arrested at any time because he was being trailed by persons believed to be police officers. He claimed that their intended prosecution is unlawful as it relates to a family and property dispute between the senator and his estranged wife Kitany. Kitany lodged a complaint with the DCI two years ago accusing Linturi and Nkirote, who were directors of Atticon, of fraud in taking a loan using fake papers. Linturi had asked the court to grant them anticipatory bail pending their arrest and prosecution. He also wanted the court to bar the DPP and DCI from prosecuting them with any criminal offences relating to credit facilities and securities and fraudulent changes on Atticon ownership pending the hearing and determination of family disputes between him and Kitany. Eight cases are still pending before court relating to property disputes, including the divorce case. “The DPP has maliciously recommended the arrest, charging and prosecution for alleged criminal offences revolving around loans, overdrafts and other facilities that Family Bank extended to Atticon Ltd where the complaint giving rise to the investigations had actually been lodged,” court papers read. He argues that the charges being prosecuted are similar to those in the ongoing civil, commercial and family disputes pending before various courts between him and Kitany. “The intended arrest, charging and prosecution for offences relating to the said loan as well as the dispute over ownership of Atticon is improper and an abuse of power,” Linturi claims. The legislator says that early this week someone dropped at his office a draft of a charge sheet containing 38 counts. The charges range from giving false information to a person employed in the public service, obtaining credits by false pretences, impersonation, abuse of office, fraudulently procuring the registration of charge of documents, forgery and intent to defraud, among others. “Soon after, we began receiving anonymous calls with the callers merely telephoning but not communicating and this led us to believe that they are DCI officers who are tracking us with a view of arresting us,” he said. He has accused the DCI of being biased and selective in prosecution, claiming that he had also lodged a complaint against Kitany and the other directors but to date no action has been taken against them. Linturi accused Kitany of fraudulently withdrawing over Sh20 million from the company accounts. He said he made several complaints to the Banking Fraud Unit about Kitany and other business partners, but no action was taken against them. 