 Coming from a poor family background should not be an impediment to one's success in education. That is what learners in Meru have been told. They were also advised not to think too much about the coronavirus pandemic but focus on their studies and tackle exams with diligence. Ikana Primary School head teacher Andrew Miriti and his Ngage counterpart Gideon Mathiu also wished both KCPE and KCSE candidates success in their exams. The two schools are in Thangatha ward in Tigania East constituency. The teachers said KCPE was not the end of learning but the beginning. The exam started on Monday countrywide and ends on Wednesday. Candidates conducted their rehearsals on Friday last week. Speaking during the rehearsal, the two teachers said they were able to cover the whole syllabus despite the Covid-19 disruptions. They wished candidates the best of luck. “I urge them to be obedient and disciplined even after accomplishing their primary education. Our teachers have prepared them well enough and we expect good results. They should not panic but have confidence to answer all questions,” Mathiu said. Mainda Facii, an alumnus of Ikana and Ngage Day Secondary schools told learners that his struggles in high school and college strengthened his resolve to change the narrative that those from poor backgrounds can’t make it in life. The Royal Media Services journalist who toured several schools mentoring and giving hope to learners said he was the only sibling to enrol in a college from their family. They are more than six children in the family, he said. He urged learners to put in their best efforts, saying there were well-wishers ready to help bright but needy students to pursue their academic ambitions. Most residents of Thangatha ward are peasant farmers and many have been affected by the closure of the miraa markets. Facii used the example of Isaac Munene from Ngutu Primary School who lacked secondary school fees after passing his KCPE exam. "We are grateful to MPs Mpuru Aburi and Gichunge Kabeabea who intervened and took the boy to Meru School and paid his fees. Everyone should remain steadfast and pray to God,” Facii said.  Edited by P.O 