Kenya is among 12 countries that will benefit from access to Rotavirus vaccine at the lowest price for use in emergencies. Rotavirus is a life-saving vaccine to protect children against severe diarrhoeal diseases. Children to benefit from the programme are those living in refugee camps, displaced communites or in other emergency situations. This becomes the second vaccine to be accessed through the Humanitarian Mechanism after it was launched in 2017. The first one was the pneumococcal vaccine that protects children against pneumonia, another leading cause of childhood deaths during emergencies. Under the mechanism, manufacturers and other partners sign an agreement where the manufacture makes their vaccines available at the lowest price for use in emergencies. The rotavirus agreement was signed by the leading drugs manufacture GlaxoSmithKline. The scheme is an initiative by Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), Save the Children, UNICEF and the World Health Organization. Once secured through the Mechanism, the vaccines are offered to humanitarian organizations working in camps and other emergency settings, who can make applications to access the vaccine at these lower prices. According to WHO, children in refugee camps and displaced communities are among the most vulnerable in the world to such diseases, due to population density, poor hygiene and sanitation, and higher rates of malnutrition. “Every day across the globe, children die because they are critically weakened by diarrhoea – it’s one of the biggest killers of young children in the world,” Rachel Cummings said. Cummings is the Director of the Humanitarian Public Health Team at Save the Children. “We welcome this important commitment as a vital step in protecting some of the most vulnerable children from life-threatening, yet easily preventable diseases. Money should never be a barrier between life and death,” Cummings added. Diarrhoea is one of the leading causes of death among children under five in Kenya. According to Kenya Demographic Health Survey (KDHS) 2014, the national prevalence of under five diarrheal diseases was at 15 per cent, a slight decline from 17 per cent reported in KDHS. 2008. Diarrhoea indirectly, through malnutrition, leads to long term effects on child growth and development. The relationship between diarrhoea and malnutrition is bidirectional; malnourished children are highly vulnerable to infectious diseases such as diarrhea and vice versa. “These communities bear the brunt of preventable morbidity and mortality and have disproportionately suffered from programme disruptions as a result of the pandemic,” UNICEF’s Principal Advisor and Chief of Immunizations Robin Nandy said. Every year, there is an estimated number of 1.7 billion cases of diarrhoea amongst children under five years. WHO estimates that every year, around 525,000 children under five years die due to diarrhoeal disease. In Kenya, during the year 2018 it is estimated that more than 1.4 million cases of diarrhoea were reported among children under five years. Among the cases of diarrhoea in 2018 in Kenya, Nairobi accounted for 136,028 cases, a situation associated to presence of the informal settlements in the city. Additional commitments from manufacturers are sought to make more vaccines available through the Mechanism, including typhoid, human papillomavirus and other pneumococcal and rotavirus vaccines. “It is unacceptable that some of the most at-risk children are not vaccinated against devastating diseases like rotavirus because of lack of availability or high costs,” Director of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals at WHO Dr Kate O’Brien said.