Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has hinted that Parliament could dispense with the BBI Bill in two weeks amid a push to hasten the process ahead of the planned June referendum. Lusaka said the joint House committees on Justice and Legal Affairs tasked to steer the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020 through various stages will table their report on March 23. The joint panel will on Thursday commence public hearings on the bill before retreating from March 17-20 to incorporate public views and file a report for tabling in the two Houses. The committee, co-chaired by Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni and Kangema MP Muturi Kigano, will on Wednesday meet to develop a roadmap for public participation. “We expect that the joint committee will table its report on March 23 for consideration by the two Houses so that by the end of the week, we will have debated and made a decision on the bill,” Lusaka said. The Speaker addressed journalists at Sarova Whitesands Hotel-Mombasa, where he is presiding over the Senate Leadership Retreat forum. “After that it will move to the next level, which is the President and the IEBC to come up with the route map ahead of the referendum,” he added. He said during this period, the Senate should be able to ensure all Kenyans are given a fair chance to air their views. As Lusaka spoke, Senate JLAC committee chairman Okong’o Omogeni said Wednesday's meeting will agree on the modalities, programme and the period the exercise will take. “We have agreed that we retreat separately, discuss and then meet jointly today to discuss what each committee has presented and then we agree on the way forward,” Omogeni told a press conference at Parliament Buildings. “We will decide how and for how long we can go on Thursday. If we will have a few people seeking to present, then we will finish on Thursday but if they are many, then we will give them time.” The senator said the Constitution requires Parliament to carry out public participation, especially on crucial matters such as the change of the Constitution. “Courts have ruled that public participation must be qualitative, quantitative and participatory. Our democracy is not just election, but also participatory,” he said. The senator rubbished claims that Parliament was considering a bill different from the one that came from the county assemblies. “We are guided by articles 255, 256 and 257 of the Constitution. We cannot discuss any other thing other than that that came from county assemblies with certificates,” he said. Speaking separately, MP Muturi said the bill will remain intact as transmitted by the county assemblies, saying other views not accommodated by the bill are excluded. “You cannot change the bill because it is a popular initiative and not from Parliament. There is no space to alter the bill because if you do so, you will kill it,” Muturi said “You could easily say that the public participation at this stage is superfluous but it is good to hear them before we decide either to pass or reject it in totality,” he said. The Kangema lawmaker said public participation will extend to Friday to give promoters of the bill a day to air their views. As soon as they conclude the public engagement, he said, they will retreat to make their report and table it.