President Uhuru Kenyatta has appointed a task force to review Kenya Power's  purchase agreements. It will be chaired by John Ngumi. The members of the task force are Kennedy Ogeto, Aaron Ringera, James Mcfie, Mohammed Nyaoga, Elizabeth Muli, Stanley Kamau, Wanjiku Wakogi, Isaac Kiva, Caroline Kittony, Elizabeth Rogo, Sachin Gudka, James Mwangi, John Mutua, Anne Eriksson, and Yida Kemoli. The joint secretaries to the task force are Jasper Mbiuki, Lillian Abishai, and Elsie Mworia. The task force will serve for a period of six months with effect from March 29, 2021. The task force will undertake a comprehensive review and analysis of the terms of all Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) entered into by the Kenya Power and probe the compliance of the PPAs and all associated agreements with government policies. It will review the sustainability and viability of all independent power generation projects that have been proposed, are under implementation, or in operation, and make appropriate recommendations. The team will review the allocation of risk between the independent power producers and KPLC under the PPAs, and make appropriate recommendations. It will also co-opt any person as it may consider necessary or expedient for the proper performance of its functions and the effective discharge of its mandate, and have such powers as may be necessary or expedient for the proper execution of its functions. The team will also regulate its own procedure and create committees or sub-committees for the efficient and expedited discharge of its mandate. The task force will serve for a period of six months or for such a long period as may be specified by notice in the gazette. Following the appointment of the taskforce, a moratorium is placed on all PPAs not concluded as at the date of the notice, including any related letters of support and legal opinions pending issuance by the Attorney General. The secretariat of the task orce shall be based at Harambee House. Meanwhile, Uhuru has appointed Francis Okwara as the chairperson of the Kenya Seed Company Board for a period of three years. In a Gazette notice dated March 29, the president said that Okwara’s appointment took effect on the same day. Agriculture CS Peter Munya has appointed Okwara, Alice Chesire, Gitonga Kamiti, Kipkorir Menjo, and Samuel Mecca to be members of the Board of Directors of the Kenya Seed Company, for a period of three years. Munya has also revoked the appointments of Samson Chelule, Elsbeth Naeku Tolu, and Muchohi Ruiru Gikonyo as members of the Board of Directors of the Kenya Seed Company.