Deputy President William Ruto's allies in Western have said that his support in the region is intact despite conflicting statements by his backers. Mumias East MP Ben Washiali said that weekend remarks by MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili) and John Waluke (Sirisia) do not mean that the DP's Western command was crumbling. “The statements by the two were meant to test waters by eliciting reactions so they can know what the people are thinking,” Washiali said on the phone. On Sunday, Barasa announced that he was taking a four-month leave from national politics to concentrate on his mandate for Kimilili. He said that he would use the period to reach out to Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati, former Unctad boss Mukhisa Kituyi and Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi to dialogue to avoid fragmenting the Luhya vote. Another DP ally, Sirisia MP John Waluke said that Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi of ODM was best suited for Bungoma governorship. Sources told the Star that the DP met his Western command in Nairobi on Monday following the remarks. Malava MP Malulu Injendi said that the statements by Barasa and Waluke have nothing to do with their support for Ruto. “If Barasa and Waluke wanted to leave UDA they could have expressly stated as such. Barasa could be having personal issues which he wants to deal with away from the public eye,” Malulu said. Washiali said Luhya leaders leaning towards the DP had resolved never to drive the community into the Opposition. “You should not be cheated. You will realise that in all the by-elections held only the UDA party has featured in all of them. ANC starts and ends in Matungu, Ford Kenya ends in Kabuchai and Wiper ends in Machakos. The DP is a powerful person and should not be taken lightly,” he said. Political scientist Amukowa Anangwe said the statements by the Tangatanga MPs in Western are a sign of individual politicians realigning themselves to enhance their prospects in 2022. “They are torn between what the ground is saying and loyalty to the DP. Any politician will go by what the ground is saying. It's everyone for himself and God for us all now,” he said on the phone. Anangwe said the ground in Western was shifting and the wins in the Kabuchai and Matungu by-elections gave Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula added momentum that would be the cause of the crumbling of UDA and ODM in the region. Political commentator Martin Andati said DP's Western command will crumble completely. He said Luhya leaders backing the DP were looking for a way to join the Western bandwagon through the back door. “They are looking for accommodation. They are desperate after realising that their agenda to buy the Luhya support has failed following their dismal performance in the Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections,” he said. “The DP's base in Western was built on quicksand and it's becoming difficult to sustain the team due to growing rebellion on the ground.”   Edited by Kiilu Damaris