A pastor has blamed president Uhuru Kenyatta and politicians for the Covid-19 third wave in Kenya. In an online video posted on Sunday evening, Pefa Kahawa West Bishop Peter Ambuka said the people of Kenya have greatly suffered since the pandemic struck last year. "Mr President, you and your fellow politicians are to blame for this devastating third wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. And the buck stops with you," Ambuka said. Ambuka said that when the curve started to flatten, Uhuru and ODM Party Leader Raila Odinga began talking about Building Bridges Initiative and why we needed a referendum soon. "When the pandemic started we joined you and endured the lockdown with you. We endured job losses, businesses were closed, livelihoods were taken away in the hope of normalcy," he said. "...And when your former brother William Ruto saw this, he also resumed his 2022 campaigns disregarding the MOH protocols." "It is this careless action by politicians that have made the rallies to be super-spreaders of Covid-19." Ambuka said it is unfortunate that Kenyans are the ones to suffer the consequences. "We do this as you continue leaving your lavish lifestyle thanks to the taxes we continue to pay even as we lose jobs due to the pandemic," he said. He said the President should have laid down plans of how to eradicate the virus in the five counties. "Mr President you cannot eradicate this virus by lockdowns. Massive testing and vaccination are what will help," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday declared a cessation of movement in five counties. This include; Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Kiambu and Nakuru counties. The counties were put under the cessation of movement indefinitely. When the curve began flattening, politicians decided to hold rallies without observing the set rules. Observations, backed by photographs, showed most politicians who attended rallies did not wear masks or observe social distancing. Uhuru prohibited all forms of political gatherings in the country for the next month. Before the new order, the President had earlier issued the same directive, which lasted for 60 days but was not strictly adhered to.