The Judicial Service Commission has invited the public to access information on shortlisted candidates for the post of Chief Justice and judges. Ten candidates have been shortlisted for the position of Chief Justice (CJ) ahead of their interviews in April. "To facilitate meaningful public participation in the process, the Commission has prepared a handbook with simplified yet detailed information on the selection process," JSC Secretary Ann Amadi said. Ten candidates have been shortlisted for the position of Chief Justice (CJ) ahead of their interviews in April. They include Justice Said Chitembwe, Prof Patricia Mbote, Justice Martha Koome, Justice Marete Njagi, Philip Murgor, Justice Nduma Nderi, Fred Ngatia, Justice William Ouko, Dr Wekesa Moni and Alice Yano. Those shortlisted for the Supreme Court judge position include; Justice Said Chitembwe, Justice Martha Koome, Justice M’inoti Kathurima, Justice Nduma Nderi, Lumumba Nyaberi, Justice William Ouko, Justice Joseph Sergon and Alice Yano. In a statement on Monday, Amadi said they have also provided the profiles of the candidates, their sample writings and the written memoranda from stakeholders. ".....all have been posted to the Commission’s website for easy access," she said. After access, the public has been requested to submit any comments or feedback on the documentation before the interviews which are scheduled to start on 12th April 2021. Comments may be e-mailed to recruitment@jsc.go.ke. Public participation is enshrined in the constitution under Article 10 of the Constitution and the Judicial Service Act. The Judicial Service Commission is in the process of recruiting the third Chief Justice since the promulgation of the Constitution of Kenya 2010. The Commission is also recruiting a Judge of the Supreme Court for the position which fell vacant in February 2020. The Commission notified the general public of the vacancies, invited applications from all qualified persons, and published the list of applicants and shortlisted candidates in the mainstream media. The JSC also invited members of the public to submit information of interest on the shortlisted candidates.