Macadamia farmers in Kirinyaga have called on the government to help them get better prices and threshing machines to make their work easier. Farmer James Kabuga told the Star returns have over the years continued to dwindle. He said six years ago he used to sell his macadamia at an average price of Sh80 per kilo, but the price has dropped to Sh45. “Every loss is being blamed on the Covid-19 pandemic. We are now being told that the foreign markets have reduced their appetite for our produce thus fetching very low prices.” Kabuga urged the government to revise a policy that requires macadamia for export be threshed. He said they lack threshing machines in the local market, and they have to use hammers to crack open the outer shell. “It is a policy that before exporting our produce, we are required to have cracked our macadamia. But since we don’t have threshing machines to separate the nuts from the outer shells, we use hammers which puts us at a great disadvantage because it makes our work harder," Kabuga said. Farmer Kinyua Kariuki complained of poor prices and high cost of farm inputs. “Farming macadamia is at times a costly venture. The government needs to provide subsidised fertiliser and other farm inputs to macadamia farmers." John Muturi said the government should market macadamia locally. He said most Kenyans do not consume macadamia or its products. “We sell most of our produce in foreign markets as little attention is put into our local markets. Most Kenyans do not consume macadamia as snacks and use them as cooking oil.” According to the Kirinyaga assembly agriculture committee, the county has in the last three years produced approximately 4,639 tonnes of macadamia. “Macadamia productivity rate has continually grown. In 2018, the county produced about 4,300 tonnes while in 2019, farmers harvested 4729 tonnes. Last year, we did 4,877 tonnes,which is not badly off,” team chairman John Baptista Kanga said. He said the assembly is yet to formulate specific policies guiding macadamia farming in the county. However, he said, the crop is regulated under the Crops Act. “Kirinyaga relies heavily on the Middle East countries to sell their produce. In the past one year we have registered a reduction in prices by nearly half of the 2019 earnings due to Covid-19 pandemic," Kanga said. He said in 2019 the produce fetched Sh727,150,000 against Sh409,850,000 in 2020. He said there are insufficient threshing machines in the country, but farmers have started adopting jua kali ones that have eased their work.