President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday dealt a blow to political bigwigs who were already traversing the country marketing their 2022 policies in complete disregard of Covid-19 protocols. The President, while addressing the nation from State House, Nairobi, ordered a ban on all political rallies for the next 30 days beginning Friday midnight. However, concerns have emerged over whether the directive will be implemented impartially and to the letter. Previous directives have been disregarded by the political class, including the President. The Ministry of Interior has also been accused of being biased when implementing the directive as it was seen to be targeting activities of politicians holding a dissenting opinion contrary to the handshake politics. Since January, political heavyweights, including the President, Deputy President William Ruto, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Senator Gideon Moi (Kanu), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and their troops have been holding huge rallies. Uhuru, Raila, Mudavadi, Gideon, Kalonzo have been crisscrossing the country campaigning for the Building Bridges Initiative while the DP and his lieutenants have been selling their 'hustler' message ahead of 2022. The politicians were also involved in the campaigns for the just-concluded seven by-elections and the five upcoming ones. After a series of whirlwind trips to various parts of the country, with the last one being to the Coast, it was announced on Thursday that Raila had tested positive for Covid-19. The former Prime Minister is receiving treatment at The Nairobi Hospital. On Friday the President said the spread of the coronavirus has been fuelled by the huge political and social gatherings. Uhuru said the lifting or extension of the ban at the end of 30 days will depend on whether the bid by the government to break the transmission chain will have been achieved. “To secure the implementation of the order on political gatherings, public ceremonies, I hereby further direct the national government administration officers jointly with county governments enforcement officers to strictly enforce this public order regardless of social and political status of the convenors of the political gatherings,” he said. Gideon held his last public rally in Bomet county on Friday. On Saturday, he was expected to join his Sacred Alliance co-principals in Machakos county in campaigning for Wiper candidate Agnes Kavindu. Gideon, Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Moses Wetang'ula were to camp in the vast county until Tuesday when the Baringo senator was to head to Uhuru’s Kiambu county backyard for a series of events. The DP has traversed Busia county where he took his 'hustler' gospel. On Friday, Ruto announced a suspension of his political activities until further notice. The DP said the infection rates were alarming. "The Covid-19 infection rates have become a serious source of concern making it necessary for GoK to take remedial measures to manage and contain the pandemic. With the President's announcement of containment measures, I forthwith suspend all public engagement until further notice," he announced on his Twitter handle. He was due in West Pokot county on Saturday then Kirinyaga county on Sunday. From Kirinyaga, Ruto had scheduled political activities in Kilifi, Tana River, Lamu, Migori and Kericho. All these will now have to be suspended awaiting the President's next directive. At the same time, the President extended the curfew by 60 days. He announced that burials should be conducted within 72 hours of the confirmation of death and gatherings will be limited to family members, capped at 100 persons. The number also applies to weddings. “The attendees for funerals and gravesides, crematoria ceremonies shall be limited to the immediate family of the deceased, with the number capped at no more than 100 persons,” Uhuru said. “There shall continue to be strict maintenance and enforcement of public social health measures, including regular washing of hands with soap and water or use of sanitiser, physical and social distancing in all public places.” The President also directed the Health ministry to enhance border security with the third wave escalating in the country. Uhuru said the country remains at high risk of importation of new virus strains that have been circulating on the continent. He called on county governments to enhance investment in piped and portable oxygen to isolation and critical care treatment facilities for the management of severe cases. “All isolation facilities in the country must be maintained at a high state of preparedness through continued capacity and provision of adequate PPE for healthcare workers; supported by the continuous implementation of infection prevention and control measures,” Uhuru said. Edited by Sarah Kanyara