Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa has announced that he will be taking a four-month leave sabbatical leave from high octane politics. In his press briefing on Sunday, the MP reiterated that he is still in the hustler brigade but will only be out for a moment before embarking on the politics. Barasa is among the close allies to Deputy President William Ruto from the Western part of the country. “I have not left the hustler nation, but I am taking a four-month sabbatical leave from high octane politics to focus on my role as a member of Parliament for Kimilili,” Barasa said. He added that during the leave, he will prioritise the interest of the people of Kimilili, Bungoma, and the entire western residents. Barasa said he will also use his leave to consult with other leaders from the region regarding the interest of their people come 2022 general elections. “I will be doing the consultation with the view of identifying the interest of the people of Kimilili constituency, the interest of the people of Bungoma and the interest of Mulembe nation. By engaging with other leaders, we will be able to identify their interests. Where does the community want to stand in 2020 general elections?” He however made it clear that if the DP’s wing fails to accommodate the interest of Luhya people, he will have no other business with them. “I am driven by the interest of my people… I am going to have a high level of engagement with different leaders to be able to find out the interest of the community and who among the equal is better placed to advance the interest of our community moving forward.” Barasa’s move comes after the United Democratic Alliance supported by the DP lost the two by-elections in the Western region. UDA candidates lost in both Kkabuchai which was won by Ford Kenya candidate Joseph Majimbo Kalasinga after garnering 19,274 votes as UDA candidate Evans Kakai came second with 6, 455 votes. In Matungu, Musalia Mudavadi’s party ANC retained the seat after its aspirant Peter Nabulindo garnered 14, 257 votes thrashing his closest challenger, ODM’s Were who got 10, 565 votes. Mudavadi is among the people who have expressed interest for the top seat in the country come 2022.