Embattled former Sports Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa was on Tuesday released on Sh1 million cash bail and ordered to report to police every Monday for a month as they conclude investigations. Echesa was also ordered not to interfere with witnesses in a case of assault police are investigating. Kiambu Chief Magistrate Patricia Gichohi said the case will be mentioned after a month. Echesa's team rushed to process his release fearing time was not on their side and he risked being taken to remand. The magistrate had Monday ordered the detention of Echesa in police custody ahead of a ruling on whether he should be released on bail. Echesa was Monday produced before the court where police made an application seeking to detain him for seven days. His legal team led by Evans Ondiek and Cliff Ombeta opposed the application and sought that be released on bail. Investigating officer Mishack Kagera swore an affidavit saying he is investigating use of violence during election period contrary to sec 65 of election Act 2011. He said Echesa assaulted an Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission official Peter Juma Okura at Bulonga polling centre on March 4, 2021 in the just concluded Matungu by-election. “The respondent in this matter owing to his nature of use of violence is likely to cause fear, intimidation thus interfering with witnesses who are yet for interview and statement recording,” read part of the affidavit. Police argued they did not have enough time to investigate the issue and hence wanted seven days for the same. Echesa was brought to by DCI officers who are investigating the matter. The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji Saturday gave the agencies 30 days to complete investigations into the drama and submit the file to his office with recommendations. Haji said the report should capture all incidences of violence and other electoral malpractices especially in Matungu constituency within Kakamega county and London Ward in Nakuru County. Echesa who is an ally of Deputy President William Ruto was arrested on Friday after he surrendered to police in Mumias.He was booked at Kakamega police cells before he was brought to Nairobi. This, according to police, was because his supporters were planning to storm and attack the station. Before his arrest, police had been looking for Echesa for questioning over election violence experienced in Matungu. Echesa went into hiding following the assault incident that occurred at the Bulonga polling station, with police launching a search for him.Echesa slapped the IEBC officer accusing him of chasing one of their agents out of the polling station during voting. The IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati had asked police to arrest and prosecute Echesa over the issue. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna too called on police to ensure all suspects who took part in acts of violence during the by election were prosecuted. This came as interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said all firearm licenses issued to leaders involved in the chaos witnessed in Matungu, Kabuchai, Nakuru and other places will be suspended. He said the government will further seek to invoke Chapter Six of the Constitution and ensure the leaders don’t run for any elective posts.  Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala was Monday grilled by the DCI and released on bond ahead of his arraignment March 10 Wednesday over the chaos.Senator Samson Cherargei, MPs Didmus Barasa, Nelson Koech and Wilson Kogo were arrested over the chaos in Kabuchai in Bungoma County. They were charged with preparing to commit a felony.