Kwale schools are ready for the national exams starting Monday, county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri has said. KCPE candidates will sit their exams for three days starting Monday next week. On the other hand, KCSE exams will take a month from March 26 to April 21. All the candidates were supposed to sit exams at the end of last year, but the school calendar was changed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In Kwale 22, 400 KCPE candidates are expected to sit the examinations on Monday. For Form 4 candidates, more than 7,000 students are expected to sit their KCSE exams. The exams are set to start at exactly 8.30am nationwide. Candidates are supposed to be in exam rooms by 8am. Kanyiri said appropriate measures have been put in place to ensure the exams are uninterrupted. "If challenges arise, we will quickly review the situation for exams to start and end on time without making children anxious because of the inconveniences," he said. Kanyiri said enough security would be provided to prevent leakage and ensure student safety. Containers with exam materials would be opened at around 5am in all the four subcounties.  Centre managers will pick the exam papers under tight surveillance. Kanyiri said transportation won't be a problem as all institutional and ministry vehicles shall be used to ferry the exam materials and security officers. "We will mobilise vehicles from national and county government or other areas to come to our aid if they are not sufficient, " he said. Kanyiri said they have done route check-ups and familiarised themselves with exams centres to alienate any possible drawbacks in advance. He said all the subcounties education directors, deputy county commissioners, centre managers, invigilators and police officers are well prepared on how to handle the exams. "All the education stakeholders went for training in Nairobi to be briefed on the exam containers management and entire exam chain," he said. The administrator said special arrangements will be made for pregnant KCPE and KCSE candidates to enable them sit their papers  in maternity or hospitals. He warned students against indiscipline. Education CS George Magoha on Wednesday in Kwale directed that candidates should have face masks examined before proceedings to exam rooms. He said there are plans to misuse masks to cheat during exams. Magoha said Kisibani, Migori and Kisii are the hot zones of exam cheating warning the areas are under the government radar. A total of 1.9 million candidates will this year sit for the national examinations across the country.  