A woman and her daughter suspected to have stolen a three-month-old baby at Nairobi's Majengo estate were on Tuesday arrested in Bungoma, after days of being trailed from Nairobi by Busia-based detectives. The two were wanted in connection with a February 15 incident where another one-month-old infant was stolen from Marachi estate of Busia. The baby was later found in the house of the mother’s 21-year-old son in the area. According to police, in the latter incident, a 27-year-old woman had at 9am left her child sleeping at her Marachi house, proceeding to draw water from a nearby borehole. But on returning minutes later, she was shocked to find an empty warm bed, indicating that her baby had just been stolen. Attracted by the mother's despondent wails, irate members of the public cornered the young man, rescuing the baby before descending on him with kicks and blows as they escorted him to the police. Police searched the suspect’s house, confiscating a blank birth notification certificate and a payment receipt from a fictitious health facility -Comcare County Hospital. Detectives handling the case later established the woman’s daughter, who is student at the Kenya Medical Training College in Bungoma, and who is married to a health worker at a Busia hospital, had months before terminated a four-month pregnancy, but had led the husband believe he would soon be a father. With the help of her mother and younger brother, the trio had stolen the baby boy in the first instance that tripped, before embarking on yet another child theft in Majengo-Nairobi. The suspects had successfully escaped with the child to Bungoma, stepping into the detectives' snare. Police say it has been established that the mother and daughter had been putting pressure on the young girl’s husband to send money to clear her "hospital bill" after a safe delivery, thus requiring proof to convince him. The rescued child is currently under the care of the Child Protection Unit pending identification and collection by the parents. The detectives have launched investigations to establish whether a two-year-old baby girl living with daughter and her husband was indeed theirs, after her birth notification certificate from a Busia hospital also appeared suspicious. Police suspect the incident is part of a wider syndicate on child trafficking and sexual abuse and exploitation. Such incidents have been reported in the past and some have since been solved by arresting suspects involved and charging them.