Nairobi City Stars squandered a first-half 2-0 advantage to share spoils with Tusker in an exhilarating Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Utalii grounds on Saturday. Seven minutes into the match, City came knocking aggressively on the brewers' door. Skipper Anthony Kimani led the onslaught from the front, first stabbing the opener right into the back of the net in the 7th minute before splashing his moniker on the score sheet again eleven minutes later to bag a brace. Tusker should have pulled one back in the 30th minute when Jackson Macharia picked out Henry Mejja with a pinpointed pass only for City custodian Steven Njunge to smother the resultant shot away, the sides ultimately proceeding to the break at 2-0. Matano, sensing an impending defeat resorted to his bench for a remedy, bringing on Humphrey Mieno and Zakayo Eric for Hashim Sempala and Marita respectively. The change proved to be an instant shot in the arm as they began launching menacing inroads into the opponent's territory. And it wasn't long before their fruits blossomed for harvest. Kevin Monyi's 51st-minute attempt to sweep the ball away from glaring danger in the brewers' area ended up in a long clearance that flew across the field into the back of City's net, much to the chagrin of a bewildered Njunge who had been drawn out of position by the rhythm of play. Chrispinus Onyango leveled the terms for the brewers on the second bite of the cherry, pouncing on a rebound to slam home after Njunge had quashed Mejja's earlier attempt. The results leave Tusker at the summit of the log on 33 points as City Stars dislodge Gor Mahia from the eighth position on 20 points. Bandari and Wazito played out to a 2-2 draw in the second tie of the day at the same venue. February's FKF-PL player of the month, William Wadri put the dockers ahead from the spot at the stroke of halftime before Michael Owino drew the hosts' level in the 60th minute. And a few minutes later, Kenyan international Kevin Kimani netted from a setpiece a few yards from the goalmouth to put the moneybags in the driver's seat. However, before the moneybags could count their gains, Benjamin Mosha wrecked their party with a 78th-minute goal that secured the coastal lads the crucial away point. Elsewhere, AFC Leopards failed to claw Vihiga at Mumias Complex in a dull match that was settled with a barren draw. 