The Judiciary has closed Thika Environment and Land Court for 14 days after three staff contract Covid-19. In a statement on Monday, Judiciary said urgent matters will be handled in Murang'a court. "There are a total of 10 staff in this ELC court, all of whom have been identified, contacted and who must now go into self-quarantine with immediate effect," the statement read. "We wish the affected staff members the quickest recovery. We shall resume normal service delivery as soon as circumstances allow." The Judiciary said it will, in any event, give updates as soon as possible. 465 people on Sunday tested positive for the disease, out of a sample size of 5,691. The total confirmed positive cases in the country now stand at 108,827. Kenya is inoculating its health workers with the first batch of the vaccine that arrived in the country last week as part of efforts to contain the spread of the pandemic. A number of government departments keep locking offices for quarantine over surging cases of the pandemic. This comes as the Kenyan government issued a notice on countries whose residents should under mandatory quarantine upon arrival in Kenya. The notice issued by the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) stated that the requirement is effective from March 8. Director General Captain Gilbert Kibe said the 14 days quarantine is mandatory for people coming from Brunei, Czech Republic, Kuwait, Spain, Switzerland and Thailand. "Travelers from the listed states and territories shall be required to undergo mandatory quarantine upon arrival into Kenya at their own cost. This is effective from Monday, March 8, 2021," the notice read. The notice further stated that travellers shall be required to be in possession of a negative PCR-based Covid-19 test result conducted within 72 hours before travel and not display any flu-like symptoms upon arrival. "Travelers must provide evidence of their booking for the quarantine locations 24hrs before boarding," said KCAA. Kibe said the list of facilities available for quarantine can be availed from info@kmpdc.go.ke. Travellers from over 200 countries will be exempted from quarantine among them Tanzania.