A Migori court has dismissed an appeal by a domestic worker convicted of defiling a neighbour’s nine-year-old daughter who was collecting firewood. Justice Roseline Wendoh ruled he was guilty but reduced the sentence from 30 years to 25 years. Sikuku was accused of defiling nine-year-old ETG [initials] on May 18, 2018, in Uriri, Migori county. ETG told court she was looking for firewood in the thicket where she met Sikuku, who called and told her that he would give her firewood. Sikuku led her to the home where he worked through a barbed fence. He took her by the hand to the house, then to the bed. “After he finished, he took a cloth, wiped my thighs and warned me not to tell anybody or I would be beaten by my parents,” she testified. When she reached home, her father asked where she had been and she recounted what Sikuku did. She was taken to hospital. ETG told the court it was the second time tha Sikuku had raped her. Her father testified that when he returned home at 6pm, he saw his daughter coming out of Sikuku’s door and passing through the barbed wire to go home. His wife said she had gone for firewood. “I told my wife to ask ETG where she had been and I left briefly. Her mother informed me she had been defiled," he said. The father rushed to look for Sikuku and found him at the market. He told him to go to his house where ETG recounted in his presence what he had done. He was arrested. He denied committing the offence and said he had a grudge with ETG’s father for whom he had worked. He said he had failed to pay him. Sikuku also claimed the father had earlier accused him of having an affair with his wife. He also said that ETG’s father borrowed money from him and had not repaid it. A clinical officer who examined ETG found  the child had minor lacerations her private parts and cited attempted defilement. Judge Wendoh said the medical report corroborates ETG’s evidence. “It does not matter whether there was a broken hymen or not because the penetration need not have been deep or complete,” she said. She added the appellant never disclosed the nature of the grudge till his defence where he made several allegations against ETG’s father. “All these accusations were never raised during cross-examination. I am satisfied that these accusations and the alleged grudge are an afterthought and unbelievable. I dismiss them as untrue,” she ruled. (Edited by V. Graham)