Kenya’s largest digital and transit advertising firm Digital Mara and Kenya Railways have unveiled fresh branding to boost experiences for brands, advertisers, and passengers traveling on the services offered by Kenya Rail. This includes the Standard Gauge Railway and the Nairobi Commuter Rail. Digital Mara’s Operations Director Anthony Stow said that the partnership is designed to tap revenues for Kenya Railways from the digital out-of-home advertising segment which is growing by about 11 per cent globally. Digital Mara is the exclusive digital advertising concessionaire for Kenya Railways. “The rail network offers an excellent opportunity for brands. Our fresh new brand image as Digital Mara illustrates our Kenyan spirit and lends more energy to the digital advertising solution which we have been providing to Kenya Railways since 2019,” Stow said. Stow added that they are working in partnership with LG Electronics for the screens on the rail network and the one at KBC. We have also partnered with Huawei on some of the Wi-Fi solutions that we offer. While unveiling the deal at Kenrail Towers Nairobi, Stow said that recently, Digital Mara launched a free Wi-Fi service at the Kenya Railways Nairobi Central Station as part of the new phases of development that Digital Mara is undertaking. “Kenyans are world-famous for their innovation around digital solutions and we have seen demand for these solutions. Brands want to be where the people are and modern lifestyles are determined by digital solutions and data analytics. As Digital Mara, we are offering the platform that brings the modern digital experience.” Kenya Railways Acting General Manager Business and Operations Milly Omido said the organization had set ambitious goals in line with the government vision which they aim to deliver and surpass. “Why did we start this journey? Firstly, to generate revenue for Kenya Rail, but more importantly to bring life to the stations helping us to highlight alternative transport for commuters travelling across Nairobi and our growing network across Kenya,” Omido said. Digital Mara also owns the largest LED Screen in East Africa which is strategically located at the KBC grounds in Nairobi facing Uhuru Highway, one of the city’s busiest trunk roads. “We believe that our success is intertwined with that of our partners. The more commuters that use the network, the more advertisers will want to be present, and thus we will generate revenue for all stakeholders that further allows development,” Stow added.