DCI detectives have arrested a woman who brutalized and stabbed two children belonging to her employer in Nairobi. The woman, who was a house help, was arrested in a bus in Eldoret as she was trying to escape to Uganda. A statement from the DCI said the woman was found with two identity cards when she was arrested by officers who were tracking her. "Following the overwhelming public outcry over photos and video clips that went viral, depicting a young woman brutalizing minors belonging to her former employer, detectives have this afternoon arrested the perpetrator", DCI said in a statement. Police said their attention into the matter was also drawn by a video clip posted by the children's distraught mother, appealing for information that may lead to the perpetrator’s arrest. Her children; two boys aged 5 and 11, are currently admitted in hospital, in critical condition, nursing stab wounds and other injuries inflicted by the perpetrator. In a heart-wrenching appeal posted on social media, the victims’ mother flanked by her friends and well wishers appealed to anyone with information on the suspect’s whereabouts, to come forward. They made the appeal from the hospital beds, where the heavily bandaged children were recuperating and detectives immediately swung to action. "Thankfully, the blood thirsty criminal who has engaged city-based detectives in a cat and mouse game since last night, fell into our dragnet in Eldoret, as she tried to escape," DCI said. She had booked herself into Busia-bound bus, in the hope that she would sneak out of the country where she is said to have relatives. The DCI further said the perpetrator who was found in possession of two Kenyan identification cards, is accused of grossly assaulting two minors who are currently fighting for their lives at a city hospital, after she disagreed with her employer and was sacked. "Instead of taking her marching orders kindly after the sack, she stealthily crept back to her employer’s residence in her absence and assaulted her children, ostensibly to get back at her, the statement read. Police have thanked members of the public who provided crucial information leading to her arrest. " Equally, DCI thanks the Eldoret Express Bus company for cooperating with our agents who were hot on the trail of the suspect."