Lamu legislators on Tuesday dismissed rumours that Northern Kenya counties will suffer devolved revenue losses once the BBI Bill is approved in a referendum. They said some politicians are peddling lies that arid and semi-arid counties like Lamu, Wajir, Mandera and Isiolo are likely to get reduced revenue from the National Treasury. The leaders included Woman Representative Ruweida Obbo, Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama and MCAs. “I would like to dispel fears that Lamu will lose its funding once the BBI is adopted. There is a formula for all funding and Lamu, for instance, shall be getting at least Sh400 million more once the BBI is adopted,” Obbo said. They urged residents to ignore such sentiments and believe that funding for all the 47 counties will rise based on the revised formula. Article 203 states that no county will get more than three times per capita of its population. This simply means Lamu, with its population of 143,920 people based on the 2019 Population and Housing Census Report, will lose Sh1.2 billion of its current allocation. Based on that, a section of leaders feels the BBI would work to the disadvantage of less-populated counties. Since the devolved system of government came into place in 2013, Lamu has continued to receive the least allocation compared to other counties based on its population. Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama urged the region’s youth to support the BBI as it promises tax breaks for those starting businesses. He said the increment of county funding from a minimum of 15 per cent to 35 per cent is a clear indication that the BBI is development-oriented. “The BBI will set up a youth commission among many other goodies. Let no one deceive you otherwise lest you miss out on all these,” Muthama said. County assembly Majority leader Abdallah Baabad said the BBI will empower MCAs to engage more in development through the Ward Development Fund. “MCAs will no longer have to beg from governors to undertake development, ” Baabad said. Lamu MCAs unanimously voted to approve the BBI.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris