Kenya Breweries Limited will cater for the needs of local and regional golfers  during this year’s Magical Kenya Open Golf Championship and Kenya Savannah Classic. KBL Managing Director John Musunga also announced an additional Sh100,000 for local players who will make the cut after the first two rounds of the two European Tour events. “As part of this sponsorship, we will have a hole-in-one prize for the first player to hole-out-in-one at the par-3, 16th tournament hole across both events, with the winners taking home our rarest, finest and most beloved Johnnie Walker brands. I wish all golfers the very best as they try their luck in achieving this rare feat,” said Musunga. In conformity with strict European Tour Covid-19 protocols, all players are required to stay in a  health and safety bubble during the two events. Musunga further announced KBL will offer a hole-in-one prize for the first player who will hole-out-in-one at the par-3, 16th hole across both tournaments. “The stature of the Magical Kenya Open, on the global stage, continues to grow, gaining prominence and becoming entrenched as an integral part of the annual European Tour calendar. In the process, it continues to mirror KBL’s goals and objectives, making it a natural partnership platform for us over the years,” he said. He was speaking on Wednesday morning at Uhuru Park when he presented a Sh43 million cheque to Kenya Open Golf Limited  in preparation for the two elite events. The Kenya Open is slated for March 18-21 at the Karen Country Club whereas the Kenya Savannah Classic will be held on  March 23-26 at the same venue. KBL,through its premium spirits brand Johnnie Walker, will be the Presenting Partner for the Kenya Open and the official alcoholic and beverage sponsor for the Savannah Classic. KOGL Director Francis Okwara lauded KBL for supporting the tournament under the difficult circumstances occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are grateful to KBL for its partnership renewal for the 2021 Magical Kenya Open. This speaks to the brand’s continued commitment to the growth and development of golf and sports in general in the country. We are pleased that KBL has continued to stand by us, even now, under tough Covid-19 restrictions and circumstances,” Okwara said. As both events will be closed to spectators, KBL plans to have activations at Sigona, Vet Lab and Muthaiga Golf Clubs, allowing enthusiasts to follow the action live on TV. The events will be broadcast to over 490 million homes and to millions of households locally on free-to-air television. The Kenya Open has attracted over 156 players from over 30 countries including 12 Kenyan pros and a player each from Nigeria, Uganda and Zimbabwe.