After turning a new page following a string of daunting back-to-back losses, Portuguese tactician Vaz Pinto has dedicated their triumph to their success hungry fans, saying they deserved a chance to celebrate after a series of heartbreaks. Pinto guided his charges to an emphatic 3-1 win over Bidco United at Moi Stadium Kasarani on Monday, a superb performance just enough to appease their fans. "I'm proud of our players who gave 200 per cent in the match. I wish to dedicate this one to our fans who have stuck with us this season through thick and thin," said a visibly elated Pinto. And while he took to the podium to cock the champagne, his opponent Anthony Akhulia was mourning his loss and none other could have come at the end of his wrath than his goalkeeper Omar Adisa, who conceded three goals in the match. "Adisa simply wasn't himself today. I'm disappointed with his performance. We have not focused as a team. Nothing worked for us. It's hard to explain how our  opponents even managed to net those goals," said Akhulia. It was a new dawn for K'Ogalo as they opened  up a new chapter with an emphatic win after a bit of restructuring that witnessed the departure of goalkeeper trainer Willis Ochieng and a change in captaincy. Bidco had a perfect opportunity to fry the champions but it simply wasn't their day, instead choosing to squander a one goal advantage in the first half. The Thika-based side looked promising in the initial minutes as Peter Anyona, Eric Gichimu and Zachary Gathu proved to be a thorn in the flesh of K'Ogalo's defence, wrecking havoc at will and relentlessly prodding for an opener. Their effort should have been rewarded early in the match but Harun Shakava and Andrew Juma dug in as Gad Mathews stood his ground to fend off a consecutive flood of menacing inroads. Collins Kalama and Francis Oduor hardly had time to take a nap on the other end of the pitch, as Clifton Miheso and Brazilian Wison Silva made their presence felt. And it wasn't long before Bidco sent their fans squealing ecstatically in the 11th minute when Peter Nzuki soared high to nod in a finely delivered Anyona corner. Clifton Miheso levelled the terms for the visitors from a precisely taken set piece. Gor appeared deflated for a while after the goal but it wasn't long before they picked themselves up to put their act together again. An abrasive onslaught initiated from a buildup on the counter yielded an instant set piece. Clifton Miheso had some 20 yards between him and Adisa which he gladly capitalised on, his rasping shot going past the wall and before leaving Adisa dazed. Then in the 59th minute, Wilson Silva stumbled on a glaring opportunity to clinch his second of the season and a second for K'Ogalo when he pounced on an enticing ball to flicker in cheekily with Adisa again totally beaten. With only six minutes of play left, Kenneth Muguna hammered the final nail into Bidco's casket after coming on the end of Abdoul Karim's pass to seal the much needed win for the reigning champions. The result propels Gor to seventh on the log on 22 points as Bidco slip down to eighth on 21.