The young women and men huddle around a borehole with dozens of yellow jerrycans waiting to be filled. It is the only water source for nearly 20 kilometres. Most of the people here woke up at the crack of dawn to reach Lapur in Turkana North for water. The sun is shining hot and the dust stretches to the horizons. Goats, sheep, cows and donkeys wait for the little the women and men get from the borehole. Esther Ekai, 34, a resident of Morutita is among those who walked to get to this borehole for water. “We have gathered here for the struggle of water. We trek about 20km in search of water for domestic use and for our livestock,” she says. It was not like this before the drought came, she says. People now camp at the borehole day and night to get water to quench their thirst and for their animals. Turkana authorities estimate that about 640,000 people are facing starvation as drought ravages most parts of the county. Turkana has not received rain since August last year. Deputy Governor Peter Lotethiro said the entire county is affected by drought and people are starving in most places. “The drought situation in Turkana is gradually getting worse. The hardest hit areas include Turkana North, Kibish, Turkana West, Turkana East, Turkana Central and Loima,” he said.  A report by the National Drought Management Authority shows the county is facing an emergency situation. Jacob Pangasi, a resident of Liwani said they have experienced drought over the years but the situation is like nothing he has seen before. “The carcasses of cows, goats, sheep and donkeys are scattered. Water sources and grazing fields have dried up. People and livestock are at risk. We are staring at drought and hunger,” Pangasi said. The Star visited several villages in Turkana North and found that most springs and boreholes that pastoralists depend on have dried up. “For decades, we have been depending on Liwani Dam built by the Catholic Mission. Now it has dried up. Our cattle are dying. Cows, goats, sheep and donkey are emaciated due to devastating drought,” Pangasi said. Liwani chief Philip Ekamaisi said pastoralists are losing their cattle to the scarcity of water sources and pasture. “Pastoralists have lost about 45,000 to 50,000 cattle and the worst will happen if the situation is not addressed immediately,” he said. Ekamaisi called on the county government and humanitarian agencies to provide water and relief food to address the situation. “Our people depend on livestock to support their livelihoods. If the livestock are being killed by the devastating drought then lives are at risk. We are struggling to get clean water to drink and for our livestock,” he said. Last week, Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok appealed to the Ministry of Devolution and ASALs, to help feed thousands of people at risk of starvation. He asked for relief food distribution and water provision for both people and livestock. Nanok also asked the government to provide livestock feeds and to vaccinate and treat the animals. "I call upon the Ministry of Devolution through deputy county commissioners to also request for adequate food for the families affected by the drought,” he said. James Ejore, a resident of Kibish near the border with South Sudan and Ethiopia said they are living on hope that help will come. “The carcasses of cows, goats, donkeys and sheep are scattered all over. The grazing fields and water sources have dried up,” he said. The Turkana administration has called on stakeholders in the water sector to collaborate to cushion residents from the effects of the drought. Nanok said a joint response and better preparedness would help support vulnerable communities. "The water table has gone down, boreholes have either dried or are overstretched and the health condition of livestock has deteriorated. We have to find ways to leverage resources to solve the crisis," he said. Lotethiro last week flagged off relief food for 11,000 families affected by drought and hunger. He said the new cycle of relief food distribution is part of a plan by aid residents from hunger amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The county government through the Covid-19 fund has procured 70,000 bags of white maize, 6,500 bags of rice, 16,000 bags of beans and 15,000 cans of cooking oil which will cover 11,000 households estimated at a population of 640,366 in the entire county,” Lotethiro said. Disaster management chief officer Esther Ikaru said the relief food was 4,925 metric tonnes worth Sh419 million. Ikaru said the food dispatches will prioritise Kibish, Turkana North and East subcounties worst hit by the dry season. The remaining areas will be served later. Governor Nanok said with support from development partners, they will address the needs of the community. “In Lokitoe Angaberu village in Turkana North, Sh3.2 million is being spent to construct a pipeline to locals and nearby school thereby reducing distance the locals cover in search of the commodity," Nanok said. He said that with support from development partners, the county government has established a Sh15 million water project at Lowareng'ak centre. Nanok said that the county will invest in water trucking to ensure remote villages have access to the commodity.  (edited by o. owino)