Nairobi has failed to meet its revenue targets since 2014, with its performance on a downward spiral. In the Financial Year 2015-16, City Hall achieved its highest collection of Sh11.7 billion with the lowest at Sh8.5 billion which was half of the targeted Sh17.31 billion in FY 2019-20. However, this is expected to change as City Hall has developed a Geographic Information System mapping to enhance its  revenue collection and services offered to residents. County Executive for Lands and Urban Planning Charles Kerich said the system had already been set and is expected to be integrated with key sectors and revenue systems before it goes live. The GIS is a system designed to capture, store, manipulate, analyse, manage, and present all types of geographical data. Kerich explained that as a planning tool, when active, the GIS mapping will start integrating the county’s topmost services like revenue collection. “At the moment, the GIS is still computer-based and needs to be linked with data from various sectors at the County government. Once it goes live, parking, business permits, rates among other revenue streams will take precedence,” he said. With the GIS system, it will be easier for the county to access information when digitised rather than the physical data. According to Kerich, the system has already been developed but was not integrated due to lack of funds. “At the moment, the data exists on physical paper maps but that is not a good decision-making tool since you have to go through all the files,” he said. However, according to the County Annual Development Plan (CADP) 2021-2022, Sh10 million has been set aside for the GIS system to be integrated and go live Once that is achieved, the public will also be able to access the system and get the information they require about Nairobi. Vihiga and Mombasa counties are already using the  GIS  system. How GIS works The County offers services that are not revenue-generating but crucial with their data important and will be part of the system. With the GIS system, the Education department will have it easy to locate and identify all primary schools in Nairobi that don’t have Early Childhood Development Education centres. “If the GIS reveals that there are only 30 per cent of schools that don’t have ECDEs,  this kind of information can help the department in planning especially with the budget,” Kerich said. For the Health sector, the system will help in revealing data on how many residents visit the topmost hospitals like Pumwani and Mbagathi and which areas of the city they come from. "For example If the data reveals that many people going to Mama Lucy are from Mukuru then this can help the health sector make plans on how they can set up a health centre in Mukuru to decongest and improve services,” he noted. With the Kenya Revenue Authority being in charge of revenue collection, the GIS system will be linked to them and will assist to identify and tracks defaulters. “In Nairobi, people do not pay their rent and this is why the county offers rent waivers yearly on penalties, But with the system, it will be easier to make enforcement and we will come to your house after tracking you down,” Kerich explained. The system will also be able to identify all the Single Business Permit in Nairobi and identify those who have paid and the defaulters. It can also be used in enhancing revenue from outdoor advertising by mapping each and every billboard in the county and know where they are situated to allow for smart billing. “The GIS when you click on, for example World Business Centre, it will help us know how many businesses are in that place, those who have paid and those who haven’t. One can click on a piece of property and know whether the rates have been paid or not,” Kerich noted. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 