The once grim faces of Kenyan soccer fans are breaking into smiles for the first time after several years of countless heartbreaks. And let's hope the splendid performance exhibited by the men's national football team, Harambee Stars won't just be a temporal reprieve from the previous heart wrenching pains. Hats off to the Kenyan lads for making the nation proud after collecting two consecutive wins in international friendlies against South Sudan whom they beat 1-0 and Tanzania whom they edged 2-1. We hope the trend continues. To this end, coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee charges are holding out a new glimmer of hope to a nation that has been acclimatised to an endless string of poor performance on the international stage. The team is also gradually reinforcing the belief that the country can rest heavy responsibility squarely on the shoulders of local-based players and we don't necessarily always have to sink into the arms of players plying trade in the foreign leagues to conquer the world. Most importantly, Mulee is ultimately giving budding footballers a chance to blossom on the international stage. The young squad mainly comprise players in their early twenties, most of whom should be featuring for the U-23 national team. As much as the tactician lashed out at his squad members for buckling under the overwhelming weight of stage fright, most of them put up a convincing performance despite this being their maiden senior duty for the nation. As a country, we need to draw some important lessons from the national team's success in their last two matches. First, there is an urgent need to establish proper structures for youth development at the grassroots. Football Kenya Federation is already gaining ground in this area having already set up two centres of national excellence at St. Anthony's Kitale and St. Peters Mumias. The country is teeming with vast talent in football and, hopefully, the centres will tap into them. However, much more should be done to ensure the centres don't end up serving the interests of the privileged members of the society. The federation and those entrusted with the concept should hit the road running at once and rummage through for excellence in every part of the country. Besides, there is need to open the doors for a new crop of players to grow and develop at the international stage. We should rid ourselves of the age-old habit of recycling players who have already clocked their sunset years in football at the expense of vibrant youngsters who deserve opportunities to carve a niche in the sport. That's exactly the path former Harambee Stars coach the late Reinhardt Fabisch took with much success, when he assembled a youthful outfit of nondescripts who went on to stun the world. We can only hope at this juncture that our boys will rise to the occasion in the last two African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Togo and Egypt later in the month. 