@ppcheti Lamu's once-pristine beaches and the ocean are befouled with garbage and tourists stay away. Residents of Lamu county say they have no dumpsters or alternate dumpsites and have no choice but to pollute beaches and the ocean, though it's a health risk. Plastic bottles, food containers, sandals, old clothes, general household rubbish, fishing nets and damaged boats have piled up. The worst-affected are the seafront villages of Matondoni, Kipungani, Wiyoni, Kizingitini, Kiwayu and Kiunga, both in Lamu East and West. Residents are appealing to the county government to establish proper places to deposit garbage and save Lamu's reputation and its tourist revenue. Matondoni village elder Sharif Shee said the garbage poses a health risk, attracts flies, endangers marine life and hurts fishing. “We can’t fathom how hard it is for the county to build dumpsters for us. Currently, we have no option but to throw our waste in the ocean until they build us an alternative," Shee said. Kipungani village leader Athman Habibi said the community doesn't understand the need for proper solid waste management and infrastructure is lacking. “People dump household and garden waste in the ocean. We know it’s wrong but we can't stop them unless we show them where else to dump it," he said. Lamu environmental activist Mohamed Athman said the situation has discouraged tourists who are now frequenting cleaner Coast towns such as Watamu. “The number of tourists in recent times has been dwindling and it's partially because of the beaches. It's disgusting and we can't blame them," he said. Lamu county public health officer Athman Dumila admitted some areas lack waste disposal facilities. “We are aware of the problem. We have written several proposals to the Lamu Municipality which is directly in charge of garbage collection, particularly in Matondoni and Lamu town. It’s unfortunate that nothing has so far materialised,” Dumila said. Lamu municipality manager Oamar Famau said cash is allocated in the 2021-22 county budget to construct several dumpsites in Matondoni, Kipungani and other areas. He urged residents to avoid dumping waste in the ocean as they wait for proper structures to be put up. “It is everyone’s responsibility to keep Lamu clean. Yes, the county has a duty to put up infrastructure but we each have personal responsibility and choice of how best to dispose of our waste,” Fahamu said. (Edited by V. Graham)