Siaya chief Joseph Ojala who claims to have been assaulted two months ago by goons linked to Alego-Usonga MP Samuel Atandi is demanding justice. Ojala is accusing the police of dragging the matter by failing to nab those who accosted him. Speaking to the Star on Sunday, he said those who assaulted him were keen to frustrate the case and deny him justice. Ojala accused the legislator and his bodyguards of beating him. But Atandi has denied attacking the administrator. He was admitted to Siaya Medical Centre for two days and later referred to Pesii Medical Centre in Busia where he remained hospitalised for a week. “I suffered injuries on my right leg, both knees and ankles. I also broke my right arm and up to now I am still receiving treatment at home,” he said. Ojala said the MP claimed that he had incited youths to heckle him at a previous function held at Una Primary School, South East Alego. According to the administrator, he was from Siaya town where he had gone to run some personal errands when he was accosted. The incident happened on January 20. “Just before the first gate to my home, I saw four vehicles parked so I proceeded to the house but before I could go a few meters, I saw about 15 people coming towards me. Among them was the MP,” he said. The chief said the group then greeted him and inquired if his wife was around. “I said she was around and asked him to get inside but he turned me down. He then asked me to accompany him to his function at the school, ” Ojala said. He said the MP asked him to ride in his car to the function but he declined and insisted to use his own car. “I felt something was not right and changed my mind about accompanying him to the function but it did not augur well with him,” Ojala said. “He grabbed me and ordered the people he was with to take me to the car,” the chief said. He said one of the security men tried to push him forcefully inside the car as the MP watched. The chief said with the help of his sons who were from school and the screaming of some students, he overpowered the group. He later reported the matter to the police at Siaya police station and was issued with OB. No.11/20/01/2021. The chief alongside seven other witnesses recorded statements with the DCI detectives in Siaya town. On Sunday, the MP dismissed the claims which he linked to politics. “The chief is being used to soil my reputation for political reasons,” he said. Atandi said he was not above the law and if investigations found him culpable then he would have been arrested. “I am the accused on this matter. Let the investigators do their work so that we get the truth, ” he said. Siaya county police commander Francis Kooli said the case was active and the file had been forwarded to the office of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions for action. He said that the matter was probed by detectives from DCI saying the chief and the MP recorded statements over the incident. “The file was forwarded to the DPP but there were gaps which the prosecutor wanted to be fixed. This was done and we are waiting for the recommendation so that we can take action,” he said. Kooli said if the DPP recommend that those mentioned by the chief be charged, then arrests will be made immediately. The MP had also made a report at Kogelo Police post claiming he was roughed on the day the chief was assaulted. “He also had recorded a statement with us, claiming that he had been offended,” Kooli said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris