Jomo Kenyatta International Airport and Moi International Airport, Mombasa, have bagged the coveted Best Airport Size and Region award by the Airports Council International. ACI - the voice of world airports, handed the two airports the prize for their excellence in customer service. Nairobi’s JKIA won the 2020 Best Airport by Size and Region in the 5 - 15 million passengers per year in Africa. MIA won the 2020 Best Airport by Size and Region under 2 million passenger per year in Africa in ACI’s Airport Service Quality (ASQ) Survey. Kenya Airports Authority acting Managing Director Alex Gitari said the recognition was timely. He cited major rehabilitation works at KKIA and MIA which are geared to further improve on customer experience. “Winning these awards is a reaffirmation of our commitment to providing our customers with a stress-free travel experience,” he said in a statement by KAA on Monday. “We are truly excited and encouraged by these prestigious awards which herald a new horizon in our customer satisfaction journey across our airports,” the KAA acting managing director said. KAA is also undertaking renovations at JKIA’s Terminal 1B and C to improve passenger experience. ASQ conducts customer experience measurement and benchmarking, capturing passengers’ experience at all airport contact points at more than 300 airports worldwide. ACI World Director General Luis Felipe de Oliveira congratulated Kenya Airports Authority (KAA) for its efforts in improving customer experience. “I congratulate KAA on the success in the Airport Service Quality Awards which represent the highest possible accolade for airport operators around the world on customer experience.” “During this most difficult and challenging of years, customers have spoken and recognized the successful efforts of the team at KAA in providing a superior customer experience under trying circumstances,”  Felipe de Oliveira said. The ACI Awards for JKIA and MIA followed after a recent recognition of the two airports under ACI World’s Voice of Customer Initiative. 