The national government is negotiating with Djibouti to accept miraa from Kenya. Trade CS Betty Maina and her CAS David Osiany noted that the government was aware of the farmers suffering. They spoke at the Kenya Methodist University in Meru last week during the launch of Meru County micro and small enterprises post-Covid-19 recovery strategy. Mikinduri-based miraa trader and farmer Joseph Mwiru told the Star many farmers are suffering and cannot pay school fees for their children. Mwiru said his vehicles, which used to transport miraa, are idle and the drivers jobless. He accused Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi of doing little compared to CS Peter Munya when he was Meru governor. “Some can’t pay rent. During Kiraitu’s tenure we have suffered irredeemably. Munya was brave enough to sneak to Somaliland as a governor and sought some markets there. What has Kiraitu done?" He said. He added: "I appeal to MPs Kubai Iringo (Igembe Central), John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), John Mutunga (Tigania West), Rindikiri Mugambi (Buuri) and Senator Mithika Linturi to rally behind farmers, stop money hand outs and unproductive defense of DP William Ruto and knock President Uhuru Kenyatta's doors for his interventions?” Somalia halted the importation of khat when international flights were suspended in March last year to stop the spread of Covid-19. In August, Mogadishu allowed the resumption of flights with the exception of those carrying miraa from Kenya. However, Ethiopian khat was permitted. Talks to lift the ban have been hampered by deteriorating relations between Kenya and Somalia that have seen Mogadishu cut diplomatic ties with Nairobi, accusing it of interference, claims Kenyan authorities have denied. Maina said government will seek value addition to the stimulant. Kiraitu called on the CS to help experts willing to make miraa byproducts get permits from Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS). “The by-products will add value addition for miraa so that besides chewing of leaves, consumers can enjoy other by-products like white and red wine, yoghurt, juice and sweets. Closure of the Europe and Somalia Market has left miraa farmers hopeless since most of them have depended on this crop for many years,” Kiraitu said. He called on the government to swiftly seek a lasting solution to miraa market uncertainties. Two months ago, Somalia’s finance minister Dr Abdirahman Dualeh Beileh is said to have dashed hopes of restoring miraa trade between its traders and Kenyan farmers after recanting a statement he had made, saying it had been misunderstood. Osiany said the government is seeking alternative markets for miraa farmers that will replace the banned market incase Kenya and Somalia fail to reach an agreement. “We are negotiating with Djibouti so that in case the market you are used to fails we can have new markets,” Osiany said.