The security situation in most Rift counties is deteriorating and the President should urgently restructure agencies working in the region, the church has said. National Council of Churches of Kenya South Rift chairperson Ernest Ng'eno said the move would ensure all residents are treated fairly and equitably by the law enforcers. Addressing the media after a meeting at Jumuiya Guest House in Nakuru on Monday, Ng'eno asked the government to partner with the religious institutions to initiate ethnic dialogue and end the cycles of violence. He observed that insecurity was spiraling out of control in Nakuru, Kericho, Bomet, Baringo, Narok and Samburu. Ng'eno said the insecurity was being fanned by high numbers of out-of-school and poor youths, made worse by lethargic and partisan law enforcement. “Citizen who were children when their parents were evicted from their homes whether due to politically instigated ethnic clashes or by the government to protect water towers are now youths and young parents who are disoriented and socially disadvantaged,” he said. Ng’eno said many youths were resorting to crime to meet their needs with a large section of them suffering high levels of marital and family break-ups. “This situation is a ticking time bomb that might result in widespread violence breakout if it is not addressed with urgency in a consultative and comprehensive manner,” he said. The NCCK branch members urged the government to take firm and punitive actions against politicians and any other person who incite or organise violence. In the recommendations read by Ng’eno, the members said families displaced from their homes in the past three decades and were still living in IDP camps should be resettled on alternative government land. “The government should partner with development agencies and churches to drive effective empowerment of women and youth,” Ng’eno read. About the 2022 General Election, he said the country was not prepared for the process claiming that the shortfalls experienced in the 2022 polls and previous ones remain. He called for urgent measure to ensure that the country was ready, including appointment of IEBC commissioners and enhancement of its secretariat. Ng’eno urged politicians to stop using foul language and entrenching toxic politics because it was entrenching a bad culture and teaching children that it was okay to insult others, spew lies and malign the character of competitors. “We strongly recommend all Kenyans to reject any politician who engages in foul language or violence,” said the clergyman. He at the same time asked the government to allow the public adequate time and opportunity to read and understand the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2021. “All Kenyans should deliberately seek opportunities to read and understand the Bill in order to make informed choices during the Building Bridges Initiative referendum,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori