The Akorino church will plant one million indigenous trees by June 20 to mark the centenary of the group's founding. The trees will be planted in 20 counties where the church has adherents. Akorino was founded in 1921. They are marking the anniversary under the theme, ‘Upholding our heritage, inspiring the future'. Secretary general Prince Macharia said  there could be no other fulfilling way of giving back to the community during their celebratory season than planting trees. “Our forefathers worshipped under trees. Even though they later built worship structures from 1927, the first three structures were burned down by the colonialists, a situation that prompted them to retreat back to the  trees,” he said. “So there is a special bond between our church and the environment”. Speaking in Gacatha grounds in Gichugu, Kirinyaga county, Macharia said the tree planting exercise is also an inspirational programme to increase Kenya’s  forest cover to benefit future generations. “We want to be part of the groups that will contribute immensely to the government's projected 10 per cent forest cover by 2022.We are committed to play our part and to fulfil our pledge,” he said. He said they are hoping President Uhuru Kenyatta will plant the one millionth tree on June 20, the day they will have their national celebrations to mark 100 years of existence. In Kirinyaga county, the  over 2,000 believers have been given a target of 100,000 tree seedlings that will be provided by different stakeholders . Macharia said in June they will also be rolling out a planting exercise in 1,000 schools across the country, hoping to plant a million trees within a day. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho who was present at the event hailed their move, saying the government will accord them total support towards achieving their target. The PS said their ambition was in tandem with the national government agenda of preserving the environment. He said government departments have a target to plant a given number of trees. “Deforestation has contributed to drying up of rivers. An example is the Mara River which dried up after Mau Forest was encroached. However, we are glad that the river has started to flow again after those who had inhabited the forest were kicked out.” Kibicho promised the group the government will continue working with them by incorporating them in its projects. He said that during the upcoming Madaraka Day celebrations, the indigenous churches will have a representative to conduct prayers at the national event “I agree we have sidelined the indigenous churches from partaking in national events but I want to assure you we will work with you. June 1 we promise to have your representative conduct prayers at the main event.” Edwin Kipkut, the county deputy ecosystem conservator, noted Kenya has 7.6 per cent forest cover against the projected 10 per cent. County commissioner Jim Njoka said his department will increase the forest cover by planting an extra  8,000 tree seedlings. Edited by Henry Makori