Nakuru county has admitted that getting appropriate land for a dumpsite has become near impossible due to lack of willing sellers or suitable location. With the Naivasha dumpsite already filled up and turning into a nuisance, the county has turned to large landowners on the Nakuru-Naivasha highway to address the crisis. The dumpsite will also be used to dispose of tonnes of asbestos materials from various houses and government facilities in the county. Environment chief officer Muriithi Kiogora said efforts by the county to procure land for a dumpsite has been a major challenge. Kiogora said they had engaged several landowners in Naivasha and Nakuru with a view to acquiring 20 acres for the dumpsite. “Once we get this, it will be used to sort out and process organic waste and deal with asbestos materials as advised by Nema,” he said. The senior officer attributed the current garbage crisis in the county to a rise in population and failure to sort out waste at the point of disposal. “We are working with partners to make sure organic waste is sorted at the point of entry and later processed into fertiliser and biogas,” he said. On the Naivasha dumpsite, he admitted that there were no immediate plans to relocate it due to lack of land within the town. He said immediate plans around the site included fencing the dumpsite to prevent waste spilling into residential areas. Lakeview MCA Simon Wanyoike said the dumpsite had been neglected for years, leading to the current crisis. He said feeder roads within the site were clogged with waste, making it impossible for traders to access it. “As a result, all the waste from Naivasha town has been dumped in nearby farms leading to a major environmental crisis,” he said. Wanyoike said tens of wildlife from the nearby KWS training institute had died in the last six months while seeking pastures within the area. “Our biggest fear is that the waste could find its way to Lake Naivasha following the ongoing rains that have hit Naivasha and its environs,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 