Kenyans travelling by road are recklessly disposing of used plastic bottles and polluting the environment. A spot check by the Star along Nairobi-Nakuru highway showed indiscriminate disposal of plastic bottles. On Monday, National Environment Management Authority director general Mamo Mamo told the Star by phone that they will engage Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai for enforcement. “The producers of plastics are supposed to manage them under the extended producer responsibility,” Mamo said. He said his office will also take up the matter with the Kenya Association of Manufacturers. On February 14, Nema urged KAM to help create public awareness on plastic bottles. On June 5, 2019, Kenya banned single-use plastics in beaches, national parks, forests, and conservation areas. The ban prohibits visitors from carrying plastic water bottles, cups, disposable plates, cutlery, and straws into national parks, forests, beaches, and conservation areas. On May 17, 2018, KAM, Ministry of Environment and Nema announced a cooperation agreement towards holistic management of Polyethylene terephthalate or PET bottles in the country. The industry committed to initiate eco-friendly strategies and develop comprehensive recycling schemes guided by circular economy principles. The aim of the partnership is geared towards the promotion of a clean, healthy and secure environment within the framework of the Green Economy Strategy. Mamo said KAM needs to up their game. "We need tangible evidence of implementation of the framework of collaboration," he said. The director general said KAM needs to do better in terms of awareness creation for behavioural change in the public. KAM reports to Nema and the ministry quarterly on the activities they have undertaken. They report on clean-ups, installation of segregation bins in supermarkets and establishments like malls. Mamo said reports from KAM on the implementation of the framework were being reviewed. He said KAM needs to instal more segregation waste bins in establishments like malls, supermarkets, and other areas with a lot of plastics, especially PETs. "We had also asked KAM members to implement extended producer responsibility through the take-back scheme to ensure that we do not get their products in the environment," Mamo said. He said the authority will take action if KAM fails to implement a take-back scheme under the extended responsibility. "We are encouraging them to work closely with youths so that as youth collect these PETs, they can be linked to recyclers to create jobs for them," he said. On Monday, KAM boss Phyllis Wakiaga told the Star that the enforcement of the cooperation agreement involved several actors as waste is a devolved function. "It is about individual responsibility. It is our own personal behaviour," she said. Globally, plastics production increased from two million metric tonnes in 1950 to 381 million metric tonnes in 2015. Cumulatively, the world had produced 7.8 billion metric tonnes of plastics by 2015 