Judging from his humble demeanour and gentleness, it was not easy to tell that Joseph Boro Ng’era was rich, owning huge tracts of land in Elementaita, Nakuru town and Njoro among many other places in Nakuru. Many of the people who spoke during his final journey on Monday described him as a great leader, teacher, peacemaker and a philanthropist. Catholic Diocese of Nakuru Bishop Maurice Muhatia described him as a “notoriously generous man.” Extended family members, friends, neighbours and the Catholic Church spoke of his generosity, his love for education and his passion to ensure affordable healthcare for all. It is for this reason that Ng’era donated a 42-acre land to the Catholic Church through Fr William Fryda to establish the multi-billion shillings St Mary’s Hospital along the Nakuru- Nairobi Highway in Elementaita. The man who was born from a poor family in Elementaita 78-years-ago and wanted to uplift the area, was willing to donate another land for the construction of Regina Pacis University a move that would have seen the expansion of St Mary’s Hospital into a teaching and referral facility. His dream for St Mary’s Gilgil was temporarily halted as an ownership wrangle  between Fr. Fryda and the Assumption Sisters of Nairobi emerged, occasioning a protracted court battle that lasted more than a decade. Un-shaken and in his quest for justice and fairness, Ng’era hived another land and gave it to Fr. Fryda after he lost the case to ASN where he established St Joseph Hospital right next to St Mary’s. As if that was not enough, he gave out another three acres of land in the same area for the construction of a retirement home for retired priests. Eulogising him on Monday during a requiem mass at the Christ the King Cathedral in Nakuru town, Bishop Muhatia described Ng’era, a former altar boy and catechist, as a man who had a special bond with the clergy. “He led by example, lived like a commoner yet he belonged with the high and mighty and brought peace whenever there were disagreements,” said Muhatia. Among the greatest landmarks that he will be remembered for are the Nakuru Supa Duka Meats Limited which sold meat and milk since the late 1970s to his last days before he was taken ill slightly more than a month ago. In the late 1970s, he became the first person to build four and three bedroom, own compound rental houses at Ng'era Estate along Kanu Street. He  started his career as the chief executive officer of Uplands Bacons factory and he saw it grow in leaps and bounds, opening ranches in many parts of the country including Baringo and Western. His brother Dominic Ng’era said the deceased used to say he did not have any property because it all belonged to God. “True to his words, the farmer who owns the famous Ng’era Dairy Farm in Njoro donated his palatial home to nuns when he constructed his new residence,” said Dominic. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said his acts of philanthropy and peace making left an indelible mark in the lives of many people. His children described Ng’era as a loving father who always wanted the best for all of them. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia said Ng’era played a major role in the capital formation of Kenya making it a leader in the East and Central Africa. He said Ng’era played a major role in his growth and education and attributed his success to the deceased. Kimemia added that the late also helped restore peace in Nakuru during the 2007/2008 Post Election Violence and ensured that there was no massive destruction in the cosmopolitan town. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara