The order to halt face-to-face learning in universities has rocked the slowly stabilising situation in universities with students hardest hit. Some university students have been caught up in examinations or about to begin one,forcing the individual universities to look for alternatives. In Multimedia University, the order came to force while a section of students were sitting their end of semester examination. This includes students in the Communication, Engineering and Business faculties. “The institution has promised to provide us with a special pass after completing their exams to travel back home,” one of the students told the Star. Another lot was set to begin their examination on Wednesday but are now left uncertain of what will become of the exercise. Kenyatta University on March 22 wrote to its students notifying them the reopening for face-to-face learning will commence for those in Year 2 and 3. Those who had reported, have been forced to return less than a week after reporting after the university announced the suspension of physical learning. The directive has also thrown the institutions back to the drawing board pushing the revival of online learning. At Zetech University, the students have been instructed to switch online where they will take their examinations due to begin this week. The Catholic University of Eastern Africa announced it has suspended teaching and learning in a notice dated March 26, but directed that examinations and teaching be conducted online. With the reopening of the institutions in January, the institutions adopted a hybrid model that involved online and face-to-face classes. Laikipia University went ahead to shut the university main and satellite campuses soon after the directive was announced on Friday. “Students are advised to leave the University as soon as possible. Students who come from or passes through the following counties; Nairobi, Nakuru, Machakos, Kajiado and Kiambu, are advised to adhere to the 12 midnight Presidential directive on cessation of movement,” the notice reads. Kabarak University has asked its students to switch online but can still occupy the hostels within the university premises. KCA in a letter to its faculty and students notes that the University Senate on March 28 resolved to halt face to face learning. Those affected would take virtual classes. The university further says examinations set for the face to face cohort would be taken online. However, the final Semester examination for first-year students has been postponed. “Examination for first years which were scheduled to take place on March 29 have been postponed to April 1 onwards,” The university also said it would communicate information on the next semester; begins May. The students have also been asked to liaise with the dean of students to get subsidised bundles for attending the online classes.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris