The implementation of the Tea Act 2020 has been hit by a new setback after the Bomet county government filed a petition seek nullification of some of its sections. Under a certificte of urgency, Governor Hillary Barchok wants Section 32(4) of the Tea Act, 2020 declared invalid saying it was vague and ambiguous. Barchok also wants Sections 5(j), (L), 32, 34, 36, 48, and 53 of the Act nullified saying it was unconstitutional. In the petition filed before Bomet High Court Judge Roselyn Korir, the governor who says he is doing so on behalf of the tea farmers, argues that the Tea Act infringes on the devolved functions if implemented as it is. He particularly cites the section where direct sales has been banned noting with the existing deal with Iran, the county stands to lose. The inter-partes hearing has been set for March 11. Speaking after filing the petition, Barchok who was in the company of his deputy Shadrack Rotich and legal adviser Geoffrey Kipngetich, said a memorandum of understanding between Iran and Bomet entered last year on direct sale of tea was on its final stages where farmers were set to reap big but had been hampered by the laws. “We have reached an agreement with Iran to sell local tea directly and the new law is the only challenge for the deal which we expected to start this year,” he said. He pointed out that marketing was one of the county functions and the Tea Act has bestowed the Tea Board as the sole marketers of Kenyan tea which is against the Constitution. “We want the court to interpret and determine whether section 5(j) (L), 36(1), 48(1) and 53 of the Tea Act, 2020 are in conflict with Article 27(1), 186, 187 and part 2 paragraphs 1 of the constitution.” Other sections the county is seeking interpretation are section 32 and 34 arguing they were in conflict with article 19 of the Constitution. “It is sad that legislators failed to put the law into proper scrutiny before passing it and we are now forced to seek legal redress,” he said. Barchok said the laws would subject the Kenyan farmers to further suffering through heavy taxation. “Personally I think the law would put farmers into more sufferings if some of the sections are not nullified,” he added. A section of farmers in Bomet welcomed the move saying it would liberate the small scale farmers. “I am optimistic that through the petition we will eliminate monopoly in marketing of tea by tea board through Mombasa auction which has been the source of farmers' agony,” Peter Langat, a farmer, said. Alexander Rono also said the tea reforms were rushed without allowing farmers time to air their views. “It is sad that the Tea Act,  2020 was hurried and farmers given very limited time to present their views.  We hope the court will stand with us and uphold the petition filed by the county,” said Rono. Lawyer Kipngetich said the Tea Act was enacted in complete disregard of the Constitution that affords every person the right to equal protection. “Section 36 of the Act which provides that all teas be offered for sale exclusively at the tea auction floor is on breach of article 27(1) of the Constitution and denies the county a chance to implement the deal with Iran,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara