Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola said the team’s remarkable form over the last four months has been one of their greatest achievements after their quadruple bid remained intact following Saturday’s FA Cup quarter-final win over Everton. City beat Everton 2-0 following late goals from Ilkay Gundogan and Kevin de Bruyne to reach the semi-finals of the competition. Guardiola’s side have won 29 of their last 33 games in all competitions during the last four months, securing three draws and losing only once during the spell. City are running away with the Premier League title thanks to a 14-point lead, face Tottenham Hotspur in the League Cup final next month and are up against Borussia Dortmund in the Champions League last eight. “What we have done is more than remarkable. It’s incredible,” Guardiola said. “One of the greatest achievements we have done together. “When you win a lot of games like we have in the last four months, it’s because you can adapt. That pleases me the most. “In this winter time, playing every three days, with incredible commitment in every competition, I don’t have any words to express that. “(But) we haven’t won anything yet, so we will be focused and we will see how far we arrive in the competitions.” Meanwhile, Guardiola says he does not regret England forward Jadon Sancho leaving the club and is happy to see him performing well. Academy product Sancho, 20, rejected a new contract at City when he was 17 to instead join Borussia Dortmund in 2017. The Premier League leaders will face the Bundesliga outfit in the Champions League quarter-finals next month. "I've said many times, it is not a regret. He decides. He's doing really well," said Guardiola. "Congratulations, he's an exceptional player. "He is a national team player with huge quality, doing really well in Dortmund. "We wanted him to stay but he decided to leave, and when people decide to leave all we can do is [let them] leave. "I wish him all the best, except when he plays against us. No regrets at all. If he's happy, I'm happy." Sancho will miss England's upcoming internationals against San Marino, Albania and Portugal with a calf injury, but is expected to be fit for the games against City on 6 and 14 April. "Nobody knows," said Guardiola, of what might have been had Sancho stayed. "Maybe he stays and we don't play good or better. The life of every person decides what life they lead. "We will face him, try to control him — we know the quality he has, everyone knows. "The quality in Dortmund is from all departments. They are a strong team." City travel to Leicester City on April 3 after the international break.