The ravaging political tsunami that has swept Badminton Kenya off the balance and ripped their leadership down the middle is briskly heading towards the corridors of justice. A faction led by Geoffrey Shigoli is now flexing muscles for a bruising legal battle at the High Court, where they have swiftly moved to contest a controversial decision earlier delivered by the Sports Dispute Tribunal which gave embattled acting BK chairman Peter Muchiri and his team a clean bill of health. A tough talking Shigoli was emphatic that Muchiri was in office illegally, adding that they have been compelled to seek justice in court after it became evident the rival camp had no intentions of holding elections anytime soon. "Our position is still the same. We don't recognise Muchiri's team as the bonafide office bearers. We strongly oppose SDT's decision to recognise the group," claimed Shigoli. The longstanding differences between the two factions attracted a costly penalty from the world governing body towards the end of last month. The Badminton World Federation imposed a ban on the Kenyan office for failing to hold elections as instructed. In a letter addressed to Muchiri and Shigoli, the world governing body accused Badminton Kenya of failing to conduct the polls within the stipulated window period. The protracted battle between the rival camps dates back to June 2018 when plans to hold elections were shelved by the Sports Registrar given the national body had not complied with the provisions of the Sports Act 2013. Despite the directive, Muchiri’s faction went ahead and held an Annual General Meeting that resulted in the election by acclamation of eight individual in absence of actual voting with very low turnout. BWF declined to recognise the faction’s leadership, pointing out that the elections were not inclusive. While the world body said it didn’t recognise either faction, it added that it remained keen on working together with the parties on a binding roadmap for future inclusive elections and any initiative from the parties to resolve this impasse will be considered. "Seeing that the two factions are not keen on solving the impasse, the world governing body has ultimately cracked the whip,"WBF was quoted as saying. “We are writing regarding the status of Badminton Kenya. In our last letter dated January 4, 2021, we gave until February 7, 2021, for Badminton Kenya to organise inclusive, fair and transparent elections,” read the letter. 