The Service Party leader Mwangi Kinjuri has said he will not engage in a No campain against the BBI referendum. In an about-turn on Tuesday, Kiunjuru, a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, who has been castigating BBI proponents over the referendum, said the document is 80 per cent good and that they will work to improve it later. "We shall not in a referendum contest. The document is 80% good, we shall work with it and improve it later. Those pushing us to engage in a NO contest will be in for a rude shock," Kiunjuri said. This is the clearest indication yet that though DP Ruto's allies have had dissenting voices on the bill, they will not form a No brigade. Kiunjuri had said BBI report does not address the problems affecting Kenyans and called for more engagements to ensure the needs of the people are addressed. The politician had hit at the government, saying it should focus on the current COVID-19 situation rather than an expensive referendum. He said people have lost jobs, lives and the economy is in a deplorable state because of the virus. “It is good to look at the Constitution of the country for good leadership, but we should not forget about the coronavirus and the downward trend of the economy,” he said. Previously, Kiunjuri was among a section of politicians from the Mt. Kenya region who said they would fight back in their service to the people. Kiunjuri and his brigade vowed to face President Uhuru Kenyatta head-on as he works to solidify support for the Building Bridges Initiative initiative (BBI) and his 2022 political agenda. The vocal politician said he will no longer have kind words for the President if he keeps stirring up trouble. While sounding a warning against the head of State,  Kiunjuri said if pressured, he would open a can of worms hidden in President Uhuru's regime. “I have always refrained from attacking the President … but I want to say this … if the President attacks me, I will have no choice. I will not allow President Kenyatta to push me into a corner and continue using his political lieutenants to attack me,” he said. He added, “Going forward, there will be a reaction for any action by President Uhuru".