Kwale county commissioner Joseph Kanyiri has warned residents of severe community Covid-19 infections if they ignore the public health directives. Kanyiri said the third wave is too strong for anyone to drop their guard. "We cannot relax, this fight is not yet over, if we misbehave it will wipe us without mercy," he said. The county commissioner said everyone should take individual responsibility in mitigating the virus' spread. He said it is sad that some people are only wearing the masks for fear of arrests, pointing out that boda boda, PSVs and tuk-tuks operators are notorious for breaking the 60 per cent passenger rule. Kanyiri advised commuters to remain vigilant and resist being put in danger by a few selfish individuals. "Police cannot be everywhere, it's upon you passengers not to allow greedy conductors to risk your lives by carrying excess passengers. If that happens, get out of that matatu," he said. The county has recorded over 555 coronavirus cases and more than six deaths since the pandemic started in March 2020. The administrator said Covid-19 treatment is expensive and would be a burden to the many poor people who live in the county's rural parts. Kanyiri said it easy to prevent the virus than trying to stop it when already infected. He also put on notice bar owners and hotel managers, saying the majority have become reluctant to enforcing the Covid-19 preventive measures. He said those who violate the outlined public health rules risk having their licences revoked. Kanyiri also urged both national and county leaders to limit visits to offices. He said a delegation of over 10 people moving from one place to another affects the fight against the virus. "Let us take advantage of phone calls and Zoom meetings to restrict unnecessary movement and stop the virus chain," he said. County executive for health Francis Gwama urged residents to take preventive measures even after being vaccinated against the virus. Kwale county received 3,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccines last week and will get 7,000 others once the first doses are exhausted. Healthcare workers, security officers, county executive members and teachers were prioritised for the jabs. Gwama warned that getting the vaccine is not a licence that they will be free from Covid-19. "The rule remains the same, wear masks, sanitise and keep social distance because even after having the jabs we are not immune to the virus," he said. County executive for Public Service Sylvia Chidodo advised those who get the jab to remain vigilant. She urged residents to take vaccines once it is their turn. The county intends to roll out the second vaccination phase in June targeting people with pre-existing ailments and the third one from next year to 2023.  -Edited by Sarah Kanyara