President Uhuru Kenyatta has yet again prohibited all forms of political gatherings in the country for the next one month. Whether the politicians, including him, will adhere to the order is a matter of wait and see. Before the new order, the president had earlier issued the same directive, which lasted for 60 days but was not strictly adhered to. The order comes amid political rallies in some parts of the country following the by-elections and drumming up support for the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020 sponsored by the Building Bridges Initiative. The campaigns for the Machakos senatorial by-elections slated for March 18 have just gained momentum, social distancing and masks being put aside. On Friday, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka launched a four-day tour across the county to drum up support for his party candidate Agnes Kavindu. Kalonzo was joined by Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetangula and Kanu leader Gideon Moi. In their first rally at Katangi market in Yatta, the crowd gathered to listen to the top leaders, non-wearing a mask. The president’s order will be implemented on midnight of March 12, which will definitely paralyse Kalonzo’s rallies as well as those who are drumming up support for their candidates. Deputy President William Ruto has also been on the road meeting different groups of people across the country and gatherings without following the Covid measures. Ruto was in Budalangi on Friday where he met the bodaboda riders as well as women groups before addressing hundreds of the locals who had gathered. Before going to Busia, Ruto was in Kericho County on Thursday, a meeting that attracted many people with zero Covid adherence. However, in a tweet on Friday, Ruto said he had suspended his tours. The president has also in the recent past launched projects in parts of the country, the latest being in Nairobi, and Covid measures were not observed. ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday tested positive for the coronavirus. It is alleged that Raila could have got the virus from a prominent Mombasa family. The opposition chief was on his tour to the region last week to strengthen the party as well as backing support for the BBI proposals. “These people are known to Raila and he didn’t know that they had patients, some in critical condition. Raila met them and spent some time with them only for him to return to Nairobi with Covid symptoms,” said an aide aware of the meeting. As a result of the meeting, Raila’s entire team of about 30 staff was tested yesterday and asked to go into quarantine. "Following my letter of the 10th of March 2021 we have confirmed that Rt Hon Odinga has SARS-2 Covid-19," Oluoch said in a statement Thursday evening. On Friday, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe announced that another 750 new cases of coronavirus in the country in the last 24 hours. Kagwe said in a statement that the new cases were picked from a sample size of 6,264. This brings the total number of confirmed cases in the country to 111,935.