Kenya Sevens have pitched camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani for a 10-day training regimen ahead of an invitational tournament in Dubai later this month. Director of national squads, Oscar Mango, said the training camp would aid their preparations as part of the programme for the Tokyo Games slated for July 23- August 8. Mango said the environment at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, will be an ideal scenario from the hustle and bustle of Ngong Road, where they normally train. “Kasarani is secluded environment and I believe the technical bench will be delighted with the facilities there ahead of the trip to Dubai," noted Mango. Mango expressed confidence that the side will improve on their performances from the tournament last month  in Madrid, where they reached the final before losing to Argentina on both occasions. "The team had not played for a whole year and I guess there is room for improvement in the Dubai event and in the other event planned by World Rugby before we go to the Olympics in July," he said. The event in Dubai will be a stern test for Shujaa with heavyweights South Africa expected to feature. "We will most likely see different teams from what we saw in Madrid but I am confident our boys will rise to the occasion,” said Mango. Kenya Sevens' skipper Andrew Amonde, who missed the Madrid  tourney due to illness,  is expected back having trained with the team for the past fortnight. The Lionesses are also expected to play in Dubai and will join the Kasarani camp later in the week. Both teams will be seeking to  improve at the Tokyo extravaganza after performing poorly in Rio four years ago. Shujaa finished 11 out of 12—winning only one match. They lost 31-7 to eventual silver medallists Great Britain, 31-7 to Japan, 28-5 to New  Zealand and 14-12 to Spain Zealand before salvaging pride with a 24-0 over Brazil. The Lionesses playing in their first major international event lost 52-0 to New Zealand, 40-7 to France,  19-10 to Spain and 24-0 to Japan before edging Colombia 22-10 to finish 11th