Governors have revealed that the Ministry of Health has not involved them in the importation of the Covid-19 vaccine and the vaccination protocols. The county chiefs said the ministry is running a one-man show and has not sought their input ahead of the arrival of the vaccine today. Council of Governors Health Committee chairman Anyang' Nyong'o said he is yet to secure a meeting with Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to discuss the nitty-gritty of the planned rollout. "We have not even met the Minister of Health. We have only talked by email. I have requested that we meet," Nyong'o said. He added, "I am waiting to meet the Minister to discuss these issues but for now we don't have any brief about the information on the vaccine." Ngong'o spoke during a meeting with the Senate Devolution Committee chaired by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang on Tuesday. "There should be a meeting of all stakeholders for a proper briefing at KICC," he said CoG vice-chair James Ongwae said the ministries should formalise negotiations to ensure all the players are brought on board. The council led by chairman Martin Wambora are meeting the Senators to discuss the state of devolution and the teething challenges. Other Governors attending the meeting at the Senate chambers are Wilber Otichillo (Vihiga), Francis Kimemia (Nyandarua), Mutahi Kahiga (Nyeri), Nderitu Muriithi (Laikipia), Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) and Paul Chepkwony (Kericho). Wambora says that the Governors will prioritise health workers if the vaccination is rolled out saying the county chiefs will take the jab when the second batch arrives in the country. Kiraitu said that if the governors will have to take the jab first to instil confidence in the safety of the vaccine, then the county chiefs are ready to do so. He challenged CS Kagwe to public take jab to send a message of confidence in the vaccine. The county chiefs were responding to questions by nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga and Nyamira Senator Okongo Omogeni on whether they have been involved in the importation of the vaccine.