ODM has asked its members and the public to avoid visiting its headquarters—Chungwa House—for at least two weeks as a precaution against Covid 19 spread. Secretary general Edwin Sifuna said all the party staff have been tested for the virus after party leader Raila Odinga tested positive last week. “We are asking the public to avoid. They can use our online services like registrations,” Sifuna said. The SG disclosed the party has scaled down activities at its headquarters and all non-essential staff asked to work from home as they observe 14-day mandatory quarantine to monitor their situation. Besides Raila, only one positive case has been confirmed at Chungwa House—that of party communication director Philip Etale who took to Twitter on Friday to announce his Covid-19 status. “Although devastated I remain strong, determined and in high spirits. By His stripes, I will triumph. I will be healed. Please pray for me dear friends. In God I Trust,” Etale posted. Sources at Chungwa House intimated that while all the staff have taken the test, most of them are yet to receive their results thus the decision to allow them to work from home. “We have tested everybody, including the legal committee of the party that accompanied our party leader to Mombasa,” Sifuna said. Chungwa House is one of the busiest political offices with the party members and the general public frequenting the place daily. Last Friday, Raila confirmed having contracted the virus after he took the test at the Nairobi Hospital where he had been admitted for three days. The former Prime Minister had just concluded his whirlwind tours of Busia and coastal counties where he drummed up support for the BBI bill. Raila has since been discharged from the hospital and is currently recovering and isolating at his Karen home in Nairobi. In a video clip shared on his Twitter handle on Sunday, Raila was captured doing some basic exercise as he engages with his daughter Winnie in a conservation at his Karen home. The former Prime Minister noted that he will be isolating as he undergoes the home-based care treatment. “It feels wonderful and very nice to be back home. I was like in prison back there. I like to be in fresh air see the greens even though I am still in isolation I can see nature,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara