Police in Buruburu have been allowed to detain a 22-year-old woman who allegedly stabbed two of her employer’s children before fleeing. Gladys Naliaka Nalianya was arraigned on Monday before Makadara chief magistrate Emily Ominde but did not take a plea after police sought more days to detain her pending investigations. In an affidavit filed before the court, Corporal Josephine Nduku said she was investigating a case of attempted murder. She said that at around 7.20pm on March 11 on Donholm Greenfields Estate, Naliaka, armed with a machete and a knife, entered the house of Gladys Gacheru through the backdoor. The suspect had been employed as a househelp at the home for two years. She found the children, aged five and 11, seated in the sitting room. When the current househelp went to see who entered the home, Naliaka threatened to attack her with the machete if she made any close move. She then rushed to call the victims' elder brother who was in a different room. Upon coming back they found Naliaka had struck and stabbed the two in the head and she was nowhere to be seen. The victims were rushed to a nearby hospital where they received first aid before being referred to Coptic Hospital. Nduku said the minors suffered deep cut wounds and are still hospitalised in stable condition. “Upon the suspect's services being terminated, she left the home swearing that the family would go through untold suffering in the near future,” the detective said. Naliaka was arrested in Eldoret on Saturday after fleeing from Nairobi. She is suspected to have been headed for Uganda. Corporal Nduku asked the court to grant her five working days to complete investigations. “I've yet to record statements from the victims who are still hospitalised and their parents who are attending to them at the hospital,” she said. She further added that they had yet to recover the weapon used to inflict injuries to the victims. She said the suspect has no fixed abode and if set free might flee. Ominde granted the orders. The matter will be mentioned next Monday.