The Meteorological department has said strong winds with speeds exceeding 25 knots are likely to be experienced in several areas in Northwest, Northeast and southeastern counties. The counties include Turkana, West Pokot, Samburu, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta. In the five-day weather forecast, the department has indicated that rainfall is expected over a few areas in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia. According to the Greater Horn of Africa Climate Outlook Forum consensus forecast, March-May long rains are expected to be above average in Western. However, the long rains are likely to be below average with 10-50 mm deficits across Eastern driven by diminishing La Niña conditions, warm Western Pacific Ocean gradients, and a neutral Indian Ocean Dipole. The Met department indicated that counties in the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley and the Highlands East of the Rift Valley and the Northeast will also experience rains over the forecast period. The Northwest, the coastal strip and the Southeastern lowlands are likely to be generally dry. According to the forecast, Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties will have sunny mornings with a possibility of occasional rains over a few places. In the Northwest counties of Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu, the days are likely to be sunny, while nights are expected to have clear skies. Occasional morning rains are expected over a few areas in Turkana. Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka and Nairobi will have sunny mornings with a possibility of occasional light rains over a few places. Mandera, Marsabit and Wajir will experience showers over a few places, while Garissa and Isiolo are likely to be generally dry. In Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Taita Taveta, Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale, days are likely to be sunny, with partly cloudy nights.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris