Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua on Tuesday said the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga has failed to live up to its billing as a uniter and bringer of peace. Karua, who was leading the Linda Katiba lobby group in taking stock of the handshake agreement three years down the line, said the deal was never about peace but power. “We should be alarmed that despite the handshake having been a product of a failed election, we are hurtling towards the next general elections – which are 18 months away – in an environment that does not inspire confidence,” the former Justice minister said. Speaking at a hotel in Nairobi, Karua said the electoral anarchy witnessed during last week's by-elections and the “visible hand of a partisan state machinery in service of the BBI proponents” was a testament that the handshake had ill motives. “It's all about power. Power by whichever means including tribalism, corruption, violence at any cost, including mutilating the Constitution and eroding all the political gains we have made since 1992,” Karua stated. The handshake deal of March 9, 2018, ended six months of hostilities between Jubilee and Nasa following the disputed 2017 presidential elections. Karua said the handshake, over time, has revealed itself not as a bipartisan initiative to unite Kenyans “but rather a Trojan Horse for Uhuru Kenyatta to control the political destiny of Kenya". “The mutilation of the Constitution through the BBI is the beginning of the emasculation of the people of Kenya. It will be followed by enactment of all the draconian and retrogressive laws that the courts have already declared unconstitutional,” she added. Karua further said Kenyans must ask themselves why the “winner take all" curse only affects the presidential elections while all other candidates, from MCA to governor, accept that there must be winners and losers. “The reason for this is self-evident. Presidential election crises are simply situations where incumbents refuse to accept the loss of an election,” she added. She said resolving electoral failure did not feature in the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020, known as the BBI Bill. She said Uhuru has never hidden his disdain for the Constitution and his aversion for the constraints it imposes on his exercise of power. “Time after time, his administration has passed unconstitutional laws and policy directives that have been struck down by the courts. Can a president who has shown nothing but total contempt for the spirit and letter of the Constitution be leading a process of improving on it?" she asked. Karua pointed out that the only recourse citizens have when a government fails them is the ballot. “The sole purpose of the BBI process is to take away this power to restore the supremacy of the rulers over people,” she said. “The Judiciary will be disempowered. The steamrolling of [the BBI Bill through] the county assemblies as we have witnessed will become the norm until devolution becomes meaningless. (Edited by V. Graham)