A House team has set a July 1 deadline for the National Treasury to operationalise the Judiciary Fund as required by the Constitution. The Budget and Appropriations Committee wants the Judiciary allowed to collect its own revenue – known as appropriations in aid. The Kieni MP Kanini Kega-led team said this would be in line with the resolution of the National Assembly in last year’s budget. The Judiciary Fund is enshrined in the Constitution and is to be administered by the Chief Registrar of the Judiciary. The chief registrar is to prepare estimates of expenditure and submit the same for MPs' approval. Upon approval of the estimates, the expenditure of the Judiciary will be a charge on the Consolidated Fund and the funds shall be paid directly into the Judiciary Fund. The law says the fund shall be used for administrative expenses of the Judiciary and the courts to discharge their functions. MPs have lamented the inordinate delay in setting up the fund on the part of Treasury yet “Parliament has already enacted the relevant legislation.” The Justice and Legal Affairs committee, in a presentation to BAC, said the Judiciary resources requirement is Sh35.4 billion. The budget team, however, approved the ceiling at Sh17.3 billion, comprising Sh15 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh2.3 billion for development. Judiciary has a shortfall of up to 51 per cent of its total resource requirement for the 2021-22 financial year. The Kangema MP Muturi Kigano-led JLAC observed that the Judiciary’s budget has stagnated at around Sh17 billion, yet the needs and size of the institution have grown. The appeals court has been decentralised to six regions whereas High Court stations have increased from 31 to 43; magistrates’ courts up to 142 from 119; and mobile courts up to 60. Judiciary, JLAC says, is faced with challenges of insufficient resources, limitations of the Ifmis operations that disrupt implementation of activities and delays in exchequer releases. MPs warned that the case backlog would get worse if urgent interventions are not taken to salvage the courts cash flow problem. “Over 204,733 cases were filed and 184,736 were resolved, meaning that the cases filed outnumbered those resolved. This is likely to worsen the backlog of cases in the country,” the Justice committee said. The Judiciary Fund Regulations, 2019, provides that the fund would receive monies from investments, fees or levies administered by the Judiciary. Monies accruing to or received by the Judiciary from any other source will also be deposited in the fund. It will also receive monies as may be appropriated by the National Assembly out of the Consolidated Fund as well as any grants, gifts, donations or bequests. The regulations show that the funds would be used on activities relating to appointments and costing of human resources. “The chief registrar shall ensure that the human resources cost of all appointees, promotions and salary increases can be met within the budgetary allocation of the fund,” the regulations read. The chief registrar may authorise salary and other advances for judicial officers and Judiciary staff in accordance with the advances. MPs also raised concerns that the Judicial Service Commission is grossly underfunded. Edited by Henry Makori