Two Baringo MCAs on Thursday criticised Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya's decision to lift security operation in Kapedo, on the volatile Turkana-Baringo border. Natembeya announced a 30-day ceasefire during a North Rift region peace meeting held at Lake Bogoria Resort in Baringo South on Tuesday. “I believe Pokot leaders will use the opportunity to move freely around to pursue the bandits. By the end of the 30 days we expect at least some 100 illegal guns will have been mopped up” Natembeya said. The meeting was attended by among others Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghisio, Tiaty MP William Kamket, Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, his West Pokot counterpart John Lonyangapuo and Baringo Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot. During the meeting, Kamket requested for ceasefire, promising that as Pokot leaders, they would reach out to residents to preach peace and help tame crime. “We will help mop up the illegal guns and ask them to surrender them to the government” Kamket said. However Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol and his Mochongoi counterpart Kipruto Kimosop criticised the consultative peace meeting terming it “scanty and discriminative”. “We really praised Natembeya for conducting the operation to flush out the bandits, but agreeing to lift it this early, he has failed,” Chepsongol said. They said they, being representatives of victims displaced by bandits attack from Baringo North and South, were not invited. “Had we been invited to attend the meeting we would have presented the right views pertaining the current security situation on the ground,” Kimosop said. He however said owing to the Kapedo operation, hundreds of armed Pokot bandits have fled their volatile Tiaty homeland and are currently grazing their livestock in Mochongoi, Tuluk, Chepkesin, Bartabwa, Kangetion, Kasiela and Loruk villages in Baringo north and south. “The bandits are heavily armed and threatening lives of our people. In fact we need the operation now more than before” Kimosop said. He said even though the bandits also terrorised cross-border residents of Turkana, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Samburu and Lakipia counties, no single representative from the regions was invited to attend the peace meeting. Chepsongol said the operation was put in place after the cold blood killing of two senior GSU officers and injuring of residents in Kapedo two months ago. The MCAs said they feared that instead of bandits surrendering their firearms, they would instead use the opportunity to cause havoc by escalating cattle rustling in the region. Kimosop further called on Kiptis to form a task force committee immediately to push the government to compensate bandit attack victims. Natembeya however in response said the operation hasn’t come to an end. “In fact our first phase of the operation was planned to take at least six months and it has only been two months, so there are four more to go,” he said. He said the ceasefire was only meant to give room to the leaders to approach their people and ask them to surrender the illegal firearms and recover the stolen livestock failure to which the government will embark on the operation. The administrator said the operation will only reach a conclusive end once all the illegal guns have been seized, bandits silenced and all stolen livestock recovered, without which peace hasn’t been attained. Natembeya said the government is still targeting some 300 notorious bandits, adding that they even know their names and families. Gideon lauded the Pokot leaders saying they have helped reduce banditry cases drastically since 2017. “Actually you cannot compare the rampancy at which people were being killed and livestock stolen between 2013 and 2017, the newly elected leaders have actually done a commendable job,” he said. Cheruiyot suggested that Kapedo be made a protected no-man’s buffer zone and further converted into a secluded uninhabited military training camp so as to curb the persistent boundary clashes. Kiptis appealed for humanitarian aid to feed, clothe and shelter the hungry residents. “My personal concern is the dire needs of the innocent victims who have suffered in silence all along during the security operation,” he said.  -Edited by Sarah Kanyara