Big guns Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga skipped Juja MP Francis Waititu's funeral but President Uhuru Kenyatta avoided politics in his remarks. Ruto and Raila were expected to join mourners and the President at the funeral service at the Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology in Juja. Such meetings have delivered tense events with barbs traded at the podium, sometimes against family wishes, as had allegedly been requested by Waititu's. Uhuru eulogised the MP as a progressive, trusted and devoted leader. “We’ve sadly lost a very progressive, trusted and committed leader whose public actions always reflected the interests of his constituents,” he said. Uhuru appreciated what the MP had done for the constituency and for his country. “As we all have heard from all the speakers here, Waititu was not a lazy person. He was people-loving, peace-loving and very generous,” he added. In their speeches before the President's, leaders relived their moments with Waititu, describing him as a true servant leader. MP Waititu, nicknamed Wakapee by friends, died at the MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi on February 23 after a four-year battle with cancer. He was 63. Uhuru said he had known Waititu for many years and their friendship began long before he became President. “I have known him for many years and we have always walked together. In Kiambu, it is very hard for someone to be elected for two terms. Waititu managed and that tells you people had seen his work,” he added. Uhuru promised to look at some of the grievances residents raised among them water shortages and lack of title deeds. “We will finish what he had started. We will also emulate him by striving to build a united and peaceful country,” he said. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said he knew Waititu many years before both became politicians. “He was an ardent supporter of President Uhuru even in Parliament. He always supported government Bills. During debate on the security laws, he mobilised what I would call “Jeshi la Speaker” to support the government,” he said. Other leaders who paid tributes to the MP were Kiambu Governor James Nyoro and Senator Kimani Wamatangi “Juja is among constituencies with the best management of the Constituency Development Fund, all because of Waititu,” Wamatangi said.