Liverpool full back Andy Robertson said no team in the world would be able to deal with the injury problems that the Premier League champions have encountered this season. Liverpool ripped up the record books in the 2019-20 campaign, but a season marred by injuries and poor form has left them sixth in the table with 40 points from 25 games, 22 points behind leaders Manchester City with a game in hand. The Merseyside club’s defensive resources have been decimated with centre backs Virgil van Dijk, Joe Gomez and Joel Matip all ruled out with serious injuries, and stand-ins Fabinho and Jordan Henderson also sidelined. The crisis has forced manager Juergen Klopp to deploy 18 different centre-back pairings this season. “If you tell any team in world football that they’re going to have 18 different partnerships in a season at centre-back, no team in the world deals with that— not one,” Robertson told Sky Sports. “Usually we have Virg, Gomez, and Joel. We’ve had Fabinho, Hendo. But now we’ve got Nat Phillips, who wasn’t here last season, (Ozan) Kabak, who’s a young lad, and Ben Davies, who’s been signed from a Championship club and needs time — and big Rhys (Williams), of course. “All of them are relatively inexperienced and it’s trying to help them, but also trying to help the team by focussing on yourself.” Robertson said he was now responsible for marshalling Liverpool’s inexperienced back-line. “I’m the most vocal at the back now and it’s just trying to make sure that we do as well as we can and try to keep as many clean sheets as we can,” he said. Elsewhere, Burnley manager Sean Dyche may have no intention of selling goalkeeper Nick Pope anytime soon but crisps and a pint of beer in a pub during lockdown in Britain could tempt him to allow the player to move, the 49-year-old said jokingly on Friday. England international Pope has been linked by British media with a move to Sunday’s Premier League opponents Tottenham Hotspur and Dyche was asked if it would take a massive fee from the London side to land the 28-year-old shot-stopper. “How do you know every offer would have to be massive? If they offered a bag of crisps, a pint of lager, in a pub, at the moment with the way things are going, I might be swayed. I might actually take it,” Dyche told reporters. Pope, whose contract runs till June 2023, has started 24 league games this season and kept nine clean sheets. Asked if the club’s improved financial standing after their takeover by American investment group ALK Capital in December meant they did not have to cash in on their top players, Dyche added: “I have just told you what the price is. “If someone can find a way of changing the rules of the country, get me a pint and a big of crisps then I’ll have to try and hang on to Popey the best I could. “Pickled Onion Monster Munch have got to be up there. Anything steak minded or beef. That would do.” Burnley are 15th with 28 points from 25 matches, six points above the relegation zone, while Spurs are ninth on 36 points.