@ppcheti One person died on Tuesday when a water bowser headed for a construction site along the Kenya-Somalia security border wall ran over an IED. The bowser had two occupants—a driver and his assistant. It exploded at around 7.30am. The improvised explosive device was believed to have been planted by al Shabaab militants. The vehicle had just left the border town of Kiunga in Lamu East and was headed for Usalama camp. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said adequate troops had been deployed to hunt down the militants. An urgent security meeting chaired by the county commissioner was quickly convened at the Usalama camp to deliberate on the safety of construction workers and other staff at the site. Macharia reiterated that border wall works were not disrupted by the attack. He appealed to residents of border villages to provide useful information that would enable security agencies to counter any planned attacks. “The two were part of the team of construction workers here. Unfortunately, the conductor was killed on the spot, but the driver escaped unhurt. But we want to assure all that the ground is well policed and therefore no cause for concern,” Macharia said. Other security reports indicated that the militants also ambushed a convoy of vehicles ferrying construction workers to the Usalama camp. A security officer who spoke on condition of anonymity said the militants numbering at least 30 fired randomly at the convoy, killing one worker on the spot. “To my understanding, that’s what happened, leading to the death of one of the workers at the camp. The militants were heavily armed and this happened on Tuesday morning," he said. In January 2016, five police officers were killed when a Rapid Deployment Unit lorry ran over an IED planted by the militants in the Hindi-Kiunga road in Lamu East. The officers were heading for Usalama camp when the incident happened in the Milimani area, close to the Boni Forest. Three other officers were critically injured. The 700-kilometre wall, dubbed the Kenya-Somalia Border Securitisation Project, was mooted in 2015 to secure the country from attacks by the Somalia-based al Shabaab militants. The entire project plan includes designated immigration and custom entry points with a two-foot-tall concrete wall fitted with CCTV cameras.  