Kazi Mtaani workers countywide are confused as the programme ends on Thursday and they are appealing for extension against Covid-19. Workers in Kiambu county said life will be tough for them without the modest stipend. Speaking in Limuru constituency, the workers say that getting jobs is tough because new Covid-19 infections are increasing. The programme, which started with a budget of Sh10 billion, employed 280,000 youth in 900 informal settlements across the 47 counties. Sheila Maina said, "If the government gives more instructions on social distancing, closes or suspends some activities like it did early last year, we might not get work. We will suffer with our children." The workers told MP Peter Mwathi that despite some having entrepreneurial lessons from banks and money lending institutions, many people have never been able to save anything. They have to pay rent, buy food and meet basic needs. "Each cohort works for two weeks and is paid but when your cohort or group goes back to work, the money you had been paid is finished," Raphael Mburu said. "How can you save if you live in a rental house and you have a family?” he asked. Mwathi says the country is stranded because new infections are increasing. He said traders, business people and investors have not recovered from the economic effects of the country closing down last year. Mwathi who is also the chairman of the parliamentary Labour and Welfare committee is urging  President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider extending the programme for for six months. "Since June last year, when the project kicked off, these people have been busy. They have been earning, despite how bad the economy was. It was a brilliant idea,” he said. "Can you imagine how life will be for these workers if the project ends and new Covid infections continue rising?" he asked. Mwathi also asked the government to consider engaging the workers in training programmes that will lead to permanent employment as civil servants promoting the Big Four. "There are farms where the government can do maize farming and other activities, where these workers can be engaged permanently,” he said. 