A picture of Dabaso Sora, 69, planting a Neem tree known locally as Mwarobaini won the hearts of those who took part in the photography exhibition at Circle Art Gallery. It was taken at the edge of the Chalbi desert in North Horr, Marsabit, on January 21, 2021. Despite the drought and the scorching sun in the region, Sora has been raising and selling seedlings and selling to schools. Sora has also been giving free seedlings to willing members of the community and asking them to adopt and water seedlings planted and protect them from livestock. He has also given out tens of trees that now provide shades in North Horr, becoming a face fighting the odds to mitigate climate change. A few metres away at the gallery was a picture taken in Eldoret town, Uasin Gishu, capturing Charles Aluanga using fasteners found in secondhand clothes bales to make baskets, reducing the menace such plastics pose to the environment. These were among the many photographs exhibited on Thursday evening at the gallery, showcasing the mounting challenges facing the environment. Thirteen photographs made it to the finals. However, those taken by Billy Bilima, Fredrick Leica and Rose Mokeira stole the hearts of judges that included Environment PS Chris Kiptoo. "Pictures speak many things and as they say, they speak more than a thousand words," Dr Kiptoo said. Bilima's secondhand fasteners photograph came first, followed by Leica's photograph of winds of change. Taken in October 2018 in Ngong Hills, Leica's photo showed the renewable energy potential the country has. Mokeira's Chalbi desert photo got the cut at position three. Each of the three winners took home Sh200,000 from Globeleq. The images showcased were shortlisted from the photography competition launched last December by British High Commissioner Jane Mariott, the vice president and regional director for Africa, World Resource Institute, Wanjira Mathai, and Dr Kiptoo during a visit to see the rising water levels in Lake Baringo. The exhibition profiled winning photographs taken by Kenyans to depict how climate change is affecting the country. It is part of a year of climate action in Kenya, a move that seeks to rally the world to deliver clean, inclusive and resilient recovery following the outbreak of the coronavirus. In November, the UK will host the UN Climate Change Conference(CoP26) where it will advocate global action working with Kenya so that their climate agenda is heard. CoP26 President Alok Sharma was present at the exhibition. Kiptoo said the photograph of an old man planting a tree at the edge of Chalbi desert had changed the view from "tree planting to tree growing". At the exhibition was also a boat that uses green energy for fishing at night, curbing carbon emissions. A photo showing the destructive nature of desert locust also featured prominently. Kiptoo said such innovation is what Kenya needs to curb greenhouse gas emissions. Kenya has submitted her nationally determined contributions, pledging to abate greenhouse gas emissions by 32 per cent by 2030. This, Kiptoo said, needs resources, which the country may not be able to raise. "We need $18 billion for mitigation. We will be focusing on renewable energy. On adaptation, we will need $44 billion and we can only manage 10 per cent from our own source," he said. Kiptoo said Kenya is committed to taking part in the UNCCC as part of harnessing resources to mitigate and adapt to climate change. He said the rising lakes in the country have caused massive losses—damaging infrastructure, increasing human-wildlife conflict and causing massive displacement of people. Already, the government has appealed to the international community to help mobilise resources to address the humanitarian crisis caused by rising water levels in Lake Victoria and lakes in the Rift Valley. A preliminary assessment report by a multi-agency team showed 28 people have so far died as a result of flooding due to the rising water levels. Three died in Mwariki out of stress and depression while another six died in Kihoto after their properties were destroyed, the report said. Mwariki was flooded by Lake Nakuru waters, while Kihoto was submerged by Lake Naivasha. Human lives lost to crocodile attacks were 19. Water levels in Rift Valley lakes and Lake Victoria have been rising since 2010, submerging riparian areas, farmlands, infrastructure and causing a humanitarian crisis. It has adversely affected property owners, communities, biodiversity and wildlife. Following the human crisis created by flooding, the government formed six technical teams that went for an excursion and scoping of the lakes between October 21 and November 1 last year. The mission took place in lakes Victoria, Turkana, Logipi, Bogoria, Baringo, Nakuru, Elmentaita, Solai, Naivasha, Ol Bolossat, Magadi, Ewaso Ngiro South, and the Turkwel Gorge Dam. Impacts of climate change have been attributed to the rising lakes. The immediate needs of those affected include food, shelter, emergency health services and nutrition, portable water, hygiene and sanitation, psychosocial support, confidence-building and hope restoration. Sharma said UK is committed to the UN meeting. He said even though Covid-19 has been an issue of concern for many countries, climate change did not take time off. "In every corner of the planet, there is a devastating impact of climate change." Sharma said climate change has manifested itself in terms of desert locusts, floods and wildfires, among other crises. He said the photographs are emotive as they paint the picture of the changing earth. "I'm delighted to announce the winners of climate changemakers photography competition, to shine a spotlight on the very real impacts of climate change in Kenya. As the UK hosts COP26 this year, at the heart of our presidency are Kenyan voices like these, as we work to secure a fair deal for the people of Kenya and the world to COP26," he said. Mathai, for her part, said all the photographs under-display communicated powerful messages. She said CoP26 is very important as it will help address some of the challenges facing countries such as Kenya.