A Judge of the High court has declined to allow one of the account holders who is embroiled in a Sh2 billion suit with Kenyan banks to be represented by an advocate of his choice. Justice Francis Tuiyott said the holder listed as ‘Applicant 187’ can opt out of the proceedings before the court so as not to suffer any harm of not being represented by counsel of his choice. The Applicant is among 188 others who are seeking compensation for illegal rates charged on loans without the Finance Ministers approval as required by law. The applicant had asked the court to suspend the main hearing pending an appeal on the issue of representation which was declined. The suit which has been dragging in court since 2003 was initially filed by Florence Wanjiru against Standard Chartered bank in 2003 before other account holders joined in. Wanjiru sought Sh38,960 in interest which she claimed was illegally topped on her loan against the Banking Act provisions. More than 40 banks through Kenya Bankers Association have opposed the suit. The account holders claimed that they suffered while repaying their loans, after changes were introduced on interest rates, in contravention of the law. The 187 Applicant had recently sought to suspend the proceedings before court pending the hearing and determination of Tuiyot’s decision in February last year that ruled out the issue of representation. The account holder argued that unless the proceedings are suspended, he will be forced to proceed under a counsel who is not of his choice. “The right to representation of counsel of one’s choice is, without doubt, a constitutional right which should not be taken lightly,” said the holder. But the Judge in declining to suspend the present proceedings said there are 188 other parties in the suit but none of them has applied to have the matter before him suspended. “They may be keen to proceed. Their interests are a matter of concern as well,” he said. Florence is seeking a refund of Sh38,960 from Standard Chartered Bank, which she said was illegally levied, arguing that the bank did not obtain approval from the Finance Minister to levy the charges as required by law.