A police officer was arrested over the fatal shooting of two men in Nairobi’s Utawala area. Police had earlier on claimed the two were thieves who wanted to steal from a Standard Gauge Railways yard but after investigations, it was established the two- a night guard and a driver- were shot and killed in a deal gone sour. The incident happened on March 15. The officer was arrested and arraigned under a miscellaneous application where police were allowed to hold him for 14 days to complete their investigations. Police said they are investigating a murdered in an illegal deal gone sour. Police have established senior sergeant Douglas Okwii attached to Railways-SGR and allegedly on patrol duties at section 11 Utawala construction campsite, booked his encounter with two burglars who had broken into the facility. The officer told investigators how, on sighting him, the two-28-year-old Sanita Kombe and Boniface Ondigo 33- had run out towards a waiting Mazda, which had been loaded with assorted stolen materials from the company's store. This prompted him to shoot and fatally injured the two after defying orders to surrender, and thereafter arresting a third suspect; Samwel Kibaya, the company's store keeper. But detectives said after investigations they established the two were killed after an argument. Ondigo had apparently disagreed with him and as he left to his car he was shot from behind three times. An autopsy showed he was shot three times from the back and all bullets exited. Detectives established that the slain duo were accomplices to the police officer, whose plan to strike it rich overnight was faced with a heated argument over logistics and cost of transporting their loot. While Sanita was a security guard at the China Road Construction site and who questioned the thievery, Ondigo was the driver who would ferry their kill to an unestablished destination, but who vehemently objected his share. Enraged at their poor cooperation, the officer rapidly sprayed 7 bullets from his AK 47 rifle killing the two in the cover of darkness, before booking a false report on the incident. Witnesses said the officer shot dead Sanita who was in his sentry first before turning the weapon on Ondigo. Such incidents have been on the rise where police frame suspects after killing them. Some remain unsolved.