Mount Kenya University’s Medical School now seeks to establish a cancer research centre. The university last week marked a milestone when the first batch of student doctors took the Hippocratic Oath. The school was set up in 2014 shortly after the university got approvals from the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board. Before then, the university had been offering public health courses, including undergraduate programmes in clinical medicine and community health. It was also the first private university in Kenya to offer a pharmacy course. MKU founder and chairman Simon Gicharu recalled the humble beginnings, saying the School of Medicine transforming from a nondescript department that offered public health courses into a school of medicine and over a short time being voted as the best in the region. “Even though we do not have a long history, we have set the pace in the area of human health training. We were the first university to roll out an accredited Bachelor of Science in Clinical Medicine and Community Health and the first private university to offer pharmacy at a time when this seemed impossible,” Prof Gicharu said. The university will now venture into medical research and investment, with plans to set up MKU Cancer Teaching and Referral Hospital, according to its 2020-29 Strategic Plan. The medical school was last year ranked the top school of medicine in the region, beating the other universities that have been offering medical courses for decades. It has been partnering with Thika Level 5 Hospital and General Kago Funeral Home. It upgraded the latter to a state-of-the-art facility. “We invested Sh300 million in support of the public-private partnership with the county government of Kiambu that resulted in the modern General Kago Funeral Home which has to date supported the community and allowed our students to get practical training,” Prof Gicharu said. “Recently, we were ranked the best in Kenya with a score of 82 per cent in an inspection conducted by a joint team of technical health experts from the East African Community Partner States National Medical and Dental Practitioners Regulatory Councils.” MKU recently set up the Equip Africa College of Medical and Health Sciences based in Kitale to train students in medical and health science courses. The mid-level college was established by assembling facilities and training equipment used by the defunct Thika Institute of Technology. It has a capacity of 5,000 students and offers certificate and diploma programmes to bridge the existing gap of trained health professionals. At the oathing ceremony, vice chancellor Deogratius Jaganyi noted that graduating the first class from the MKU Medical School was a major achievement for the university and the students. He, however, cautioned the students that they were going into a market that is apprehensive of science going by the sentiments making the rounds on the coronavirus vaccines. “Indeed, this is a milestone achievement for both the medical school, as well as for the students,” he said. “To the class of 2014... You have chosen a remarkable profession. Know that as you practise medicine, you will become part of your patient’s life. You will use your talent and skills to change their lives for the better. "In this profession, you rely heavily on facts to make decisions to make discovery and care for patients. Fake news has no place in medicine, cancer is cancer and drug either works or they don’t. “You enter medicine at a time when the public trust in science seems tenuous, this has to do with what the public hears about science. For instance, in spite of overwhelming evidence that vaccines are safe, effective and lifesaving, some people are afraid of taking them, hence putting their lives and those of others at risk—your leadership will be needed to educate the community on some of these facts.” According to the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council, the total number of medical and dental practitioners registered since 1978 to date is 14,752. Of these, 1,380 are dentists and 13,372 are doctors. Kenya needs to train more doctors. According to the World Health Organization, the doctor-to-people ratio should be one to 600. In Kenya, however, the doctors have a heavy load, with one doctor being in charge of 3,888 people, while the dentist-to-people ratio is 1:37,681. Daniel Yumbya, chief executive officer of the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council, was present during the event. He said the challenges the local healthcare system faces include inadequate equipment and personnel, dual practice (public and private), migration of doctors to other countries in search of greener pastures and insufficient specialists. “A doctor who negates from the qualities of a doctor we want is not needed in society. Good doctors understand that responsibility is better than privilege and practice accountability better than business,” he told the new doctors.