Is a senior MP from Mt Kenya bitter with a key parliamentary leader? There are reports that the MP has been harbouring anger against the leader because the House official failed to endorse him for a top leadership position in the Jubilee House leadership. This emerged after the politician recently fired a verbal salvo against the parliamentary leader that shred their ties. A small bird tells Corridors  the two, despite hailing from the same region, may be headed for an ugly showdown as their falling out deepens.  Of interest is how the MP will navigate his parliamentary roles in key House meetings also attended by his rival. The succession fights pitting the board of a training institution against the management have hurt suppliers and contractors. Corridors understands pending bills of billions of shillings have left suppliers camping along the corridors of the institution. They are appealing to President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) to dissolve the board over the delays. Sadly, the delays are linked to a scheme by a powerful board member said to be interested in installing a relative in the management before he exits office in a few months. Genuine suppliers are crying their businesses are on the verge of being auctioned while others are about to close down due to the infighting. An ODM lawmaker from  Nyanza is walking a  tightrope over the Building Bridges Initiative push. The MP has been facing hostility from his constituents over what appears to be a false promise for an additional constituency for the county. The MP has now been forced only to market BBI whenever accompanying Raila Odinga but he keeps off the subject in his own constituency. When he does he is said to be inciting people silently about BBI. Some of his colleagues from the region have threatened to expose him over his lukewarm support of BBI in the coming days. This is after he reportedly told his constituents that the promise of a new constituency was a mirage. A senior police officer with immense powers is on the spot over perpetuating what his juniors call glorification of ethnicity in his department. There are myriad complaints the officer has been favouring his kinsmen and women from the 'mountain' for promotions at the expense of merit. In one instance, the officer who handles a crucial department, handpicked juniors from his backyard and a couple of well-connected bimbos for promotional courses at Kiganjo. Despite the uproar and open bias, the senior officer continues to brag that his word is law and nobody would question his decisions. The simmering tensions are threatening to explode.