Washington State University Global Health Programme in partnership with Ministry of Health’s National Vaccines Immunisation Programme is working on an Influenza Vaccine Demonstration Project. The pilot programme is being done in Mombasa and Nakuru counties in a bid to fight the highly infectious disease. Through the Division of Disease surveillance and Response Unit, the project is working in four sub-counties in the two counties where children between six to 23-months-old are being immunised for free at all participating health facilities. “The demonstration projects involves public and private facilities as well as faith-based organisations,” said Dr Jeanette Dawa, a medical epidemiologist at WSU during a recent tour of Nakuru County. She said stakeholders will be looking into several aspects such as whether the demonstration project will be cost effective, the effect on the immunisation programme and the coverage. “We will be assessing two different strategies, one will be a year-round plan in Nakuru’s Njoro subcounty and Jomnvu subcounty in Mombasa and a short campaign running between April and August this year in Bahati, Nakuru and Likoni in Mombasa,” Dawa said. She added that the organisers will be comparing coverage between the two strategies as well as cost and the impact on the immunisation programme. Dawa said influenza is a major cause of respiratory illness in Kenya which circulates throughout the year unlike in the US  where it is seasonal. She observed that data shows children less than five years of age are most affected by the severe forms of influenza. “Studies have shown that it is even worse in children less than two years of age, so an influenza vaccine would prevent severe illness and even hospital admissions,” she said. Dawa who was accompanied by Nakuru Acting Director of Medical services Daniel Wainaina said the vaccine would reduce the work load at the health facilities and morbidity. She said in the Kenya Expanded Programme on Immunisation (KEPI), vaccines are provided for free to particular target groups such as children who get Bacille Calmette-Guerin (BCG), polio and pneumococcal vaccine. “This project is being done to assess whether the influenza vaccine should be included and given free of charge as well,” she said. She noted that the vaccine has been available in private health facilities in Kenya but cannot be found free of charge in public facilities. “The project’s objective is to assess whether influenza vaccine is cost effective and sustainable to be included in KEPI," she said. Wainaina said Nakuru has scaled up surveillance on Influenza following a successful research to help detect new local strains of the disease and evaluate the impact of introduction of influenza vaccine on existing immunisation programme. The research was done in partnership with the Center for Disease Control—CDC, Washington State University Global Health Program—Kenya, and the National Vaccines and Immunisation Programme. He revelled that an average 96 per cent of children between age six to 23 months in Njoro and Bahati sub-counties received the vaccine for free during the first year of influenza vaccine demonstration project. “More than 19,000 doses of the vaccine was also administered to all healthcare workers in the county and their next of kin,” he said. Wainaina said the county will use the research data to inform policy for Public Health action in prevention and control of respiratory illnesses. He added that the introduction of the influenza vaccine has helped reduce the cases of Flu and other respiratory tract illnesses in children under five years. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara