A Standard 8 pupil at Luciuti Primary School in Igembe North, Meru county has died after reportedly being hit with a stone by a student. Elias Munene, 20, was reportedly hit with a stone by a Form 1 student from Ntanki secondary school while playing football at Maeyi village. Meru county director of education Milton Nzioki said they are yet to get concrete information on the incident that happened on Monday evening as police are also pursuing the matter. He said the candidate died on Tuesday morning while receiving treatment at Nyambene General Hospital. "It is true, the case has been reported by subcounty director of education. The boy was a candidate at Lucuiti primary school in Igembe North. Our officers have been engaged in the ongoing exams and so, we are yet to get all the details. Our preliminary information is that the two were playing," Nzioki said. He said police investigations have been launched, adding that the suspect is still at large, but officers are pursuing him. "The matter was reported at Kabachi police station OB 26/  22/03/2021 as an assault case last evening," a police officer who sought anonymity told the Star. Meanwhile, three KCPE exam candidates in Meru county are writing their papers in labour wards while 233 are pregnant. Speaking earlier, Nzioki said the three candidates were on Monday admitted for delivery as the national examinations began. He said there are no hiccups as everything is well set since education officers and security team are supervising them as they write their examination in maternity wards. He noted the 233 pregnant candidates are at different pregnancy stages, adding that supervisors and invigilators are alert including keeping in contact with health practitioners in case of any delivery emergency. It is reported that 14,573 girls aged between 10 and 19 years were impregnated in the country in 2020, a number the ministry says is the highest in history. Out of the 14,573, the data singles out 1,328 defilement cases to girls aged between 10 and 14 years. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 