The Covid-19 vaccination exercise started on Monday  at City Hall, with both the Executive and MCAs getting the jab. The exercise came a day after Deputy Governor Anne Kananu announced closure of all non-essential offices beginning Monday, for period of one month. Leading by example, Kananu took the first Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 jab followed by her  Cabinet. She joined the list of key leaders who have publicly received the vaccination as a way of boosting confidence among citizens. “I feel confident and ready to be vaccinated and I want to encourage Nairobi residents to turn out in large numbers and take the Covid-19 vaccination,” Kananu said. She called on Nairobi residents to continue adhering to the Covid-19 protocols from the Ministry of Health. “Regularly wash hands, keep social distance and wear masks,” Kananu said. CECs who took the jab include Charles Kerich (Lands) , Mohammed Dagane (Roads and transport), Vesca Kagongo ( Devolution), Winfred Gathangu ( Trade) Lucia Mulwa ( Education) Newton Munene (ICT),Larry Wambua ( Environment) and Lydia Kwamboka ( County Attorney). Chief officers and other City Hall staff were also vaccinated. County assembly speaker Benson Mutura and journalists present were also vaccinated. Several MCAs were also vaccinated. Nairobi County continues to produce the highest numbers of Covid-19 cases and as of last week, the county accounted for 57.7 percent of the nation’s total. Kananu noted that it was necessary to close the non-essential offices because City Hall has continued to be a red zone. “It is important to note that we consider the safety of our employees and customers as core to our operations. It is in this regard that we need to consider reviewing our work environment and daily interactions,” Kananu added. Some of the departments that will remain shut include the Youth and Sports department, Agriculture, Human Resource Department and part of the ICT department. In Nairobi, residents can receive the vaccination at Mama Lucy, Pumwani,  Mbagathi, KNH, Mathari, Memorial, Moi Airbase, National Spinal Injury, and Kenyatta University Teaching and Referral hospitals. Private and faith-based health facilities selected as vaccination centres include St Francis Community, Jamaa Mission, Coptic, Nairobi, Ruaraka Uhai Neema, Mater, and Aga Khan University hospitals.