Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa has said the BBI is key to achieving the government’s Big Four agenda. Wamalwa said the Bill Bill has many gains that will see the government keep track of the development projects outlined in the Big Four agenda. The Bill has been passed by 42 county assemblies. He said the initiative has brought about peace and cohesion in the country, terming it a key ingredient in the realisation of development. “Devolution is the biggest winner since more resources shall be channelled to the counties to fund development projects,” he said. Wamalwa spoke on Sunday during a fundraiser at Siala Limuru Pentecostal Assemblies of God Church in Kisumu West. He said one cannot delink BBI from the Big Four agenda because the latter cannot be achieved when there is no peace. “Before the handshake, it was impossible to run a government. We have seen peace in the country that is why we can move around and keep track of government projects,” he said. “All the functions under the Big Four agenda are devolved. With additional resources channelled to the counties, the government shall be able to achieve the Big Four agenda”. The CS dismissed as lies claims that the BBI has derailed the government’s development agenda. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o, for his part, said through the BBI, a strong foundation shall be laid to propel the country to greater heights. Nyong’o said President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila  Odinga came up with the initiative to bring the country together and resolve past mistakes that threatened to tear the country apart. “We need to reflect on our past and focus on the future to grow national values and social cohesion which will be brought about by this initiative,” he said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi cautioned those opposed to the initiative to stop confusing Kenyans and instead declare their stand openly. Wandayi said there was no need for various people to confuse Kenyans because if they don't support the initiative then by default they are opposing it. He said the National Assembly was processing the bill and will debate and pass it soon to pave the way for a referendum. “We are going to take the shortest time possible to debate the bill and pass it so that Kenyans reap the full benefits of this initiative,” Wandayi said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris