KFS rangers, the guardians of the forests, are out there every day on the front lines fighting environmental crime. Environmental crime is the fourth largest illegal activity after drug smuggling, counterfeiting, and human trafficking. They encounter illegal logging, charcoal burning, cattle rustling and hidden cattle, poaching and wildlife trade, tampering with boundaries and illegal settlers who must be removed. There's no telling when they might be attacked, often by adversaries with better weapons. KFS manages 6.4 million acres and helps counties manage 4.2 million acres. Forest cover is only 7.2 per cent and KFS protects that as well as new seedlings. The aim is 10 per cent by next year. The task is daunting. It is 10am when we arrived at Embobut Forest in Elgeyo Marakwet county. A convoy of five four-wheel-drive vehicles arrived at the camp to document forest conservation activities within the expansive forest. Present were North Rift Conservancy acting head Anthony Musyoka and Elgeyo Marakwet ecosystem conservator John Momanyi. KFS rangers in their camouflage gear welcomed us with a cup of tea. In the camp, each ranger is assigned duties. Some prepare food, some clean utensils, some clean the camp. Four dogs lounge around when they're not on patrol with rangers. The camp is very cold because of elevation in Marakwet East subcounty in the North Rift. The forest borders Kerio Valley to the north and was declared a central forest through proclamation order N0 26 of November 1954. The forest has two stations, Chesoi and Kapyego, covering 54,198 acres. Securing forest resources is tough as there are no road networks. The forest is also a safe haven for cattle rustlers who hide and graze their animals in the woods. Embobut operations commander Chief Inspector David Rono said criminals had taken over the area after their camp was destroyed. He said the criminals terrorised residents before sneaking into the forest and using it as a hideout. Rono said the area chiefs are not sparred by criminals. They cannot sleep in their houses as they are easy targets, especially when they are seen with rangers. "Some have to rent houses in Eldoret," Rono said. He said the security camp has been important in restoring security. "The grazers and cattle rustlers are armed with sophisticated weapons. The vastness of the area is also a challenge as there are no roads," he said. The weather is unpredictable. KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau said the service has over time improved the welfare of its rangers. "We built 95 units last year and we will do 80 more this year, depending on the availability of funds," Kamau said. Kamau said water in the camps, waste management, ablution facilities and power are provided. They also have rugged four-wheel drive vehicles for rough terrain. The group has 2,500 sets of uniforms, including boots. "This means that every ranger is well protected," Kamau said. Rangers have also been trained on a human rights-based approach to ensure the rights illegal settlers' are respected as they are removed from public lands. "We recovered 4,000 hectares (400,000 acres) in Cheptais without human rights issues coming up," he said. Kamau said the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights helped KFS come up with a curriculum for training rangers. He said successful prosecutions have increased dramatically as rangers have been trained on how to secure evidence by the UN Office on Drugs and Crime. Kamau said several camps have also been constructed. In Embobut, KFS says the deployment of security enforcement officers is opposed by the Sengwer community, who often launch retaliatory attacks. During one case, two forest community scouts were attacked in Terich area while on their way home from the forest. They were beaten, stripped naked and their clothes were burnt. Authorities believe the attacks are meant to instil fear in KFS rangers so criminals can dominate the forest area and subdue protection efforts. Criminals also want to conceal their identities and continue using the forest as their hideout in carrying out logging, charcoal burning, tampering with forest boundaries and cattle rustling. (Edited by V. Graham) ROSTER OF VIOLENCE Rangers face attacks by criminals, cattle rustlers, indigenous residents KFS has a long, detailed list of attacks in Embobut Forest but officials decline to describe current violence and operations, saying that the information is confidential and might alert criminals. But they said the following earlier list is a good example of what they still must contend with. And when there isn't violence, there's strategising, training and apprehension. On March 20, 2016, armed herders attacked rangers on patrol, injuring a community scout. On September 16, 2016, rangers and community scouts on patrol were again attacked at Terich area. One scout was killed and another one was injured – a ranger who was shot in the chest with an arrow. On April 2, 2017, an armed gang attacked rangers in the Kapkok area. Nobody was injured, however, a false alarm was raised. As a result, Tangul and Kamelei operation camps were destroyed. Firearms, vehicles and rangers' valuables were ruined. On January 15, 2018, armed men fired at the operations team in Kabagas block but they were repulsed. On January 16, 2018, armed gangs fired at the operations team, including the DO, chief and assistant chief in Kipsitona area. The team was on a mission to identify livestock hidden in the forest. A middle-aged man armed with a bow and arrow was injured in the leg. He was believed to be an associate of the gang. The matter was reported to Chesoi police station. On January 28, 2018, a gang fired at random at Tangul camp but gunmen were repulsed. No injuries were reported. On  March 20, 2018, 30 gang members attacked six rangers at the Maron camp on patrol along Koropkwen block. They managed to manoeuvre to safety with radio guidance from a chief. On March 30, 2018, suspected cattle rustlers attacked a joint team of rangers, police, and police reservists along with representatives of Kamelei and Kabusien blocks. The team had recovered about 100 heads of stolen livestock. The attack led to the death of one police officer and several attackers are believed to have been injured. On July 30, 2018, the joint operation encountered 30 bandits and exchanged fire. There were no casualties. A G3 rifle, a police shirt and a national identity card were recovered. On August 6, 2018, the joint operation came into contact with bandits at Kabusien. They had earlier burnt the house of the area chief after shooting in the air indiscriminately as they failed to find him. On August 13, 2018, the team exchanged fire for four hours with bandits before a helicopter flew from Nakuru for support. On October 11, 2018, two Pokots were killed in Chepkoko location, in Pokot Central subcounty, and 40 cattle stolen. On November 20, 2018, more than 20 armed men attacked the team on routine patrol. More recent incidents in Embobut are similar, KFS said. (Edited by V. Graham)