The Bus Rapid Transit project in Nairobi's Kasarani area has started to take shape with the administration block coming up. Park and ride facilities with 130 spaces have also taken shape. Engineers working at the site however felt that there was a need to enhance the parking spaces to accommodate more vehicles. Those with personal cars will park them before getting into BRT buses. Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority CEO Francis Gitau said preparations are on course. NaMATA was established by President Uhuru Kenyatta on February 9, 2017. It covers Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos, and Murang’a counties. “We are on course for piloting on Thika Road. The infrastructure is being done, especially the demarcation of the corridor and the establishment of a bus park‚” he said. The authority is mandated to establish an integrated, efficient, effective, and sustainable public transport system. Gitau said this will be a reliable mode of commuter transport planned to decongest the central business district, ease transport woes, reduce travel time as well as reduce air pollution. Traffic snarl-ups in the Nairobi metropolis are estimated to cost the country Sh2 billion annually. Already, five corridors have been identified by authorities to decongest Nairobi roads. The corridors are to be marked in red lines. Line one is to run from James Gichuru Road-Waiyaki Way to JKIA, a distance of 20km. The 31-km line two will run from Lang’ata Road to Ngong Road, Juja Road, Komarock Road to Ruiru with major stops at Dandora, Kariobangi, and Gikomba Market. Line three will run from Githurai through Thika Road to Moi Avenue in the CBD, terminating at Kenyatta National Hospital. In November 2019, the government floated the BRT tender, saying it intends to improve the Thika Superhighway infrastructure to accommodate the project. The project will be carried out in two phases under one contract. The first section will be between Clayworks to the Nairobi CBD, while the second phase will start from Clayworks to Ruiru. A Chinese firm Stecol Corporation secured the Sh5.6 billion contract to construct special lanes for high-capacity buses in July. The buses are to operate between Thika Superhighway, Nairobi city centre and Kenyatta National Hospital. The main depot for line three is at Kasarani while other minor depots will be at Kenyatta National Hospital and Ruiru. At Kasarani, the maintenance block that can accommodate 10 BRT buses at the same time and expected to be completed by eight months is underway. Platforms for picking and dropping passengers are also at an advanced stage of construction. There are two access points into the Kasarani depot. At the site, there is also a laboratory for testing materials being used. Security of the installation has also been taken into consideration. The buses which are 12 meters and 18 meters long described by engineers as kneeling buses are set to be used in BRT. This is to ensure that they accommodate all passengers. Engineers at the site revealed that smart technology will be used to monitor the movement of buses even the number of passengers using the facilities. The buses will have two access points to enhance passenger movements. The monitoring will be real-time. Cashless mode of paying fare has also been factored into the BRT. Once passengers access the platform, ticketing machines have been provided to ensure a seamless transition. To ensure the BRT buses are not hindered by other traffic, the inside lanes of Thika Super Highway will be demarcated and stations be provided along the corridor. At the bridges along the corridor, wheelchair lifts will also be provided for persons living with disabilities. Ten footbridges are set to be modified with the Ruiru depot integrating railway.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris