Last December, we told you of a senior police officer in one of the counties in Western who laughed off threats by residents to push for his transfer. Three months down the line, the residents are having the last laugh and are full of praise for Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai for answering their prayers. The man was stationed in the region for almost a decade and had completely fallen out with residents. At one point, he told residents that they can make all the noise they want but he would never be transferred. Locals are said to be hoping that the officer learnt his lesson and would take his work seriously at his new station. Panic has gripped a section of staff of a Nyanza county who are mandated to oversee the disbursement of funds to needy students. This is after the governor invited investigative agencies to probe the loss of millions of shillings meant for learners from low-income families. A little bird whispers to Corridors that a preliminary audit by the county revealed that dozens of students captured as beneficiaries could not be accounted for. The report indicated these students could not be physically traced in the schools that received the money. It is suspected that some county staff are working in cahoots with schools to steal bursary funds. A veteran politician eyeing a big job in 2022 has begun to learn just how devious the so-called 'deep state' and 'system' are. After being urged to stand for the big job, the 'deep state' has slowly taken its foot off the gas pedal. In fact, the focus is now said to be on a different candidate altogether. Those in the know say the man is staring at a lonely and expensive journey that could drain him. The support he had been led to expect is gone. So are some influential politicos he had hoped would get his support team fired up. As they say, power is not given, it's taken. President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession in Mt Kenya remains confounding to many. There are doubts whether most of the players are keen on running for president just yet, especially in 2022. However, a governor from the region has surprised those close to him. The man has acquired a party and is slowly rebranding. He has made reforms in the dairy sector the heart of his presidential campaign. Those in the know say he will go all the way to the ballot. The strategy is to get the most votes in at least two counties. This will give him a negotiating position in case of a run-off.