Gor Mahia duo of Kenneth Muguna and Boniface Oluoch could find themselves in hot soup following the violent incidents reported during their Caf Confederations Cup preliminary round return leg against Zambia’s Napsa Stars. This is after Caf wrote to the club indicating the looming disciplinary investigations on the two senior players on the alleged scuffle which happened at the Heros Stadium in Lusaka, Zambia. The two are accused of accosting and insulting the centre referee Lebalang Mokete after the match, which dramatically ended 2-2 denying Gor an opportunity to return to the group stages. “Caf have decided to implement the provisions of the Disciplinary Code in terms of article 11, and to open an investigation allowing your affiliated players to respond to the reported incident,” read a letter from Cairo Gor were on the verge of advancing to the pools until the Mosotho referee gave Napsa a contentious penalty in the dying seconds of the game which former Southampton striker Emmanuel Mayuka slotted past Oluoch to send Gor parking. The Pensioners had won the first leg played at the Nyayo National Stadium 1-0, leaving Gor with a herculean task of fighting for an away win. An ugly melee ensued moments after Mokete blew the final whistle where infuriated Gor players apparently sought answers from the whistler. While Gor exonerated their players from any indiscipline and wrongdoing, Caf says the two players crossed the line. “After the match, Gor Mahia players No. 29 (Oluoch Otieno Boniface) and No. 10 (Mugambi Muguna Kenneth) attacked us and used abusive language against us,” continued the letter With the consequences of such acts dire, the two players’ innocence is at the mercy of the club, which is required to furnish Caf with their defence within the next five days. “The club is required to provide us with its comments within 5 days, namely on the March 5, 2021 by the latest, after which the matter will be submitted to the CafF Disciplinary Board,” read the letter. Muguna in his defence argues the confrontation was blown out of proportion and no Gor player uttered an insult or touched the referee. “We approached the officials after the final whistle but no one touched him or abused him. We were frustrated with the decisions he made towards the end of the match and probably the security felt we would skin the officials alive. We were orderly and showed respect in our arguments,” he protested their innocence. 