KCPE and KCSE examination markers will be given special passes allowing them in and out of five counties under cessation of movement during the marking exercise. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday directed cessation of movement in five counties of Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Kajiado, and Nakuru. Teachers Service Commission chief executive Nancy Macharia on Monday said the special pass will allow examiners to travel to locations they will be posted for the marking exercise. “We have issued special travel letters to all our monitors countrywide so that they can be allowed to move freely to all parts of the country to ensure the examinations run within the specified KNEC guidelines,” This also means that all teachers who will be travelling to Nairobi for the marking exercise are free to do so, Macharia said. The CEO spoke while supervising the distribution of exam materials at the Kamkunji container, in Nairobi, before monitoring the administration of day two papers. The marking of the exams will involve 7,402 KCPE examiners and 27,248 KCSE examiners. Macharia urged the contracted teachers to consider taking the Covid-19 jab to help curb the spread of the virus. She said the process is rigorous and huge personnel is involved, hence the need for precaution. The Kenya National Examination Council, data shows that 752,933 candidates are registered to sit this year's KCSE exam in 10,437 centres. Magoha supervised the opening of examination containers for the ongoing KCSE exams. On Monday, the Education CS George Magoha announced that the marking of the 2020 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education exams is 35 per cent complete. He said all measures have been put in place to ensure KCPE exam results are released in good time. Last week, Basic Education PS Julius Jwan said the marking of the exam had begun. Jwan said the marking is being conducted by teachers contracted by the Kenya National Examination Council. He said both electronic and manual marking was underway and the council has engaged the services of 7,000 examiners. “We've begun marking the KCPE exam and are very impressed in the manner the examination was run. We definitely expect the same for the KCSE exam,” Jwan said. Since 2017, Knec has been using a hybrid marking system with manual and electronic elements. Electronic detection of answers on candidates' answer sheets covers five subjects with multiple choices, Mathematics, English, Kiswahili, Science, Social Studies and Religious Education. Optical mark recognition machines acquired in 2017 are used. However, Kiswahili Insha and English Composition are marked by contracted teachers. However, for KCSE, the marking exercise will be handled by markers as the test does not provide options thus disqualifying the use of the optical recognition machine. This comes even as sector players called for leniency in the marking process.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris