The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission on Wednesday began steps to relocate its headquarters from Nairobi CBD. The commission has floated an open tender for the purchase of land for construction of premises. The polls' agency is currently housed at Anniversary Towers in the Central Business District. The commission says the location is inappropriate for lack of adequate space. Taxpayers cough up Sh100 million every year in rent at Anniversary Towers. This excludes expenditure on hiring venues for commission meetings, staff training, stakeholders meetings, nomination of candidates and storage. In its invitation for bids, IEBC says it's looking for a parcel located at least 20 kilometres away from the city centre. “The size of the land should be approximately five acres and should be on a stable ground. The gradient of the land should not be steep,” the commission says. It further wants the land to be easily accessible by roads network. The land should have a title deed without any encumbrance. The commission, besides the requirement of a title deed, says the land should have a leasehold of not less than 60 years remaining. Bidders interested in supplying the required five-acre parcel are should present information indicating the price – inclusive of taxes, lease period and any expected rate charges as well any other information that will help in decision-making. “The property shall be serviced by the normal utility infrastructure such as electricity, water and sewer,” the IEBC says in its tender notice. Bidders will also have to provide a certified copy of the latest search – done a month from March 30, being the deadline for the tender. A certified copy of land rates clearance certificate and evidence that the land is serviced by water, electricity, and a sewer line are required. The polls' agency said it would conduct due diligence on the planned purchase, restating that the relocation will save taxpayers financial resources in the long run. “Among the submitted applications, the commission will shortlist the substantively responsive applicants, to whom the Request for Proposals for the Purchase of Land shall be sent,” the tender notice signed by CEO Marjan Marjan reads. Land agents will be required to present a power of attorney in cases where land is registered in an agent’s name. The move follows a proposed Sh1.5 billion allocation to the commission in the budget for the next financial year. MPs at the Budget and Appropriation Committee slotted the provision among Sh45.5 billion critical expenditure that must be funded. “Any revenue measure contained in the 2021-22 Finance Bill shall be earmarked for the aforementioned priority issues,” the Kieni MP Kanini Kega-led team said in its review of the 2021 Budget Policy Statement. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has over time put a strong case for the commission’s headquarters to be relocated. He decried the costly disruptions the commission suffers whenever there are grievances against it expressed by way of pickets and demonstrations. Chebukati said their stay at the current offices was no longer tenable since the demos bring business in Nairobi CBD to a standstill, hence pose a great loss to the economy. In many forums, including before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee back in 2018, the commission said the move would help it cut recurrent costs. This will be in terms of office space rent, hiring of venue for various commission activities - including meetings with stakeholders, nomination of candidates, training for staff and stakeholders. Chebukati said the relocation will also help solve the entity’s challenges of storage and warehousing of strategic and non-strategic materials. In 2017, Starehe MP Charles Njagua aka Jaguar wrote to the commission asking it to relocate its offices from Anniversary Towers citing the Nasa demos. 