Education CS George Magoha has claimed some schools were planning to hire university students to sit KCSE exams on behalf of candidates dying to get grades they do not deserve. He said those planning to hire university students have gone to the extent of interfering with some candidates’ photographs. “Integrity of exams shall be protected at any cost. If you think you are bold enough, whether you are from Homa Bay, Migori, Isebania or Kisii, my warning to you is that you stop confusing our children, this is not meant to scare the candidates but to protect them,” Magoha said. The CS spoke in Busia county where he inspected KCPE exams. He took issue with centre managers who got confused during the collection of examination materials from specified locations in the counties. “It is important that we remember why we developed the container service. This was to ensure you get there early and inspect what you are supposed to carry to your centre before leaving to avoid confusion,” Magoha said. “Centre managers must be on the lookout as we approach Friday when we will be starting more serious KCSE examinations. They must inspect everything they are carrying.” He said the KCPE exam results could be released earlier than expected but did not give exact dates. The CS said that the marking of the exams is ongoing. He said that machines had been employed to mark the examination. “Marking is in progress for examination centres in Nairobi. So far, the first papers have already been marked and today’s papers will be marked using machines,” he told journalists at St Mary’s Burumba Primary School. He assured all candidates that the government took into consideration the fact that they stayed away from school for a long period due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The CS said the individuals behind the registration of pupils at a closed school in Eldoret were being investigated. “We allowed the candidates at the centre to sit exams as the multi-agency team deal with the integrity of the officers who were involved in registering them,”  Magoha said. He disclosed that pupils who were not registered in some parts of Nyanza were allowed to sit the exam. Reacting to the case of a 13-year-old pupil who failed to sit the exam from her hospital bed at Busia Referral Hospital, Magoha said it would have been an injustice to allow the candidate to begin the exam mid-way. “She underwent caesarian section and was put to sleep at the hospital and the process of waking her up was not smooth. By the time she was well enough, exams had gone on for two days. To give her justice, we shall prepare her for the next examination.” The girl said she was not aware of her pregnancy until she arrived at the hospital. “I went to school ready for the exams but started experiencing stomach pains. I didn’t know I was pregnant,” she said. Her father had earlier demanded that Magoha intervenes to ensure his daughter sits the exam. The KCPE exam ended Wednesday morning. Edited by A.N