Pedestrians and drivers have been splashed, soaked and discouraged over the years during the rainy season in the Central Business District. Major roads turn into rivers of dirty water, the worst cases being on busy Moi Avenue and Tom Mboya Street. Pedestrians hop and jump, others are pulled by carts to avoid getting drenched. The rainy season is on its way and again authorities have been accused of ignoring the problem. Nairobi Central MCA Daniel Ngegi on Tuesday said a lasting solution must be found. He said he will initiate talks among stakeholders to deliberate on how the drainage system can be rebuilt. The first step is keeping roads, pavements and drains clean. The current system was constructed during the colonial era and was designed to serve fewer than 500,000 people. The population is now almost five million. “The solution to flooding is all about drainage. What causes drainage lines to block is mainly solid waste, which was due to the polythene bags before Nema banned them,” he said. Even though the bags were banned, other garbage still finds its way into the drains, blocking them. An attempt to tackle the problem was made in April 2018 when Nairobi acquired a 25 million flusher machine to unblock drains. It was part of programmes funded by the World Bank under the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project. It started in December 2012 and was expected to be completed by late May 2019. Three years later, the machine has not been utilised to solve the flooding crisis. The city still grapples with poor waste disposal. Some collected garbage is placed near open drains and gets washed down inside, causing clogging and flooding. "At least we have the Nairobi Metropolitan Services attempting to cut away all the debris from around the drainages, which is a good sign that things will be better,” Ngegi said. The NMS is also keen to fix the drainage system outside the CBD. An example is Mogadishu Road where drainage was completely reconstructed, from scratch. “We need top planners starting from engineers to road constructors to relook at the issue. The assembly, the NMS and the county government need to figure out what needs to be done,” Ngegi said. The MCA said the first step is to get the garbage contractors and sweepers back to the CBD to keep the pavements and roads clean. He proposed that in the next financial year, the assembly relooks at the danger points, decides how to correct them and allocates the required budget. “Already, CBD roads have been repaired and doing the drainage will be easier since the county has its own asphalt plant along Kangundo Road that can produce materials,” Ngedi said. In 2019, City Hall said the physical planning conducted years after Independence could no longer serve the increasing population. Vesca Kangogo, then the Water executive, said designs were based on the smaller population, "The planners did not foresee the population increase. The design of the city and major roads leading to the CBD make it hard to properly address drainage in the CBD and the city outskirts," she said. Kangogo said for the designs to be upgraded and the drainage to be realigned, some buildings would have to be brought down but that's not possible. County chief officer for roads Fredrick Karanja said the current sewer lines were designed to always flow half full but they overflow. "We need to invest in a stormwater masterplan for the entire city, which is lacking. "Inadequate design of a stormwater system automatically contributes to flooding. A big investment is required to separate the stormwater drainage and the sewer lines to stop the overflow, especially in the CBD," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)