A suggestion by Narok Senator Ledama Olekina that the public should receive the Covid-19 vaccine before politicians has stirred mixed reactions from Kenyans. Olekina said on Monday via Twitter that ordinary Kenyans should be given the first priority of the dose of the vaccine. Kenya is expected to receive the first batch of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine, 4,176,000 doses, this week. According to a dispatch from the Cabinet, the batch of the vaccines are expected to arrive in Kenya in the first week of March 2021. With the arising question of how the vaccine will be administered, Olekina decided to weigh in on the matter. "Covid Vaccines first priority should be Wanainchi not Waheshimiwa!" he said. His sentiments caused a debate across on Twitter, as some netizens questioned his suggestion. Majority seemed concerned as to why the leaders will show no rush in securing the vaccines first if indeed it was safe. Despite the vaccine having passed the WHO standards, and adopted by many countries, many Kenyans seem to be concerned. Here are some of the comments; MUTONGOI, Kyalo Musembi@musembikyalo said, "To inspire trust and confidence in the efficacy of the vaccine, we should start with the top leadership, like we have seen in other countries. Very very important!" isaac kamau@isaacka01055094 said, "On this one, you must lead from the front. Get vaccinated first then wananchi will follow." @Diana_Munanka also said, "They are our representatives so they should also represent us in this then kama iko sawa, tupewe. They always take the good things for themselves na hawajali wengine. They can as well do the same for the vaccine, sisi tutangoja." Others echoed what the Ministry of Health had earlier said about the distribution of the vaccine. According to the Ministry, the first to be vaccinated will be frontline workers, then the vulnerable and the elderly. Jadili afya@AfyaJadili said, "There is no risk category called wananchi/waheshimiwa. First priority: 1.frontline workers 2.Elderly above 60/65 depending on availability 3.Those with the most high-risk comorbid conditions. Agitate for disease registries so those with the highest risk conditions are prioritized." In some countries, politicians led in taking the vaccine to encourage citixens to follow suit. In South Africa, President Cyril Ramaphosa demonstrated his efforts in fighting coronavirus by taking the Covid-19 vaccine. Ramaphosa took the vaccine on Wednesday last week and called upon leaders in various sectors and parts of the country to lead by example and get the vaccine publicly. “We have called on leaders in various sectors and parts of the country to lead by example and get inoculated publicly. We will therefore witness some Premiers, MECs, and leaders from civil society, religious formations, and traditional leadership being vaccinated in all provinces,” Ramaphosa said.