Kenya Handball Federation (KHF) have called off their activities barely a week after resuming the 2019/2020 season. The season had tentatively been set to conclude early April upon resumption. KHF director, Charles Omondi said through a statement that he regretted the move to halt the league, adding it was in line with efforts to support the government in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. "Following the presidential directive on all sporting activities, the federation has suspended all the league matches indefinitely," read the statement in part. KHF leagues and competitions secretary George Asimeto said although the league had begun successfully, it still ran into some teething problems. "We are back to where we were in March last year. The teams were just assembling and some had registered but were having trouble getting players to suit up for the matches. "We already had a walkover despite it being the first weekend. Hopefully, we can get back to playing with some restrictions, just like the leagues were happening, soon," said Asimeto. Asimeto revealed that Round Two fixtures had already been released and teams were revving up for a fierce battle at Nyayo National Stadium Handball Court. KHF transferred the matches to the venue from Kaloleni Handball Court where the league had previously pitched camp for the past two seasons. The women's league witnessed its penultimate round on March 20, where reigning champions Nairobi Water Queens registered an emphatic win over Nanyuki with National Cereals and Produce Boards (NCPB) seeing off Kenyatta University a day later. In the men's competition, former champions Black Mamba took off on a high note with back-to-back wins over Thika and Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology. The federation had capitalised on the long Easter break to run the fixtures from Friday through Monday after which the ultimate champions would have been crowned. Strathmore University had taken command of the men's log with 34 points from 18 matches after crushing only once. Defending champions Nairobi Water were well on their way to reclaiming the title as they sat pretty at the summit on 16 points from eight wins, a narrow two-point advantage over second-placed NCPB who had played nine matches for 7 wins. 