David Wakhu’s two rounds of 66-68 have placed him in the money bracket in the ongoing Kenya Savannah Classic. The Golf Park professional made 7 birdies and 4 bogeys to close the second day on 8 under par 134. Yesterday, Wakhu fired 3 under to make up for his Magical Kenya Open quagmire, where he missed out on the cut. Wakhu has since bounced back with verve and vigour and here’s what he had to say about his fairy tale campaign in Savannah event: “I will say it’s really wonderful for me to have such a chance. We had to qualify to have this event and I am humbled to have the privilege to play and I’m enjoying it at the moment,” he said. He added: “I think it’s better to have fans because they can motivate you. The only thing is if it goes the other way, you kind of feel like the cheering group is getting discouraged in terms of getting to pull you up to help you do better. “I’m just going to stick with my game plan and my strategy. There are certain holes where I have to be aggressive and go for it and there are others where I have to back off. Probably what I’m going to try to do is hit a lot of greens in regulation and have a chance to use the surface well.” Yesterday, Wakhu made up for struggling locals among them Greg Snow and Dismas Indiza who missed the cut. Others who missed the cut were Eric Ooko, Jastas Madoya who played a plus 2 to end up with a total of+3. David Drysdale (Scotland) played 65-65, 130 (-12). He said: “I guess it was a little bit surprising after last week. Actually, I had to change driver head last week to loft up and launch it a little higher in the altitude here and I just hit too many left. I missed a lot of fairways and stalled behind a few trees. Therefore I had to go back to my old head, nine and a half and I’ve driven it fantastically so far. The head I’m using this week is the one I’ve used for the last few events before last week.” South African Daniel Van Tonder became the new leader on Day two of Savannah Classic. Three eagles in yesterday’s round saw him go to bed with a one shot lead from compatriot Justin Harding and David Drysdale who closed Day Two with a gross total of -12. The next two days will determine who will win the inaugural event.  1. Daniel Van Tonder (RSA (-7) -13 T2. David Drysdale, (-6)-12 T2.Justin Harding (Rsa) (-5) -12 T4. Darren Fichardt (-5)-11 T4. Masahiro Kawamura (-7)-11 T14. David Wakhu (-3) -8