Governor Jackson Mandago says he will divert more funding to the bursary kitty to support increased number of needy students due to effects of the Covid-19 on many families. Mandago launched a Sh100 million bursary kitty but said he was in agreement with the area county assembly to increase the funding through a supplementary budget. The money will support more than 14,000 needy students but the number will also increase once funding is enhanced. “We must however identify the very needy students in society and ensure they do not miss education because of effects of Covid-19 on their families and other poverty related challenges,” said Mandago. He spoke when he presided over the launch of distribution of Sh95 million worth of bursary cheques for needy students in the county. “The funds will benefit over 13,000 students from secondary, colleges, KMTC, VTCs and universities,” said Mandago. Speaking during the event held at the county headquarters in Eldoret town, Mandago thanked the bursary committee at ward levels for hastening the process of identifying and allocating beneficiaries. Mandago said, they will soon draft a supplementary budget that will see each ward get an additional Sh1 million for the bursary. “Bursaries allow those from less privileged families to get access to education and we thank MCAs for allowing the allocation of funds for the kitty,” the governor said. He said students in secondary schools get bursary support from the CDF kitties while those at the universities and TVET institutions received funding through the Higher Education Loans Board (HELB). “That’s why in future we will shift focus to students in vocational colleges,” said Mandago. County Education executive Joseph Kurgat said the bursary kitty had helped increase access to education and improve retention in schools within the county. Kurgat said of the total Sh 95 million bursary, 13,897 students will benefit, out of which 10,572 are from secondary schools, 716 from Vocational Training Centers, 361 KMTC, 990 from various colleges and 1,258 university students. Uasin Gishu County Assembly Education Committee chairperson Noah Kemboi, who was also present, said the county bursary committees had done well in identifying the needy students and moving quickly to disburse the money. He however called for an increase of the budgetary allocation to the education department.