Many state agencies were facing a salary crisis after Treasury failed to include their pay in the Sh120.8 billion supplementary budget request. They were not allocated funds. The exact amount was not disclosed but salaries form a large chunk of the Sh62 billion extra cash the ministry needs to cover budget shortfalls in this financial year. Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani has asked MPs to consider the request as an amendment to the supplementary estimates the House is yet to approve. It is not clear how the Treasury left out the huge amounts – largely for salaries of workers at state agencies – in the supplementary budget members were about to approve last Thursday. In the new request, Yatani seeks approval for an additional Sh45 billion for development expenditure and Sh15 billion for recurrent spending – with some ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) set to win, others to lose, Treasury seeks to provide Sh400 million to enhance State House’s operation and maintenance budget; Sh30 million for rent shortfall and Sh50 million for operations. Nairobi Metropolitan Services will lose Sh1.2 billion, monies meant for a water renewal project, installation of street lighting and general city improvement. The Interior department has been allocated Sh1 billion for recruitment of police officers. Treasury says the listing is self-financing. “The amount has been surrendered by the State Department for Correctional Services,” Treasury said in amended supplementary estimates. The Interior ministry’s allocation of Sh1.5 billion for the national secure communications and surveillance has been reduced. The Devolution ministry is set to shed Sh1.5 billion while the ASAL department will get Sh300 million more for salaries at National Drought Management Authority. An additional Sh402 million will cover salary shortfalls at the Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development. The Treasury has equally shed Sh11 billion, being a reduction of Sh6.5 billion for the Equalisation Fund, Sh1.35 billion for equity participation, Sh1 billion under the  Contingency Fund and Sh2 billion in the recurrent budget. Treasury also wants to reduce the allocation of Sh4.2 billion from its group personal assurance accounts. The Planning department, however, will get an increase of Sh10.14 billion to cater for NG-CDF (Sh10 billion), Sh30 million for the New Partnership for Africa's Development, Sh75 million for the Population Council and Sh10 million for salaries of Kenya Institution for Policy Research and Analysis. The Health ministry’s budget is also being increased to provide Sh500 million for National Aids Control Council staff salaries and Sh850 million for Covid-19 response. Treasury has also provided Sh6 billion to MOH for reinstatement of cuts that affected Universal Health Coverage accounts, and Sh300 million to restore salaries of Kenya Medical Research Institute staff. The roads budget has been reduced by Sh3.75 billion, although an additional  Sh400 million has been provided for the Masalani-Malindi Road and Sh30 million for the Kisima-Renyenje Road. The Rail Transport Budget will lose Sh2.8 billion, which will slow rehabilitation of the Kisumu-Nakuru metre gauge railway (Sh800 million) and the Naivasha-Longonot line (Sh2.8 billion). Yatani has provided Sh200 million to reinstate salaries for Kenya Ferry Services and Sh400 million for salaries for National Construction Authority. Treasury has also provided Sh200 million to Nema; Sh20 million for the National Environmental Complaints Committee; Sh20 million for Netfund; Sh400 million for KFS; Sh200 million for the Kenya Fisheries Research Institute; Sh100 million for the Kenya Water Tower Agency and Sh230 million for tree planting under Economic Stimulus Package. Sh10 million will go to the Kenya Water Institute for reinstatement of salaries; Sh100 million for Water Resources Authority and a further Sh20 million for National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority for salary reinstatement. Salaries for various water service boards were also not provided. MPs are now asked to reinstate Sh50 million for Athi Water Services, Sh20 million for Lake Victoria South, Sh20 million for Lake Victoria North, Sh30 million for Rift Valley, Sh100 million for Coast Water, Sh10 million for Tana, Sh20 million for Northern Water Works; and Sh10 million for Tanathi. Treasury has reduced an allocation of Sh3.3 billion for  works at the Northern Collector Tunnel, the Dandora Sewerage works and Nairobi Expressway. Some Sh400 million has been taken away from the Galana Kulalu project and Sh100 million provided for salaries of National Irrigation Authority staff. The Lands ministry has been granted Sh500 million more for land digitisation while Sh400 million for purchase of land at the Coast region has been sliced off. Sh86 million has been reinstated to the Government Advertising Agency  and another Sh20 million for salaries to Kenya Yearbook staff. Treasury is seeking to restore salaries for Kenya Institute of Mass Communication  staffers at Sh20 million; Sh100 million for Sports Kenya; Sh214 million for salaries to Sports, Arts and Social Development Fund workers. National Museums of Kenya workers were also to miss allocations for salaries, which now will be restored to Sh389 million; so is Kenya Library Services’ Sh250 million and Sh2 million for Kenya Cultural Centre. The Geothermal Development Corporation has been allocated Sh100 million for salaries and utilities, the same provided for Rural Electrification Authority. Approval for additional Sh300 million is sought for salaries to the Kenya Marine Fisheries Institute workers; Sh120 million for salaries of staff at various agencies under the Crop Department. Treasury wants MPs' approval for Sh405 million for salaries at the Agriculture and Food Authority; Sh20 million for Pests Control Products Board, Sh50 million for the Plant Health Inspectorate Service and Sh400 million for the Kenya Agricultural an Livestock Research Organisation. The Trade department is set for an additional Sh393 million. That includes  Sh70 million for external trade negotiations, Sh23.8 million for new Trade CAS’ salaries, allowances, and operations, Sh100 million for the Anti-Counterfeit Authority, Sh200 million for salaries to the Micro and Small Enterprise Authority and the Export Promotion Board staff. Sh160 million has been provided for salaries to Kenya Industrial Estates (Sh50 million), Export Processing Zone Authority (Sh60 million), the  Kenya Investment Authority (Sh50 million) while Kenya Industrial Research Institute staffers are set for Sh274 million Salaries of National Industrial Training Institute workers have also been provided at Sh150 million, Sh30 million for Tourism Regulatory Authority; Sh20 million for Bomas of Kenya and Sh20 million for the Kenya Tourism Board. Salaries for the Public Service Commission staff have been restored at Sh133.6 million, as are NYS salaries at Sh300 million and Sh10 million for the Nairobi Centre for International Arbitrators. Several Semi Autonomous Government Agencies under the State Law Office had also not been allocated Sh40 million for their salaries; and a further Sh135 million for various agencies under the department. They are to be restored. The EACC will also get Sh40 million which had been committed to an ongoing project but was yet to be provided. The budget includes Sh345 million for Garissa, Juja, Bonchari and Ruiru by-elections. (Edited by V. Graham)