Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has proved his political prowess in Ukambani after his candidate Agnes Kavindu won the Machakos senatorial by-election on Thursday. Kavindu was declared the winner by the Machakos county returning officer Joyce Wamalwa after she garnered 104,352 votes against her closest rival Urbanus Ngengele of United Democratic Alliance who managed 19,726 votes. Wamalwa said 130,617 votes were cast in the by-election, a voter turnout of just 20.95 per cent. There are 622,965 registered voters in Machakos county according to the electoral body. John Mutua Katuku who pulled out at the last minute got 1,476, Simon Kioko Kitheka 1,448, Jonathan Makenzi Maweu 155, Stanley Masai Muindi 95, Francis Musembi Munyambu 1,461, John Kioko Musingi 687 and Lilly Nduku Mwanzia received 927 votes. She continued, “With that, I take this opportunity to invite Agnes Kavindu Muthama to receive her certificate. Agnes Kavindu Muthama has been duly elected as the Senator of Machakos in the by-election conducted on March 18.” Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti and East Africa Community secretary general Peter Mathuki accompanied Kavindu during her declaration as the winner. Machakos county commissioner Fredrick Ndunga urged citizens to observe Covid-19 protocols as they engage in their daily activities. Ngengele conceded defeat stating that he was preparing to contest for the same seat in 2022. "It is the first time. I have been preparing for 2022 for the same senatorial seat. This was just a by the way. I thank Deputy President William Ruto among other leaders for their support too." Kavindu thanked God and the people of Machakos for their love for Wiper party and herself. She thanked Kalonzo and President Uhuru Kenyatta for supporting her. Kavindu said she will work according to the President’s direction. She promised to support Uhuru. She called on her opponents to join hands with her so that they work for Machakos residents. The senator-elect called on Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua to work with her. “When doing the work of a senator of oversighting Mutua, Governor of Machakos County, I respect you. I want you to corporate so that we deliver for the people of Machakos,” Kavindu said. Mavoko MP Patrick Makau the by-election proved Kalonzo Musyoka remains the Ukambani political kingpin. He told UDA supporters to fold the party in the Ukambani region and join Wiper to push Kalonzo to State House in 2022. “We walked when we were underdogs but today, we are winners. UDA is dead on arrival. We want to ask you to wind up your party and support Kalonzo in 2022,” Makau said. With former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama as UDA chairman, the DP used his close political allies in the region MPs Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town), Vincent Musyoka (Mwala) and Nimrod Mbai (Kitui East) to campaign for Ngengele in vain. Edited by Henry Makori