The immediate former head of security at Standard Chartered Bank has moved to court seeking Sh53.5 million as compensation for unfair dismissal. Geoffrey Komu, who was fired in July last year, says he was unfairly and unlawfully terminated by the bank in breach of the law. Komu says until his dismissal, he served diligently as the head of Security for Kenya and East Africa. He wants the court to award him Sh10.2 million in damages for unfair termination which will be an equivalent of his 12 months salary and another Sh 8.3 million award which will be his service pay for the six years he worked at the bank. Komu wants the bank to also pay him Sh35 million, being damages and compensation for breach of fundamental rights and loss of reputation. He says due to his dismissal, he has effectively been denied the opportunity to recover gainful employment as a result of the manner and alleged grounds of his termination from employment. Komu says he has a young family and children who are wholly dependent on him for their livelihood and the bank has subjected him to 'pauperism'. “The quantum of damages under this claim is modest and takes into account the fact that the Claimant’s professional reputation is damaged beyond redemption and he is not in a position to acquire gainful employment within his remaining employable life from the date of his unfair termination,” read court documents. He wants general damages for mental anguish, torture and trauma resulting from the "discriminative and inhumane treatment" accorded him. According to court records, some of the reasons for his termination were he allegedly forwarded emails to an external email thus breaching the Bank’s confidentiality and data regulations. The bank said he failed to ensure that the CCTV supplied met the Bank’s standards and he also commissioned poor quality work thus exposing the Bank to risks. Komu has challenged the disciplinary process, arguing that it was tainted with procedural unfairness and breach of rules of natural justice.