He was not yet born when AFC Leopards last won the league title but Lewis Bandi and the contingent of youthful players at the ‘Den’ are aching to end that agonising wait. For the first time since their promotion back into the Kenyan Premier League back in 2007, Leopards can be considered real title contenders and for good reason. With two games in hand, Ingwe find themselves just seven points off top spot and there are many indication that this could yet be their season. The reason why the 12-time league champions are odds on favourites to end their wait for the national championship since 1998 is the contingent presence of youthful ebullient players in their ranks. Among them is fullback Bandi, who has been the ever present for coach Patrick Ausemm’s side, who possess the league’s meanest defence having conceded a measly nine goals in 14 outings. Bandi nurtured his career at the Makadara Junior League located in Hamza, Makadara Constituency in Nairobi. He considers the time spent there as having prepared him for the rumble and tumble of life in the topflight league. “It definitely made me ready to take the plunge into competitive football because we had to endure a lot in order to make it there. There were a lot of talented players to compete against and if you were not tough, you were never going to make it and there are many who have fallen by the wayside,” said Bandi. Like most kids, growing up in Eastlands brought with it the challenges of making it big in football. But having seen his idols rise from playing in junior leagues to wearing the national team, Harambee Stars’ colours, Bandi knew he had to endure in order to enjoy. “It was a big challenge at first because we were the founder members of Makadara Junior League. We didn’t have football equipment to use and it was a big challenge for me. I didn’t have proper shoes and kit to use during that time but I knew I had to dig in to realise my dream of playing as a pro footballer,” said Bandi. The Under-20 international had numerous figures to look up to as he charted his own path into the game. Chief among them was versatile Kariobangi Sharks and Harambee Stars defender Samuel  Olwande. “Olwande inspired me in playing football and I admired his style of play because he was full of confidence on the pitch and it is something I intended to emulate because that is also my personality. I am a strong character both inside and outside the pitch,” said Bandi who admires Real Madrid and Brazil left-back Marcelo Vieira da Silva Junior. His path towards a career in the Kenyan premier League was forged pretty early as he featured and was selected in the Chapa Dimba All Stars team that toured Spain in 2019. “I also played for AFC Leopards Youth in the KPL Under-20 tournaments and from there, they saw the potential in me hence taking the next step into senior football was easier,” he said. His move to AFC Leopards was particularly a celebratory one for him as he grew up supporting the club as did members of his family who were elated when he made the big leap into topflight football wearing the famous Rio Tinto strips of Ingwe. “My family was very happy to hear the good news that I had joined one of the biggest clubs in Kenya. It is what makes me work hard to impress and hopefully achieve some great moments with the club,” said the 20-year-old. Bandi credits his journey to the topflight league to his coaches at the Makadara Youth League and Hakati FC, where he started playing lower league football. “I definitely have a lot of gratitude to my academy coaches from Makadara Junior League for the hard times they went through with me and they didn’t give up because they saw potential in me. Stanley Achima and many more were influential in the player I am today.” He also recognises the support and lessons he learnt under the tutelage of his coaches at the Leopards Junior team, which prepared him for life as a serious professional. “I credit even my coaches from AFC Leopards Youth team Boniface Ambani, Martin Aganda and others for disciplining me and moulding me into who I am today,” said the player, who was part of Stanley Okumbi’s Rising Stars team that finished second in the Cecafa Under-20 Championships in 2019. “Our experience in Tanzania in the run up to the final proved to us that working as a team and staying together as a family in each and every circumstances can lead to greater things. We used to give each other psych and loved one another without any discrimination which led us to attain good results in the team even though we did not  get our target which was to win the competition,” said the player who spends most of his free time watching movies and listening to music Though still in the formative stages of his career, Bandi doesn’t shy away from looking into the future. He acknowledges that to reach your goals in the future, you must work hard now. “In the short term, I am fully focused on trying to help the team (Leopards) achieve our objective which is to win the league title with my fellow teammates and technical bench and club as a whole. I know what it would mean to our fans to get our hands on the KPL trophy,” said the player who was not yet born when Ambani and company last lifted the league title in 1998. Though still young, some of Bandi’s main aim in football is to inspire the youths and prove to them that there are rewards if one is able to use his or her talent well. “I have seen what drugs and peer pressure has done to destroy the careers of many talented young footballers. I want to strive to leave by example so that when I go back, I can stand up tall and be able to help ‘ball za mtaa’ (community football),” he concludes  PLAYER BIO Name: Lewis Bandi DOB: December 1, 2002 Nationality: Kenyan Club: AFC Leopards Previous Clubs: Hakati Sportiff Position: Fullback Achievements: Runners-up Cecafa Under-20 (2019); Chapa Dimba All Stars (2019)