An audit report indicates the Nyamira government may have paid Sh2.8 billion to ghost workers as salaries and personal emoluments in 2018-19. The report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu shows the county paid 736 officers outside the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database system, which is required to be used. The payment method raised concerns whether the staffers were validly employed. The county did not provide for audit review supporting documents relating to the recruitment process such as the existence of 736 vacancies, advertisement for jobs, shortlisted candidates and interview reports. An evaluation of personnel records revealed that during the year under review, the executive also failed to provide recruitment minutes, appointment letters and human resource advisory committee reports on the appointments. “Analysis of the monthly gross pay rise of Sh3 million for staff is not supported with documents such as approved pay change advices, County Public Service Board minutes, human resource advisory committee minutes as well as letters of promotion,” the audit report reads. In addition, the auditor said at least 1,565 officers have been on probation period of six months as provided for in the Employment Act, 2007. “Consequently, the accuracy, completeness and validity of the compensation of employees of Sh2.8 billion reflected in the statement of receipts and payments for the year ended June 30, 2019, could not be confirmed,” the auditor states. “In the circumstances, the county executive may face challenges while placing staff in the appropriate jobs since the available positions are not properly identified and denied in the organisational structure,” the audit said. The auditor said the county executive awarded a tender to construct its county headquarters to a contractor who had abandoned the site despite being paid Sh32.5 million. During the year under review, the audit shows the executive awarded a tender for the construction of the headquarters for Sh383 million for three years, effective July 11, 2018. “Physical verification in September 2019 revealed the foundation for both wings A and B had been completed and the first floor slab for wing A and the basement slab for wing B had been done with pillars in place in readiness for the second floor for wing A and first floor slab for wing B,” the auditor said. However, the contractor had abandoned the project and was not on site. “Management did not avail supporting documents showing why the project had stalled,” the audit said. Similarly, the county assembly paid more than Sh2.5 million to ghost workers in the 2018-19 financial year, the audit said. However, the payroll revealed a number of employees earning less than a third of their basic pay contrary to Section 19(3) of the Employment Act, 2917. Gathungu said Sh2.5 million was paid to 20 ward staffers outside the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database system. “Management did not avail supporting documents for audit review for the recruitment of ward staff such as advertisements, interview process, shortlisting schedule and subsequent evidence of their admission in the staff establishment,” the audit reads. (Edited by V. Graham)