The Dock Workers Union national treasurer Joseph Makero has blocked the Sh6.67 million hefty package for outgoing officials. A National Executive Council meeting on September 16 last year resolved to source for money and pay the outgoing officials. The NEC has at least 26 officials with their time ending on April 12. The send-off package was to be sourced as a loan from Absa Bank on March 3. In a letter dated March 5 and addressed to chairman Mohamed Sheria, Makero said the NEC erred in making the resolution. “The expenditure is not included in the union’s  Constitution Article 19:7. If this send-off must be paid, then I suggest we refer it to a special conference to make a decision,”  Makero said in the letter. The national treasurer is part of the NEC and would have benefitted from the package. Another NEC meeting on January 14 resolved that the union’s urgent focus should be to source funds for the upcoming union elections, set for May 13. Sheria said he concurs with Makero’s concerns saying the union has suffered a misappropriation of funds before and prudent use of the available funds must be initiated. “The law does not provide for such send-off package so if someone wants it they must take the matter before all members to seek their approval,” Sheria said on  Thursday on phone. He said the NEC has no authority to approve such use of funds. DWU general secretary Simon Sang said he would address the matter later. At the same time, the May 13 election date has been opposed by aspirants for different positions in the union, especially Sang’s general secretary position. The aspirants, led by Kanga Maganga said the election date is most likely to fall on Idd-ul-Fitr which will mean low turnout. “Our Muslim brothers are concerned that the date is not favourable for them. It must be changed,”  Maganga, who is eying the general secretary position said. Abubakar Mohammed said the holy month of Ramadhan is likely to start on April 12 or 13 and end on May 12 or 13. “This means Idd will most likely fall on May 13. The election date is not favourable for us,”  Abubakar said. Other general secretary aspirants who have raised concern about the date include Siyat Abdullahi, Omar Masumbuko, Edward Opiyo, Said Chande and Harrison Lusigi. The union’s NEC on Tuesday settled on the election date after months of speculation and accusations of deliberate delay. “All candidates are required to apply for the respective candidature by contacting the secretariat through the administrator at the union offices,” reads a circular signed by Sang. Sang is expected to fight it out with at least 18 others for his position, with accusations and counter-accusations of being sponsored by cartels with interests at the Mombasa Port. A total of 13 positions are up for grabs. These include the national chairperson, vice-chairperson, general secretary, assistant general secretary, national gender chairperson, national treasurer, assistant national treasurer, three trustees, two young workers and zonal gender committee member. “The administrator will provide the requirements before applications that will start immediately and close on April 4,” the circular reads.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris