Machakos senatorial by-election candidates have turned to prerecorded audio messages to mobilise voters following the suspension of political rallies due to Covid-19. On Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said no person will be allowed to hold large public gatherings for the next 30 days regardless of their standing in society. The ban threw the senatorial by-election campaigns into disarray and parties and their candidates had to find new ways of reaching out to the electorate. On Sunday, several politicians traversed the county. Afraid that rallies would attract the wrath of law enforcers, they said they were on meet-the-people tours. Voters go to the polls on Thursday and the campaigns have entered the homestretch. Rallies would have ended on Monday had the Head of State not issued the directive. Despite pronouncements that they supported the directive, some candidates accompanied by their supporters and legislators, visited churches to drum up support for their bids. The tours attracted criticism from some quarters as the churches were full to capacity. They are required to accommodate not more than a third of their capacity. But there was no social distancing and some congregants had no masks. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, for instance, led lawmakers and supporters to AIC Mumando and AIC Athi River in Machakos town and First Baptist Church in Mavoko. He urged the faithful to vote for Wiper candidate Agnes Kavindu for divine guidance. “The people of Machakos have a single opportunity to grasp godly leadership. Kavindu has become the most popular among residents. “Today would have been to another 'Uhuru Park' in Athi River, but we support the presidential directive to suspend political rallies. “On March 18, get to the polling stations very early in the morning and cast your votes for Agnes Kavindu,” Kalonzo said at AIC Athi River church. The party formed several teams to reach as many voters as possible. Kalonzo was accompanied by senators Mutula Kilonzo Jnr (Makueni), Enock Wambua (Kitui) and Sylvia Kasanga (nominated). Others were Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti, MPs Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti), woman representatives Joyce Kamene (Machakos), Rose Museo (Makueni) and Irine Kasalu (Kitui) and former Kibwezi West MP Kalembe Ndile. And to be able to reach more voters with their message before the D-Day, they had to be creative. As Kalonzo and his entourage left First Baptist Church in Athi River, they only waved to supporters. On their way to Mlolongo town, they did not not utter a word. Instead, Kalonzo and Kavindu's prerecorded rallying calls were replayed from two vehicles mounted with public address systems. They also played 'Kavaa Mama' song, with supporters dancing to the tune. Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Mutua Katuku also attended a service at AIC Kasina church in Mlolongo before moving around the town to popularise his candidacy. “I have scaled down my campaigns, so should my opponents. It is critical for the rest of the politicians to observe the ban in order to safeguard lives,” Katuku said. "I have decided to comply with the President's directive to stop rallies because they are posing a big threat to our supporters. I urge other candidates to support the president." Maendeleo Chap Chap, for its part, bought airtime in all Kamba radio stations to play Katuku’s prerecorded campaign messages multiple times on a daily basis. MCC party leader Alfred Mutua backed the directive on rallies stating that his administration will team up with other security agencies to enforce it. Mutua said although the by-election is scheduled for this week, it was critical to stop all political gatherings in the public interest to safeguard health. “I support fully this call for politicians—myself included—to desist from holding political meetings and rallies. This is the time for saving lives. I ask my colleagues everywhere to obey the law. Here in Machakos where a by-election is approaching, my party of Maendeleo Chap Chap will obey the law,” he said. “We are not going to hold rallies. We will protect the lives of our people according to Covid-19 protocols. My inspectorate team, together with the police, is ready to arrest any person who defies the directive even if it is myself.” Ten candidates will square it off. They are Katuku, Kavindu, Stanley Muindi (Party of Economic Democracy), Jonathan Maweu (independent), Francis Munyambu (independent), Sebastian Nthama (independent), Simeon Kitheka (Grand Dream Development Party) and Musembi Nthenge of Ford Asili. (Edited by F'Orieny)