Candidates who will catch Covid-19 during KCPE and KCSE exams will be required to write their exams in an isolation room within their school. Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna on Tuesday said the institutions will be required to prepare their isolation facilities to handle such students. In September, the Education ministry instructed school heads to create an isolation room for handling students with suspected Covid-19. The isolation facilities were to be equipped with basic medical supplies and hold learners with symptoms as they await emergency response teams. “Even before the examination period, schools had been instructed to set up isolation centres. Those who fall sick will take the examinations from this centres that are within the school compound,” Oguna said. Oguna spoke in Nairobi during the weekly media briefing. Indimuli Kahi, the Kenya Secondary School Heads Association, on Tuesday said schools have prepared the isolation rooms in readiness for the exams. “The isolation rooms have been there since January as instructed but mostly idle because most schools have not witnessed major infection cases. We expect the same during the exam period but we have planned to ensure that the exam is not disrupted in the case of an infection,” Kahi told the Star on phone. A section of stakeholders had suggested a resit of exams for those who might fall ill. The proposal had been fronted by Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo who said it would ensure fairness as the learners would be disadvantaged by falling ill. KCPE exams begin on March 22 and ends on March 24 for 1,187,517 candidates. KCSE candidates will have their rehearsals on March 25 before sitting the exam from March 26 to April 21. Some 751,150 candidates are to take the test. Oguna said the exams will be conducted with strict observance of Covid-19 guidelines. He said that the government has put in place measures to ensure candidates displaced by floods and inter-communal feuds have been transferred to other schools.