A man in Kisumu on Friday morning snatched a pistol from a traffic police officer and shot dead two people at the Kisumu Bus Park. In the shooting spree at about 8.20 am, two people including a traffic police officer Joel Migiro sustained serious injuries. The officer was rushed to Aga Khan Hospital. According to a police report the officer was shot on his pelvic and the bullet exited through the stomach. The report said Migiro was controlling traffic at the BP roundabout near Kisumu Boys High School when he was accosted by the shooter. The shooter was wearing a marvin on his head, with only his eyes visible and gloves on both hands. He disarmed the officer and overpowered him before shooting him on his pelvic. The officer was rushed to Aga Khan Hospital Kisumu for treatment. His condition is serious but stable. The police report said the perpetrator entered the bus park and was shooting aimlessly before entering Yasmin hotel. One officer attached to the bus park followed him up and grabbed him, and with the help of the members of the public he was subdued and a Ceska pistol with no rounds of ammunition recovered. He was subjected to mob injustice and died immediately. On search of his body, three national identification bearing different names were recovered from him. One of the IDs by the names Glen Ochieng is believed to be his. He was aged 21 years old. Others were Joseph Otieno Masaka of ID number 30907236 and Joseph Odeny Mutula. In the police report, it was further established that the perpetrator shot Martin Wasonga Wachanje (42) and Jared Ouma Jabuya on their chest and died. They died on arrival at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. Their bodies are at the hospital’s mortuary. Other victims who sustained injuries are Hezbon Okoth (23) who had gunshot wounds on both legs below the knees. His condition is stable. Elly Ochieng (22) also sustained on his left-hand index finger, Lilian Awino (35) have a gunshot wound on both legs.  Her condition is stable. Another victim, a male person whose only one name was found as Kushkin was shot on the head and is in serious condition. The four victims are being treated at Kisumu county hospital. The DCI Kisumu Central is investigating the shooting incident. However, Kisumu Central OCPD Peter Katam and County police commander Samuel Anampiu refused to comment on the incident. Katam instead referred the Star to Anampiu. “Please talk to the county commander,” he said on phone on Friday. Anampiu did not pick up calls or responded to messages sent to him for comment on the matter. A mortuary attendant at JOOTRH revealed that he received two bodies with gunshot wounds.