Is there bad blood between a Nairobi MP and his counterpart from Nyanza region? Those who have been monitoring their actions and speeches on the floor of the House say the two have no kind words for each other. When they get a chance to speak, they throw jabs at each other in what is seen as a supremacy fight on legislative procedures. And even along the corridors of Parliament (pictured), their cold war is still evident in how they try as much as possible to avoid coming into contact. It is only the two legislators who know the genesis of their wars. *** Employees of a state agency are wondering aloud who could be protecting a certain manger who works in a critical department. The man who heads an influential department for the agency which has branches in all major towns is said to be very incompetent. Despite lurching from one mistake to another, he has remained untouchable. However, juniors working under him have been victimised and end up being sacked. For instance, last year, some containers carrying expensive chemicals went missing in unclear circumstances. But instead of the manager being told to show cause, he was moved from Mombasa to Kisumu. Word has it the man could soon be promoted to one of the vacant positions. *** A governor from one of the counties in western Kenya was involved in run-in with boda boda operators when he stopped his motorcade to answer a short call by the roadside. The operators, who were nearby, rushed to greet the county chief and perhaps get some handouts but they were  ignored. Upon realising they would not get a single cent, the operators decided to embarrass the governor with chants of “Jenga choo za uma (Construct public toilets)." The county chief could only pretend that the shouts were not directed at him as he walked back to his official vehicle with his bodyguards in tow. *** A government service provider in Nairobi’s Eastlands area has become the epitome of frustrations. The office in Donholm has perfected the art of subjecting clients - the taxpayers – to unwarranted pain. Several Kenyans who have been seeking service from the office have told Corridors that it takes between two and six months for one to be served. Depending on how you grease the palms of the officers, the delay may be longer. The sweet talk laced with cheap public relations  will take you in circles until you grease their palms before you get services. Residents appeal to Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to crack the whip.