For almost a month now, Bungoma county residents' taps have been dry after Kenya Power disconnected electricity to a water firm over Sh20 million bill. Residents who depend on Nzoia Water and Sewerage Company are forced to walk long distances to fetch the commodity from privately-owned boreholes. “Our taps have been dry for close to a month now, with no explanation from the management,” resident Mary Nafula from Namachanja estate said. She said she fetches water from a borehole owned by a church. “You have to wake up early and queue the entire day to get a 20-litre jerrycan of water, which is not even enough for our daily needs,” Nafula said. Health experts have cited the crisis as dangerous, especially during this third wave of Covid-19. “The county government and Nzowasco should act with speed to restore normalcy because the trend is dangerous at this time of Covid-19,” public health expert Mark Kisembe said. A source at Nzowasco told the Star that Kenya Power has declined to engage in negotiations. “KPLC has declined all negotiations and is insisting that water will only be reconnected after the money owed is paid,” the source, who did not want to be named, said. County KPLC manager Eric Langat on Thursday confirmed that they had disconnected power at Madisi water treatment plant over unpaid bills. He, however, dismissed claims that they did not engage the water firm in negotiations. "It is not that we disconnected without negotiations. We tried our best and gave them enough time and ultimatums in vain," Langat said. Nzowasco managing director Mathews Maruti said the problem had been caused by low water bill payments from consumers. He said this was occasioned by a misconception that customers should not pay water and electricity bills due to Covid-19 pandemic. Last year, the government directed that no Kenyan should be subjected to disconnection on account of failure to pay bills. “Kenyans should continue to receive essential services. The rest, we will talk about when we have defeated this pandemic,” said President Uhuru Kenyatta in a radio interview at State House, Nairobi, on April 22. Maruti said Bungoma residents interpreted this to mean that they were not to pay water bills. He clarified that water was only allowed to be supplied to informal settlement like slums of Mandizini in Bungoma and Kipsongo in Trans Nzoia from the Covid-19 funds that were sent to counties. "Our water production in both counties of Bungoma and Trans Nzoia has been very expensive since our treatment plants in Nabuyole, Matisi and Nzoia in Kitale that consume lots of electricity have been adversely affected," he said. Maruti said the firm, which supplies water to Trans Nzoia and Bungoma counties, has no external funding and solely depends on customer payments to meet its daily operations. "We have recently done an internal audit and we have discovered that we have lots of unpaid bills," he said. He said that Kenya Power has been very strict and wants bills paid. Maruti urged residents of Bungoma and Trans Nzoia to pay their outstanding water bills for efficient service delivery. "We are aware that the effects of Covid-19 are very devastating, but we are kindly asking our customers to pay for us to serve them effectively," he said. Nzowasco chairperson Rebecca Masibayi blamed contractors undertaking the construction of Kanduyi Musikoma dual carriageway, saying they had destroyed most of the water pipes. “We have spoken to the department of water at the county level to liaise with their roads counterparts to force the contractor to reconnect the destroyed pipes,” she said. 