Members of Parliament on Tuesday put up a fight for Speaker Justin Muturi's attention in efforts to woo him to join their various political parties. Kanu, ODM, and Jubilee MPs attempted to court the speaker to work with the outfits ahead of the 2022 elections. In hearty congratulatory messages to the speaker on his coronation as the Mt Kenya spokesman by the Njuri Ncheke elders, they hailed Muturi as the voice of reason in the country. Other lawmakers called on the speaker to help restore calm in the face of the storm brewing ahead of the 2022 politics, including . The speaker was crowned as Mt Kenya spokesman by the powerful council in what has been hailed as positioning for bigger roles in the 2022 succession matrix. Leader of Majority Amos Kimunya said: "There has to be some pillars between us and you (Muturi) provide that focal point for us. I am looking forward to this day when we will sit as elders and continue the celebrations, and more importantly the new role of uniting Kenyans." Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, an ally of Deputy President William Ruto, called on Muturi to to speak on behalf of those who have no voice, saying the Hustler movement would be best. "Be firm and speak for the hustler nation," he said. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, also a Ruto ally, said the speaker cannot afford to rest, and has to aim higher, asking him to "follow where the people are." "Now that you are the spokesperson of the entire region, you can only go higher than the deputy president, or president," the MP said, adding that the speaker fits the bill as the country's politics is "moving from the big names". ODM also put forth its case with Gem MP Elisha Odhiambo saying Muturi is best suited to work with its party leader Raila Odinga. He said: “I am sure when we come to Mt Kenya, Baba (ODM leader Raila Odinga) will be dealing with somebody he knows very well.” Uriri MP Mark Nyamitta, for his part, added: "You are the first sitting speaker to come to my constituency. You made history in my area. I remember the prayer was that you were set for bigger things. History will be that you will be the first deputy president to come to my constituency. I know the plans that Baba has for you." Gitonga Murungara said: "We know there were no political overtones, there are many things are being said about it. I'd advise you to be careful not to be yoked by politicians who have no bright future, especially in terms of the presidency." He said "Kenyans are looking forward to Muturi's promotion to be number two or number one." The lawmakers, taking a short break from normal business, said it was not by chance that he was crowned but because of his leadership. The politicians said the coronation was a sign of trust in the speaker, citing the wise counsel he has provided the House during stormy moments. “The work that you will do with that new role is enormous. We are in a situation where no one knows who leads which party, which forces are fighting. You can use the new role to unite this country,” Ugenya MP David Ochieng’ said. Nominated MP David Sankok said it was a honour that the Ncheke chose Muturi for the crown, making him the fifth after the late President Jomo Kenyatta, former President Mwai Kibaki; President Uhuru Kenyatta and Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi. “We refer to you as our mobile encyclopedia. We learn a lot from you. Your voice will roar in the mountain,” Sankok said. Gladys Wanga, Homa Bay Woman MP, said what the Njuri elders saw 'is a child who has grown'. "If there is anybody with the huge amount of experience, it is you. Your coronation is well deserved," Wanga said. Tiaty MP William Kamket asked Muturi to return to Kanu so that they can work with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi to form the next government. “I would beseech you to go back to the House that nurtured you, that is Kanu and work with Gideon as we form the next government,” the Tiaty lawmaker said. Nyando MP Jared Okello said: “It could not have come at a better time. We have a crisis as a nation. We see a lot of division in this country. We have been looking for a voice of reason and one that can preach peace in the face of disunity. The Njuri Ncheke saw this in you.” Okelo said Parliament, under speaker Muturi’s leadership, will play a pivotal role in uniting the country. “How I wish we will rise above politics and unite this country.” Kieni MP Kanini Kega said the speaker is number three in the pecking order hence the new role is another feather added to Muturi’s hat. “There are so many of us who are envious of the installation and there are others who are jealous. We are behind you and we will support you,” the MP said. Gilgil MP Martha Wangari said: “You cannot be limited to Mbeere and Mt Kenya East. We expect your tentacles to go across the entire country,” Wangari said. Deputy Speaker Moses Cheboi, on a light touch, said the Njuri Ncheke should have also taken him as the deputy spokesman. Wajir Woman MP Fatuma Gedi said: “I have no doubt you (Muturi) are one person who would unite the country. I have learned from you following the humility with which you have led this House.”