Voting passed off peacefully on Thursday in the Machakos senatorial by-election in which turnout was low and the security presence formidable. Leaders complained voters were scared away by police deployed to prevent violence like that witnessed in the Matungu and other by-elections on March 4. The most exciting moment might have been Wiper candidate Agnes Kavindu's aggravation after a biometric device failed to read her fingerprints. The device rejected her prints when she went to cast her vote at Kathome Trading Centre polling station in Machakos Town. She tried again and again, cleaning her hands with her dress and wet wipes, in vain. Finally, Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti wiped her hands with a cloth. At last, it worked. All along, Kavindu blamed an IEBC official who she claimed sanitised her hands against her will, leading to the problem. “I told him not to sanitise my hands but he refused, now you see,” Kavindu complained. She also complained about a pen she was given to mark the ballot paper. It was filled with ink but had no tip. She was given another. She cast her vote at 11am. Kavindu later thanked the press, residents and God for making the exercise successful. “I have come to cast my vote. I thank God, journalists and Machakos people for turning up. I believe I will emerge the winner,” Kavindu said. She claimed one of her opponents and his supporters attempted to bribe voters. The Wiper candidate claimed Urbanus Ngengele of UDA and his supporters were bribing voters in several constituencies. The same claims were made by former MCC candidate Mutua Katuka. Ngengele dismissed the bribery claims as propaganda. He said he was politically fierce, therefore, both the national government and Machakos county ganged up against him. They were afraid he would trounce their candidate in the by-election, he claimed. The seat was declared vacant by IEBC following the death of Senator Boniface Kabaka’s in December. “Some of my supporters were arrested on claims they were bribing voters in Masii, Machakos town, Masinga, Tala and other areas. These are mere allegations," Ngengele said. "I haven’t issued any money to be given as bribes. Both national and Machakos county governments have been forced to unite and fight me, which means I am a threat,” Ngengele told reporters after casting his vote at Mwala DEB Primary school in Mwala constituency. There was a heavy presence of armed police officers in most polling stations and turnout was low. The Star established that in some polling centres, the security personnel outnumbered the voters. Increased numbers of police guarded and patrolled major towns such as Mlolongo, Machakos, Matuu, among others. The IEBC says Machakos has 622,965 registered voters;  1,335 polling stations in the 40 wards. It has eight constituencies: Masinga, Yatta, Kangundo, Matungulu, Kathiani, Mavoko, Machakos Town and Mwala. Maendeleo Chap Chap and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua raised concerns about the numbers of police officers deployed. “This election is not a matter of life and death. There is a contingent of police officers sent to Machakos county during the by-election, people are getting scared. The ratio of police to voters is three to one,” Mutua told reporters after casting his vote at Mathatani Primary School polling centre in Mavoko constituency. Several leaders cast their votes, expressing concern about the low turnout and urging residents to vote. Machakos county IEBC returning officer Joyce Wamalwa said the voting went well in most polling stations, despite low turnout. “Elections started well, everything is working well. Voters are coming in although in small numbers to vote. We expect that the numbers might increase as the day progresses,” Wamalwa told reporters at Kathome Trading Centre polling centre. Voting ended at 5pm for counting and tallying. Wamalwa  dismissed claims some candidates who had withdrawn from the race, stating that the IEBC hadn't received any official communication, hence, all 11 candidates were on the ballot. Eight are affiliated to parties, three are independents. Ndeti attributed the low turn-out to employers who hadn’t given their employees time off. She also said some voters were working on farms and factories and couldn't leave to vote. (Edited by V. Graham) 