Busia voters will reject leaders who incite residents during the 2022 General Election campaigns, Woman Representative Florence Mutua has said. She also said on Monday Busia is ready for a woman governor. She was speaking during celebrations to mark International Women’s Day at Nambale Polytechnic. Mutua said the border county has enjoyed peace for a long time and inciters won’t be given room to destabilise the peace. She said leaders seeking to succeed Governor Sospeter Ojaamong should convince voters to vote for them peacefully. Aspirants should also prepare to accept the verdict of the voters, she said. Those who lose should acknowledge the poll results and wait to take another stab at the governorship in 2027. “Politics should not make anyone create enemies with other people. Look for your votes as I also look for mine, then we meet at the ballot,” the second-term lawmaker said. Mutua is among leaders who have publicly declared interest in succeeding Ojaamong who is serving his final term. Others include Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, Nambale MP John Bunyasi and Agricultural Finance Corporation MD Lucas Meso. Others are Senator Amos Wako, former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma and Kenya Ports Authority GM in charge of infrastructure Vincent Sidai. “Let the governor complete his work. We respect him and we have given him the opportunity to complete his work,” Mutua said. “When 2022 comes, let us also fight for the seat. We are ready for this fight.” Mutua is the only woman who has so far shown intent in succeeding Ojaamong. Some of her rivals are moneyed and seasoned politicians. She said she is prepared for what many in the county describe as “the mother of all campaigns” as Ojaamong exits. CHANGE DRESS CODE “The time will come when we shall be wearing jeans and biker wear as we look for votes,” she said. “Nobody is going to threaten women because we shall buy biker gear and jeans in plenty in preparation for campaigns.” The woman rep aims to ride on her popularity with women. She said when ODM leader Raila Odinga met local leaders and ODM delegates at Bukalama Resort on February 28, some youth who may have been hired by an opponent threatened to undress her. “When campaigns begin, men will be pushing us down thinking they will see our nudity. But they will be surprised when they only see jeans,” she said. “In Bukalama Resort youth were threatening me saying they will push me down and remove my underwear. What do they want to do with my underwear?” Mutua was re-elected on an ODM party ticket in 2017 after joining Parliament on the same ticket in 2013. Otuoma ditched ODM after the violent ODM party primaries ahead of the 2017 General Elections. The Star has established she has returned to the party and may seek to become governor on the Orange Party ticket. Otuoma may face off with Mutua during ODM party primaries. “Nothing is going to prevent a woman from becoming governor in Busia. We are going for that seat because we know women can perform,” Mutua said. She was accompanied by Busia ICT chief officer Lydia Nabwire, nominated MCAs Cynthia Mutere and Nancy Okademi. She called on the youth to embrace the BBI and shun wheelbarrow politics. “Nobody should come here and deceive you with wheelbarrows. We did not take you to school to push a wheelbarrow,” she said. “We took you to school so that you can get a job like any other child. We don’t demean people who use wheelbarrows in their work but you cannot give all the youth wheelbarrows. "There are those who need wheelbarrows, let them be given. But there are those who need better jobs, which should also be given.” (Edited by V. Graham)