Public participation on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 has begun in Parliament. At least 18 entities are lined up to make their presentation before the joint Justice and Legal Affairs Committee of the two Houses of Parliament. The joint committees are chaired by Nyamira Senator Okong'o Omogeni and KangemaMP Muturi Kigano. They include the BBI secretariat headed by Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru. Jubilee party led by secretary-general Raphael Tuju and ODM's Edwin Sifuna will also make their submissions. The consortium of association disabled persons of Kenya and Disability Mainstreaming Foundation were the first to make their presentation. The teams threw their weight behind the Bill saying various provision on inclusivity and equity will go along way in advancing the interests of the PWDs. The council of governors will also give their input on the Bill. Speaking on behalf of the Consortium, Ashura Michael and Joseph Atela called for the strict implementation Constitution provision that at least five of the elective and appointive positions should go to people with disability. The NGO council also threw it's weight behind the Bill, saying the proposals will advance the county's well being. Through vice-chairperson Beatrice Kamania, the council cited several amendments which if passed, will improve equity and equality in the country. They said after several attempts to realize the two-thirds gender rule failed, BBI has crafted a method that will see the principal realized. "With BBI, I am very proud because the Senate will have 47 men and 47 women," she said. The vice-chairperson also supported the increase of county allocation as well as the five per cent WDF. Also, present on Thursday was the Boda Boda Safety Association of Kenya which supported the Bill. Through executive council chairman Kevin Mbaadi, the team said the establishment of the Youth Commission, an increase of county cash allocation and the requirement that the state should promote all micro-finance enterprises will improve the well-being boda bodas. "I want to urge the Senate and National Assembly to pass this Bill so that we can live peacefully and have a prosperous country," he said. The Nairobi Mashinani Women Caucus led by Rachel Kamweru also supported the Bill. They say there will be enough bursaries for their children with an increase if CDF allocation and additional 12 constituencies that will pump in Sh1.2 billion in the capital.