Over 300 families at the sprawling Mukuru Kwa Njenga slums have benefited from food relief donations from an international NGO. Malteser International which has partnered with the Integrated Education for Community Empowerment (IECE) to offer relief to the vulnerable people in Mukuru and other informal residential areas said the donation is aimed at cushioning them from the ravages of the Covid-19 pandemic. The residents received foodstuffs, washing soap and financial assistance. Winfred Kabuti, the Project Officer said they have been offering food relief to residents of Mukuru, Kibera, Mathare and Korogocho slums since the outbreak of the coronavirus in Kenya in March last year. “We started this project in March last year when the country was placed under lockdown and we have been providing relief rations every two months in the four slum areas,” said Kabuti. Malteser International is the humanitarian relief agency of the Sovereign Order of Malta with over 100 projects annually in 25 countries throughout Africa, Asia and the Americas. It provides emergency relief after disasters and supports recovery efforts with a focus on sustainable development. Kabuti said Malteser International has been active in Kenya and together with IECE, they have implemented an Emergency and Livelihood Response to support households in informal settlements in fighting Covid-19. Jacinta Atieno, the chairperson of IECE said: “Our goal is to support communities, particularly in increasing capacity of households in informal settlements in fighting Covid-19.” “We are marking a year since the pandemic struck. It has been months marred with uncertainty, loss and immense lessons. Organisations, governments and individuals have come up with initiatives to mitigate the effects of the pandemic," she said. She however said this does not shadow the realities many live through. "People are suffering and need constant assistance and empowerment and that is what we have been doing at IECE, together with Malteser International,” Atieno added.