The Samburu government could have spent Sh147.69 million on fictitious pending bills in 2018-19, according to a new report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. The 2018-19 report shows the county purportedly paid out the cash to the Ministry of Water and Ministry of Environment and Energy. According to the report tabled in the senate last week, the county paid out Sh127.80 million to the Ministry of Water and Sh19.88 million to the Ministry of Energy. The bills were neither captured in the financial statements nor did supporting documents provided thus sparking concerns the money could have been spent on non-existing bills. “As result, the validity and propriety of payments totaling Sh147.69 million made in respect to the bills during the year under review had not been confirmed,” the report reads in part. There have been concerns that many counties and government agencies are using pending bills as conduit for embezzling money. A special audit done by former auditor General Edward Ouko in 2019 revealed that pending bills amounting to Sh35 billion were fake or ineligible. Gathangu also put Governor Moses Lenolkulal’s administration on the spot for not supporting the expenditure of Sh49.18 million on road construction. The amount is part of the Sh118.616 million the county incurred on the roads projects during the year under review. “Of the balance, costs totaling Sh49.18 million were not adequately supported with documentation showing how the respective contracts were procured and the works paid for executed,” it says. The county indicated that the documents were in the custody of the ethics and anti-corruption commission that is currently investigating the alleged irregular award of the contracts. And as the EACC probes the tenders, projects valued at Sh708.43 million initiated by the county have stalled while others are yet to start. “Failure to complete the projects may have constrained service delivery to the residents of Samburu County,” the report says. The Samburu executive was also put on the limelight for excessive transfer of money to the county assemblies in what could be seen as enticing the ward reps. During the year under review, the county executive transferred Sh544.0 million or 19.6 per cent to the assembly contrary to the law that such transfers should not exceed seven percent. According to the county’s budget, the transfers exceeded the legal threshold for the year amounting to Sh356.84 million by Sh187.15 million. “The excess transfers irregularly took away funds totaling to Sh187.15 million from funding delivery of goods and services the residents of the county and availed these for use by the county assembly,” it says. The auditor also flagged the possible payments of salaries to ghost workers because of the deployment of parallel payroll systems which are prone to errors and omissions. “No explanation has been provide by management for failure to only use the IPPD system. Maintenance of the two systems has increased the risk of errors and omissions in payroll expenditures,” it states. The county has also been indicted for making irregular payments of Sh5.69 million to the Council of Governors to help defray the council’s expenses during the year under review. Section 37 of the Inter-Governmental Relations Act, 2012 provides that all operational expenses of the Council should be met by the national government.