Did an MP plot a counter rally to embarrass rivals in Kithuki ward during by-election campaigns? It is alleged the influential politician and lawmaker from the county was responsible for a clash on Sunday by supporters of rivals. The lawmaker is said to have insisted on his party holding a rally at the same venue where a rival outfit was campaigning. The situation nearly got out of hand as supporters clashed in the presence of Governor Kivutha Kibwana (pictured). Police are said to have asked the MP to record a statement over allegations of incitement. *** A business mogul from Kiambu, who owns a big hotel along Thika Road, may soon start counting losses after it emerged that his hospitality businesses will be going  under the hammer. The businessman who has major real estate interests had failed to block auctioning of his hotel after the court allowed creditors to sell the facility to recover a Sh20 million debt. The businessman had used the facility to acquire a loan from a local bank when his business went under without the knowledge of the lender. The man's prospects of running for a political seat in the 2022 polls could go up in smoke if the hotel is auctioned. *** As the Matungu by-election campaigns enter the homestretch, a political party has reportedly injected Sh20 million in the last four days of the campaigns to shore up the chances of their candidate. The political outfit, fearing an embarrassment from opponents, retreated last week and decided to pump in more resources after an internal poll pointed to a bitter loss. Some party officials have come under scrutiny for overspending the money on boardroom meetings and accommodation, eating into the campaign kitty. The party leader who hit the  campaign trail recently tongue-lashed officials  for wasting party funds in hotels instead of engaging voters. Some party officials are said to be accompanied by dubious characters who have no political clout to boost the campaigns of their candidate. **** An official of the Nairobi county government is frantically looking for money to fund a parliamentary aspirant in one of the upcoming by-elections. The officer working at a critical department has been bragging to everyone about his mission. The employee has confided to those close to him that his mission is being pushed by powerful people who want him to fund their candidate in the by-election. There are concerns that he could put public interests at risk in his quest for funds. Perhaps the anti-graft agency should be taking note.