National cross country championships senior women's runner-up Daisy Cherotich says her win in the women's 5,000m race was the perfect way to overcome the disappointment of missing out on the aborted African Cross Country Championships in Lome, Togo. The continental showpiece was slated for March 7 but was postponed to an undecided, later date after the Togolese authorities raised concerns over the rising Covid-19 infection rates in the West African nation. "We had prepared well for the cross country event and we were raring to go only to hear that it has been postponed. However, I did not lose hope but continued with the training. Considering this was my debut in 5,000m, I am delighted with how the race turned out,"  Cherotich said. Cherotich clocked 15:26.7 to finish first ahead of Sheila Chepkirui (15:29.8) and Beatrice Chebet (15:30.6) at Friday's Athletics Kenya track and field weekend meeting at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. She admitted she still has a lot of work to do to reach the peak level and churn out even better performances at the highest levels of competitions. "My plan is to compete at the Tokyo Olympics as well as the Senior African Championships. Before this event, I had purposed to improve on my time and I am getting there with every race. When I retreat to my Kapsabet training camp, the focus will be on improving on my speedwork," the 2021 Discover Kenya Cross Country champion said. Similarly, second-placed Chepkirui admitted she needs to improve on her speedwork albeit she was satisfied with her first race since competing at the KDF Cross Country Championships in February. "It was a tough race no doubt but it feels great to be back running on track after a brief break. I am glad that my endurance levels have not reduced one bit but now I must work on my speedwork," she said. The two-day event concludes tomorrow with other sumptuous match-ups on the card, including the 100m men's final where national champion Mark Otieno will duel against red-hot Ferdinand Omanyala. Spectators were on Friday offered a preview of what to expect when the two faced off in the semis. Otieno clocked 10.17 to finish ahead of Omanyala (10.32) and Hesbon Ochieng (10.58).