Agriculture CS Peter Munya and the Kenya Tea Development Agency have once again clashed on the calls for tea factory companies directors elections. The two stated their positions on the heated matter through notices that were published in the media on March 24. This follows an Executive Order issued on March 12 by President Uhuru Kenyatta directing the elections of directors of the various factories to be conducted within the next 60 days through Executive Order no 3 of 2021. Uhuru ordered Interior and Agriculture Cabinet secretaries to ensure the full implementation of the order, while noting that the tea sub-sector problems are partly attributable to the performance of the tea agency which is negatively affecting both the sub-sector and the Kenyan economy as a whole. KTDA argued that in September 2020, the ministry and the AG went to the High Court in Nairobi to stop the 2020 tea directors elections whose process had commenced. After lengthy arguments, the court ruled in favour of KTDA and directed that elections proceed as had been scheduled. KTDA said Munya went to the Mombasa High Court in his own application and got fresh stay orders stopping the 2020 elections that had been given the green light to proceed, and that the two court files have since been consolidated at Nairobi and the matters are still ongoing, hence orders stopping the elections remain in force to date. But yesterday, Munya denied and said there is no court order stopping individual factory companies from holding elections as directors. "It is KTDA and other persons acting on the company’s instructions that are restrained from holding elections not factory companies. The court order in constitutional Petition Number 87 of 2020 makes clear that it is the interested party namely the Kenya Tea Development Agency Ltd, their agents and nominees or “any other person” acting pursuant to the “shareholders’ notification issued by KTDA”, who are restrained from holding elections and not factory companies,” he said. On March 19, Munya issued elections timetable for the 54 smallholder tea factories in Murang'a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Kiambu, Embu, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Nyamira, Kisii, Kericho, Bomet, Nakuru, Trans Nzoia, Kakamega and Nandi counties, that were to start from March 20 till May 22. Munya said it is KTDA that has persistently been in blatant breach of the Companies Act and that regularly defies the courts. “Due to breaches that have been partly caused by KTDA management services misconduct, only two out of six directors of every factory company in Kenya are in office validly, and that Companies Act is subject to the stipulations and the basic rights guaranteed by the constitution,” the CS said. He pointed out that the government has not called for and lacks the power to call for elections for any factory companies. In their position statement, KTDA said that given the cases currently in court, and more so the order stopping directors’ elections, the purported exercises of convening meetings and elections are invalid and would be of no consequence in the eyes of the law. But Munya said it was time to hold elections and thus ensure compliance with the Companies Act. “The litigation KTDA refers to in the position statement is a good example of continuing mismanagement of the tea sector by the company. The government will not allow that to remain the case,” Munya said.  -Edited by Sarah Kanyara