Gaspo Women midfielder Sheryl Angachi  has warned Thika Queens that past results will count for nothing when the two sides meet in the top of the table clash at Ruiru grounds on Sunday. Thika were victorious in the first leg, beating the Isaac Maluki-coached side 3-1 and remain unbeaten alongside defending champions Vihiga Queens.  Last season, Gaspo edged out Thika 4-3 in a seven-goal thriller and drew 2-2 in the second leg. The Kenya international warned that Gaspo will not allow Thika get a double over them, saying they are ready for them. Thika have 24 points after eight matches and the return of striker Ezze Akida from Turkey last week is another major boost. On the other hand, Gaspo have overcome their early season slump and have already put in a string of impressive performance to claim second spot in Zone 'A'. They boast of 16 points and will look to close the gap to five should they win. "Our goal is to play for the three points. If we can avoid conceding a goal and  create chances, then we can win. "We know our capabilities as players. We beat them last year and I believe they will approach the match with caution. "We know they are in good form but we are not scared of them," quipped the 20-year-old, who was part of Harambee Starlets squad that lifted  Cecafa trophy. "We lost against them last time because of a lapse in concentration in the dying minutes of the game. It's only good we've learnt a lot from that experience." Elsewhere, Vihiga Queens will host  SEP Oyugis at Mumias Complex.  Queens' Tereza Engesha, who has 12 goals, has scored in every match this season and will once again lead the line for the Alex Alumira side. Trans-Nzoia Falcons entertain Wadadia at Kenyatta Stadium, Kitale while Kibera Soccer, who put Makolanders to the sword in a 3-0 win last weekend, play Mathare United, who also claimed their first point in a 2-2 draw with Kayole Starlets. Nakuru West Queens travel to Eldoret to take on Eldoret Falcons. Ulinzi Starlets will look to bounce back to winning ways against Kayole. Ulinzi lost to Thika Queens 2-0 last time out. Kisumu All Starlets square it out with Oserian at Naivasha. 