The withdrawal of the United Democratic Alliance from the Juja parliamentary race has seemingly left the battlefield to two parties. The by-election, occasioned by the death of MP Francis Munyua, alias Wakapee, on February 22, is now expected to narrow down to a Jubilee candidate versus Moses Kuria’s People’s Empowerment Party candidate George Koimburi. UDA, in a statement released by secretary general Veronica Maina on Monday, said the party will not field a candidate. The by-election is scheduled for May 18. The party linked to Deputy President William Ruto had invited candidates eyeing the post to apply for nomination. Three candidates—Eunice Wanjiru, a relative of former Ruiru Mayor William Mugo; Kenn Gachuma, a businessman who worked under the late MP as CDF chairman between 2013 and 2015; and businessman Zack Wang’ombe—had submitted their applications and were gearing up for the nomination. The three have now been sent back to the drawing board after UDA’s withdrawal  and will now have to seek other parties’ nomination. Wanjiru has already secured The New Democrats ticket and is optimistic of winning the seat. Gachuma and Wang’ombe had yet to make public their next moves. Koimburi, who was previously seeking the Jubilee ticket, defected to Kuria's PEP. His defection has left the race for the Jubilee ticket to three contenders, including Wakapee's widow Njeri, former Kiambu Education executive Joseph Kang’ethe and JKUAT don Muiga Rugara. Koimburi told journalists on Monday that his defection followed threats and intimidation from top political leaders from the county who had been pressuring him to step down in favour of Njeri. “When I took my nomination application papers to the Jubilee headquarters, I was promised that the party primaries would be fair and transparent. But after my investigations, I have realised that the primaries will be bungled in favour of one of the aspirants,” he said. “I've been intimidated to a point of giving up on Jubilee. I've been receiving threatening calls from unknown people and at times anonymous people are trailing me and it’s making me fear for my life.” The businessman noted that even after joining Kuria’s PEP, he is still being pressured to entirely withdraw from the race. “They want me to give up my candidature and they are claiming that they have been directed by top Jubilee officials to ensure that I withdraw my candidature,” he said. Koimburi claimed that the Jubilee house has been invaded by cartels and urged Uhuru to intervene and clean up the house. He, however, vowed not to cow to the threats and intimidations saying he will fight for the seat to the end. Koimburi also warned other leaders from the region stop interfering with Juja politics and instead give residents their democratic space and right to vote in their leader of choice. Political pundits believe that even after the withdrawal of UDA from the race, DP Ruto will still have a say in Juja by-election and his allies are likely to support Kuria’s candidate, Koimburi. This will turn the by-election to a hotly contested race between the Jubilee-backed candidate and PEP’s candidate. Koimburi ran for the seat against Wakapee and came a distant second place with 10,165 votes. The late MP clinched victory with 66,190 votes. Rugara, who will be contesting in the Jubilee primaries, told journalists in Juja town on Tuesday that he will only accept the results if they will be conducted in a free and fair manner. He also called on the party leadership to ensure residents are left to vote for the most competitive candidate to fly the Jubilee flag. Other hopefuls include James Kariuki, who will be vying on an independent ticket, businessman Anthony Kirori and Moses Mwenda. Kanu will also field Dorcas Wanjiru. She was the party’s flag-bearer during the 2017 election. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 