Nyanza regional commissioner Magu Mutindika has called on the counties to revoke licences of bars and restaurants contravening Covid-19 regulations. He said some bars close doors at 9pm as required but continue selling alcohol to party goers locked inside. Mutindika urged counties to take stern action against such joints in efforts to prevent the spread of the virus in the region. “We cannot tolerate those breaking the rules. We have agreed that the county governments who are the liquor licensing authority to cancel their licences,” he said. Mutindika ordered security agencies in the region to strictly enforce Covid-19 protocol and arrest those flouting the regulations. He pointed out bars, public service vehicles and churches as hot spots for the spread of the virus as the country faces a third wave of Covid-19. Mutindika further directed county commissioners, deputy county commissioners, chiefs, police and county enforcement officers to carry out joint crackdowns and arrest those flouting the rules. “The virus is still here with us and requires a collective responsibility to contain it. Anybody who breaks the regulations must be dealt with accordingly,” he said. On the Covid-19 vaccine, Mutindika urged locals to voluntarily get vaccinated and faulted some people who are spreading lies about the vaccine. The vaccine, he said, has been scientifically proven to be effective to boost body immunity and has no side effects. Mutindika further urged Nyanza regional police commander Karanja Muiruri to remove the ungazetted roadblocks in the region. “I would not wish to see police officers on such roadblocks. Only gazetted roadblocks should be operational. The issue of ungazetted roadblocks is too much,” he said. Meanwhile, Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o said the county government has rolled out vaccination drives across the county for high-risk populations and frontline workers. “We have expanded vaccination centres at Kombewa, Ahero, Nyakach county referrals hospitals among public health facilities to ensure people get vaccinated,” he said. He decried the low uptake of the vaccine among healthcare workers saying it was delaying the commencement of other identified high-risk populations. Nyong’o said the positivity rate in Kisumu has risen from 2.5 per cent to 4.7 per cent in the past week, which translates to a 100 per cent rise in the period. He gave stringent containment measures that require all morgues not to preserve bodies for a period exceeding 72 hours and not to release any after 10am “There shall be no night vigil in the homes of the deceased as well as catering services. The maximum attendees to the burial ceremony still stand at 100 persons only,” he said. Nyong’o also directed restaurants and bars to obey Covid-19 protocol and close at 9pm among other protocols and other regulations.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris