Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday called on the police and the Judiciary to remain independent and ensure fairness in their services. Ruto said the National Police Service is an independent institution that should not take instructions from anyone. The DP spoke at the Nakuru Agricultural Society of Kenya showground during the burial service of Arthur Kinyanjui. Kinyanjui was the son of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri. Tens of MPs and senators attended the burial. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui was also present. Ruto said police should discharge their duties as required by the law. He said the biggest threat to the country was if the police became partisan or responded to political interests. “The government has gone out of its way to ensure that the police service has the requisite personnel, infrastructure and equipment to discharge duties as per the law,” Ruto said. He said the country expects Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai to provide leadership and command that ensures professionalism and independence of the service. “The police have no excuse and should not apportion blame while discharging their duty, they have a role to ensure all citizens, property and rights are protected.” Earlier, the DP's lieutenants including MPs allied to his Tangatanga faction had complained of police harassment. And Ruto responded to their complaints and asked Mutyambai to ensure police officers acted professionally. “The police should discharge duties as required by the law and those who fail to shape up shall carry the burden of their actions," Ruto said. Senators Susan Kihika and Kipchumba Murkomen accused the police of harassment and intimidation during the just concluded by-elections in Nakuru’s London ward and Kabuchai and Matungu constituencies in Bungoma and Kakamega counties respectively. Ruto said only an independent Judiciary is the pillar to the rule of law. “The Judiciary is expected to stand out be counted as independent and not to listen to lectures from any quarter,” he said. The DP said he was sure that the Judiciary was professional and competent to discharge its duties as per the law. Edited by P.O