Uasin Gishu MCAs explained they abstained from voting on the BBI Bill because of mixed views from the public. They said the public should make the final decision at the referendum. Led by Majority leader Josphat Lowoi and Tarakwa MCA Patrick Bundotich the MCAs also said DP William Ruto is a resident of the county and they did not want to mix up the BBI with 2022 politics. The assembly is the only one which abstained from voting on the BBI while Nandi and Baringo rejected it. Forty-four other assemblies backed it. Bundotich chaired the Delegated Legislation committee that tabled a report recommending they abstain from taking sides. “We had many issues during public participation with some residents even expressing fear they do not known what will happen if they vote for it or not. Some rejected it, some supported it," Bundotich said. He said the decision they took was wise to help unite residents who would eventually decide on the BBI at a referendum planned for June, or later. “We decided to apply what is known as Solomonic wisdom so we unite our people who have varied views on the BBI," Bundotich said. The report by his committee was tabled before the whole house where majority voted to support it. However, nominated MCAs and Kiplombe MCA Ramadhan Ali rejected the report because they said they should have been allowed to vote on the Bill. Lowoi had urged MCAs to support the report on abstention because it would help to unite residents in the largely cosmopolitan region. Speaker David Kiplagat urged the MCAs to prioritise unity. The MCAs had been torn between supporting or rejecting the BBI Bill especially after majority of the assemblies backed it. DP Ruto has been critical of the BBI arguing that it was not of priority to Kenyans. His stand had caused many MCAs in Rift Valley earlier to indicate they would reject the Bill, but most changed positions after more than the require 24 counties  supported it. Uasin Gishu was the last assembly to make a decision on the Bill that is now in Parliament that is expected to support it overwhelmingly. Parliament's approval is a technicality - it's going to referendum unless courts block it. (Edited by V. Graham)