Young people who go to school have been identified as highly vulnerable to radicalisation and recruitment into violent extremism. This because they are more prone to drivers of radicalisation into violent extremism which can be grouped into push and pull factors. Push factors include dysfunctional families, pressure perform well at school, peer pressure  and socio-economic factors. Pull factors are search for identity, desire to rebel and attractive ideologies among others. According to the national strategy to counter violent extremism 2016, learners are easy targets for radicalisation into violent extremism and identifies education as a pillar in countering violent extremism. The government has come up with a Child Safety and Security Against Violent Extremism (CSSAVE) to ensure the safety from the attempts of extremists. Below is a graduated scale from highest to lowest to know a learners vulnerability and exposure to violent extremism. RED ZONE This is a very high level of risk to radicalisation where the learner is already involved in violent extremism. In this category, you will find the learner in possession, consuming, distributing hateful and violent extremists materials such as VE literature, videos and visiting extremists websites. Also, these particular learners also recruit and advocate for violent extremism attacks. At this point, they are in contact with known recruiters and VE operation cells. The learner becomes violent or is commotted to use violence. The learner is abusing selling and distributing drugs and other illegal substances . He or she attacks teacher or fellow learners on the basis  of their gender motivated by his or her extreme  ideological stand. The learner displays specialised IT skills like concealing and implementing terror activities online. The learner is in possession of falsified identification and travel documents. When a learn is in this stage, as a teacher, report the matter immediately to relevant authorities such as police, security and intelligence committee  and relevant education office. ORANGE ZONE /High risk In this category, the student has been radicalised into extremism but not violent Indicators include;  Expressing and supporting radical ideology including advocating for use of violence to adress social economic and political grievances. Identifies with a violent extremist group and subscribes to their values that ate intolerant to other beliefs. The learner is withdrawn and isolated besides displaying hatred, verbal confrontationz, aggressiveness, secretiveness, faneticism and cultism. The learner is holding secret meetings with peers and has communication with friends families of violent gangs. The learner celebrates the use of violence for VE cause. How to help Don't be aggressive in engaging the learner . Engage the learner through dialogue and discuss the issue with parent. Involve local administration officers like chief. Engage relevant school committees for further intervention. Get trained assistants through NCTC advice. Engage professional counsellors trained in handling radicalisation. YELLOW STAGE The learner  has been exposed to radical ideologies and views consistent with violent extremism. The student then  displays drastic changes in attitude and behaviour that point to the acquisition of new beliefs/ values that are consistent with radicalisation. He or she displays emotional imbalance and inconsistencies such as being unusually withdrawn, extremely high self esteem, signs if trauma that point to being externally and ideologically influenced. The learner displays drug induced behaviour like incoherent outbursts and threatens violence  to those that do not subscribe to his or her stand. The learner shows disinterest in learning and drops in academic performance. Learner rejects authority, democracy, societal norms and values. Way forward Educate learner on positive use of internet General indiscipline and may also be sympathetic to those engaging in anti social behaviour Engage through friendly dialogue  and involve the parents, guidance and counselling teachers. Talk to the student. Refer for behavioral assessment. Involve relevant players such as the school, imams or teachers  or call 1192 for addiction counselling. LOW RISK(Green) Here, the learner is vulnerable to radicalisation even if not already exposed based on their social behaviour. Indicators that he or she is exposed include; The learner is highly opinionated and rarely tolerates different views from others. The learner displays weak identity/ naivety and is prone to manipulation including peer pressure. He displays en extreme need to belong and desires love and affection. Learner displays anger and dissatisfaction with his or her situation in life, has incompatible associations. Has history of feeling rejected or dehumanising experiences. Has obsession with social media and may express disagreements with mainstream media views. Way forward According to the National Crime Research centre report 2016, Kenya witnessed heightened unrest among learners leading to arson attacks in about 100 schools. While this may not be because of violent extremism it provides fertile ground for engagement with extremist groups. African Committee of experts on rights and welfare of the child 2016 showed that 20 percent of 394 children interviewed were aware of recruitment of children into terrorist activities.