A woman representative from a county in Nyanza might find herself pondering her political ambitions ahead of 2022. The politician (Parliament pictured) is said to be eyeing a gubernatorial seat but there has been hostility within the county because of her marital issues. The female politician is said to be married in a neighboring county but she is insisting on seeking the governor's seat despite serious opposition from local politicians. Online bloggers have recently been deployed to attack her,  claiming that she is not best suited to run for governor in her native county. Some political leaders from the county are said to be backing her candidature arguing that if she was elected woman representative in 2017, then nothing stops her from running for governor. *** A flamboyant Western Kenya MP moved in with with a high-flying former civil servant who was entangled in a nasty divorce. There are whispers within corridors of power the MP became an item with the woman a few months ago. The lawmaker has lately upgraded his wardrobe and acquired a luxury car amid claims his lover could be financing him. The MP has also been using choppers and enhanced his public donations kitty building his war chest against his rivals.  A windfall for the youthful MP, indeed. *** A county boss has set tongues wagging after a detailed public acknowledgement notice left out a key national figure from his region. The omission has triggered speculation the governor could be scared about the heavyweight ahead of the 2022 polls. While the county boss thanked most bigwigs who gave him a shot in the arm following his bereavement, the name of the former leader of a party that folded to form Jubilee was not in the mix. This despite the fact the national political leader  even attended the funeral and condoled with the family. There is talk the governor could be fearing a comeback by the politician to reclaim his seat in 2022. *** Is a CS keen on overturning recruitment just been concluded for the CEO of a lucrative parastatal with national presence? The CS, said to be pushing to have a relative installed, is said to be planning to annul the hiring process. Three names, in the order of merit have been forwarded to the CS to pick one for the coveted position. However, there are whispers a decision has already been made that he will reject the names because his preferred candidate was not shortlisted after interviews. It is mind boggling to imagine what criteria the CS will use to make sure his relative scores better in the board interviews. 