Mama Sarah Onyango Obama was born 99 years ago in Kendu-Kanyasoro village, Homa Bay. Though she loved education, she never received any formal education. In a past interview, she talked of how she would receive letters which she could not read. She said she didn’t want her children to be illiterate and swore to ensure all her family’s children went to school. Many remember her for the role she played in promoting education for girls and orphans. Her sister Mwanahawa Abdala, 80, recalled on Monday how Mama Sarah used to carry Barack Obama Snr nine kilometres to school - from the family’s home village of Kogelo to Ngiya - on her bicycle every day. Abdala also said Mama Sarah's philanthropy manifested early in her life. She remembered how her second born sister took her in after she lost her husband in 1985. "She was the sole provider for me, my children and the grandchildren. She had such a big heart, which was full of love." Her daughter Marsat told the Star that their home in Kogelo was always teeming with relatives and neighbours who were welcome anytime. "We used to host many of our relatives at the Kogelo home. Many orphans, especially girls found refuge in her [Mama Sarah's] arms," she said. Mama Sarah died on Monday at 4.20am at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital in Kisumu. She will be buried Tuesday before midday according to the Islamic burial rites. The matriarch is believed to have been born in 1922 to Mzee Omar Okech of Kendu Bay and Apiya Okech. She later got married to Hussein Onyango Obama as the third wife. They had four children - Zeituni Onyango, Marsat Onyango, Yusuf Obama and Sayid Obama. Hussein was the paternal grandfather of former US President Barack Obama. Mama Sarah helped to raise Barack Obama Snr, the father of the former US President. President Obama often showed affection towards her and referred to her as “granny”. In his memoir, “Dreams from My Father” the former president described meeting her during his 1988 trip to his father’s homeland and their initial awkwardness as they struggled to communicate. Mama Sarah was among family members from Kogelo who attended the first swearing in ceremony of the former US President in 2009. President Uhuru Kenyatta eulogised her as an icon of family values and a philanthropist whose contributions to the progress of the nation shall be missed. "The passing on of Mama Sarah is a big blow to our nation. We have lost a strong virtuous woman. A matriarch who held together the Obama family and was an icon of family values," he said. Other leaders who condoled with the family included ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga. Raila said the country has lost a matriarch who lived ahead of her time. "She single-handedly kept the family going long after her husband departed," he said. Raila said she became a symbol of resilience and confidence of the African woman with a unique capacity to face the challenges of life. "She utilised her grandson President Barack Obama's rise to promote the education of girls and fight social ills through her foundation," he posted on his Twitter handle. Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o praised her work to promote education and empower orphans. “She was a philanthropist who mobilised funds to pay school fees for orphans,” he said. "Kenya will miss her dearly." Through Mama Sarah Obama Foundation, she would mobilise resources to provide food and education to children who lost their parents. The supplies would include food donations to schools, uniforms, basic medical needs and school fees. For her work to support education the United Nations in 2014 honoured her by the inaugural Women’s Entrepreneurship Day Education Pioneer Award. Rasanga said the matriarch was generous, loving, caring and quite compassionate to the less fortunate in society. "With the demise of Mama, the people of Siaya county will miss her gentle guidance on cultural matters as well as her noble works as an ambassador of peaceful co-existence of our people," he said. JOOTRH chief executive officer Dr George Rae said Mama Sarah was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. She had earlier been treated at Sagam Hospital and Avenue Hospital. "She was admitted at the ICU with chest complications. She had chest pains and she required oxygen. Her advanced age didn't make things better for her," he said. 