The bitter rivalry between former allies ODM leader Raila Odinga and his ANC counterpart Musalia Mudavadi over 2022 succession is taking a turn for the toxic. The two leaders on Monday were at it again, engaging in venomous exchanges through party official mouthpieces. ODM said that unlike ANC, it is not expecting President Uhuru Kenyatta to say 'Raila Odinga Tosha' in 2022 so the ODM leader can to ascend to power. “Even in 2013, Mudavadi was said to be a preferred successor of retired President Mwai Kibaki but he failed,” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said. For the first time, Sifuna openly stated that state machinery was used to assist Musalia's candidature. "ODM had no expectation at all that we would be supported by government in these by-elections or that Uhuru will say Raila Tosha in 2022. Our biggest complaint in Matungu is that state machinery was used to prop up Musalia Mudavadi," Sifuna said. The President has said people will be shocked by his naming of his preferred successor. The ODM official who spoke on Citizen TV on Monday said the issue of civil servants trying to influence succession is not new in Kenya “In 2002, President Uhuru Kenyatta was a state project because [President Daniel] Moi designated him as his successor. We want to assure you that all state projects, even in 2022, will fail because the will of the people is supreme,” he added. But ANC national chairman Kelvin Lunani swiftly responded, saying his party has categorically stated that endorsements are a legitimate part of political mobilisation. “ODM should openly declare it covets the endorsement that Mudavadi presumably beat them to. Denials to the contrary are  pure deceit,” he said. Lunani did not categorically say whether his  boss had secured the backing of President  Kenyatta “It is therefore a ridiculous prank for a party that repeatedly denounces political endorsements to lament the assumed support garnered by our party leader,” he said in a statement. Mudavadi is part of the 'sacred alliance' which includes Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). The group has detached itself from Raila, the former Nasa coalition headman, and is now forging a new coalition fashioned as the third force to face off with Deputy President William Ruto and the ODM leader. The four politicians, who all have all announced presidential interests, are seen to be banking on Uhuru to endorse their line up. Specifically, Mudavadi and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi are said to be the ones favoured by state operatives to succeed Uhuru next year. At the weekend, Senator James Orengo claimed senior people in government are planning the 2022 succession behind President Kenyatta and Raila's backs. However, Deputy Majority Whip in the National Assembly Maoka Maore said the plotting Orengo talked about does not refer to the handshake. ODM insiders have been claiming that Interior PS Karanja Kibicho has been at the forefront plotting the 2022 succession plan. The party has since appealed to the President to remove Kibicho from Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) campaigns over his alleged interference with the secretariat. National Assembly Minority Whip Junet Mohamed, a member of Raila's inner circle, warned they might consider abandoning the BBI if it turns out that Kibicho won't leave. ANC said it was least interested in ODM's perceived tribulations over the BBI. “ANC can only warn colleague political parties not to bother consummating a relationship based on threats, intimidation and ransom politics,” Lunani said. He added, “The threat by ODM to cause chaos and anarchy if their greed for BBI largesse is not met demonstrates insatiable thirst by a party determined to dismember the country.” Lunani stated ANC has no interest in driving a wedge between anyone. “As a matter of fact, it is ODM's pursuit of personalising BBI that is the lever for attempted exclusion of many stakeholders from the process. We understand ODM grievances and the need to hog referendum resources at the expense of other parties. But referendum resources belong to Kenyans and must be shared evenly,” he stated. Sifuna said the work of the BBI Secretariat was being hampered by state operatives. “The handshake has been declared dead at least four times in the past three years. However, we have pushed on and focused on the agenda of the two leaders,” he said. Sifuna added, “There is eagerness everywhere from the Tangatanga side and elements in the media to declare the death of the handshake.” Kanu boss Gideon Moi, nonetheless, urged political leaders to de-link  the BBI and 2022 succession as he faulted leaders for putting the country in a campaign mood. The Baringo senator asked politicians to tone down their rhetoric until 2022 when voters will be ready to decide leaders of their choice at the ballot. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khakwale said ODM leaders had become jittery after realising Uhuru would not endorse their party leader. “It has now dawned on Sifuna and company that what they expected from the handshake — that is, to deliver Raila to State House — might not happen. This is why you hear all the noise,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)