Governor Jackson Mandago says Uasin Gishu may abandon a controversial plan to buy the National Bank building in Eldoret at a cost of Sh570 million. A Senate committee has already ordered the county to stop the purchase that is also under probe by the EACC following complaints raised by residents and leaders in the region. The Finance and Budget committee chaired by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru three weeks ago termed the deal too costly to the taxpayer. The committee recommended that the county should construct an office block that will cater for its space needs on many of its available parcels of land in the town. “We have noted what the Senate has said about the plan but we are now waiting for the advisory from the EACC before we decide on the way forward,” Mandago said in Eldoret while launching a bursary kitty for needy students. Mandago said that depending on the advisory from the EACC, the Sh570 million may be diverted to other uses in a supplementary budget to be discussed with the county assembly soon. The county had earmarked the NBK building for purchase to provide office space for executive staff. But the Senate committee which toured Eldoret said the building is dilapidated, uninhabited and neglected, adding that the total cost of renovations and configuration would be higher than the cost of construction of a new office block. “The county should stop any process initiated on the transactions meant to acquire the building and construct an office block in one of the parcels which are under its ownership,” reads part of the report tabled by Kibiru at the Senate. The committee established that out of the total purchase price of Sh570 million, the county will spend another Sh100 million on reconfiguring the building. The committee noted the cost of construction of an office block should not exceed Sh500 million in line with the existing resolution made by the Senate. Even though the transaction started in 2015, the county has yet to make any payment for the purchase of the property. The sale agreement provides that the Sh570 million was to be paid in two instalments of Sh300 million and Sh270 million. Residents of the county opposed the move and petitioned the Senate through their Senator Margret Kamar, saying the purchase was not conducted in a fair, equitable, transparent, competitive manner. Mandago’s administration insisted that they carried out due diligence in October 2018 and valued the building at Sh568 million but that the negotiating team settled on Sh570 million as the purchase price without clear reasons for the increase in the price. The residents argue in their petition that the building is in a poor state and that no worthy reason has been given as to why other county properties have been overlooked for use. The residents claimed the office demand for the county was about 9,419 square metres. The NBK building has an office space of about 4,560 square metres. Part of the deal of the acquisition was that NBK would lease back about 2,200 square metres from the same building once it changed hands. In justifying the purchase, Mandago had told the committee that the county departments and offices are housed in different locations within Eldoret town and this hampers service delivery given that service points are not in a central location. He said the issue of constraint of office space has been experienced for a while and the office of the Controller of Budget in one of its reports had made recommendations that the county puts a mechanism in place to stop the continuous payments of rent. Edited by Henry Makori