The National Police Service prefers recruits with low KCSE grades and not necessarily those who score D+ and below, Spokesman Charles Owino said on Thursday. Owino had earlier been quoted saying the police service often settles on recruits with low academic qualifications because they are less ambitious. On Thursday, Owino said he was quoted out of context. During the Wednesday interview on Citizen TV, Owino was quoted saying officers with C, C- and D+ grades tend to be loyal and serve more diligently for a long time without demanding promotion. On Thursday, he denied that and said police have different qualifications for various cadres. That means there are various cut off points for different cadres of recruits. Owino has been a police officer for 29 years, 12 of them serving as the spokesman for the service. "I have upheld professionalism, submission to my superiors, respect to colleagues and observance of the rule of law," he said. Official duties and managerial duties in the services are subjected to different cut-off qualifications. But the majority serving as general duty officers in lower ranks are still required to have the minimum D + KCSE grade. Owino said that the service mostly targets candidates "who will work in those levels for a longer period of time.” “They’ll become corporals, sergeants because we need all these levels and also, it depends we are employing people for what. We are not employing everybody to be a manager. We are employing others who will do other specific duties,” he said. Most recruits with grade C+ and above further their education and then demand to be promoted and salaries improved. “We have different levels for police work. We have a challenge when we employ every police officer with grade C+ and above,” Owino said. “When we employ every policeman with grade C+ and above, they go back to school, get their degrees and then they come back and tells you we don't want to serve at this level,” he said. “But you see we serve at certain ratios, for example, for every nine police officers, we may only have one corporal. And for every such a large number we only have one inspector so you cannot promote everyone to those levels. That is why it is important that we separate," he said during the interview.  Edited by P.O