High-octane politics is set to be witnessed in Juja ahead of the by-election for the seat that fell vacant following the death of MP Francis Munyua alias Wakapee. The MP succumbed to brain cancer on February 22 while receiving treatment in a Nairobi hospital. He was interred at his home in Juja on March 2. The by-election slated for May 18 is likely to turn Juja into a battleground between the ruling Jubilee Party and the new kid on the block, the United Democratic Alliance associated with Deputy President William Ruto. Jubilee is expected to go full throttle to retain the seat given that Juja is in President Uhuru Kenyatta’s home turf, while UDA is expected to stage a spirited fight for the seat as it seeks to stamp its hustler narrative. Already 13 aspirants including Wakapee's widow, Susan Njeri, have expressed interest in the seat. Njeri is seeking to succeed the former MP on a Jubilee ticket.  She on Monday submitted her papers at the Jubilee headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi, ahead of the party primaries on March 29. She is likely to be the Jubilee flag-bearer as she is supported by the chairman of Kiambu MPs caucus Jude Njomo. Njomo who spoke at Wakapee’s burial in the presence of President Uhuru Kenyatta, proposed that Njeri be given the opportunity to complete the work started by her husband. UDA is expected to go for Ken Gachuma, a youthful local leader who worked as the CDF chairman between 2013 and 2015. Gideon Moi’s Kanu will field Dorcas Wanjiru. She was the party’s flag-bearer during the 2017 election. Another force to reckon with is George Koimburi, a businessman who contested the seat in the last election. Koimburi came second with 10,165 votes against Wakapee's 66,190 votes. Others who have expressed interest in the seat include James Kariuki, who will be vying as an independent, JKUAT don Muiga Rugara and businessman Anthony Kirori. Others are Eunice Wanjiru, a relative of former Ruiru mayor Wilson Mugo who's seeking the UDA ticket, Dr Joseph Ng’ang’a, Zack Nderitu and Moses Mwenda. Michael Waititu, Wakapee's son, withdrew from the race on Sunday. He was expected to face off with his stepmother. Wakapee’s widow Njeri who spoke in Juja town on Monday exuded confidence in clinching the seat, saying she is equal to the task and will fit in her husband’s shoes. “I will continue with the development agenda initiated by the departed MP and ensure that all work that was started is completed,” she said. Njeri, who was accompanied by Kiambu Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi, said that her first mission will be lobbying for the construction of a cancer centre in Juja, an initiative that was the brainchild of her late husband. “He had a vision to put up a cancer centre in Juja that will help vulnerable Kenyans who are struggling to treat and manage cancer. I will see to it that we lobby the necessary support and ensure that his dream is fulfilled,” Njeri said. Ngugi said that Juja and Kiambu residents are accepting and upholding confidence in women leadership in the region and that they will vote in Njeri overwhelmingly. “Women leadership is spreading roots across the county and country at large. I believe that Juja residents will stand with the departed MP’s widow so that she can complete the projects he initiated,” she said. Aspirant Koimburi who’s also seeking the Jubilee ticket called on the party to conduct free and transparent primaries. “We hope that Jubilee Party won’t issue a direct ticket to a certain aspirant but instead conduct fair primaries so that the most preferred candidates by residents can fly the Jubilee flag,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori