Research shows that diverse teams perform better and are more innovative, often suggesting promising results for business. Despite so, the lingering issue of gender disparity between male and female representation in the technology industry continues to be a hot topic for many activists, government authorities, and public-alike. As a brand, Infinix aims to connect with the youths via their product innovation, the brand is also not one to shy away from burning social challenges – in this case, empowering women to take a stance in some of the most challenging environment. While Kenya scores 81 (out of 100) on the Women, Business and the Law 2020 index and ranks 109 out of the 153 countries in the Global Gender Gap Report 2020 with 0.671, significant inequalities between males and females in education attainment, health outcomes, representation in parliament, and participation in the labor market remain. Infinix Kenya through #SHEPOWER celebrated women in the technology space in Kenya who have broken the gender barrier in what is a male dominated industry. These women have come up with Tech related ideas that are transforming the society, role models that are encouraging a new generation of women in tech. Some of the women being celebrated by the brand are Juliana Rotich, a technologist, strategic advisor, entrepreneur, futurist, keynote speaker and a Venture Partner in Africa Technology Ventures (ATV), Judith Ogiwar, an African entrepreneur who uses technology as a tool to empower youth and young women and also co-founder of Akirachix; a revolution for African women and technology and Ory Okolloh an activist, lawyer, and blogger who has worked as the Policy Manager for Africa with Google and has been featured in several magazines among them being Time 100 and Forbes. Lastly we have Martha Chumo who is the founder of The Dev School which equips youths in Africa with computer programming skills and aids them build technology-based solutions to everyday challenges. These women are some of the great spear headers leading women in the tech industry in Kenya. Today, there are greater acceptance for women in the workforce globally. Infinix has never stopped to take challenges on, with a workforce of 42 per cent women, it will continue to drive gender equality and diversity. It is not the ratio that counts but the culture of fostering diversity. In fact, the COVID-19 pandemic has also sped up the marathon for women’s rights in multiple aspects. That being said, companies – in this case, those in technology sector – will still need to relook and improvise some of their efforts in promoting gender equality in the workspace to ensure a sustainable change.