Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange has been mourned as a dedicated servant. President Uhuru Kenyatta mourned the departed MP as one of the country’s dependable leaders. “His undivided focus was the unity, stability and progress of the country,” the President said. Koinange was a key cog in the campaigns for the building bridges initiative in Kiambu county. Uhuru mourned him as a keen and steadfast supporter of the country's peace agenda through the House committee he chaired. DP William Ruto said Koinange was a dependable, illustrious and visionary figure who worked for the people of Kiambaa Constituency with diligence. "He was a progressive and selfless politician whose exceptional servant leadership will be missed," he said. "We pray to God that He grants strength to the family, their loved ones, the people of Kiambaa and our Parliament at this time of grief. Rest In Peace, Hon. Koinange." ODM party leader Raila Odinga said the people of Kiambaa have lost a diligent and dependable leader. "...whose undivided focus was the unity, stability and progress of the country. He served with distinction as the Chairperson of the @NAssemblyKE’s Committee on Administration and National Security," he said. "He was a personal friend of mine for many years. My heartfelt condolences go to his family, friends and constituents. May His Soul Rest In Eternal Peace." Speaker Justin Muturi said it was a great shock and sadness to lose Koinange. "My heartfelt condolences to his family, friends and the people of Kiambaa whom he so honourably served," he said. Via social media on Wednesday, Muturi said with the passing away of Koinange, the National Assembly has been robbed off a very committed and dependable Member of Parliament. Until his death, Koinange served with utmost dedication as Chairperson of the Departmental Committee of Administration and National Security and as the co-chair of the National Prayer Breakfast Committee. "It is very sad that the country has lost him at such a time, just when he was spearheading his Committee in the efforts to consolidate peace and security among communities involved in inter-ethnic conflicts across the country," he said. Interior CS Fred Matiangi said Koinange was a father figure and great model of a christian leader. "I mourn him in truth and deep frustration. He  was the indisputable steady and stabilising factor in the National Assembly's National Security Committee," he said. "My colleagues and I in the Internal Security Sector will miss his wealth of experience, unparalleled wisdom and political maturity that strengthened us all. My condolences to the family, friends and the constituents of Kiambaa."