Members of the Kenya Canoe Slalom team have promised to repay the country with a great performance at the Tokyo Olympics qualifiers in Barcelona, Spain scheduled for March 20-21. The team's trip to the Catalan city on Saturday night for the African Slalom Canoe qualifiers was aborted after they were denied boarding passes by the KLM Airline crew. However, efforts by the Kenya Rowing and Canoe Federation and the National Olympic Committee-Kenya ensured the team travelled to Spain last night. "We are going to repay them for all the hard work they have put in to ensure  we make the trip for these qualifiers. We were not expecting to travel today as we had virtually lost hope. Following the disappointment of Saturday night, we had retreated to our homes only to receive a phone call asking us to come to Nairobi to prepare for the trip," Daniel Chomba, one of the three team members, said. Chomba said they are not afraid of the threat posed by perennial African giants, such as Morocco and Algeria, since they have been hard at work in training during the Covid-19 period. "We are not going there to lose but to win because we have been training consistently despite the challenges of using outdated training equipment. We believe the training we have put in will pay off," he said. Similarly, Samwel Muturi, another member of the team, was optimistic of excellent results in Barcelona to secure a ticket to the Tokyo Olympics. "Senegal are one of the best performers in canoeing (C1) and I expect them to be no different this time round. "However, our training has been excellent considering we live near a river and we were able to train almost everyday during the Covid-19 period," Muturi said. Team Kenya's chef-de-mission Waithaka Kioni said NOC-K was keen to avoid a repeat of March last year when other members of the team were barred from competing in France. "We want to ensure that all Kenyan teams get a fair chance of qualifying for the Olympics. "We have, therefore, used our resources to ensure the canoe team makes it to Spain. "The team was already denied a qualifying chance when they went to France last year and had to return without competing at the onset of the pandemic. "The coaches have continuously assured us that they have a great chance to take some of the slots available for Africa," Kioni said. While denying them boarding passes, KLM Airline authorities said visas issued by the Spanish Embassy in Nairobi could not allow the team to transit through Amsterdam as had initially been planned. Efforts by the International Canoe Federation, the team's sponsors,  to  negotiate with the airline and find an amicable solution bore no fruit as were their efforts to secure an alternative flight. Other members of the team include Levis Karanja and coach Titus Mukundi.