@alalmaurice The security team in Kisumu county has denied claims of selective enforcement of Covid-19 containment directives issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta following a surge in cases. Kisumu Central deputy county commissioner John Cheruiyot on Tuesday said the security team is strictly enforcing the Covid-19 protocols as directed. This follows public outcry that the team was applying double standards by allowing some bars and restaurants to operate past the recommended hours. Cheruiyot denied knowledge of that. “We urge members of the public to share with us information on those disobeying measures by the Ministry of Health to prevent the spread of the coronavirus,” he said. He spoke during a joint press briefing after a meeting of the County Covid-19 Multi-Agency Committee. He said police are mandated to apply the rules and regulations equally to protect Kenyans from the virus. A section of bar and restaurant owners had protested that some of them had compromised the security team and were being allowed to operate beyond 9pm. “Whereas we strictly adhere to the presidential directives, our colleagues who seem to be in the police's good books operate during curfew hours,” said a bar owner who requested not to be named. He said some clubs and hotels in Kisumu city disregard Covid-19 regulations with the protection of some senior police and government officials. Meanwhile, Governor Anyang' Nyong’o said the situation in the county is alarming and needs stern action to stem. With the current new wave of Covid-19 infection in the country, Nyong’o noted that Kisumu was not spared and called for thorough enforcement of health protocols. “In the last week alone, our positivity rate has risen from 2.5 per cent to 4.7 per cent, almost a 100 per cent rise. On Tuesday, out of a test number of 200, we realised 25 cases, with a majority of this number coming from Kisumu Central,” he said. Nyong’o directed morgues not to preserve bodies for a period exceeding 72 hours and not to release anybody after 10am. “There shall be no night vigil in the homes of the deceased, as well as catering services at the funeral venues,” he added. He also directed that there should be a maximum of 100 people in any funeral and all places of worship to only admit one third of their capacities for services. Nyong’o reiterated that all those in home-based isolation and care must adhere to the laid-down guidelines, failing which they will be prosecuted once they recover. The governor urged residents to regularly wash their hands, sanitise and properly wear face masks in public places. He said public service vehicles must adhere to Covid-19 guidelines such as capacity, hand sanitising and be cleared by county director of public health Fred Oluoch. Boda Bodas and tuk tuks have been ordered to carry one and two passengers respectively. Nyong’o said restaurants and eateries must adhere to the prescribed Covid-19 regulations. “They shall only be allowed to operate after obtaining a clearance certificate signed by the director of public health and sanitation,” he said. The county chief reiterated that all political gatherings within the county remain banned until further notice. Oluoch decried low uptake of the Covid-19 vaccine. He said that of the county's more than 7,000 health workers, only 897 had got the jab. The drive is underway in subcounty facilities. 