President Uhuru Kenyatta attended the funeral service of the late Juja MP Francis Munyua Waititu ‘Wakapee’ in Kiambu County on Tuesday. The president eulogised Wakapee as a perfect example of a servant leader who served his constituents with the highest level of integrity. He urged Kenyans, especially those holding leadership positions, to emulate the late Wakapee's example by shunning all forms of corruption. “He has taught us that a leader is one who can stand and work for his people. 'Wakapee' never stole even a penny from the Government. He was a leader who cherished peace and unity of the people he led,” Uhuru said. He continued that; “He never failed to do good. He never waited to be asked for help but rather he willingly offered to support anyone who was in need. He would offer support before being asked." The president said it was on the basis of the MP's prudent utilisation of resources allocated to his constituency that he was re-elected to serve for a second term. “It’s never easy for a person to be re-elected especially here in Kiambu County. If you see a person being elected twice it means that people knew and understood him." The President pointed out that the late MP, popularly known by his moniker 'Wakapee', continuously worked hard to fulfill the pledges he made to his constituents. He also assured the constituents that the government will accomplish the projects that the late MP had initiated. “And I am here to assure you that the work that had been started by Wakapee will not be stuck, we will accomplish it together,” Uhuru said. He also assured the family of the late that they will be supported. The President said that he knew Wakapee long before he became the president. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, who also spoke at the solemn ceremony, said the late MP was a nationalist who strongly supported government business in parliament. “When it came to anything touching the Government, the late Francis Waititu didn’t waste time but supported the Government position to the end. He was such an ardent supporter of you (the President) and I will miss him dearly,” Muturi said. Muturi observed that the late MP was a servant leader who utilized his skills in management to transform the running of Juja Constituency Development Fund (CDF) to become one of the best managed in the country. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro described the late Francis Waititu as a passionate and hardworking person who was devoted to the improvement of the livelihoods of Juja residents. Nyoro said the late MP was particularly keen on the improvement of coffee farming and always sort expertise on how to expand agricultural production in his constituency and Kiambu County at large. Wakapee died on February 22 at MP Shah Hospital while undergoing treatment. The MP had been battling brain cancer. Members of the National Assembly suspended normal sessions to pay tribute to the late MP, a day after he was pronounced dead by the family. The lawmakers lauded the bold manner the late Wakapee battled cancer and called for serious intervention to curb the disease in the country. Speaker Justin Mutruri described the late MP as an illustrious and devoted member who represented the interest of his constituents.