World leaders are likely to skip the burial of former Tanzanian President Pombe Magufuli over Covid-19 that continues to ravage the country. Even after claims that Magufuli died from Covid-19, Tanzanian authorities including the new President Suluhu Hassan have disregarded Covid-19 protocols, including the wearing of masks. In recent weeks, top officials have died in Tanzania, including Zanzibar’s first vice president Seif Sharif Hamad. Despite the danger, large crowds have been turning up across the country to pay their last respects to Magufuli. Such events could be super-spreaders. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta led a high-powered government delegation to pay his last respects to Magufuli at the Tanzanian High Commission in Nairobi. It was a signal that Uhuru may not travel to Chato in Geita region for Magufuli's burial. State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena-Mararo could not be reached on the phone to confirm whether the President would be travelling. However, some sources said he could be compelled to go as chairman of the East African Community and given that Magufuli was hospitalised in Kenya. Uhuru led heads of all arms of government in conveying their condolences to Tanzania. Acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, Speakers Ken Lusaka (Senate) and Justin Muturi (National Assembly) accompanied him to the Tanzanian embassy. Also with him were Cabinet secretaries Fred Matiang'i of Interior, Amina Mohamed (Sports), Margaret Kobia (Public Service) and Adan Mohamed of East Africa Community and Regional Development. They were received by Tanzanian High Commissioner John Stephen Simbachawene. Tanzania has been on the spot for not observing measures to keep the disease at bay, as recommended by the World Health Organization. In a message to congratulate Tanzania's new president, Samia Suluhu Hassan, WHO boss Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said he hoped they could work together in the war on Covid-19. "I look forward to working with you to keep people safe from Covid-19, end the pandemic and achieve a healthier Tanzania. Together!" Ghebreyesus said in a Tweet. Tanzania has not reported Covid-19 figures since April 2020, which prompted the WHO to raise concerns about the situation in the East African country. The last time it reported figures, there were about 500 cases and 20 deaths were recorded. The month that followed, Magufuli declared Tanzania "coronavirus-free." When Covid-19 was reported in Tanzania, Magufuli dismissed the seriousness of the pandemic, urging his citizens to "pray coronavirus away.” Concerns have also been raised over the manner Tanzanians have been mourning their leader without keeping social distance and wearing masks. It has also been noted that even top officials, like the Cabinet, do not wear masks or keep social distancing as they mourn Magufuli. Thousands of mourners who congregated in Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam, on Saturday, did not exercise social distance or wear masks. Scientists have pointed out that the more people interact, the closer in distance the interaction is and the longer the interaction lasts, the higher the risk of spreading the virus. Health officials have pointed out that many people have contracted the virus through gatherings such as funerals. Last month, the US Embassy in Dar es Salaam warned that Covid-19 cases in the country had been surging since January. Most western nations have also advised their citizens against travelling to Tanzania.