A Kibera court has issued a warrant of arrest against two Chinese engineers linked to the destruction of some petroleum infrastructure which led to the spillage of petroleum products worth Sh109,731,585 in Langáta. Senior principal magistrate Derrick Kuto issued the warrant of arrests against Lu Heng and the China road and bridge construction company that was represented in court by another Chinese after they ran away from court moments before the sittings began. “Your honour, the two Chinese have been in court some few minutes ago and they just decided to drive off, they were here, they also drove off yesterday,” prosecutor Allan Mogere told the court. Mogere also urged court to issue a warrant of arrest against the two together with the investigating officer in the case. He said the Chinese had decided to abuse the court processes by disappearing. In the case, the two are accused of destroying an upstream petroleum infrastructure at the Kenya pipeline way-leave in Langáta, causing the loss of Sh109 million but they have yet to take a plea. They were to take a plea a day before, but the court lacked a translator, forcing senior resident magistrate Renee Kitagwa to push it to the next day and direct that they appear in person but they never did. However, through their lawyer Samuel Masika, they told the court that one of the Chinese had shown some Covid-19 symptoms. “Your honour, one of my client has showed some Covid-19 symptoms and had been advised to self isolate for three days,” he said. Masika had earlier told the court that they were trying to negotiate with Kenya pipeline to settle  the matter out of court . Masika had also told the court that his client was requesting for 14 days so that they can try to reach the complainant but the court declined the idea prompting the investigating officer to speak out. “I am getting pressure from the Kenya Pipeline which want the two suspects to take plea," the investigating officer told the court the first day the two were arraigned in court. Kuto directed the matter to be mentioned before him on Thursday. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 