Immediate former Kisii Water executive John Momanyi has pulled out of the Bonchari MP by-election after ODM picked Pavel Oimeke to fly its flag during the May 18 polls. Momanyi, popularly known as JB, announced his decision on Sunday after self and wide consultations with the party’s hierarchy. “The position I’m taking is not a popular one among the supporters, but for the love of the party and party leader Raila Odinga, I ask my supporters across the constituency to support a candidate of their choice in the by-election,” he said. Momanyi ruled out supporting ODM nominee former Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority director general Oimeke, who was nominated by the party. Oimeke was given the party ticket on Friday by National Elections Board chairperson Catherine Mumma. “My conscience cannot allow me to rally my supporters behind Oimeke because his ideals are different from mine. However, I have chosen to remain in ODM.” He said party’s National Elections Board and ODM leadership erred in nominating Oimeke. “I have worked with ODM leader Raila Odinga since 1991 during the agitation for multiparty. I have been a life member since 2017 and having contested in the last general election where I garnered 7,000 votes. I feel I was the best candidate,” Momanyi added during a press conference at Kisii Sports Club on Sunday. He said a number of political parties approached him to vie using their party but he declined. The parties that approached him include Kanu, ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya, he said. The May 18 by-election was occasioned by the death of area MP Oyioka at Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu after an illness. Those seeking the seat include former MP Oroo Oyioka's widow Teresia Bitutu who will contest on a UDA ticket, Lake Victoria South Water Works Agency director Victor Omanwa (Party of Economic Democracy) and former MP Zebedeo Opore of Jubilee Party. Others are former Kisii Woman Representative Mary Otara of United Green Party and youthful new entrant Jonah Ondieki of The New Democrats. On Friday, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna defended the nomination of Oimeke, who was in December arrested for allegedly soliciting Sh200,000 to allow the opening of a petrol station in Oyugis. “The Constitution presumes one is innocent until proven guilty. It is true Oimeke has a corruption case in court. He has not been convicted. One is barred from holding public office when they have been convicted and have exhausted their appeals,” he added. 