West Pokot county has commenced construction of a milk processing plant at Kabichbich in Pokot South. Speaking on Wednesday after laying the foundation stone, Governor John Lonyangapuo said the plant will cost Sh200 million. He said farming contributes to over 70 per cent of the county's economy hence why they are investing in value addition in the sector to stimulate economic growth. “Farming is the backbone of this county that is why we are are heavily investing in the sector to help create employment and improve living standards,” he said. The governor said Lelan and Tapach wards are famed for milk with the highest fat content in Kenya and the factory will exploit this through products not limited to cheese and butter. “There are over 25 milk cooling plants in Pokot South among them Kabichbich, Chepkono, Kipat, Ringring, Chesupet and Kaptabuk. We are also targeting dairy farmers for capacity building to equip them with modern practices,” he said. Lonyangapuo said his administration is working on empowering farmers through growing of pasture for increased milk production even during dry seasons. “The factory  will help farmers fetch competitive prices for their produce, create job opportunities as well as boost economy," he said. The governor said they will import machines from Israel at a cost of Sh250 million for the factory. The plant, he said,  will help in value addition to milk production in the region, and asked neighbouring counties to supply milk to the plant. "We are going to compete favourably and give other firms fair competition since our milk has been famed for having the highest fat content in the country,” he said. “During rainy season, Lelan ward alone produces 12,000 litres of milk per day and during dry spell production drops to about 7,000 litres,” said Agriculture executive Geoffrey Lipale. Lipale said the plant will help in eliminating middle men who have taken advantage of farmers from the region for a long time. He said the plant will also help in stabilising prices of milk in the region. “Currently, one litre is retailing at Sh32 and this is too low compared to the cost of production,” he said, adding that they will require 30,000 litres of milk per day. “We have distributed dairy animals to farmers to help improve in production and have encouraged our farmers to use artificial insemination,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 