A Catholic priest suspected to have died of Covid-19 three days ago has been interred in an emotional send-off. Fr Bernard Nkanya of St Massimo Parish in Mikinduri, Tigania East subcounty Meru was interred at Mujwa Catholic missionaries’ cemetery as friends, family and the clergy paid glowing tributes. Nkanya was born in 1957 at Magundu in Karimba location, Maara subcounty Tharaka Nithi, was ordained to priesthood in 1984 as a deacon at Tigania Catholic Parish and later as priest in December the same year at Muthambi Catholic Parish. Mourners eulogised him as a dedicated priest saying he worked tirelessly for the good of the church in and out of the diocese of Meru. Until his demise, Nkanya was the financial administrator of the Catholic Diocese of Meru, Meru Level 5 hospital and also Mikinduri town Municipality where he was a board member. During the burial conducted by Catholic Bishop Salesius Mugambi, the Health ministry's protocols on Covid-19 were strictly adhered to. "Nkanya has enjoyed relatively good health until on March 7, when he fell sick and was taken to Kiirua Mission hospital where he succumbed on March  14," the tribute read. Agriculture CS Peter Munya in a tribute read on his behalf by his senior technical adviser Kimathi Amundi, condoled with the priests, Nkanya's family and the community a large. He said Nkanya was instrumental in establishment of their Kariene parish. Meru Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu, Tharaka Nithi Administration and Devolution executive Abraham Maruta who represented governors Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) and Muthoni Njuki (Tharaka Nithi) as well as Ombudsman chair Florence Kajuju and EALA MP Mpuru Aburi paid their tributes describing Nkanya as an icon of developments. Kajuju thanked Bishop Mugambi for giving the people of St Massimo a big-hearted priest who set high standards and loved everyone in equal measure. Mpuru said he was shocked by the death of his home church priest and urged Bishop Mugambi to post another like-minded priest at the parish. Frankline Mugambi who paid family tributes described Nkanya as a mentor, reconciler, a teacher and a pillar who touched many people. “I urge you to pray with us for losing a family leader who we all depended on for many things. His love for education always illuminates and will last for generations to come. We will miss his jokes, smile, humility, generous and kind deeds,” Mugambi said. Nkanya worked as priest From 1984 to 2001 for Igoji, Kevote in Embu, Muthambi in Tharaka Nithi and Kariakomo catholic parishes. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 