 Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and MPs Gladys Wanga and Aisha Jumwa are among 10 lawmakers who have been summoned by NCIC for questioning over the violence that rocked Thursday’s by-elections across the country. Others are MPs Faisal Bader (Msambweni), John Waluke (Sirisia), Ben Washiali (Mumias East), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Charles Were (Kasipul), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga. NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia on Saturday said the legislators are expected to appear before the commission on Monday to shed light on the roles they played during the chaos witnessed during the elections. Kobia said the summons do not just indicate the commission's intention to investigate and prosecute the lawmakers but also the plan to stop those exhibiting unethical conduct from occupying public office. “Allow me to speak on my own behalf as chair of NCIC and as an elder in our country. This is my promise to the purveyors of hate. I will ensure that you are in jail and as you wait to go to jail, I will put you out of the leadership of this country,” Kobia said. He spoke at a press briefing in Nairobi. Kobia said it was unacceptable that Kenyans were treated to voter bribery, violence and an environment full of tension that is reminiscent of the period just before the deadly 2007 General Election. “One does not need to be a prophet to realise that some of our politicians are committed to attaining their desires at the cost of Kenyan lives,” he said. He said the leaders abandoned their role to inspire hope and show decorum and took on the role of a villain once again. “A slap on the face of an election official is a slap on the face of all Kenyans,” he said. Kobia said NCIC had since written to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to seek a legal mandate from the Judiciary to remove from office leaders who break the rules spelled out in Chapter Six of the Constitution. “Just the same way civil servants who are indicted on corruption charges are asked to step away from office, unethical leaders should do the same. We are not just seeking criminal justice, we also want these leaders and others like them to be out of office forthwith,” Kobia said. He said the commission had also asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to ensure unethical leaders do not get a certificate of good conduct. He said the commission was hunting for goons who frog-matched a woman while shouting obscenities. “We must be defenders of our women. We cannot allow mob psychology to guide us,” he stated. Violence erupted in most of the areas where by-elections were conducted on Thursday. They included Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies in Kakamega and Bungoma counties respectively. Other by-elections were held in civic wards in Nakuru, Kisii and Makueni counties. Former Sports CS Rashid Echesa was caught on video slapping an IEBC official at Bulonga polling station in Matungu. He later went into hiding before surrendering to police on Friday. In Nakuru, chaos erupted at Milimani Primary School polling station in London ward after rowdy youth accused Lang’ata MP Nixon Korir of bribing voters. Four MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto were Friday arraigned at the Bungoma law courts after their arrest on Thursday during the Kabuchai parliamentary by-election. Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei) and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei were arrested for allegedly planning violence.  Edited by P.O