Harambee Stars captain Michael Olunga has admitted that the standards of the Qatar premiership are a bit lower compared to those of the J1-League, where he transacted business with Kashiwa Reysol for two years. "I linked up with Al Duhail in the second half of the season and, honestly, I'm yet to play against all teams in the league. "The stark reality, however, is that J1-League is more tasking and competitive compared with Qatar Stars League. Olunga joined Al Duhail at the peak of his performance just days after he had been declared the Most Valuable Player of the Year and top scorer in the J1-League after 28 goals in 32 matches. It was the first time an African player was a achieving such a great feat. In Qatar, he has found the back of the net seven times so far this season in all the 12  matches he has featured. Olunga came at the end of heavy criticism after failing to impress in Kenya's one-all draw against Egypt at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Thursday. He was excluded from the squad that beat Togo 2-1 in Lome on Monday after the medics confirmed he and three of his teammates had all contracted the coronavirus. Coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee handed him the armband and tasked him with guiding the team in the remaining two African Cup of Nations qualifiers after former skipper Victor Wanyama was left out of the squad. Wanyama was conspicuously absent from the final Stars' list that included eight foreign-based players, among them Eric Ouma, Duncan Otieno, Ian Otieno, Masud Juma and Joash Onyango. The former Gor Mahia and Tusker hitman said he's not losing any sleep over his low score in the Qatari premiership. "Every league has its own challenges and Qatar is not any different. I'm still trying to acclimatise to my surroundings in the country. "I can assure you'll see me scoring more goals very soon. I'm certain I will. Al Duhail currently lie second on the log with 40 points from 19 matches. League leaders Al Sadd remain hot favourites to clinch the title given they sit pretty at the summit of the log on 50 points.