The name Maiyan rings a bell. You've probably seen it if you've travelled to Nanyuki. A cool 146 acres of natural lush landscape, set on a backdrop of Lolldaiga Hills and Mt. Kenya. You can't make this stuff up! Enter Swara Ranch by Maiyan. An 80 acre scenic lifestyle development that is full of ideal amenities fashioned for a harmonious live and play environment. Swara Ranch is located 20km North of Nanyuki and is situated opposite the Maiyan Villas. Already, it features completed projects including Swara Cluster 1, Maiyan Villas and the Maiyan Club House. Swara Ranch apartments The latest upcoming development at Maiyan are the Swara  Ranch apartments. The warm residential segment will now feature modern apartments as part of the residential mix with limited apartments available for sale. Located within village court 4, Swara village 4 is on 7.7 acres and is made up of 15 blocks of modern country apartments surrounded by green spaces and parks with lush scenery and unmatched views of the Lolldaiga hills and Mount Kenya. The apartments comprise of a mix of studio, loft,1 and 2 bedroom housing units. The built-up area within village 4 is only 12% of the total area with the rest of the area set aside for private gardens, shared green areas and infrastructure. The pledged construction period is six months with the proposed start date being 1st May 2021 to be completed on 1st November 2021. Activities and more features for investors at Maiyan The free sports and activities for investors of Swara Apartments available include the largest heated Swimming pool in this region, tennis, basketball, an outdoor gym, jogging, use of the rugby/soccer pitch, boat riding and a birds' aviary. Services covered by the Service Charge include security, maintenance of all grounds, maintenance and cleaning of all common areas within the apartments and garbage collection. As for management options, owners can turn in their units for management by the award winning Falcon Heights management, the hospitality manager for Maiyan. Environmental Sustainability An incredible 75% of the development is green with 25% built-up area. It features a 150kw solar power production farm generating solar power for the entire development to supplement the supply from KPLC which provides at least 27% of the power requirements. On location, you will find planted over 200,000 different tree and fruit species within the development. Most of the storm water is harvested into their dams and all water used within the development is treated to potable standards. All waste water is recycled and used for irrigation. Moreover, Swara uses green swale storm water drains. Solar power is used for water heating at the apartments and on the street lighting systems. Other outstanding features about Swara Ranch include existence of a well established tree and flower nursery, organic growing of most of the vegetables, herbs and spices, construction of most of their infrastructure and buildings using locally sourced materials and labour. Community Engagement Notably, a significant proportion of the over 100 people working within Maiyan are from the local community. Maiyan also runs a school feeding program for Lairagwan primary school in addition to having installed window panes in all the classrooms Below are other community engagements - Maiyan supports Daraja Academy through scholarship programmes and school books donations. - Through Maiya, there has been construction of an ablution facility for the Karionga police post and the grading, gravellingof 1.3 Km Karionga / Mukima off road - Inculcation of a good environmental practice with a gradual sustainable environmental upgrade and training through their organic tree nursery and farm Financing Options For the developments, Maiyan has financial pre-arrangements existing with a number of banks for investors seeking to obtain investment financing. Investors can also also obtain financing from their preferred lenders. Maiyan is open for business and you can plan a visit to see the stunning, occupation-ready homes on sale. Experience Maiyan Living! Call them on 0797 222333 or email invest@maiyan.co.ke.