The anti-corruption agency has been cleared of queries surrounding its occupancy of its Integrity Centre headquarters. The Public Accounts Committee marked as resolved the query on compulsory acquisition of the land, which appreciated from Sh400 million to Sh1.5 billion in three years. The committee in a new report, however, observed that there was conflict of interest on the part of the National Land Commission for valuation of the property. “There was conflict of interest in the valuation of the land it intended to buy rather than obtaining services of another independent valuer such as the Ministry of Lands,” the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said. PAC recommended that the matter be resolved, saying the explanation given by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak on how the land appreciated was satisfactory. The Auditor General, in the financial year 2017-18, queried the purchase citing no evidence the Lands ministry played a role in the valuation. The Department of Land Valuation in the ministry is mandated to provide valuation services on land to be used by state agencies in order to protect the monetary interest of the government. EACC said it wrote to the NLC, which provided it with a letter from the chairman to the Lands ministry requesting for assistance in assessment and valuation. NLC also sent to EACC a letter from the chairman indicating to the Lands ministry that it got express instruction from the Attorney General to acquire the property. The anti-graft agency said the NLC informed it that the instruction reversed the earlier request for assistance with the valuation. EACC told MPs that the Land Act 2012 gives the Land commission the power to do all things necessary to ascertain whether land is suitable for the intended purpose. The anti-graft agency cited the law, which empowers the NLC, in determining the compensation award under compulsory acquisition – as was the case with EACC and Tegus Limited. It said the Land commission has powers to determine the size of land to be acquired and compensation payable. EACC further held that the valuation report by the NLC was prepared and signed by a registered and practicing valuer based on an inspection done in February 2018. The anti-graft agency has a balance of Sh25.4 million, having remitted Sh1.518 billion as of April 2018 towards settlement of the property. It further informed the committee that the notice of taking possession was issued to Tegus Limited by the NLC on August 14, 2018. The EACC, Chief Land Registrar, Director of Surveys, and Director of Public Lands Information Management System were notified, EACC said. A day later, the NLC notified the acting Chief Land Registrar that it had acquired the property for EACC. Tegus Limited had submitted the original title for vesting to the Treasury Cabinet Secretary. The NLC transferred and vested the property to the National Treasury Principal Secretary, whom the land is currently registered under, to hold in trust for the EACC. Edited by Henry Makori