The family of a boy whose remains were exhumed 22 months ago in Bomet county will wait three more weeks to know when a court will allow his burial. Court orders to give the family the body for burial have been delayed due to the missing postmortem report from the court files. Family members Daisy Chelangat, the mother,  through Margaret Ruto, a US- based rights activist, told the press in Bomet town on Saturday the planned burial was postponed after the High Court in Bomet moved the ruling to  March 23. She also said the postmortem report was missing James Kipkirui  was buried without the family’s consent — and required legal documents — at Dow Children’s Home at Kapsiratet village in Boito ward, Konoin subounty. nine years ago. His remains are at Longisa County Referral Hospital. Gregory Hayes Dow, a Christian missionary in Kenya, was last month convicted and sentenced to serve 15 years and eight months prison in the US. He had pleaded guilty to defiling  underage girls in his custody at the children’s home. So was he boy. The home was closed in 2017 by the government following complaints by the girls who were sexually abused by Dow. Nine out of the 87 girls at the home had repeatedly been defiled by the American by the time he fled Kenya. Dow fled the country secretly but his wife Mary Dow was arrested and released after a Sotik court fined her Sh20,000 and flew out of the country the same day she was released. United States District Judge Edward G. Smith in Lancaster county, Pennsylvania, also ordered Dow to pay Sh1.7 million ($16,000) in restitution for the crimes against Kenyan children, aged 11 to 13 years. He was prosecuted by Kenyans in America. It is alleged that the boy died in 2012 after choking on food and was buried at Dow Children’s Home despite protests by family members who were overruled by the American missionaries. Former Bomet resident Judge Martin Muya granted exhumation orders sought by the DCI on October 11, 2018, after the family went to court demanding to give their son a decent burial. The court found Dow guilty in absentia for secretly burying the boy’s remains without informing the police, securing a burial permit, a death certificate from the Registrar of Births and Deaths or informing authorities including the area chief. Court orders given on March, 25, 2019, directed police and public health officials to exhume the remains and conduct a postmortem for the body to be buried again. The body was exhumed on May 30, 2019, and an autopsy conducted by the chief government pathologist. The remains are at the morgue. Activist Ruto has been assisting the family after her successful prosecution of the Dow case in America. She said court orders to grant the family the body for burial have been delayed due to the missing postmortem report from the court files. Bomet resident judge Justice Roselyne Korir ordered prosecution to produce  documents before the court. She set the hearing for March 23, when the DCI will have been expected to table the autopsy report. (Edited by V. Graham. 