A few kilometres from Kiambu town is Ngegu village, characterised by mushrooming rental houses. It is here that Nehemiah Mihindo ushers us into a compound that has shops and residential houses. Nothing prepares a visitor for any agricultural activities but Mihindo has thousands of seedlings, mostly fruits, nuts and herbs, growing on a slightly smaller than half acre piece of land. Some of his members of staff, who include agriculture students on internship, are busy distributing, selling, inspecting plants and watering seedlings. He has similar projects in Kilifi, Kajiado, Kwale and Narok among 12 other counties. Mihindo is an entomologist and the chief executive officer and founder of Africa Integrated Pest Management Alliance. The former university lecturer says he wants to see the country achieve 10 per cent tree coverage, while enhancing food security and creating employment. He says he gives free seedlings tree and herbs for particular species annually to farmers. This year’s target is avocado, moringa, pawpaws and macadamia. To earn from this venture, he says, he sends pictures of the healthy plants to an organisation in Italy, which sells the photos online. In addition to tree planting, Africa IPM Alliance promotes sustainable agriculture by use of integrated pest management methods and organic fertilisers which minimises and discourages use of synthetic chemicals. Excessive use of farm chemicals has been associated with life-threatening diseases such as cancer. It has also been blamed for diminishing insect populations and acidifying soils thus reducing food productions. “Africa IPM Alliance focuses on other programmes for safer interventions to reduce synthetic agrochemicals which have devastating effects on human bodies and the environment,” Mihindo said. He said they train farmers free of charge on IPM. Mihindo said simple agriculture practices such as timely planting, weeding and harvesting, ensuring plants do not have water stress and crop integration play a big role in pest management. 