The 2020 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination has kicked off, ending a five-month delay. Some 1,187,517 candidates will sit the exam, which will end on Wednesday. The candidates will write their examination under guidelines twice as strict to curb examination cheating and spread of the virus. The candidates will, among other rules, be arranged to sit two metres apart in all directions. This will aid in achieving social distancing. Education CS led State officials in the opening of examination containers at the Thika West sub-county while the Kenya National Examination Council chief executive supervised the opening of exams container in Nairobi County. Basic Education PS Julius Jwan supervised the examination distribution exercise in Kisii County while TSC chief executive oversaw the opening of exam containers in Kisumu County. Other officials who took part in the exercise include: KNEC chairman in Mombasa County, Education CAS Hassan Noor in Garissa County, CAS Sarah Ruto in Machakos, CAS Mumina Bonaya supervised Isiolo County, while the KICD director Charles Ong’ondo supervised the opening of Kakamega County container. The candidates will write their examination under guidelines twice as strict to curb examination cheating and spread of the virus. Supervisors and invigilators have also been instructed to check the learners face masks following reports that the candidates could use them to cheat in the exams. Last week, Education CS George Magoha while in Mombasa announced that part of the examination safety protocols will be the removal of masks during inspection. Magoha said he was privy to intelligence on plans by some students to write material they will use in the exam room on their face masks. The CS directed that students remove masks during inspection for examination officials to ascertain they are not used to sneak cheating material. Magoha also flagged parts of Migori and Kisii counties as cheating hotspots that are being monitored. Today, the students will write Mathematics in the morning, followed by English in the mid-morning and finish off with Composition.