A court has said the police covered up for one of their own who shot and killed Stephanie Moraa during the chaos that rocked the 2017 General Elections. Nairobi Chief Magistrate Francis Andayi on Monday laid the blame for the murder of nine-year-old Moraa squarely on the police saying they deliberately shot at an innocent child. Moraa was shot by police while playing on the balcony of their apartment in Mathare. While closing the inquest into the death of Moraa, Andayi said if the police were keen to solve the murder they can find the officer who shot at her in a day. “I am almost certain that if the police service wished to identify and bring to book the officer who took away the life of Stephany Moraa Gisemba, it would not take them a day to do so,” Andayi ruled. He faulted the police for using the famous blue code of silence in this matter when an innocent life was lost. Andayi further ruled that after every presidential election in Kenya, innocent lives are taken away by trigger happy cops who know that they will be covered by the blue code of silence “An innocent child standing at the balcony of the parents’ residence not even aware of what it entails for one to win or lose an election leave alone participating in a demonstration, pays the ultimate price, death!” the court said. Andayi said unfortunately the officer who took away her life cannot be brought to book because he is under the protection of the blue code. He also applauded Ipoa for taking up these cases and bringing them to the public even through their efforts are being frustrated by the blue code. He forwarded the file to the DPP for necessary action because his finding is Moraa was killed by one of the police officers on duty in Mathare. In their testimony the police had told court that they didn’t have a list of the officers who were deployed in the area on that day. Senior Superintendent Police Alice Kimeli said since it was an emergency there was no operation order prepared to show the list of officers who were called to assist in containing the situation after the presidential election results were announced. However, in this case the duty rosters for the stations did not show the exact lock-up of the Mathare Area 2 and some of the officers had live ammunition while some had blanks.