Struggling National Super League side, Sony Sugar have named Kassim Junior Otieno as their head coach. Otieno will take over from Andrew Ongwae who has been handling the team in an acting capacity following the departure of Abdalla Juma who joined Kenya Premier League side, Western Stima. He was in the dugout when Sony held local rivals Shabana to a barren draw at Narok Stadium on Wednesday. Sony chairman, Paul Mayieko, confirmed the appointment of Otieno, saying his immediate task is to lift the team from the relegation zone. “We are not in a good position currently but the new coach is doing a good job. We expect to finish in a top three positions at the end of the season,” said Mayieko. Ongwae confirmed the club has signed seven players and remained confident  they will help the team. The former utility defender confirmed the team raided rivals for goalkeeper Dennis Ayusa and defender Victor Mavisi. Others who joined Sony in the mid season transfer window are strikers Mike Onyango and Dominic Waithaka and defenders Brian Asuma and Emmanuel Kisia. Goalkeeper Kevin Mwagona also joined the former KPL champions from Zoo Youth. The team will on Sunday welcome fellow strugglers Murang’a Seal at Migori Stadium. He said the game has been moved from Sony Stadium which is undergoing renovations. Meanwhile, one match will be played Saturday with Migori Youth hosting neighbours Shabana at Migori Stadium. Law enforcers derby between log leaders Kenya Police and Administration Police Service (APS), Bomet will be the highlight of NSL fixtures on Sunday at Camp Toyoyo. Kenya Police hope to get their promotion push back on track after going three games without a win. Fortune Sacco will be up against Coast Stima at Kianyaga Stadium with Kisumu Hot Star and Nairobi Stima facing off at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. At the same venue, Kisumu All Stars will host Silibwet FC. Second-placed Talanta FC will host on-form Mwatate United at Ruaraka grounds in Nairobi. On Monday, third-placed Vihiga Bullets and Soy United will collide in a highly anticipated Western region derby as Modern Coast Rangers and Mt Kenya United face off at Serani grounds. Mully Children’s Family will welcome fourth-placed Kibera Black Stars at Ruaraka grounds.