Deputy President William Ruto’s allies are upbeat about the future of the United Democratic Alliance, saying it is making inroads despite successive by-election losses. The party has lost three parliamentary by-elections, two for MP and one for senator in a span of two weeks. But Ruto’s men have insisted that UDA has made a strong statement that it is a national party that transcends tribal and regional barriers. “In Machakos, Matungu, Kabuchai, Msambweni and Nakuru UDA, a new party, has demonstrated its credentials as a national party with no tribal or regional boundaries,” Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said. Ruto has been fielding candidates on the party ticket after he fell out with Jubilee apparently to test his political muscle ahead of the 2022 race for State House. On Friday, UDA’s candidate Urbanus Ngengele lost massively to Wiper party’s Agnes Kavindu. Kavindu garnered 104, 080 votes or 78 per cent of the total votes cast against Ngengele’s 19, 705. Pundits had predicted a tough battle between Kavindu and Ngengele owing to the influence of UDA chairman and former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama. The loss came barely two weeks after UDA candidates lost to Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC and Moses Wetangula’s Ford Kenya in Matungu and Kabuchai parliamentary by-elections. The defeats notwithstanding, the DP’s confidants say the party has sent jitters, adding that the formation is making inroads in all parts of the country. Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Ruto’s confidant, said the results of the Machakos senatorial by-election demonstrated that UDA is the party to watch. “The results demonstrate that UDA can field a candidate anywhere in Kenya. It is a party beyond tribe, race, religion or status,” he said. Kositany challenged Wiper to focus on moving out of the Akamba nation to demonstrate its presence and strength across the country. While congratulating Kavindu for her victory, nominated Senator Millicent Omanga said UDA future is luminous. Kericho senator Aaron Cheruiyot said the party has caused discomfort in people’s bedrooms (political bastions). “U DA raiding people's bedroom's since 2020. Sometimes we just make out. Sometimes we go all the way. Both have a good feel... Woke up to Jah Cure's 'Respect the hustlers in the streets',” he twitted. The tweet triggered an almost immediate reaction from Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr who challenged him to admit defeat by Kavindu. To which he responded, "Congratulations on defending home territory. In football terms, this was an away match that gave us an away goal despite the loss." Last year, Ruto-backed independent candidate Feisal Bader won Msambweni parliamentary by-election, beating ODM’s Omar Boga despite the party’s influence in the Coast region. The sweet  victory apparently gave the impetus to field candidates in other by-elections. On March 4, the party’s candidate won the London ward seat. In November, ODM beat Ruto-backed Jubilee candidate McDonald Mariga in the high-stakes by election for Kibra parliamentary seat. Edited by Henry Makori