The Communications Authority of Kenya has slapped Homeboyz radio station with Sh1 million fine. The authority has also given the station other sanctions for derogatory comments it made against women on March 25. CA acting director-general Mercy Wanjau said all licensed broadcasters are obliged to among other things provide responsible and responsive programming that caters to the varied needs and susceptibility of different sections of Kenyan communities. “Also, broadcasters are required to observe standards of good taste and decency in their broadcasts.” Wanjau accused the station of discussing sexual matters explicitly and offensively and glorified sexual violence against women in blatant breach of legal requirements. She said the station has also been slapped with a six-month suspension of the show until it demonstrates compliance with all statutory and regulatory requirements. “The station is directed that the staff of the station undergo training and sensitisation on gender issues,” Wanjau said. She said the training should be certified by the National Gender and Equality Commission and evidence of compliance filed with the authority. CA also directed that the staff of the station undergo training on the programming code by the authority. Wanjau also directed the station to publish an apology in two newspapers with nationwide circulation and air the same apology on the station during primetime starting from Sunday for the next five days. CA also directed the station to review its editorial policy to align with requirements of the law on gender and file the same with the authority. It also directed that all its presenters are accredited by the Media Council of Kenya and file evidence with the authority. Wanjau said CA will continue monitoring the programming aired to ensure it conforms with ICT sector laws. She said CA upholds the principle of gender inclusivity and respect for diversity. Wanjau urged broadcasters to exercise great responsibility when undertaking their workThe station has already terminated the service of its three presenters. The termination which took effect immediately on Sartuday affected Shaffie Weru, Joseph Munoru and Neville Musya.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris