The Machakos County Government has taken a wide range of measures to cushion residents of the county against ravages caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua issued a 100 per cent waiver on land rates and land arrears. He reduced transport levy costs by 50 per cent, and non-payment of fees on vegetable vendors, boda boda operators, tuk tuk and Maruti operators. "Fee waiver on fire licence, land subdivision. When you pay your fees you will not pay on the license," he said. Mutua removed wholesale and retail charges alongside parking fees. He also issued a 50 per cent waiver on Single Business permits. Governor Mutua also praised the management of Mulleys Supermarket for their decision to cut prices on a number of food and non-food items making them affordable to residents. He called on businesses across Kenya to borrow a leaf from the Mulleys gesture and reduce prices for their commodities. "I urge other industry players to also forfeit a bit of their profits by lowering the prices of their goods so as to cushion Kenyans," he said. Mutua urged the petroleum industry to find a way of reducing the price of paraffin, petrol and diesel at this time of hardship. "Reduce your profits for a little bit now. As was done before, I urge His Excellency the President to intervene with Kenya Power and Lighting  Company so that they don’t not disconnect power from Kenyans who are  struggling to pay  for  power at this time," he said. This announcement comes two days after president Uhuru Kenyatta issued new directives on Covid-19 but forgot to cushion Kenyans of its effect. In his directives, Uhuru locked down five counties that he said were infested by the disease. However, he did not give Kenyans relief like he did the first time when he announced a lockdown. The President had issued a tax relief for Kenyans last year something that he did not do during his address. This has made a Pastor blame the president for the mess that Kenyans are witnessing. In an online video posted on Sunday evening, Pefa Kahawa West Bishop Peter Ambuka said the people of Kenya have greatly suffered since the pandemic struck last year. "Mr President, you and your fellow politicians are to blame for this devastating third wave of Covid-19 infections in the country. And the buck stops with you," Ambuka said. Ambuka said it is unfortunate that Kenyans are the ones to suffer the consequences. "We do this as you continue leaving your lavish lifestyle thanks to the taxes we continue to pay even as we lose jobs due to the pandemic," he said.