That safety marshals are critical to the running of a safe World Rally Championship event goes without saying. Organisers of the WRC Safari Rally are therefore not taking anything to chance. Between now and the actual event, slated for June 24-27, every marshal will undertake three training sessions to ensure they are well equipped and confident to undertake their role effectively. Chief Safety Officer of the Safari, Norris Ongalo, says the training focuses on their basic role which is to "Inform, Direct and Control other subjects". "The subjects could be spectators, media personnel and other officials. We have started the first round of training and the marshals are quite engaged. They are realising that the task ahead is massively important but achievable. This crop of men and women are brilliant," says Ongalo. In terms of planning, the Safari Rally safety initiative has a lot going on behind the scene as Ongalo reveals. "We are preparing the Safety Master Plan for the event. This is a document that gives details of activities to be carried out on the stages. It features activities at every kilometre. This includes the number of marshals and their exact posting, the medical and rescue intervention plan — both road and air evacuations — the hospitals available and what trauma facilities they have and many others," Ongalo observes. The acquisition of the rescue equipment is in the last stages and the paramedics to use it will be trained accordingly. "We are also finalising on the procurement of rescue equipment which is a requirement by FIA. Upon receipt of this equipment, we shall train our paramedics and the technical intervention teams," adds Ongalo. The plan is to use the forthcoming FIA Africa Rally Championship event (Equator Rally) as a dress rehearsal for the WRC Safari Rally. "Therefore, as we prepare for WRC, we have our eyes on ARC as well. We shall continue with the training programs for marshals, National Youth Service, medical and rescue teams until the last week to the ARC. We will then resume once the ARC is over and continue until the last week to the WRC," Ongalo narrates. "We have over 470 civilian marshals recruited from a pool of over 800 applicants. We have marshals coming from as far afield as Malindi, Kisumu and Turkana. An interesting facet is 35 per cent of the marshals are women. The National Youth Service will add another 1,300 as we target a workforce of 1,900 marshals." Kenya ran a WRC candidate event in 2019 and the difference this year will be the elaborate preparation given the global status of the fabled event. "Remember we were ready to run the event in 2020 before Covid-19 struck. However, the team have been working round the clock to ensure every little detail is taken care of. We shall prepare a detailed spectator manual to guide the spectators on where to safely watch the rally," he says. The FIA technical support has been tremendous, with several training programs, Ongalo observes. Dom Saunders of Motorsport UK  is currently conducting training for various officials including Radio Marshall and Stage Commanders. The trainees have also had the privilege of learning through virtual presentations by Motorsport UK Director of Learning and Development Sue Sanders. Ongalo says Motorsport UK has been assigned to run an elaborate officials' training program in the run-up to the Safari. "We have had FIA and WRC promoters support our preparation by seconding a team of experts to us. These experts have offered tremendous insights on how to organise a WRC event. Each day with these guys has been invaluable. Thank you to Iain Campbell, João Passos, Sue Sanders, Dominic Saunders, Rupert Hine and Andrew Kellett. We are definitely better than we were two years ago," Ongalo notes. Safari Rally Stage Commanders, Deputy Stage Commanders and Stage Safety Officers have been engaged in a rare hands-on exercise of setting up a makeshift stage around Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "One group dealt with the start, another with the 'stage' and another with the stage finish," says Ongalo. "The predicted outcome was to engage all SC's, DSC's and SSO's in a robust stage setup while considering all where signage and boards are to be placed, managing spectator areas, safety concerns, escape routes and the overall running and setting up of a successful stage." Dom believes Kenyan officials are now more aware of what is required of them and are getting along well with the nitty-gritty of organising such an event. "They are a lot more aware of what is going on and have had better communication and planning. What we need to do is to involve Stage Commanders a lot more in that planning process," says Dom. He reckons that the magnitude of planning a WRC event is immense and requires early preparations. He added: "The key difference between running a rally and a WRC is that WRC is not a rally. It's a television product that is sold.  When the WRC circus arrives in town, it's a big animal and has lots of pressure and we have to make sure we involve stakeholders through and through." "The key message is that we are going to get on with planning, we are going to build teams and we are going to make sure that there is smooth running among all the teams." Multiple Kenya Rally Champion and 2006 Safari Rally winner Azar Anwar, who attended the seminar reckons that the ongoing FIA officials' training initiative will be key to an amazing WRC event in June. The never-say-never veteran won the Safari Rally with George Mwangi (Safari's current Deputy Clerk of the Course) in a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution VI when the event counted towards the FIA African Rally Championship (ARC). "The seminar was very informative. Even with so many years of experience in WRC and Safari Rally, I hadn't realised how much planning, preparation and training is required," opens up Anwar. "I mean, six official vehicles with specific duties and running ahead of world's best drivers and rally cars running to detailed time schedules all being remote-controlled by radio links to headquarters, sweeper cars, hundreds of safety marshals, stage commanders and medical crew, all required to operate with machine efficiency. Each one of us will need intensive training and be tested to perform like clockwork." Meanwhile, spectators have slot instore in as far as action is concerned. For the first time in the history of racing in Africa, a WRC car will be used to recce a stage on Safari. Deputy Clerk of the Course Nazir Yakub took time to expound more on the rare facet that will be another first for the Safari. “On the continent, I don’t think we have ever done this — racing in rally cars. So, it’s a wonderful opportunity for everyone to see what a WRC car looks like at slow speed! You actually see them racing by, but now you will see them driven at 'recce speeds'," he says. “Drivers will take the notes at the Kasarani Super Special Stage. So those are the notes that they will then use after the start at KICC when they come back to Kasarani to run the stage competitively. But in all other routes, recce will be conducted in normal recce cars, with normal specifications and single colours.”  KEY WRC SAFARI DATES June 21-Recconaisance Day 1 June 22 -Reconnaissance Day 2 -Scrutineering /component sealing for WRC2, WRC3 and non-Priority Drivers -Safari Welcome Cocktail June 23 -Reconnaissance Day 3 -Shakedown for all Priority and Non-Priority Drivers -FIA Pre-event press conference June 24 -Autograph Session -Presidential and VIP Speeches at KICC -Super Special Stage at Kasarani June 25 Start of Section 2-Service Park Naivasha Opening of Media Centre Service Park Naivasha June 26 -Start of Section 4 - Service Park Naivasha June 27 -Start of Section 6-Power Stage -Podium Finish Ceremony -Final Scrutineering