Impala will be seeking to bounce back from their derby defeat when they make the short trip to Nakuru to face an in-form Menengai Oilers tomorrow at the ASK Show ground. The Sarries lost 27-20 to Quins last weekend and head coach Mitch Ocholla will be seeking an immediate response when they face the Kenya Cup log leaders. The former Kenyan international said he was not worried after losing their first match of the season and was delighted with the performance of the youngsters in the squad. “I'm happy with the way some of our development players in the squad rose to the challenge. There is room for improvement going forward but this being our first game, they were lots of positives,” added Ocholla. He termed Oilers as a side who play with pace and intensity. “They are very quick and have a stable foundation in the set pieces which we have to counter come Saturday,” added Ocholla. Ocholla is set to rotate his squad for the encounter with the likes of Ian Masheti, Bravin Mukoro and Kevin Rono expected to start in the forwards alongside the evergreen Davis Makori and skipper Elkeaans Musonye. Kenya Simbas scrumhalf Samson Onsomu is expected to continue his p[partnership at halfback with Martin Juma with speedsters, Edmund Anya , Quinto Ongo and Alvin Marube in the backline. Gibson Weru's charges top the standings with 11 points with two wins and a draw and will fancy his chances of a win against the Ngong Road outfit. He will rely on skipper Chrispine Shitundo, Rashid Shimoka , Ibrahim Ayoo and  Nicholas Ochieng in the forwards with Andrew Odero, Austin Sikuta and Davis Nyaundi the pick of the backs. Weru expects a tough test from Impala. "This match will be a good indicator of where we are as a  team and we  expect it  to be very competitive," added Weru. In other fixtures, there will be a double-header at RFUEA ground with former champions Nondies making their season debut against Strathmore Leos at 1pm as Quins host Kabras at 3pm. KCB have a date with Blak Blad at the Lions Den in Ruaraka.