All the 12 local pros have finally joined the sporting bubble well in time for the back-to-back European Tour action starting with the Kenya Open on Thursday and Savannah Classic next week. The bubble will be based at Ole Sereni and Tamarind Tree. Apart from Greg Snow and the five Kenyan amateurs based at Ole Sereni, the rest of the pros will be at Tamarind Tree. The amateurs are Jay Sandhu of Royal Nairobi, Muthaiga youngster Taimur Malik, Paul Muchangi (Limuru), Mutahi Kibugu and Vet Lab player Isaac Makokha. Kenya Golf Union (KGU) CEO Vincent Wang’ombe said the amateurs team will be coached by Brian Njoroge. He said the amateurs will be joining the bubble today (Wednesday). “The professional players have already gotten into the bubble while amateurs will be joining this morning. Njoroge is a very experienced golfer in the pro ranks and should be able to guide the amateurs well. He has the much-needed tournament experience having made the cut at the Kenya Open,” said Wang’ombe. Meanwhile, all professionals were tested for Covid-19 as soon as they reported to the Tour-sponsored bubble yesterday. It will be the first time for Kenyans to experience bubble life since the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic.  Professional Golfers of Kenya (PGK) captain CJ Wangai said the bubble is a completely new experience to the Kenya team. “We have had quite a bit of range practice to sharpen our hitting skills while still in the bubble. Coming from a very busy season of Safari Tour, I foresee many Kenyans making the cut,” Wangai said. Dismas Indiza is one of the hopefuls for Team Kenya. “We are thankful to the European Tour for their kind gesture to sponsor the bubble. At least, it will offset the cost of partaking the event. It’s such a great feeling and we are overly excited to be in such an organised set up,” said Indiza, who was the winner of the 2020/2021 Safari Tour Golf Series ahead of Greg Snow. Magical Kenya are the title sponsors of Kenya Open while Savannah Classic is being sponsored by the European Tour. The Kenya pro team has Mathew Omondi (Vet Lab), Edwin Inana Asuza (Vet Lab), Riz Charania (Windsor), CJ Wangai (Sigona), Samuel Njoroge (Railway), legendary Jacob Okello (Golf Park), Simon Ngige (Thika Club), Greg Snow (Muthaiga), Indiza, Justus Madoya (Great Rift Valley) and Golf Park duo of David Wakhu and Eric Ooko. The Kenyan pros were selected from the Safari Tour Golf Series which has since gone International. Those also picked from Safari Tour to represent the African region were Robson Chinhoi (Zimbabwe), Philip Kasozi, (Uganda) and Andrew Odoh (Abuja, Nigeria). The first two rounds of the Kenya Open on Thursday and Friday will determine who makes the cut to the last two rounds on Saturday and Sunday.  