Senators are pushing for the establishment of a parliamentary audit office (PAO) to enhance the effectiveness of their oversight role and curb the runaway corruption in national and county governments. The lawmakers say Kenyans are losing billions of shillings to corruption that often goes undetected because of their inability to comb through and understand the complex loads of audit documents. As such, they want the Parliamentary Service Commission to create PAO akin to the Parliamentary Budget Office (PBO) that analyses, breaks down and advises members on complex fiscal matters. They want the office to be composed of technical personnel on disciplines related to audit and finance who can break down complex audit report and make sense out of them and help in drafting of reports with implementable recommendations. “Senate must consider a technical committee. It will plug into the book of accounts of any county and come out with results,” Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said. Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja said the office should have auditors, accountants, experts in finance and people who can do service on different issues. “There are 247 governments agencies, the we have Ministries, departments, county governments and their agencies and all of them, their reports come to parliament and parliamentarians are required to go through all of them,” nominated senator Isaac Mwaura said. Mwaura has drafted a bill establishing the office but the proposed law is yet to be tabled in the House. The legislators spoke during a heated debate on the reports of the Senate’s County Public Accounts and Investments (CPAIC) on the scrutiny of audit reports of various county governments. CPAIC oversights financial expenditures of counties by scrutinizing the auditor general’s reports. They said they no longer have faith in the watchdog committee saying its recommendations are not implementable on the ground and its oversight not effective. In addition, the committee is not current with its scrutiny, a fact the lawmakers reckoned was defeating the essence of oversight. “I have lost faith that the CPAIC of the Senate will offer the solutions we need and they will give reports that we can go out in the public and implement,” Mutula said. Kitui senator Enoch Wambua said the senate has been reduced to morticians who only come in after public funds have been embezzled. “I pray to the Almighty God that he will give us longevity of life. In around 2030, 2040, or 2050, when the Senate of the Republic of Kenya will be debating the audit reports for the 2017-18,” he said. The lawmakers called for change of tack in oversighting the devolved units to arrest the runway graft that is sinking public money. They want every county to start filing an exit report every five years to the senate to enable the House keep track of particular counties.