The Inter-Regional Economic Network is developing a platform to promote indigenous shrines across Kenya to boost domestic tourism. Short videos of the cultural destinations that can promote the sites as tourism attraction to promote domestic tourism are uploaded on the platform. IREN founder James Shikwati has been holding meetings with custodians of cultural shrines in Kakamega and Busia counties. He met the custodians of the Eshimuli cultural shrine of the Wanga community at Shianda in Mumias subcounty last Saturday where discussions centred on how the cultural centres can be engines of economic growth in Western Kenya. He also met the Bahone clan and representatives of the Kakapel cultural centre in Busia county. Shikwati said IREN was partnering with custodians of various cultural shrines to produce short and exciting travel documentaries to market domestic tourism. He said the platform will help Kenya to upscale interest in destinations for domestic and international tourists beyond the iconic wildlife safari and the pristine sandy beaches. "IREN will expand this to familiarisation trips, exhibitions, collaborative initiatives, events and training in order to provide extra visibility of unexplored local tourism circuits," he said. One such documentary launched early this year captures the foods, indigenous games of strategy and spiritual sites of the people of Western Kenya. "Local cultural experiences can spur human, social and economic development hence fostering national unity and peace. After visiting Western Kenya, a Maasai was surprised to learn that consumption of cattle blood is not confined to their community only," he said. "Luhyas boiled and consumed cattle blood (Amalasire) as food. The unintended consequence of promoting local destinations and domestic tourism is cultural harmony and political stability," Shikwati said. Evidence suggests there is potential for domestic tourism within African countries as it provides support to the tourism industry in multiple ways of performance such as bridging the seasonality gap, regional dispersal and increased domestic spending. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 