Former Tetu MP Ndung’u Gethenji on Tuesday failed to appear for the hearing of his case after the court was informed he had a dental problem. He is charged with creating a disturbance at the upmarket Kihingo estate in Kitisuru after failing to reach an out-of-court settlement. Through his lawyer Ishmael Nyaribo, Gethenji said he has a dental problem. “My client is not present in court as he is unwell. He has a dental sickness and has gone to hospital,” Nyaribo told the court. Prof Geroge Wajackoyah representing the complainant in the case, did not oppose the explanation but insisted that medical documents should be provided in court at the next mention. “Your honour, the accused has a tendency of falling sick as noted in other cases and I would request that during the mention of the case a certificate be produced in court from his dentist to confirm that indeed he was sick," Wajackoyah told the court. In the case, Gethenji is charged alongside Josiah Otimu, Godfrey Ochieng, Kennedy Asewe and Ouma Ogonji. Otimu, Ochieng, Asewe and Ouma were present in court before Milimani deputy registrar Jane Kamau. Otimu told the court that he lost his son on Tuesday morning. He requested the court to pardon him and allow him to mourn his son. Kamau adjourned the case and directed the parties to appear before principal magistrate Benard Ochoi on March 23. She, however, excused Otimu from attending court. The suspects are accused of forcibly breaking the door of a server room and chasing away Wells Fargo security guards who were manning the premises on October 16, 2019, at Kihingo Village (Waridi Gardens) in Kitisuru. Gethenji's brother Gitahi Gethenji was the original complainant in the case. Prosecutor James Gachoka said Gitahi had written to the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions wanting to withdraw the case but later abandoned the plan, leaving the DPP with no choice but to prosecute the case. The suspects are out on Sh10,000 cash bail each. Gethenji and his family were the original developers of Kihingo estate but he fell out with his brothers Gitahi and Bob over control of the Sh20 billion property. He claimed to control the estate through 60 B shares held by a company he created in 2010. However, on November 2, Justice David Majanja ruled that there were no B shares and endorsed a residents meeting in April 2019 that removed Gethenji as chairman of the management company. Kihingo Village in Kitisuru consists of 55 houses and each has one share in the management company, a clubhouse and social amenities.