Shabana head coach Joseph Ongoro has maintained that their target of qualifying to the Kenya Premier League is intact despite posting mixed results in the National Super League. Speaking after a 1-0 win over second-placed Talanta, Ongoro said: “This win was very critical for us because we have lost our two previous matches. We had to redeem ourselves and put our campaign back on track.” New signing Hillary Mukanzi scored the all important goal in the game that was played at Ruaraka grounds in Nairobi. Another new signing goalkeeper Broline Otieno kept a clean sheet on his debut. Others who made their debut are Achito Amos and John Musyoka who returned to Shabana from Mwatate FC. “We had a relatively new look team because some players left while two are suspended. I’m happy with how the team has gelled,” he added. First choice goalkeeper Elix Otieno and midfielder Kevin Omundi are on suspension for indiscipline, according to club vice chairman, Nyandoro Kambi. Commenting on the suspensions and departures of some players, Ongoro said: “No player is bigger than the club. Discipline is very important.” He said they are still shopping for a goalkeeper. Shabana are currently 7th on the log with 22 points from 14 matches but Ongoro is not worried about it. “The difference between us and log leaders Kenya Police is just eight points with the former having played one more game than us,” said the tactician. Meanwhile, Kenya Police maintained their position at the top of the log despite being held to a barren draw by Kibera Black Stars while Talanta kept their second position despite losing to Shabana. The Coast derby lived up to it’s billing with Modern Coast Rangers and Coast Stima battling to a 2-2 draw. George Owiti and Rashid Nzao were on target for Modern Coast while Stephen Mwiti and Eric Kibiru scored for Coast Stima. Robert Mutua scored at the death as Fortune Sacco held Soy United to a 1-1 draw. Harrison Lutta had given newcomers Soy the lead in the 26th minute. Vihiga Bullets edged Silibwet 2-1 at Bukhungu Stadium. Jackson Oketch and Godfrey Airo scored for Bullets with Stephene Orare pulling one back for Silibwet. APS Bomet defeated host Kisumu Hot Stars 1-0 at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. 