Some of these things that the Salaries and Remuneration Commission churns out in terms of new polices — increase or decrease on public service pay for the workers — are done in a very disorganised way. There is no structure at all. Public Service is divided into two. There are those who are subject to trade union membership and those who are not. For those who are subject to trade union movement, their issues are treated differently because theirs are negotiated. Trade unions are recognised as one of the social partners. Broadly speaking, there is the employer, partners and employees. Where a person working in the public service is a member of the trade union movement, you allow his or her terms to be negotiated by his or her respective union and the receptive agency of government. That is one category which the SRC should clearly take note of when giving instructions. The other ones are those who are not members of a trade union, who can also be divided into two — the upper and the lower scale. When making reference to new polices or instituting fresh allowances, the SRC should state to whom it applies. The lower carder are the ones who are in most cases underprivileged. The SRC cannot just wake up and say the public sector is abolishing this or that allowance. Who are you referring to? The public sector from the lower level to the middle class or the super guys up there? Or those in the labour movement? For those who are in the tribunal, whom I am concerned with, it is not subject to their directive. They are allowed to negotiate with their employer and will be able to convince them that what they earn is what is due to them. Broadly speaking, this category is different in the sense that everybody does his study, the economic environment, inflation and the cost of living. This is where such decision should be premised on. Those who are in the tribunal membership, we will address the matter depending on how much it touches on our members. Where there is an illegality or inappropriate intrusion into our sector, we will deal with it. The secretary general of Kenya County Government Workers Union spoke to the Star.