Quad Class defending champion Wayne Fernandes will lead top drivers at Saturday's KCB Autocross 3 where a host of leading teams from Nairobi are also expected. The event, organised by Western Kenya Motor Club and sponsored by KCB Bank Kenya, will offer drivers a taste of the new racetrack at Harton Grange grounds in Eldoret. Fernandes, who is also the defending KNRC 2WD Navigators Champion, has been testing his championship-winning Yamaha Raptor 700 quad in Nairobi to ensure it is in perfect condition ahead of the weekend showdown. The soft-spoken Fernandes is, nevertheless, anticipating stiff opposition from series leader Guraj Singh, who has beaten him twice this season — at The Waterfront Karen and Kasarani WRC Safari racetrack. "We have been trying to get the quad quicker and reliable, tuning it wherever possible as we try to catch up with Gurraj in Eldoret. Experience and skill are definitely giving Gurraj the advantage but I'm looking forward to the homecoming race," said Fernandes. "It will definitely be my first race on the new exciting home track. Our club chairman (Jagjeet S Patter) has put a lot of work and many sleepless nights into it and I'm sure it's going to be an amazing outing to all of us." Another man to watch in Eldoret is Lovejyot Singh, who is taking part in the 4WD Turbo class. Lovejyot is the race favourite in the absence of Eric Bengi and defending champion Sahib Omar. Omar and Bengi have opted out of the Eldoret round citing pressing job commitments. "Round 2 was very tough for me as my buggy was not 100 per cent and it wouldn't pass 5k rpm compared to other ones revving up to 8k rpm," Lovejyot said.  Expected entries for KCB Autocross 3 PEEWEE Kiana Rajput (Polaris 150cc)  BAMBINO Yuvraj Rajput (Magibug 500cc) Karamveer Singh  OPEN CLASS Kirit Rajput (GC8 Impreza) Rehan Shah Asad Khan "Kalulu" Maxine Wahome  QUAD Wayne Fernandes (Yamaha Raptor 700) Gurraj Singh  2WD NT -BUGGY Qahir Rahim (Two-Seater Buggy) Zameer Verjee (Rage Buggy)  2WD NT-CAR Sam Karangatha (Subaru) Sameer Nanji (VW Golf) Rajveer Thethy (Daewoo Cielo) Safina Khan (Vitz) Ahil Khan (Vitz)  4WD TURBO Salim Dodi  2WD TURBO Shaz Esmail aka Coach (Attacker Buggy) Azaad Manji (Attacker Buggy) Zuber Manji  JUNIOR 2WD NT Neel Gohil