Wajir government has procured a consultancy firm to undertake pending bills verification exercise for the financial years 2015-2016 and 2019-2020. This was revealed by Governor Mohamed Abdi on Saturday when he met all county executives, deputy county secretaries, chief officers, directors and managers on validation of all pending bills. “We understand most of the small SMEs and other business entities have gone out of business. Others have gone bankrupt while other businesses have been auctioned by their financiers due to huge debt as a result of pending bills accumulated from FY 2015-2016 to date,” the governor said. “It is for this reason that we want to hasten the process and embark on paying all those who rendered their services to the county,” he said. The governor disclosed that the firm will be supported by a focal team drawn from various departments comprising of Ahmed Maalim – Chair, Abdi Abdullahi Hassan – Secretary and Members Abdullahi Adan, Yunis Mohamed, John Maina and Abdi Guhad Omar. He directed the respective departments to provide auditors with the list of pending bills and original payment vouchers. Every Department was also directed to submit pending bills status report to the Finance chief officer and Audit. “I am hereby also directing the county chief officers to ensure that their respective technical staff, accountants and procurement officers at their respective departments facilitate the audit exercises verification process. The respective departments should also facilitate any field verification exercise that may be necessary,” he said. The development will be much welcomed to contractors and suppliers who offered their services to the county and have on numerous occasions complained that much was not done to have them paid. Recently, a section of the contractors held a press conference where they lamented that they have been turned into destitute yet the county has their monies amounting to millions. In 2019 during Madaraka day President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the National Treasury to secure full compliance of the directive on clearing of pending payments. He also called upon county governments to follow suit.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris