Violence and voter bribery marred the Kabuchai MP by-election on Thursday, leading to the arrest of four legislators allied to the Tangatanga grouping, who were campaigning for the UDA candidate . The arrested legislators were Didimus Barasa (Kimilili), Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei ,Wilson Kogo (Chesumei MP) and Nelson Koech of Belgut. They were arrested and locked at the Bungoma police station on allegations of planning violence. Police declined to comment on the arrests. Cherargei said the four had not be told the charges against them, adding their arrest was meant to intimidate UDA supporters. “We did nothing wrong and had just escorted our candidate from voting and had just addressed the press when they blocked our convoy claiming we have weapons,” he said. Barasa termed their arrest political, saying they were certified party agents who were just going around checking how the voting was going on. He said there were no weapons with them, adding it was a government way of threatening and intimidating opponents. The legislators had their guns confiscated, but they said they had licences and had not been misused the weapons. Violence was also witnessed at Busakala Primary School, where nominated Senator Millicent Omanga , Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon MP) and Lungalungas Khatib Mwashetani were roughed up by youths for allegedly trying to bribe voters . A vehicle belonging to UDA candidate Evans Kakai was smashed at Mukweya after two groups engaged in a fight. Sirisia MP John Waluke condemned the incident, accusing the police of taking sides while shielding opponents . “We are surprised that the police are escorting those people who are attacking our vehicles instead of keeping law and order,” said Waluke . In Pongoli polling centre, a group of youths stormed the station, destroying motorbikes that had been parked at the station . Earlier, there were complaints from voters whose names were missing from the biometric list of voters. “I voted in both 2013 and 2017 but I am surprised when I came to Namilama primary my name was missing ,” said Amos Wekesa. Those in the race include Majimbo kalasinga (Ford Kenya), Evans Kakai (UDA) Gasper Wafubwa (independent), David Kibiti (Green Movement party), Amos Wekesa (Federal Party), Jeremiah Marakkia (UDP) and Peter Kapanga (Independent) as well as Stephen Barasa (MDP).