Chiefs in most parts of Rift Valley have taken charge of burials to ensure full compliance with Covid-19 control measures as directed by the government. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya has issued an order to all chiefs in the region to ensure bodies are interred within 24 hours of death. Burial ceremonies take less than two hours. “Only family members and a church leader should attend and very few speeches,” said Natembeya. Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa said they are fully complying with the control measures with bodies being released for burial within 24 hours. “The Covid-19 spike is real and we have to ensure that we fully adhere to control measures to minimise spread of the disease,” said Dr Aruasa. In the last four days, the chiefs have complied with the orders ensuring quick burial of the dead and few speeches are allowed at the funerals. A maximum of three people, including two family members and a church leader, are allowed to speak. Counties in the region have recorded more than 500 new Covid-19 infections in the last week, forcing governors and the security administration to revive strict enforcement of control measures. Uasin Gishu county has so far recorded the highest infection rates in the region with Governor Jackson Mandago, who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc, saying they would enforce control measures in all sectors to cut down the infections. “We are experiencing a serious upsurge in infections and the third wave seems to be more lethal in the way it’s spreading and causing loss of lives. We have to act by enforcing control measures to save lives,” said Mandago. He said an inspection team had been formed to ensure residents use masks, practice regular handwashing and adhere to social distancing. The governor said social gatherings and other meetings had been banned indefinitely. Natembeya also directed bar operators to comply with the curfew orders and matatu operators, who had resumed to carrying passengers to capacity, to comply with control measures. Uasin Gishu county recorded more than 150 cases in the last three days with Trans Nzoia and Nandi also recording more than 70 cases each in the same period. Nandi recorded increased cases especially at the Kapsabet prison facilities. “Let’s keep preaching and practising preventive measures both at personal, institutional and community level,” said Dr Aruasa. He said so far, the hospital had vaccinated 2,611 staff mostly front line health workers in the last two weeks. The hospital targets to vaccinate more than 7,000 staff in the first phase of administering the Covid-19 jabs.  The hospital is also one of the testing centres in the region. ICU facilities and Covid-19 wards in the hospital and other health facilities in the region are full to capacity. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 