Slain National Land Commission communications manager Jennifer Itumbi Wambua was strangled with bare hands. An autopsy conducted Thursday at the Montezuma Monalisa Funeral Home along Mbagathi Way in Nairobi showed she was strangled by a much stronger person. The autopsy was done by chief government pathologist Dr Johanssen Oduor. The results of the postmortem were relayed by family lawyer Daniel Maanzo who is also the MP for Makueni. He said the pathologist briefed the family and revealed Jennifer was strangled with bare hands. “The oesophagus had collapsed showing she was strangled by bare hands,” Maanzo said. The body also had other bruises on the face and legs and the pathologist said further tests will be done to establish if she was raped. Police said they are looking into the possibilities the journalist who was deputy director of communications at NLC may have been lured by someone known to her and trapped before she was killed. Detectives handling the matter say that is one of the theories they are pursuing. They plan to talk to her colleagues, friends, family members and any other person who may help unravel her murder. The detectives visited NLC offices and informally talked to staff there on Wednesday. The theory of her being lured by someone known to her came up after it emerged she left all her belongings including her handbag and mobile phone in their car and walked away leaving no trace of her next destination. “There is a likelihood she was approached earlier on or face to face and called for a meeting out of office. She may have been told not to carry her mobile phone to the meeting as it would expose her.” “It is possible she fell into this trap and left her bag in the car and walked to the meeting which turned fatal,” said an officer involved in the probe. Part of the issues the team wants to understand is why she left her personal valuables including mobile phone in their family car and vanished. The investigators also want to establish if Jennifer was lured from her office by someone she knew and trusted before being killed. This may have happened verbally. Her mobile communication trail is key and police intend to talk to anyone who talked to her that time. It is her husband Joseph Komu who consistently called her on March 12 when she went missing. Komu talked to the Homicide Unit detectives on Tuesday at the DCI headquarters as part of the probe. He explained his relationship with her and her last moments and conduct. There were 58 other calls to her phone two weeks ago. Her body with bruises was found in a thicket in Ngong on March 13, a day after she went missing. She will be buried on March 24 in Katheka Kai, Machakos county, a family spokesman said. It is after the autopsy report is out that the detectives will move forward on the probe. Jennifer's colleagues have informally told police she was disturbed days to her death. In the office at the ACK Gardens, Jennifer told her colleagues she was stressed but did not disclose how and why. The colleagues revealed her working morale was low during the past few days leading to her murder. For instance, when she finished giving her testimony in a case where 19 people including Lugari MP Ayub Savula are charged with Sh122 million fraud at the Government Advertising Agency, she walked to where journalists covering the proceedings were seated and asked them not to publish her narration. The next session when she was to testify, the court was informed she was unwell because she had been involved in an accident. The accident happened on March 6 along the Nairobi-Mombasa highway. According to police, Jennifer was driving her Subaru salon car and had tried to overtake a lorry when she partially rammed onto it, damaging her car. Police arrived at the scene and took both vehicles to a local station where they were released after the parties agreed to settle the matter on their own. The accident was minor and Jennifer had suffered “bruises” that did not warrant her to be charged in as much as she was blamed for the incident. She told police she miscalculated her moves.  Edited by P.O