A boat made of recycled plastic is set to sail on Lake Victoria on a three-country expedition. The boat dubbed Flipflopi, the world’s first sailing boat made from 100% recycled plastic will start its expedition in Kenya before heading to Tanzania and Uganda. According to UN environment programme, the expedition aims at creating awareness on the hazards of plastics on freshwater sources. UNEP said the voyage aims to send an urgent message to the East Africa community on the need to end the unnecessary single-use plastic scourge that is threatening the region. "The current state of Lake Victoria, supporting 40 million East Africans through food supply and livelihoods, symbolises the catastrophic effects of human activities and climate change, among other issues, resulting in significant water pollution which threatens the health and livelihoods of communities," read a statement. The Flipflopi is an initiative showcasing alternative uses of plastic waste and the possibilities of circular economy approaches. "Over a three-week period, Flipflopi will sail from Kisumu, Kenya to several locations in Uganda and Tanzania, raising awareness and inspiring communities to adopt circular-waste solutions to beat plastic pollution," read part of the statement. UNEP Deputy Executive Director Joyce Msuya said the current Coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the need to address the myriad environmental crises, which can only be done through regional and global consensus on key issues like single-use plastic and climate change. She said Flipflopi’s Lake Victoria expedition will include several stops along the lake engaging community leaders, conservationists, business leaders and policymakers, demonstrating alternate uses of waste plastic and other circular waste models calling for an end to single-use plastics. “Flipflopi is a great African example of the circular economy in action; we are proud to see it start this new journey around Lake Victoria, a shared resource that we must do all we can to protect," she said. According to her, the boat was built to show the world that it is possible to make valuable materials out of waste plastic and that single-use plastic really does not make sense. Her sentiments were echoed by Ali Skanda, co-founder of the Flipflopi project and builder of the world’s first recycled plastic dhow who said, "By sailing around the lake, we aim to inspire people to create their own waste-plastic innovations and adopt circular solutions that will build greener businesses, whilst also taking plastic out of the environment". He added, "Together with communities across the Lake Victoria region we hope to bring awareness and innovative solutions to beat pollution and support a green recovery in East Africa” Flipflopi is an example of innovative circular solutions applied at a national level to the pollution challenge. In Kisumu on the shores of Lake Victoria, CIST Africa are making hand sanitizer from invasive water hyacinth. Innovators like Sanergy are turning Nairobi’s untreated organic waste into organic fertiliser for crops, feed for livestock, and fuel briquettes for energy. "In Uganda, the women who set up Reform Africa are turning plastic waste into sustainable and waterproof bags, whilst providing school children in rural areas with bags for free," UNEP said. It said in Tanzania, a collective of local artisans known as 'Made by Africraft' are introducing youth and the unemployed to developing sustainable handicrafts to create a livelihood. Flipflopi, the Clean Seas Campaign and partners aim to showcase green innovations as they sail around the lake, and inspire communities and businesses to act against plastic pollution. UNEP said as part of the expedition, the Flipflopi expedition will launch a petition calling a regional ban on single-use plastics. Kisumu governor Anyang Nyong'o in his sentiments said investing in research and development on blue economy investments, improving the health of the lake and riparian environment while ensuring that investments are ‘lake friendly’ from inception are amongst his priorities. “This Lake, Nam Lolwe, matters to me. It must matter to us all," he said.