In February this year, English referee Lee Mason wrote to the Football Association requesting not to be allocated any matches after receiving threats to his life and that of his family members. Mason was in charge of the VAR when Mike Dean controversially sent off Southampton’s Jan Bednarek during the Saints’ 9-0 demolition by Manchester United. He was also at the centre of the controversy involving the sending off of West Ham’s Thomas Soucek for accidentally elbowing Fulham forward Aleksander Mitrovic. However, Mason’s tribulations may seem like a child’s play compared to what Susan Nyambura encountered in 2018 after officiating a National Super League match at Camp Toyoyo in Nairobi. She had just retreated to the dressing room after the hotly-contested match when one of her close friends who lived nearby came to inform her of an impending threat to her life. “There was a tall guy called Jonah, May God rest his soul in peace. He came and told me that it was not safe to leave the grounds because there were people waiting at the gate with guns. When I heard that, I tensed. I had officiated fairly and the team that lost did so fairly,” she narrates. Jonah and a few of his friends then escorted her out of the grounds to ensure no harm would befall her. However, hell broke loose at the gate as a group of men came out of a car with one of them brandishing a pistol. “My friends from Jericho had vowed that no one would touch me for whatever reason. The guys who came out of that car brandishing a gun kept insisting that I apologise for causing their team to lose but my friends stood their ground and I made it out safely. When I got to town, I bought new clothes and changed into them before I could board another matatu to Juja,”  Nyambura recounts. Shaken by the incident, she wrote to the Football Kenya Federation asking to be temporarily relieved of refereeing duties after reporting the incident to the Juja Police Station. Although the coach of the losing team later apologised, the standoff was a sobering reality for Nyambura regarding the price she has to pay in pursuit of her long-time passion. The losing team of the day had been on an 11-match losing streak and it seemed as if their 12th loss of the season had punctured a raw nerve. Daughter of God Such brushes with death are not alien to Nyambura who deals with a lot of pressure in her line of duty. As a referee, you can never please everyone and thus, criticism, intimidations and verbal abuse are some of the challenges that one has to live with. Nyambura attributes her successful journey in refereeing to God, who He says is the source of her strength whenever she steps onto a pitch to oversee 22 players and keep them in line. “Usually, when it is one week to a match, I take some time out to pray and fast to prepare for the match and listen to what God has to say. Psalm 91 and Isaiah 55 are my favourite verses in this regard. When I enter the pitch with players and rapturous fans all over, I remind God that all of them are under me for 90 minutes because it is Him who gives me the power to do so,” the mother of two says. Her journey as a match official began in high school where she used to play football and athletics. She was never prolific in football but her sprinting prowess earned her a place in the team as a number 8 or 10 in which she would help speed up the team’s attacks. However, with time, her games teacher decided she would better serve as a match official and would subsequently charge her with the responsibility of officiating various school matches. “By the time I was in Form Four, I would officiate friendly matches. I was in a mixed school and the games teacher even trusted me to handle boys’ matches even though I only had basic knowledge of the rules of the game. This piqued my interest and gradually, my love for refereeing grew. When I finished high school, I decided to venture into the career full-time and went for a course,” Nyambura explains. However, her dreams almost came to a halt after an instructor told her she was too short to be a centre referee. Nyambura had joined other hopefuls at Moi Stadium, Kasarani for a one-week course for assistant and centre referees. She had met all the requirements for a centre referee, including the physical endurance test (PET) before the instructor’s assessment pierced through her heart like a hot knife through butter. “The instructor told me, point-blank — in front of everybody, that I was too short to be a good centre referee. I was deeply hurt and I cried so much when I went back home. I took my Bible and even asked God why I was born a short person. However, when I shared my predicament with my pastor, he encouraged me to go for the position regardless of what the instructor had said,” she narrates. As they say, the rest is history —Nyambura is now one of the top female centre referees in the country. Officiating style The mother of two draws upon her mothering instincts on the pitch to enable the football flow freely without any disciplinary issues from the players. She is not a trigger happy referee as far as issuing yellow and red cards are concerned but will do so when left with no options. First, however, she views players as human beings who may be going through certain issues in their lives, causing them to misbehave on the field. “For example, there was a player who was quite troublesome in one of the matches I officiated. When I went home and switched on the TV, I saw him speaking about the challenges he’s facing in his life and the pressures he is under. Another time I went to officiate a Division Two match in Kibera and walking through the slums awakened me to the harsh environments that these players come from,” she says. She recounts her encounter with a striker from a National Super League side who was a master of the dark arts and would always give her a headache. "He was a very good striker but would always spoil it with all sorts of trickery. One day I called him aside and told him I would not be issuing him with a card so long as he behaved himself. It's like our conversation worked wonders because he behaved himself throughout the game and I've never heard of him being involved in disciplinary issues," Nyambura recalls. Sometimes, however, she has been compelled to officiate with an iron fist especially when players do not heed her cautions. In her life as a match official, Nyambura credits fellow female referees, Tabitha Njoroge and Damaris Kimani, for holding her hand through the turbulent world of officiating. The two referees — who have seen it all — have always been on hand to advise her on how to handle different situations within a match as well as the mistakes she needs to cut out from her officiating. "They are my role models and many times when they are not on duty, they would come to my matches. Afterwards, they would give me important tips on how to improve my officiating. They even went to the extent of aiding me with the equipment for refereeing when I was starting out, including the kits," she says. Internationally, she looks up to German Bibiana Steinhaus, the first-ever female referee in the Bundesliga. Career in sprinting While her football career never hit the heights, her athletics career keeps blossoming by the day. Nyambura is on the cusp of making Team Kenya to the World Relay Championships in Selesia, Poland on May 1-2. She is part of the Kenyan team current in a 'bubble' training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani preparing for the trials to select the team slated for March 26-27 at Nyayo Stadium. Nyambura says both occupations are the perfect couple, pointing out the symbiotic relationship between the two. "As a referee, you have to be physically fit to ensure you are present at every point the ball is. On the other hand, my ability to handle the pressure that comes with officiating has enabled me to calm my nerves when in a race in a stadium full of people. I've become used to it," she says. Apart from the Athletics Kenya Relay Series, she has also participated in both legs of the AK Track and Field Weekend meet — the latest one held this past weekend at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "My coaches, including Stephen Mwaniki and Perperue Mbutu, have helped me a lot in building my fitness to the required level. To balance between officiating and running requires diligence, discipline and devotion," she says. Her ambition is to follow in the footsteps of her mentor, Kimani, by officiating in a Kenyan Premier League match pitting long-time rivals Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards — Mashemeji derby. She is convinced she can midwife an entertaining game between the two archrivals, just like Kimani did.  In addition, Nyambura is also keen on joining any of the disciplined forces in the country. BIO Name: Susan Nyambura Family: A mother to twins (one boy and a girl) No. of years as a referee: 7 years (2014 to date) Running specialty: Sprints Favourite Bible verses: Psalm 91 & Isaiah 55 Role Models: Bibiana Steinhaus (German Bundesliga); Damaris Kimani & Tabitha Njoroge (Kenya)