The state has urged the court to dismiss the 2018 case on the shutdown of television stations in the spirit of the handshake. It argues that President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have since reconciled. In the case, activist Okiya Omtatah moved to court on behalf of the media houses which were shut down for airing the mock swearing-in of Raila. Through lawyer Wambua Kilonzo, the Communication Authority of Kenya asked the court not to rule against them in the spirit of the handshake. “Your honour, the two political protagonists at the time – President Uhuru Kenyatta and former PM Raila Odinga – have since reconciled,” he said. Kilonzo told Justice Antony Mrima that the two principals shook hands and are now friends. He said the two did not wish to look back at the events before the handshake. “We urge the court not to stoke old fires. Let’s look ahead,” he said. Kilonzo also said the reason they chose to switch off was because media houses had ignored warnings from CA not to air the January 30, 2018 mock swearing-in ceremony in Uhuru Park. CA said the shutdown had a legitimate reason, which was to protect Kenyans from any breach of peace. “We know what happened in Rwanda during the genocide because of one radio station which aired information that led to that massacre that left many dead ” Kilonzo argued that in as much as the media is important, it can cause the breakdown of peace and that is why they chose to shut down at that time. On why they chose to ignore the court orders that had directed them to open the airwaves for the affected media houses, Kilonzo said they did not disobey the court order but were following due process. “It’s important to know that there is no single switch that can turn on all the TV stations when switched off, it’s a series of technical events that take days,” Kilonzo said In the case, Omtatah wants the state to be found in contempt for not opening the airwaves five days after they had been served with the order. In response, Omtatah told the court that the issue of the handshake was not in the case before the court but what was before the court was the switching off of TV stations. "If anything, what the holy book tells us is you can repent but still be punished. Your honour, even though they have repented they can still be punished,” Omtatah said He dismissed the assertions by CA that switching the stations back on air was a series of events. He said the same way they switched them off by a click of a button, they should have done the same thing to put them back on. The activist also said the Rwanda Genocide could not be compared to the events of 2018. He said the Kenyan media was only reporting what was happening. Omtatah also noted that at the time the government had allowed the said mock swearing-in to go on in Uhuru Park but then went ahead to shut down the media. Lawyer Ochiel Dudley for the Katiba Institute told the court that freedom of the media cannot be limited by the state. Ochiel said since the media had not broken the law, the state had no authority to shut them down. He said the court should find them in contempt for extending the ban for five more days after the court had issued orders to restore them.    