A senior director at a state institution could soon find himself jobless and behind the bars. Reason? A source at the agency whose offices are in Nairobi’s Industrial Area has told Corridors that the man is being investigated over claims that he unprocedurally changed the ownership of a saloon car. The car initially had a South Sudanese registration number which was changed to a Kenyan one. The move has raised the eyebrows of those in the know. Already, the National Transport and Safety Authority led by director general George Njao (pictured) is said to have been alerted to open investigations to establish if the plate was legally altered.  *** An aspirant eyeing a parliamentary seat in Siaya county in next year's general election was on Friday shocked by how unpopular he is. A bird has told Corridors that the moneyed man commissioned an opinion poll to be conducted throughout the constituency to ascertain how popular he is. To his shock, the poll revealed he could come last if elections were to be held that day. The politician has been campaigning against a popular candidate who is also keen on unseating the current MP. The incumbent is said to have zero chances of retaining his seat. *** A lawmaker from Western is regretting his recent political outbursts that have seen him isolated by his colleagues from the region. The outspoken legislator is said to be desperate to capture an influential position in the area and might have been motivated by the urge to remain relevant to the electorate to make the statement. His friends say he has taken to heavy drinking to manage the frustrations his statements have caused him. Even his access to powers that be have suddenly been cut. He is said to have recently attempted to call a power broker to try and mend fences but the connected dealer was adamant that the legislator had become a blacklisted man in the power tables. *** The leadership skills of senior individuals in one arm of the government have come to sharp scrutiny. It is said that the individuals are failures and have no skills to deal with their colleagues. Sad is the situation that the appointing authority is worried about the trend. There are reports the individuals are being monitored keenly and that their days are numbered. Members in the crucial arm of government have complained that they may have been picked and appointed without due diligence.  