Nairobi MCAs have asked whereabouts of the sharp new navy blue uniforms for  government security and compliance officers — five years after the Sh80 million order was placed. The old uniforms are drab grey. Millions of shillings have been allocated annually to purchase the uniforms. Deputy Majority leader Peter Wanyoike said only a few high-ranking enforcement officers have been issued uniforms by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The lack has left about 1,600 officers in the inspectorate department without new uniforms, though their measurements had been taken by Manchester Outfitters. “We have inspectorate and security and compliance officers. The latter do not have uniforms. Even not all inspectorate officers have uniforms," Wanyoike said. "NMS started with the high ranks coming down and some of them also make their own uniforms not given by Nairobi county or NMS,” Wanyoike said. He said legislators have tasked the justice and legal affairs committee to enquire and report on the status of uniforms delivery. They want the committee to report the allocated budget for the security compliance and coordination sector, specifically the financial year ending June 30, 2021. They also asked how many premises are being staffed by the officers and want a list of buildings manned. They also want to know how many security compliance officers are employed. In November last year, City Hall recruited 800 constables to to ensure they are independent in providing security for their installations. However, they have not been issued with uniforms despite their measurements having been taken. In 2016, City Hall allocated Sh80 million to issue askaris new uniforms, including badge names, numbers and boots, like police uniforms In 2019, Sh100 million was to be spent to by new uniforms for inspectorate officers. Wanyoike said having uniforms shows great team-building, customer service and awareness. In the supplementary budget passed earlier this month, Sh25 million was allocated to hire additional security officers as City Hall will no longer outsource security services. City Hall has been contracting private security firms for government schools and hospitals. (Edited by V. Graham) 