Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi has vowed the plot to oust Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetang'ula  will proceed as planned despite him delivering the Kabuchai parliamentary seat. Speaking in  Kanduyi on Saturday during the funeral of his brother senior sergeant of Prisons Kizito Anthony Wafula, the Kanduyi MP said the Bukusu community has a history of forgoing internal conflict to concentrate on fighting external aggression from enemies and that is why they retreated on fighting Wetang'ula during the Kabuchai campaigns. "We cannot cheer an enemy who has intruded our territory and is fighting our brother even when we have internal squabbles. We put aside our wrangles so that our people cannot fight but we will revisit our issues," said Wamunyinyi. He said people should not confuse the victory of  Wetang'ula to mean that he was now in charge of the party. "We only allowed him to fight the enemy successfully  but that does not mean that his  mistakes are erased.We will deal with him," the MP added. The Ford Kenya candidate Majimbo Kalasinga garnered 19,274 votes which represent 65 per cent of the total votes cast while the UDA candidate Evans Kakai got 6,455 votes representing 22 per cent. Wamunyinyi, Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu, and Governor Wycliffe Wangamati staged an aborted coup in the Ford Kenya party to oust Wetang'ula from the helm. The Kanduyi MP was declared the new Ford Kenya interim chairman by the coup plotters to lead a splinter group into elections of a new leader. Wetang'ula moved to court and was granted an injunction baring Wamunyinyi from taking over Ford Kenya pending the hearing and determination of the matter. During the Kabuchai by-elections Wamunyinyi, Wangamati  and  Simiyu declined  to support the Ford Kenya candidate  leaving  Wetang'ula and MCAS  to campaign for him. The battle for Kabuchai turned out to be a supremacy battle pitting  Wetang'ula and the MCAs on one side and Deputy President William Ruto and  Bungoma MPs on the other side. On Saturday  Simiyu openly declared his support for Dr Mukhisa Kituyi's Presidential ambition at the former UNCTAD boss homecoming party. Wetang'ula has extended an olive branch to his emissaries. However, he warned his opponents that it will not be business as usual for those opposed to his newfound unity with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 