Kilifi North MP Owen Baya wants the National government to immediately release funds for the development of infrastructure in public schools to enable learning  during the Covid-19 pandemic. The legislator particularly asked President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Ministry of Education to fast track the funding for physical distance rule to be observed in classes. The Ministry of Health guidelines on  Covid-19 requires classrooms to  have a maximum of 20 learners. Speaking during the official handing over of Sh7 million bursary cheques out of the Sh36 million for schools in his constituency at Watamu social hall on Friday, the MP said his constituency and the Coast region at large have a history of poor infrastructure in schools. Baya said the problem has been worsened by the pandemic which has forced students to learn under trees  to meet the physical distancing rules. "For a long time, we have been depending on schools built a long time ago, but currently there have been challenges due to increased population. We have now embarked on a programme of building schools to address this issue and also help  reduce the distance covered by learners from home to school," he said. The legislator said he intends to reduce the distance from home to school to less than a kilometre so that every student gets a chance to study. Baya said they support  government's initiative of 100 percent transition that seeks to ensure every child who completes primary school gets a chance to join secondary school no matter the marks they get. He said there is need for construction of more schools, adding that this financial year they have set aside Sh48 million for repairs and construction of new schools. "We need  about 140 new classrooms in Kilifi north to ensure every child gets a chance in school but due to the insufficient  CDF funds allocation this can not be achieved immediately. We intend to build 30 new classrooms each year to reduce the congestion of schools," he said. Baya said during the last presidential address in Parliament the Head of State promised MPs he would give them funds to fight the pandemic. "We are reminding him because he is the one who promised that he would give us money, as Kilifi north we have not received the money," he said. He also said there is a need for the number of teachers to be increased by the ministry since the classes are rising due to the pandemic. Currently he said many parents still pay fees in Coast because of paying teachers employed by the board members. Betty Kombe chairlady of Chembe Kibabamuche women group thanked the MP for the bursaries and also for his efforts in putting up more classrooms. She however noted that congestion is still high. Watamu MCA George Baya also called on the National government to increase the number of classes at the grassroots saying the county government is only mandated to build ECDs but primary schools are in dire need of more classrooms. In his ward he said there are only three secondary schools which are not enough and require more to reduce the distance learners walk to school. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara