A man who married a 14-year-old girl after she refused to return to school got a reprieve after the Court of Appeal quashed a 20-year jail term imposed on him. Paul Munyoki was in 2012 sentenced to 20 years in jail by a magistrate's court. He filed the first appeal at the High Court in Garissa and was dismissed. Dissatisfied, he moved to the Court of Appeal. His appeal was partially successful when a three-judge bench on March 5 directed that he be set free unless otherwise lawfully held. However, they found his conviction safe. “We hereby set aside the mandatory minimum sentence of 20 years imprisonment and substitute therefore a sentence of imprisonment to the period the appellant has so far served, which we believe is commensurate with his culpability,” appeal judges William Ouko, Wanjiru Karanja and Fatuma Sichale ruled. In the case, the girl refused to go back to school after the April 2011 school holiday. She told her mother she desired to get married. She ran away from her home to live with the man as husband and wife. It would appear the mother was passive and did not do much to end or interfere with the relationship, which continued until the man was arrested for allegedly growing cannabis sativa on his farm. It was at that point that the relationship between the man and girl, who was then 14 years old, caught the attention of the police. The man was charged and convicted of defilement. He was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment. The penalty was confirmed by the High Court. The man appealed the sentence. In his view, the High Court judge failed to appreciate that his right to a fair trial had been infringed at the trial. He said he was not furnished in advance with witness statements and documents relied on by the prosecution contrary to Article 50 (2) (j) of the Constitution. He said he was not informed by the trial court of his right to such statements and documents. As a result, he was not afforded sufficient time and resources to prepare his defence as prescribed under Article 50 (2) (c) of the Constitution Munyoki said that the girl, not only consented but also encouraged the sexual relationship from the onset. He said she had expressed to her parents her wish to get married, and they did not object. The appeal judges said based on the minor and her mother’s conduct coupled with the mitigation of the man, it was important that they interfere with the sentence terms. Like the other two courts, the appeal judges said they could not find anything to suggest that the girl deceived the man into believing that she was over the age of 18 years. The man did not state what reasonably made him believe that the minor was over 18 years. In any case, the girl said she was a primary school pupil, not to mention that the two lived only 500 metres away from each other.   