Pressure is mounting on Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka to run for the Bungoma governorship in 2022. A section of leaders led by Senator Moses Wetang'ula is already campaigning for Lusaka to recapture the seat he lost to Governor Wycliffe Wangamati in 2017. Wetang’ula has fallen out with Wangamati and has been leading allies in drumming up support for Lusaka. Wangamati won the seat on the Ford Kenya ticket while Lusaka ran on the Jubilee Party in 2017. Wertang'ula and Wangamati do not see eye to eye following an attempted Ford Kenya coup in which the governor and allies sought to oust the senator as party leader. The ouster move was orchestrated by Ford Kenya secretary general and Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu and Kanduyi lawmaker Wafula Wamunyinyi. Wanagamati later declared that he was the chief architect and financier of the failed coup. “I want to declare that I am not only part and parcel of the coup but at the centre of everything and I can say without fear of contradiction that we as Ford Kenya members have no faith in the leadership of Wetang’ula and that’s why we ousted him and replaced him with Wamunyinyi,” Wangamati said in May last year. That set the stage for the relationship of the two to hit rock bottom. Wetang’ula has since been criticising Wangamati's administration, accusing the governor of abetting corruption. The fallout seems to have worked in favour of Lusaka who lost following a combined onslaught by both Wangamati and Wetang'ula in 2017. “I have been fighting for resources at the Senate level to ensure that Bungoma gets its share of the revenue but unfortunately no prudent use of resources is witnessed by the regime,” Wetang’ula said. The senator said his differences with the governor began when he questioned corrupt deals at the county government including the use of Covid-19 funds. Wetang'ula said a 10-litre jerrican was allegedly bought at Sh10,000 leading to a public outcry and probe by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission. The jerricans were to be used for handwashing stations across the county to curb the spread of Covid-19. Efforts to reconcile Wetang'ula and Wangamati led by ACK Bishop George Mechumo have failed. Lusaka has said that he will heed the call of his supporters should they ask him to run for governor. “I will do as my supporters say. If they want me to come back for governor we will do exactly that,” Lusaka said. He said his administration transformed the county from zero and that it was the reason residents want him to return and lead the county government. Lusaka's loss to Wangamati in 2017 was largely attributed to party choice and not the candidate's manifestos. The region overwhelmingly voted for the Nasa coalition where Ford Kenya was an affiliate party. Leaders allied to Wangamati have been pleading with Lusaka not to run for the governorship again and instead seek national positions. “Now that you are number three in command, kindly go for a higher seat and allow us to continue serving the people of Bungoma here,” Deputy Governor Ngome Kibanai said.  Edited by P.O