Nobody understands the full wrath of dressing room politics than Tusker FC skipper Rogers Aloro. Aloro says he has been a first-hand victim of unbridled favouritism and bias openly exhibited and meted out by tacticians who call shots at whim at the expense of quality and results. Born on May 4, 1993 in Mulago Hospital, Uganda, Aloro says he began cutting his teeth in football during his formative years in high school. “I do not remember exactly how old I was but I was really young when I took a deep interest in football,” says Aloro. Before crossing the border to Kenya, he spent all his early years in Uganda, where he also happened to shape his academic career. “I went to Shimoni Demonstration School, Jovic Primary School. “ Well, the first club I featured for was Bweyogerere FC in Uganda in the First Division.” Aloro points out that one has to develop a thick skin to survive in the tough jungle that is African football “The challenges I have faced include open bias in football, being belittled as a player, nagging injuries that locked me out of the game for long periods as well as going without a salary even after breaking sweat on the pitch.” He agrees that some coaches are more interested in massaging their vested interests in clubs and that’s exactly what ails African football. “In football politics, sometimes the coach fields a player who is in a worse shape than you are. In some clubs, you are required to part with a certain amount of money before you can be included in the match-day squad and if you don’t cooperate, you get kicked out of the team.” “I remember being dropped from the Uganda Cranes Chan-bound team only two days before departing for South Africa and being replaced by Nicholas Wadada who was not in better shape than I was. It was traumatising following Chan on TV, when I knew very well I deserved to be in the squad battling out for my country. “Worse still, when I was at Rwenshama, I didn’t get paid.” Still, despite the pitfalls he has endured in his chequered career so far, Aloro clutches on to his aspirations of plying trade in a league outside the East African region and transacting business for his motherland in future. “My dream is to don the national colours and turn professional outside East Africa.” Aloro says he is eager than ever to transform lives of those he holds dear to his heart as well as the entire community. “I want to raise the living standards in my community in a bid to enhance the status of my mother as well as my family because they are all I have,” said Aloro. He relives his best moments in football both in Uganda and Kenya. “My best match was when I was featuring for KCCA in the Ugandan Premier League. We were settling scores with Fire Masters FC and I converted from the spot in injury time. I can’t also forget my maiden league match in Kenya where we beat Gor Mahia in Meru while turning out for Sofapaka FC in 2016." Aloro sets apart his worst moment on the pitch just as well. “My worst match was at Rwenshama when we faced SC Villa in 2013 and I failed to put away a penalty and we ended up losing 1-0. To date, he continues to bask in the glory of firing up KCCA to two consecutive top flight titles and earning his maiden call up to the national team. “My best football moment is when I clinched the championship with KCCA for two consecutive years and when I was handed my first call-up to the national team. He also relishes, though begrudgingly, the moment he came back to haunt his former team, punishing them with a goal that made all the difference in the closely contested encounter. “I’m still ecstatic about the goal I netted in stoppage time against my former employer Sofapaka. It enabled us to claim a point given we tied 2-2.” Although he only made his way back onto the pitch after a while, having sat out of some matches after collecting a red card in one of their league matches, Aloro seems more comfortable now and more at home after penning a deal with the 11-time Kenyan Premier League champions in 2018, following years spent to fight off endless storm on and off the pitch. He urges budding footballers to stick their heads in the kitchen regardless of the rising heat if they hope to succeed in their careers someday. BIO Name: Rogers Aloro Date of Birth: May 4, 1993 Place of Birth: Mulago, Uganda  Education Jovic Primary School. Shimoni Demonstration School  Clubs: Bweyogerere FC (Ugandan Division One) KCCA (Ugandan Premier League) Sofapaka (Kenyan Premier League) Tusker FC (Kenyan Premier League)  Achievement Clinched the Ugandan Premier League twice with Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA)