Despite facing competition for a place in the Malkia Strikers squad, Pamela Adhiambo is only focused on booking a slot to the Tokyo Olympic Games in July this year. The budding left-attacker, who plays for Kenya Pipeline, earned her first senior call up three weeks ago and she is currently with the Paul Bitok-tutored side at the residential training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. This is after catching the eyes of the national team selectors with her unrivalled performances in the Kenya Volleyball Federation League matches this season. The 19-year-old will contest for a slot in the final 12-member travelling party with more experienced players. The likes of Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Jemimah Siang'u and Pamela Masaisai are all in the squad and Adhiambo has vowed to punch above her weight in order to realise her dream. "There's no short cut to achievement; The secret is hard work.  It is a big moment to train with the senior players, some of them have reached the highest point in the game. However,  I am not scared to compete with them,"said the Nyakach Girls' alumnus. "We are six left attackers in the squad. I want to be the third best. I know there are few superior players in the team who combine both skill and experience but I will give them the strength and jump to hit the ball to ensure I am on the plane to Tokyo," she said. Adhiambo was part of the Kenya Under-20 team that participated in the African volleyball Championship at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in August 2018  while in Form 3. However, they only reached quarters as they were denied a semi final berth after  succumbing to both Nigeria and Cameroon by a 3-1 scoreline. She said she has drawn a lot of experience from the heart-breaking losses  and has since taken her game to the next level. Adhiambo made history by captaining Nyakach to the nationals in what was their only maiden appearance to date in 2018. Adhiambo, who is blessed with natural power and strength added, "Many people look for strength in the gym but I never go there. I have natural power and toughness. With the type of training we have, I have a typical strong jump and spring from the ground. When I combine the jump and the strength that makes me overcome blocks," he added. Adhiambo is the leading left attacker at Pipeline and thinks the Paul Gitau young charges can fight for the title from next season.