In the heart of Karumande ward, Gichugu constituency in Kirinyaga county, a village is mourning a music legend. His guitar-strumming prowess coupled with ability to belt out melodious tunes on stage that electrified his fans are gone forever. The death of John walker Mureithi, popularly known by his stage name Mureithi J Walker, has dealt a big blow to the music industry particularly the Mugithi genre that is rapidly gaining recognition around the country . Walker’s successful musical journey is the definition of sheer hard work, passion and discipline. The news of his death paralysed Kianguku village. On Saturday afternoon, about 10 hours after his sudden death  was announced and trended throughout Friday night, the Star found a few family members gathered outside Walker's parents’ main house trying to come to terms with the loss. His elder sister Catherine Maguru said she was still in disbelief about her brother’s eternal departure. She spoke with him a week before his death and he sounded upbeat . “We talked and he sounded healthy, only for a call to come from his wife on Friday that he had collapsed in his Nairobi-based home and was taken to a nearby private hospital where he passed on,” she said. The 45-year-old star was a pillar in Maguru's life as he played the father's role  since the death of their father who had just been promoted to area chief. “That was in 1994 and  I was about two months old when my father passed on. Walker was about 19 years by then and the first born of four. He filled father's big shoes with the assistance  of my uncle and they held our family together.” Walker loved the guitar from a young age. “So deep was his passion for music that he would often come home with a borrow guitar from a villager (who has since died) and he would take time to teach himself how to strum it as he composed his own music which he would sing at church services on Sunday,” the sister recalled. “Later, he loved to perform in the local clubs and in return would be paid a little amount which he saved  up and eventually bought his first guitar. His performances back then lit the mood of the local shopping centre.” Monica Wanjiru, an aunt, said Walker was a witty and talented star. “We schooled together in the neighbouring Nyanja Primary School, however I was two academic years ahead of him. At school is where he exploited and nurtured his talent as he participated in  folk dances and often improvised sticks and wires for a guitar as he mimicked live music performers.” John Kamunyu , a longtime friend, said Walker developed interest in playing the guitar in Class 7 in early 1990s. He says he drew inspiration from the late benga  maestro Sammy Muraya and a village guitarist known as Jomo who taught him how to play it. From the village he left to Nairobi where he spent a number of years doing live performances and engaging running businesses. The debut song that catapulted him into the limelight was ‘Uhiki wi Murio’, released  in 2015. It became an instant hit in social events such as weddings. His uncle Naftali Mureithi urged the media to continue supporting the fallen hero by playing his music. He also asked the government to improve conditions that will enable musicians reap the benefits of their work. Gukena FM mugiithi show presenter Wagura Githui eulogised Walker as a towering figure who played a key role in laying a strong foundation for the fast rising genre “He was one of the outstanding mugiithi veterans who has left a conspicuous mark in performances owing to his different style of performance and his ability to charge his audience. At time when many artists preferred benga , Mureithi J Walker, Wangare Kabera, Salim Junior and Mburu Wa Wanja chose to stick the course.” Githui who presents the Saturday night show Mugithi wa Gukena remembered his first with the star. “I will forever remember him as the very first artist who graced the first mugiithi gala event that Gukena put together during the launch of the station in 2016. Since then, his songs have played a critical role towards the success of my show and the station as a whole”. Karumande MCA Antony Munene praised Walker, disclosing that he even had talks with him on how he would promote ward empowerment programmes. Other mugithi stars led by Samidoh and Jose Gatutura poured tributes as they praised the popular artist on the Star for his contribution to the industry . Beside ‘Uhiki uri murio’, Walker's other popular tunes were ‘Nyau iriaga mbia’, 'Andu mathimwo’, 'Ni- sorry’ among others. He leaves behind a widow and three children. Edited by Henry Makori