Civil Society Organisations have written to the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe demanding that he sheds light on rationing of Antiretrovirals to persons living with HIV in the face of Covid-19. It has now emerged that many people living with HIV are given less than the expected dosages in small polythene papers when they go for their refills. This has resulted in panic, fear and anxiety as any change in the dosage and packaging of ARVs ought to have been discussed with the relevant stakeholders. On the contrary, there was no discussion or notification. People living with HIV just encountered the change while at a facility to collect their refills. The initial commitment by the government was that patients get refills of ARVs enough to last them up to three or four months, but the recent turn of events has seen them get drugs enough to last for just one month while some get just for two weeks. “We are concerned that PLHIV are being forced to take home less medication, there is medication in the country that the government is not releasing to the public. We understand a shipment of ART from the US government is sitting at the port, under unclear circumstances,” National Empowerment Network of People Living with HIV/Aids in Kenya director Nelson Otuoma said. “These medicines are a donation by the American people to help save lives and prevent new HIV infections,” he added. In a virtual meeting held by the Head of National AIDS Control Programme Dr Catherine Ngugi, the official was reluctant to share details of the batches of ARVs brought into the country said to be lying at the ports of entry awaiting clearance, saying that the matter was being handled by high level ministry officials. It is alleged that the consignment has taken longer to clear because of outstanding tax issues. It is also reported that the issue is how the medicines came in and who ordered them. “Ngugi has assured us that the current situation is temporary and that the government is embarking on procurement process to make sure there are adequate stocks of ART for PLHIV. While we appreciate these efforts, we are disturbed that there is no effort to get the medication from the US that is already in the country,” he said. Otuoma added: “The rationing of and repackaging of ARVs for PLHIV has come with challenges. There is widespread confusion and anxiety among PLHIV. The medications being issued  are already open and the seal removed and one cannot verify their details, including date of expiry.” The letter is also copied to the representatives of the US government and suggests that a joint meeting bringing together the Kenya Ministry of Health and US government officials is the best approach to resolve the matter. “We request an urgent virtual meeting between PEPFAR, the ministry and civil society including PLHIV  leadership to clarify the above situation and request your immediate statement to address the fear, concerns and anxiety among PLHIV and families over the current ART situation,” reads the letter in part. They have also called on the government to invest in the procurement and distribution of ARVs so that the much-needed medicines are available to those who need them in a predictable and sustainable manner adding that no one should be bargaining and haggling for life-saving medicines. They noted that HIV treatment is life-long and with over one million people who are already initiated in the treatment, measures need to be put in place to ensure that there are always enough stocks of ARVs for all PLHIV. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara