Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers wants a man to replace Lydia Nzomo as the Teachers Service Commission chairperson following her retirement. Lydia Nzomo who retired on November 18 last year was appointed to the position in 2014. Kuppet Bungoma branch said women have been at the helm of the leadership for a long time and it is time gender balance was realised. Addressing the press in Bungoma town, the branch union chairman David Barasa emphasised the need of sourcing for a man to replace Nzomo. Nzomo has been the TSC chairperson while Nancy Macharia is the chief executive officer. President Uhuru Kenyatta has appointed a nine-man committee to scout for a potential candidate to replace Nzomo. “We want gender balance in TSC, we have been ruled for long by women alone, we now demand a man at the helm of the commission,” Barasa said. He called on the nine-member committee to scout for a man who will work together with Nancy Macharia. “The commission will only work well if there is gender balance. Men understand how to handle issues well when things are running out of hands,” Barasa said. The committee is chaired by Thomas Koyier while members include Njoki Kahiga from the Ministry of Public Service, Charles Mutinda from the Attorney General's office and  Mary Gaturu from the Ministry of Education. Others include Margaret Geno from Federation of Kenya Employers, Hellen Misenda and Richard Kibagendi representing the registered teachers' trade unions, Stanley Waudo, a prominent educationist and Eva Nyoike from the Association of Private Schools. The panel was appointed by President Uhuru through the Gazette Notice No.1712 of February 24, 2021. Barasa said that they have not been contented with TSC affairs for the last five years. “The Collective Bargaining Agreements is hurting Kenyans and the document should be subjected to the economist and lawyers before signatures are appended,” he said. Barasa said, “The past CBA’s have hurt teachers, we have nothing to celebrate because the increment is not reflecting in the salaries.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris