Meru county has been recognised for forming and running a Sacco for people living with disabilities and sensitising the community against gender violence. The Meru government was last week voted second after Kisumu for inclusion of people with disabilities in the National Diversity and Inclusion Awards and Recognition. Harun Hassan, the executive director at the National Council for Persons with Disabilities, handed the award certificate to the county administration. Governor Kiraitu Murungi said he has set aside Sh15 million for people living with disabilities. Sh10 million will go to the Sacco’s fixed account and Sh5 million used for meetings of people living with disabilities across the county. Kiraitu ordered that people with disabilities be included in all county structures including ward development committees. “Tenders for women, youth and people with disabilities will not be advertised with other tenders but separately,” Kiraitu said. PWDs’ Meru chairman Mike Makarina who is also the government’s PWD board chair hailed Governor Kiraitu for his efforts to support people with special needs. “I ask those fighting politically against the governor to support his agenda for more benefits like kiosks and other necessary funds. Meru governor has done great to disabled people by coming up with a policy meant to protect them against abuse, violence and discrimination,” Makarina said. On Monday, Gender and Social Development executive Linner Nkirote, who received the awards on behalf of Kiraitu, said the achievement was due to implementation of projects that have demonstrated diversity and inclusivity especially to PWDs. “We have Meru County Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 which we have managed to implement. The sexual and gender-based violence policy has enabled protection of PWDs from gender violence,” Nkirote said. In June 2019 Governor Kiraitu opened a Sacco for people with disabilities and inaugurated its board. The five-member board is led by politician Mike Mutembei who is disabled. Kiraitu said people with disabilities should not be discriminated against. “They are also human beings and should be treated with dignity. I want them, like other Meru residents, to live happy and prosperous lives,” Kiraitu said. DIAR Awards highlight outstanding achievements of institutions, organisations, and leaders who have developed practices and policies that foster and advance diversity, equity, and inclusion in Kenya. The awards also illustrate some of the nation’s most inclusive organisations and focus on leading diversity champions, significant role models, and extraordinary individuals that have displayed motivation, innovation, and commitment to equality, diversity, and inclusion. Since 2018, the Diversity and Inclusion Awards programme has also been recognising individuals or organisations showcasing exemplary insight and fortitude in the area of workplace diversity. DIAR celebrates companies, government agencies, CSOs, NGOs, CBOs and individuals who champion diversity and promote inclusion in the workplace and socially cohesive society. 