A day after United Democratic Alliance—a party linked with the Deputy President William Ruto—unveiled its constitution and announced plans to conduct grassroots elections in June, two Kieleweke-leaning MPs are said to have arrived at the DP’s official residence on Friday afternoon. A mole aware of what transpired said the legislators admitted that they had been swayed out of Tangatanga in exchange for 'state development goodies'. The MPs, one from Mt Kenya and another from Western, had been vocal in leading anti-Ruto campaigns. They are said to have pleaded to be forgiven and be treated like the biblical lost son. ** A former MP from the Central region has been blocked from seeing a close relative hospitalised at a high-end facility in Nairobi. A source in the know has whispered to Corridors that the children of the ailing man do not want the former legislator to go near their dad. So nasty is the fight that it is said the family members have hired armed security officers to mount 24-hour surveillance at the entrances to the hospital. It is said the family members, especially the man's daughters, think the former MP is a bad omen and his visits are ill-intended. *** Hawk-eyed Kenyans have noticed the missing goods that were purchased by the government and stashed at a yard along Thika Road. The goods were to be distributed to all the 47 counties, but there was a dispute in how they were procured. They have since vanished. A small bird at the yard said the goods were carted away silently during the height of Covid containment measures to an unknown destination. Since the goods are said to have been supplied in a controversial deal by a powerful businesswoman, no one has had the courage to ask where they are. But it is emerging that they must have been sold to avoid raising eyebrows after the scandal that rocked them. *** They say if you want to test a man's character, give him power. This saying has come to play out in the conduct of a speaker of one of the county assemblies. Until recently, he was amiable and meek, but last week, he left tongues wagging after he requisitioned the MCAs to allocate him money to purchase an armoured limousine. The speaker already has several high-end vehicles at his disposal, including a new Toyota Prado. However, he could be in a deal with MCAs, who are said to be the main suppliers and contractors in the county. This is a case that should interest the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission.