The Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development will lose Sh1.1 billion in funding from Treasury this year and MPs are worried it will hurt implementation of the new curriculum. Parliament's Education Committee members said KICD, which is driving the reforms under the Competency Based Curriculum, will not be able to pay staffers. “For instance, the KICD has intended to train 50,000 teachers on the CBC but the number has been reduced to 25,000 which is a blow to the implementation of the CBC,” the report reads. The committee has opposed the proposal, recommending that last year's funding be retained. The budget cuts come as KICD prepares to roll out the CBC to Grade 5. The plan takes effect in July this year after it was delayed by the shutdown of learning institutions occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. KICD is currently engaging publishers in the printing of textbooks and teachers guides to be used by the Grade 5 learners. It is also partnering with the Teachers Service Commission to roll out in April the training of teachers to handle the curriculum. The government's plans to buy desks for primary and secondary schools under the Economic Stimulus Package will also be cut back by Sh200 million The project had been allocated Sh1.9 billion for some 622,000 desks, lockers and chairs. In February, Education CS George Magoha reported that at least 90 per cent of those contracted to make the desks had delivered. Nairobi led with 100 per cent of desks delivered to schools locally made by jua kali artisans, he said. On Tuesday, the Education committee said the budget slash would hit hard the jua kali traders who have already assembled the desks and create pending bills. Also affected is the department of technical education that would lose Sh50 million. A further Sh740 million will be slashed from the plan to develop school infrastructure if the estimates are approved. The plan to expand infrastructure was meant to gradually end congestion in public primary and secondary schools. Higher Education Loans Board also is set to lose Sh2.2 billion according to the chief executive Charles Ringera. Some 60,000 needy students will lose out on loans. (edited by o. owino)