Kenyans have among the world's highest acceptance rates of the Covid-19 vaccine. A survey carried out recently shows more than 82 per cent of Kenyans are ready to take the vaccine. This is an increase from 62 per cent in a similar survey done in December. Several global surveys done this year place the acceptance rate in most countries below 80 per cent.  Only the UK with 89 per cent and China (88.6 per cent) have consistently shown high acceptance levels this year. The survey by Africa’s Voices Foundation, a non-profit organisation in Kenya and the UK, last week showed 83.1 per cent of Kenyans are ready to take the vaccine. The poll received a response via SMS from 1,696 people, most of which were positive. “A largely very positive reaction. The vaccine is welcome, and seen as a good thing that should be given to as many as possible,” AVF said. Only 16.1 per cent of respondents had doubts about the vaccine. “Although not a majority, there is still an important level of mistrust and some opposition to the vaccine,” AVF added. The poll results show an improvement from December 2020 when a poll by Geopoll showed at least 62 per cent of Kenyans were ready to take the vaccine if available. In 2019, the World Health Organisation identified vaccine hesitancy among the 10 biggest threats the world faces. “A vaccines advisory group to WHO identified complacency, inconvenience in accessing vaccines, and lack of confidence are key reasons underlying hesitancy,” WHO said. “Health workers, especially those in communities, remain the most trusted advisor and influencer of vaccination decisions, and they must be supported to provide trusted, credible information on vaccines.” According to experts, vaccination offers the best exit strategy from the Covid-19 pandemic. Experts have said that around 80 per cent to 90 per cent of the population must have immunity to Covid-19 to reach ‘herd immunity'. The current vaccination rate in Kenya is sluggish and by Tuesday, only 130,575 people had been vaccinated against Covid-19. This is against the June target of 1.25 million. The Health ministry, in a statement on Tuesday, said 806,000 doses of the 1.12 million received early this month had been distributed across the country. However, the expansion of the Phase I vaccination target group to include people aged above 58 years is likely to see a rise in the numbers, with the ministry targeting at least 20,000 per day from this week. At the same time, the Pharmaceutical Society of Kenya cautioned against unauthorised marketing of Covid-19 vaccines, saying people have been marketing vaccines to the public through their social media accounts. “In the same breath, we would like to register our awareness of cases of global trade in falsified Covid-19 vaccines that target popularised brands,” PSK president Louis Machogu said. The official said such marketing would not only lead to a proliferation of fake medicines in the country but is also unethical.  Edited by F'Orieny