For the first time in the history of international criminal justice, victims have the right to participate in proceedings and to request reparations. "The various Chambers of the Court have notably recognised that victims' participation assists them in uncovering the truth," the ICC said on Tuesday. The victims have the possibility to share their views and concerns in the proceedings, represented by a lawyer as legal counsel in the courtroom. If a victim or group of victims lacks the necessary means for such a legal representative, the registry may afford some financial assistance. "Victims do not have to travel to the seat of the court and their lawyer ensures that at all stages of the proceedings, their views and concerns are heard on matters where their personal interests are affected," ICC said. Such participation is voluntary and victims have to fill in a written application which will be considered by the Court. From this very moment, the identities of victims are protected in the proceedings by a pseudonym attributed to them by the Court (for example a/0001/18) and their names consequently do not appear in the public domain. The timing and manner of the victims' participation are determined by the judges depending on the stage of the proceedings. Victims' lawyers may be notified of submissions made in the relevant case, may attend hearings and make oral submissions, may file written submissions, or be allowed to question witnesses. The set of rights developed by the court enables victims, through their lawyers, to express an opinion independently of the prosecution or the defence. Victims can apply to participate in judicial proceedings before the ICC through a standard application form. There are specific forms for natural persons and institutions, respectively. The registry has also developed written guidelines that assist the person and/or organisation in filling in the application form. If you are a victim or acting on behalf of victims and if you want to fill in an application form to participate in proceedings before the ICC, please contact the Victims Participation and Reparations Section ("VPRS") of the ICC at the address indicated below. The section will provide you with all relevant information, forms and other documentation, and any other assistance you may require. Victims' reparations Distinct from participation in Court proceedings, victims can seek reparation for the harm that they have suffered. At the end of a trial, if there is a conviction, the Trial Chamber may order a convicted person to pay reparations to the victims of the crimes of which the person was found guilty. The court may order such reparations to be paid through the Trust Fund for Victims. The court may award reparations on an individual and/or collective basis, whichever is, in its view, the most appropriate for the victims in the particular case. Collective and/or individual reparations may include monetary compensation, the return of property, rehabilitation, medical support, victims' services centres, or symbolic measures such as apologies or memorials. At this stage of the proceedings, victims are also represented by a lawyer who will be in a position to present relevant information to the chamber on behalf of his or her clients. Victims play an important role in the court's proceedings. Pursuant to Article 68(3) of the Rome Statute, during judicial proceedings, victims have the right to present their views and concerns directly to the ICC Judges. This is already the case during the pre-trial proceedings, where the Prosecutor seeks the confirmation of charges for a subsequent trial against one or more individuals subject to an arrest warrant or a summons to appear. Victims may exercise their participatory rights throughout all instances of judicial proceedings, including appeals.