The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority has begun taking stock of the Sh6.3 billion Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) that has been lying at its premises following investigations into their purchases. The medical supplies agency has since Tuesday been engaging the dozens of suppliers whom it engaged in the procurement which the auditor general flagged. The review is to ascertain if the items were indeed delivered and that the same were worth the cost in instances where payments were made. Suppliers have been streaming to the agency to confirm their stocks in efforts by the Ministry of Health to have the items disposed – even if it would be at a loss. An independent multi-agency team embarked on the stock review amid concerns the items were wasting away, subjecting taxpayers to further losses. Kemsa board chaired by former Murang’a Senator Kembi Gitura wrote to Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe requesting to sell the items at a loss. The board’s concern was that the items, having been bought at expensive price, were costly for the county governments hence risked wasting away. The Health CS then wrote to the Attorney General and the Ethics and Antic-Corruption Commission but was told to conduct physical stock-check. The multi-agency team is expected to issue an independent report on the stock-tacking and whether the items were indeed delivered. The Public Investments Committee chaired by Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir has during its probe into the scam sounded alarm some suppliers delivered air, and have since been paid. The stocktaking is envisioned to help unearth such suppliers with a view to recovering the monies the medical supplies authority spent on the items. Kemsa last November lamented it had run out of cash after Sh6.3 billion was tied up in the stocks it can’t sell following the ongoing investigations. Acting managing director Edward Njoroge blamed the situation on the leeway given to counties to procure outside the authority. Audits showed that the entity may realize a loss of over Sh2.3 billion considering the current market prices. Apart from PIC, the EACC has been conducting an investigation into the purchases and has since issued a report to the Director of Public Prosecutions for further action. EACC ordered a freeze of all payments to suppliers until investigations into the procurement of Covid-19 response items is concluded. Investigations at the PIC have revealed that most of the companies that won Kemsa tenders were not prequalified, or lacked capacity for medical supplies. Villa Surgicals Ltd, one of the companies being probed by PIC, confirmed that its officials were at Kemsa warehouses to ascertain the existence of their deliveries.