The European Union on Thursday announced €5,843,344 (Sh771 million) support to promote secure and sustainable livelihoods among pastoral and agro-pastoral communities in Isiolo county. This is in furtherance of commitment to end extreme suffering of vulnerable communities in the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands brought about by drought. The funds will be used to implement the project titled: Building Drought Resilience in Isiolo County Through Sustainable Livelihoods. The four-year programme will cover seven priority wards, namely Oldonyiro, Ngaremara, Chari, Cherab, Kinna, Sericho and Garbatulla through collaboration between NGOs—VSF Suisse, We World, Impact Foundation, CCM, Sominerec, NDMA, Isiolo County Government and the Government of Kenya. The project’s objective is to contribute towards increased resilience to droughts and other impacts of climate change and improve nutrition status of children under five years. It will focus on enhancing food and nutrition security, generating sustainable livelihoods,  protecting productive assets and improving climate smart county service delivery in Isiolo county. Speaking during the project launch,  Isiolo Governor  Mohamed Kuti lauded the European Union for extending friendship between Kenya and the EU. Kuti noted that this support is one among three projects in the county whose objectives are aligned to the County Integrated Development Plan and would greatly contribute to the area's disaster preparedness, food and nutrition security for a sizeable number of vulnerable communities. Achieving food and nutrition security in ASALs requires carefully designed projects that respond to the challenges. According to Dr Davis Ikiror, the country director at VSF-Suisse, the project is well-designed and had provided an opportunity for VSF-Suisse and partners to use their expertise and approaches to address the underlying challenges. This ambitious project will require strong partnership for achievement of goals.  The teaming up of VSF-Suisse, its partners, and the county government was in no doubt a strong proposition to create synergies to fight hazards caused by drought and to enhance food and nutrition security. EU Deputy Head of delegation to Kenya Katrina Hagemann noted that the European Union was committed to ending drought emergencies in the Horn of Africa. "In Kenya, the EU is contributing up to €45 million (Sh5,944,275,000) towards implementing the Ending Drought Emergency Strategy," said Hagemann. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa said the National government will put more efforts towards improving livelihood of pastoral communities in arid areas to cope with disasters. He lauded Kuti for close partnership with the donors and National government to spur development in the areas. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara