A section of leaders from Kisii at the weekend castigated Education CS George Magoha for his remarks that the region is one of the exam cheating hotspots. Speaking to the Star separately, county assembly Majority whip John Ombati and Kisii County Governance Watch secretary Rachael Otundo said despite the outbreak of the Covid pandemic, teachers committed to preparing candidates for the examinations. “We are telling the CS that our children are bright and capable of handling the papers. He should stop causing unnecessary panic to our children,” Ombati said. Otundo said, “We cannot allow a situation where those given the mandate to oversee matters of education make irritating statements.” Otundo wished all the candidates the best of luck and urged them to apply what they were taught throughout their time in school. “We know there will be isolated cases, but this does not mean that all children from the region get their grades because of cheating,” Otundo said. Ombati urged those who will be administering the tests to be fair to the candidates and ensure the environment is conducive to exams. “We do not want to see a situation where candidates go to examination rooms under stress. Those who will be monitoring the exercise should ensure candidates sit their papers in a friendly environment,” he said. Meanwhile, Governor James Ongwae wished all the candidates well as they sit their exams and expressed optimism that they will get the grades they deserve. “I am taking this opportunity to thank teachers and parents for their commitment in preparing the candidates despite Covid challenges,” Ongwae said. “We understand that the candidates faced myriad challenges during the period they were at home after the outbreak, thank God they all managed to go back to continue with their revision.” County commissioner Haran Macharia said the country is in an examination mood and all those concerned have put measures in place to ensure the tests are conducted in a free and transparent manner. “We are going to ensure zero cheating incidents in this year’s examinations. I want to assure candidates all security measures have been put in place,” Machari said. “We are going to ensure the results are not tainted by cheating. I wish all candidates well.”