Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya has said journalists should be among the priority groups vaccinated against Covid-19. He said journalists were highly exposed and could easily become super-spreaders because they interact with many people and institutions in the course of their duties. Addressing journalists at his office on Friday, Natembeya said he was going to request for them to me immunised and educated on the Covid-19 vaccine. He noted that it would be prudent for media training on the vaccine as this would ensure they disseminate facts instead of fanning propaganda. “There is no relation between blood clotting and the vaccine. It is just a coincidence, there must be other factors within an individual that contribute to Deep Vein Thrombosis,” he said. Last week, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui offered 15 journalists in the region an opportunity to get vaccinated among frontline workers who include medics, hospital subordinate workers, security forces and teachers. Kinyanjui advised older journalists and those with underlying conditions to take advantage of the opportunity. Natembeya becomes the second leader in the region to request for journalists to be included on the list of frontliners as Covid-19 positivity rate hits 17 per cent. The regional commissioner said security teams in Rift Valley will ensure strict adherence to Covid-19 prevention protocols set by Ministry of Health and directives issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “The security organs will enforce the curfew rule to the letter. Public Service Vehicles from Western Kenya passing through the region to the city or Coast will not be allowed on the road past curfew hours,” he said. He was accompanied by senior officers in all the security units including Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Prisons Department. He said roadblocks will be erected along the highway from Turo in Uasin Gishu to Kinungi in Nakuru to ensure zero-movement past 10pm. He said the roadblocks will be manned by a multi-agency team who will include all the police units, Prisons and the National Transport and Safety Authority. Natembeya banned eating at funerals, adding that the burials will follow the presidential directive which chiefs and their assistants presiding. “To ensure compliance, chiefs and their assistants will be masters of ceremony so that the burials take the shortest time possible,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori