The mystery surrounding the identity of the Kisumu shooter deepened after a search on his records returned nothing. Detectives have asked the public to help them identify the suspect who snatched a gun from a police officer and shot two people dead before he was lynched on March 5. The police have published for reference images that were captured while the man shot at the civilians. “DCI detectives from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau alongside their Anti-terror counterparts have reasons to believe that the assailant was not just an ordinary criminal, but had prior to the attack received training in tactical manoeuvres and weapon handling,” DCI said in a statement. “The three identity cards that were found in his possession belong to other individuals who have since been identified.” Nobody has come forward to claim the man's body or even identify him as a relative. Police had been asked to get more samples and retake fingerprints of the shooter. The shootings at the Kisumu bus park were partially captured on CCTV cameras at the scene. Police had difficulties in picking samples because the suspect's body had been burnt. Scene of crimes officials managed to lift three fingerprints from the suspect after a rigorous process. They again went to the mortuary and lifted more samples last Wednesday after officials at the National Registration Bureau complained the earlier ones were not sufficient and turned negative results or no marches. Found in the shooter's pockets were identity cards belonging to Glen Ochieng Ojwang, Joseph Otieno Masaka and Joseph Odeny Mutula. Detectives went to Suna, Migori county to establish if Glen Ochieng, believed to be the shooter, is the one who died in the attack. He wasn't. Glen Ochieng Ojwang whose identity card was recovered is a former student at Moi University. Police have concluded the ID cards were stolen. Officials from National Counter Terrorism Centre said they do not know if the shooter was a lone wolf, locally radicalised and what motivated him. “It is unfortunate he died. We would have wanted to talk to him and understand why he did that. We don’t know if he acted alone or was with some accomplices and why,” Masisi Kiilu of NCTC said. Officials said they fear that the shooter could be a returnee from Somalia or a terror group or was radicalised. In the shooting spree, six people including a traffic police officer sustained serious injuries. The officer was shot in the pelvis and the bullet exited through the stomach. Two of the victims including a Ugandan national succumbed to injuries in the hospital. Police said the traffic police was controlling traffic at the roundabout near Kisumu Boys High School when he was accosted by the shooter. The man disarmed the officer, entered the bus park and started shooting aimlessly before entering Yasmin hotel. One officer attached to the bus park pursued him and grabbed him and with the help of the members of the public, he was subdued.  A Ceska pistol with no rounds of ammunition was recovered. Cases of terrorism and violent extremism have been on the decline due to efforts by the government and other agencies. It is estimated that scores of al Shabaab returnees are in the country. Homegrown radicalisation in Kenya is on the rise given al Shabaab’s growth in neighbouring Somalia. Kenya has become a prime location for recruitment and radicalisation for al Shabaab. In 2012, it was reported that al Shabaab was attracting a large number of Kenyan converts to Islam. In December 2014, it was estimated that Kenyans comprised around 25 per cent of al Shabaab. Some of the al Shabaab returnees end up in prisons where they conduct more recruitment hence the measures to contain the trend. This comes as the prisons department has increased efforts to contain radicalism in the prisons. The Kenya Prisons Service has a handbook to help them manage the crisis among prisoners. This is because reports showed the penal institutions have become breeding grounds for violent extremists. The report was compiled by the prisons and Legal Resources Foundation Trust to offer a strategy for preventing and countering radicalisation to violent extremism among prisoners. The report offers detailed risk assessment tools for prison managers and best approaches to housing violent extremist offenders and how to manage them without infringing on their human rights. It calls for demilitarisation of how violent extremist offenders are handled to ensure they remain a source of intelligence and reformed. It adds this should be initiated by a proper risk assessment of prisoners, in a bid to inform who poses what level of risk. “The proper risk assessment of prisoners is one of the fundamental components of good prison management policies. The management of prisoners cannot be successfully undertaken without assessments of the risks they pose,” reads the report. On the housing crisis, the report says prison managers will have to determine whether to separate violent extremism offenders from the rest of the prisoners. It adds separating prisoners who are extremists from the general population could make it easier for authorities to manage and reduce the risk of them radicalizing others to violence, but warns that it poses a threat. “Separation may elevate their status in the eyes of other prisoners or groups in the prison population, which plays into the narrative of radicalisers, who either feel special or persecuted,” the report reads.  