Newly-appointed Gor Mahia skipper Harun Shakava has paid glowing tribute to his predecessor, Kenneth Muguna. "I feel it is a great honour for the club to appoint me captain. This may be as a result of my previous track record which includes helping them to clinch trophies," said Shakava. "Muguna is still a leader having performed exceptionally well during his reign as captain." The centre back, who picked a nasty injury that saw him stretchered off the pitch in their Football Kenya Federation Premier League match against Bidco United,  said he was extremely delighted after being afforded another opportunity to serve the defending champions. He reunites with his former club after a two-year stint with Nkana FC in the Zambian Super League. "It's my wish to guide the club to another successful year. I actually feel privileged to be back because rarely does a player go away and get a second chance to feature for this great team," he said. "I'm grateful to the management and the entire technical bench and I'm looking forward to expending all my energy in helping the team charge for a silverware." “It has been a challenging start to the season for me particularly because I had stayed roughly a couple of months out of action, but I'm working extremely hard to regain shape,” said Shakava. He was brought in to salvage a shaky defence that was increasingly soaking in goals clumsily in their league and continental assignments much to the chagrin of the K'Ogalo faithful. Coach Vaz Pinto handed Shakava his debut match this season in their 2-1 win over Kakamega Homeboyz at Bukhungu Stadium. He painfully went on to witness as they helplessly faltered in their subsequent outings against Nzoia at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma where they suffered a 2-1 loss, and later against KCB and Posta Rangers, who stunned them 2-0 and 1-0 respectively at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. He, however, fired K'Ogalo to a delightful emphatic 3-1 triumph over Bidco as the reigning champions turned a new chapter to brush aside their traumatising back-to-back losses. Shakava sprang up to the captaincy following a leadership overhaul at the club that also claimed former goalkeeper trainer Willis Ochieng as investigations into match-fixing allegations take centre stage.