Kenya Tourism Board (KTB) has donated Sh25 million in support of this year’s Magical Kenya Open and Kenya Savannah Classic set for this month at Karen Country Club. Kenya Open is scheduled for March 18th – 21 while Savannah Classic will run from March 23 – 26. The sponsorship for the two European Tour (ET) events is a continuation of  KTB support towards golf tournaments in the country following the sponsorship of the Safari Tour series which was used as a yardstick to pick local players for  the two ET tournaments. . KTB CEO Dr. Betty Radier said that supporting and leveraging on sports is one of the long-term strategies KTB is looking at to boost the country’s tourism sector. “Kenya is widely known for its prowess in sports especially in athletics. Golf is now proving to be one of our major selling points as a destination. We therefore see an opportunity for the country’s tourism in this aspect which we shall continue to leverage on,” she said. The Magical Kenya Open which was elevated to be part of the elite European Tour in 2019 failed to take place in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The competition has for years been key to attracting top golf players and spectators, both local and international each year,  thanks to its global audience. This year, a total 156 players are expected at the tournament, with over 30 countries being represented, including 12 Kenyan pros and 6 amateurs. The Kenya Savannah Classic was added to the list of European Tour events for 2021. The two events will be broadcasted to over 490 million homes globally and will locally be broadcasted to millions of households on free-to-air television. Dr. Radier noted that the addition of the Kenya Savannah Classic to this year’s list of European Tour events is a testament to the growing status of golf in the country. She further added that the events will increase confidence in the destination to travellers. “We thank the European Tour for finding it good to add us another event – the Kenya Savannah Classic, in addition to the Magical Kenya Open. This is proof enough that Kenya’s stature as a golfing destination is growing and it is also coming at a crucial moment as it will increase confidence in the destination among the travelers,” said Dr Radier. This year, the events will be held under tight COVID-19 regulations including no fans and players being required to stay in a bubble during the entire period of the competitions. 