Kisumu is on Monday expected to launch a universal healthcare programme targeting poor people in the county. The 'Marwa Kisumu Solidarity Health Cover' is an insurance medical cover targeting 90,000 households. At least 45, 000 will benefit from the first phase being launched today in Kisumu by Governor Anyang Nyong'o, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe and governors from the Lake Region Economic Bloc. Beneficiaries will access both inpatient and outpatient care under the NHIF Supa Cover benefits package at initially 48 public health facilities that are spread across the seven sub-counties. However, any resident of Kisumu County can self-pay into the Marwa scheme by self-enrolling into NHIF and enjoy the negotiated advantages, if a Bill currently before the Kisumu County Assembly sails through. Governor Anyang Nyong'o said Marwa is about enabling people to access quality and affordable healthcare. "It is the foundational  investment in human capital and towards ending extreme poverty. Marwa marks my commitment to ensure that all Kisumu residents regardless of their status access decent healthcare,” he said. In 2020, the county signed a memorandum of association with NHIF for funding and provision of a social health insurance cover to its vulnerable households. Beneficiaries were identified and verified based on their social and economic status during the UHC registration exercise in 2018/2019. The county is investing Sh67.5 million as the first quarter premium payment for the 45,000 households with support from PharmAccess – a non-governmental organisation dealing with healthcare in Africa. An additional 255,000 mostly self-paying households will be reached through the solidarity fund, in the next 12 months. Additionally, the county has mapped 48 public health facilities across the seven sub-counties ranging from dispensary to the county referral hospital where Marwa beneficiaries can access health services with drugs and commodities already being procured. Marwa cover holders will only require their mobile number or an identification card to access care. The country director at PharmAccess, Isaiah Okoth, noted that they were excited to see Kisumu County take the lead in providing affordable healthcare to all residents, through deployment and utilisation of digital technologies and thereby creating a viable model for successful implementation of UHC. It is estimated that about 1.5 million Kenyans are pushed into poverty each year due to illness-related expenses and, globally, more than 150 million annually. In Kenya, two out of five people who need care do not seek treatment from hospitals because they lack the money. Nearly half of healthcare expenditures in Kenya are paid out-of-pocket, which is a burden to vulnerable households and a serious barrier to access.