Football Kenya Federation have indefinitely suspended all leagues and competitions across the country. The surprise move, which caught many stakeholders unawares, comes just hours after President Uhuru Kenyatta announced fresh Covid-19 containment measures to arrest the runaway spike in infections. FKF communicated the decision through a statement signed and issued on Friday evening by the chief executive officer, Barry Otieno. The statement read in part: "Football Kenya Federation has with immediate effect suspended all FKF leagues and competitions which include but are not limited to the FKF-PL, National Super League, FKF Division One, FKF Division Two, all FKF women leagues, all FKF branch, and grassroots tournaments, until further notice. "The decision has been occasioned by today's national presidential address with regard to the developing Covid-19 situation in the country and the urgent need to mitigate the spread of the pandemic," it concluded. Meanwhile, FKF President Nick Mwendwa confirmed on Friday that the men's national football team would still travel to Togo on Saturday as scheduled despite the ban. “The plane is awaiting the team at the airport for our journey on Saturday,” said Mwendwa. The two nations are set to clash in Lome, Togo’s capital on Monday at 7.00 PM Kenyan time. In an address to the nation, President Kenyatta said international travels would proceed strictly in line with laid down Covid-19 guidelines. President Uhuru has announced that all international travels will continue but asked travelers to comply with the guidelines on Foreign and international travel. "All persons coming in and out of the country must be in possession of a Covid-19 PCR certificate acquired no more than 96 hours prior to arrival," said Uhuru. Harambee Stars held a recovery training session on Friday ahead of the trip. Coach Jacob “Ghost” Mulee extolled his charges for a commendable performance against Egypt on Thursday, saying it gives him confidence that they would prevail against Togo. “The team showed immense confidence in their game against Egypt and it gives me hope of a positive result as we face Togo on Monday and also in the other upcoming competitions ahead in the calendar,” said coach Mulee Kenya stands at position three in Group G with four points   