The Director of Public Prosecutions has approved recommendations by anti-graft agency to prosecute officials involved in irregular procurement of a fire engine in Turkana. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission recommended that six county officials be charged with procurement of a Sh50 million fire engine that was never delivered. Also to be charged are the directors of Winston International Company Limited, which entered into an agreement with the county for the supply and delivery of the fire engine. EACC indicated that an advance payment of Sh20 million had been made for the engine. “Investigations established that the fire engine was purchased by the Directorate of Urban Areas Management under the Ministry of Lands, Physical Planning and Urban Areas Management without the requisite budgetary allocation for the purchase of the fire engine in the financial year 2014/2015,” EACC said in a gazette notice. The commission said investigations further established that vide a supplementary budget in April, 2015 the Directorate of Urban Areas Management was allocated Sh50 million for the purchase of one fire engine but no such acquisition was made. “Investigation further established that during the 2015-16 financial year, there was no budgetary allocation for the purchase of the fire engine, neither were the funds budgeted in the previous financial year reallocated,”EACC added. Despite this, EACC said the Directorate of Urban Areas Management initiated the procurement for the supply of the fire engine. EACC established that 11 companies placed their bids and Winston International Limited won the tender at Sh42.5 million. “The county government made an advance payment of Sh20,180,050.00 to the said Winston International Limited but the fire engine was never delivered to the Turkana county government,” the commission reiterated. On December 7 last year, EACC forwarded a report to the DPP with recommendations that the suspects be charged. They were Finance chief officer, Procurement director, Lands and Urban Areas Management deputy director, Supply Chain Management, Procurement officer, accountant,  Revenue director and the directors of Winston International Limited. Among the charges EACC has recommended are conspiracy to commit an economic crime, abuse of office, wilful failure to comply with the law, engaging in project without prior planning, deceiving principal and unlawful acquisition of public property. Other charges are unauthorised spending of public money and making a document without authority. The DPP had returned the inquiry file for further investigations on  November 30, 2020. “Upon completion of further investigations, the Commission resubmitted the inquiry file to DPP on 14th January, 2021. The DPP returned the inquiry file on 8th March, 2021 accepting recommendation for prosecution subject to addressing a few areas,” the commission noted.