Anti-terrorism police have joined investigations into an incident in which a man in Kisumu on Friday morning snatched a pistol from a traffic police officer and shot dead two people at the Kisumu Bus Park. In the shooting spree which occurred at around 8.20 am, six people including a traffic police officer sustained serious injuries. The officer was shot in the pelvic. Two of the victims including a Ugandan national died in hospital from the injuries. Police said the traffic police was controlling traffic at the BP roundabout near Kisumu Boys High School when he was accosted by the shooter. The shooter was wearing a balaclava on his head, with only his eyes visible and gloves on both hands. He disarmed the officer who was overpowered in the struggle. He disarmed the officer and the officer struggled with him but was overpowered. He shot the officer on his pelvic and the bullet exited through the stomach. Police said the perpetrator entered the bus park and was shooting aimlessly before entering Yasmin Hotel. One officer attached to the bus park pursued him up and grabbed him and with the help of the members of the public he was subdued and a Ceska pistol with no rounds of ammunition recovered from him as he had expended all. He was however subjected to mob injustice and died immediately. Upon a search of his body, three national identification bearing different names were recovered from him Glen Ochieng believed to be his. Others were Joseph Otieno Masaka of ID number 30907236 and Joseph Odeny Mutula. The victims were shot in the hands, legs, head and stomach. The DCI Kisumu Central and their colleagues from the anti-terror unit are is investigating the shooting incident. Officials said they want to understand the history of the shooter. “We intend to establish if he had been radicalized to make such moves. It is rare to find such people here,” said an officer aware of the probe. The official added they fear given the modus operandi of the shooter he could be a returnee from Somalia or a terror group or a radicalized. Cases of terrorism and violent extremism have been on the decline due to efforts by the government and other agencies to tame the trend. It is estimated tens of Al-Shabaab returnees are in the country.