Universities should conduct market-driven researches so that they can be able to guide students on employable courses, Education Chief Administrative Secretary Hassan Noor Hassan has said. He said the oversupply of certain courses is what has driven most graduates to the streets with placards trying to market themselves in an attempt to find employment. “When you have an oversupply in humanities for example. We have an oversupply in business courses like we now have in Kenya, then it becomes a challenge for graduates to find employment,” Hassan said. Hassan spoke when he officiated the opening of a newly constructed modern library and the launch of Kasanga Mulwa Foundation at Lukenya University, the main campus in Makueni on Friday. He said, “That’s why TVETS have come up to give an avenue for students to be able to pursue. Not everybody must end up at the university, you can still make your life better by engaging in life skills which you can use to find employment in the job market.” Hassan said Tvet colleges provide the best opportunities with Sh30,000 government capitation on school fees annually for students to be able to acquire life skills. “So, that’s really what we have and the oversupply of certain courses is what is driving most of our graduates to the streets with placards trying to market themselves and find employment also.” He said private universities form an important component of bridging the gap where the government hasn’t been able to fulfil its core function. Hassan said the government goes a long way with private universities to ensure they provide the best of courses, standards ‘like it is now at Lukenya University.’ “The Ministry of Education is fully aware of the journey which this university has come and we are happy that it has met requirements and standards required for private universities to operate in this country,” Hassan said. He said the Commission for University Education was in charge of setting standards and ensuring they were adhered to for universities to operate in the country.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris