Enterprising Gor Mahia striker Benson Omalla has agreed to a year-long loan deal with Swedish Division One side, FC Linkopings. However, Omalla will first have to wait until he completes his high school education in April before he can finally link up with the club. The promising 19-year-old clinical finisher  penned a five-year deal with the reigning FKF Premier League champions in 2020 after a dream debut season in Kenya’s topflight where he bagged nine goals for Western Stima. His move to the 18-time Kenyan Premier League champions came as a surprise given he had initially ruled out any possibility he would join them, adding he preferred playing for either AFC or KCB. "I am still young and just finding foot and at my age, I need a club which will build me if I decide to part ways with Western Stima," Omala had said then. "AFC Leopards and KCB are good at giving young players a platform to showcase their worth compared to K'Ogalo. He earned a call-up to the provisional Harambee Stars squad for the 2019 Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (Cecafa) Senior Challenge played in Uganda but never made the final team. Omalla confirmed the new development on Wednesday, saying he has been on the radar of the Swedes for a while now. “The club has been hot on my heels for quite sometime now but currently, I am concentrating on preparing for my KCSE exams,” said Omalla. The deal has been brokered by Sweden-based Kenyan agent Ken Ring. He is set to join the club on  April 1 for a loan deal that will run until December  1, 2021. Omalla has struggled to secure game time at K'Ogalo, most of the time playing second fiddle to Nicholas Kipkirui and lately to Brazilian Wilson Silva. He'll be joining the ranks of Kenyans already transacting business in Sweden including Eric ‘Marcelo’ Ouma (AIK- Allmänna Idrottsklubben) and Eric Johanna (Jönköpings Södra). In an earlier interview last year, Omalla said he hoped he would one day feature for English Premier League giants Manchester United.