Sometime in 2019, Kenya Volleyball Federation side, Kenya Pipeline were in a crisis and needed a quick fix. The former volleyball giants had lost a majority of their players to moneybags and bitter rivals Kenya Commercial Bank and were thus in danger of sliding into oblivion. They turned to Justine Kigwari, head coach of Kwanthanze Secondary School volleyball team, in search of emergency replacements. However, what seemed a band-aid strategy was in hindsight a blessing in disguise as the new players spurred the oilers to an exceptional performance at the African Club Championship in Cairo. "The Kenya Pipeline coach requested me to give them six players to replace the ones they had lost to KCB. It was surprising that KCB finished ninth, Kenya Prisons finished 16th whereas Pipeline's inexperienced team claimed third place at the African Club Championship in Cairo. This was a real moment of pride for me,"Kigwari recalls. This incident is evidence of the talent mine that is Kwanthanze Secondary School, which has earned a reputation in Kenya and East Africa as one of the best volleyball sides at the secondary school level. In the past decade, the Machakos county-based side has won 11 titles at the national and regional level. Kigwari, who took over the reigns in 2010, prides himself as a detail-oriented coach who is passionate about the sport and ready to learn new tricks in order to continually take the team to greater heights. "Our first source of inspiration is trust in God.  I have the passion for nurturing young players and I have always wanted to be a performing coach. This is extra motivation to me," Kigwari says. In his characteristic obsession with details, Kigwari has learnt that volleyball has shifted from being a largely physical game to a technical one. "I make sure any of my players can play at least two positions and we incorporate the current trends in volleyball being used by countries such as Brazil and Japan. Players have grown up knowing the finer details in their roles and it is easy to integrate them into any team," he says. "Much of the training does not focus on the physical aspect but on the intensity of the game. My setters, for example, have to be familiar with jump setting, offence combination, defensive duties, ball handling and how to change the direction of the ball," Kigwari adds. Kigwari is also a student of the game, having learnt a lot from his interactions with other tacticians. "For example, I learnt from a USA coach John Cook  that leg muscle power is an essential component of the game. The ability to exert force with the lower extremities quickly is of pristine value and that is what I have always demanded from my players. For all the players I have coached, Sharon Chepchumba has the perfect leg power which is her greatest strength. It's nearly impossible to stop her when she's on top of her game," Kigwari explains. Road to dominance Just a few months into his tenure in 2010, Kwanthanze reached the nationals of the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association (KSSSA )games in Kisumu and finished seventh in their maiden appearance. The team's steady progress saw them finish fourth in the 2011 showpiece held at Moi Forces Academy, Nairobi. They went one better a year later, finishing third and subsequently, qualifying for the East Africa School Games in Burundi. By then, Malava, Lugulu and Cheptil High Schools were the giants of volleyball at the school level. By 2013, however, Kwanthanze upset the order when they beat Lugulu 3-2 at the nationals before lifting the regional title in the same year — a first for the Eastern region since independence. If naysayers might have interpreted their 2013 exploits as a fluke, there was no doubt a year later when Kwanthanze swept aside every team with identical 3-0 straight set wins on their way to successfully defending the national and regional title. In 2015, however, complacency crept in and Kwanthanze lost 3-2 to unfancied Kosirai Secondary School from Nandi county at the national games. Fortunately, a 3-0 thrashing of Kosirai was enough redemption for Kwanthanze as they retained the regional trophy for the second consecutive year. More heartbreak, however, awaited the Easterners in 2016 as they lost the regional title while failing to reclaim the national one —despite  a star-studded squad  comprising  Lorraine Chebet and Pamela Masaisai, among others. "It was hard to comprehend how things unfolded. We lost to a superior Soweto side. We analysed our performance and used the experience to become a better team," Kigwari says. Indeed, they bounced back in style and have been triumphant on both fronts in 2017, 2018 and 2019. Volleyball talent factory Kwanthanze has  produced a plethora of graduates who have gone on to serve their clubs with distinction. The women's league boasts of more than 15 players playing for different clubs,  most of who have hit dizzying heights at club level. The latest product from Kwanthanze is libero Sharon Sandui, who alongside setter Immaculate Nekesa, signed their first professional contracts with Kenya Commercial Bank last year after graduating from Kwanthanze in 2019. Sandui is eternally grateful for joining Kwanthanze in Form one and describes her three-year stint at the institution as pivotal moment in her life. "When I joined the institution, I had no idea where my talent in sports lay. Being at Kwanthanze unearthed my talent in volleyball and I left the institution a better person than I came. One aspect of my game that I attribute to Kwanthanze is my reception, which I believe is my strongest suit," Sandui, 20, says. The Mt Elgon native adds that the institution has taken her places by virtue of the many championships in which she has participated. "Through this sport and the institution, I have been to Uganda, Rwanda and Tanzania and seen many sights. The many titles we won at the national and regional level will forever remain etched in my mind," she says. Nairobi Water's left attacker Lucy Mumo's trajectory in volleyball is an interesting one. She started off as a footballer in primary school before breaking up with her 'first love' in favour of life on the court. As a member of Kikumbo Secondary School volleyball team, she visited Kwanthanze in Form One and was instantly sold into their volleyball philosophy. "They happened to be in a training session during our visit and it is at this point I developed an interest in the game. I saw the players engaged in gym work and to me this was quite unique for a secondary school team. Little did I know that I would one day be part of the squad," Mumo, who joined Kwanthanze in Form Two, narrates. She feels privileged and blessed to have turned out in Kwanthanze's colours. "It felt great playing for Kwanthanze because we had a strong team that thrived under teamwork, commitment and a coach who knew how to motivate players," she says. She describes coach Kigwari as one of the most tactically astute coaches she has ever worked under and a man who was ahead of his time. "He knows how to nurture young players and inculcate in them the basics of the game at a young age.  His tactics are easy to adapt. He is also a believer in discipline and not only shapes you into a great volleyballer but a better citizen as well," Mumo says. Their victory over then secondary school giants Lugulu Girls in 2014 is a memorable one she relives every time. At the national level, Malkia Strikers' provisional squad boast five Kwanthanze alumni within their ranks — Sharon Chepchumba (attacker), Gladys Ekaru and Lorraine Chebet (middle blockers), Esther Mutinda and Nekesa (setters). Chepchumba was feted as the best attacker at the 2019 CAVB Women’s Volleyball Championship is a sure bet to be on Bitok's starting lineup. Whereas Mutinda is yet to hit the same heights she reached at Kwanthanze owing to inadequate playing time at club level, Nekesa has wasted no time. She has set the KVF league alight  and is now firmly in KCB coach Japheth Munala's first team picture despite being only 18. All of them will be hoping for a starting berth at the Tokyo Olympics where the national team will be making their first appearance in 17 years. A coach's pride That his girls have grown wings and soared above the sky — in as far as their careers are concerned — excites Kigwari. "I harbour pride when I see players who have passed through my hands excel in the game after Kwanthanze. It's good to create a free atmosphere for the players without restricting them. Our objectives have been to be the best institution in the game," he says. Even for those that are yet to replicate their form at the professional level, Kigwari is still confident it will be only a matter of time before they come good. "Some players have not progressed despite their earlier promise. Masaisai was one of the best players I have ever coached. Not even Chepchumba could be compared to her but its unfortunate she hasn't reached the heights expected of her. It is the obligation of the coach to adapt a playing philosophy and vision that can help cater for all the players," Kigwari says. His parting shot to those who would want to follow in Kwanthanze's footsteps is to nurture players while still young instead of waiting until they go professional. "A player who has passed through Kwanthanze is easy to integrate into any team or club set up. A well-laid down infrastructure is needed to tap the talent at the grassroots. Schools have to be supported with equipment and KVF must set aside funds to make this possible," he says. It is hard to argue with this advice when one looks at Kwanthanze's trophy-laden decade. If other teams do not implement it, then the school's dominance in volleyball may not end any time soon.