Leading gaming company Mozzart has continued with its sustained quest help to Kenya’s health sector. The company has given a donation of medical equipment worth sh. 3 Million to the Kombewa County Hospital in Kisumu on Friday 5 March. The donated equipment included hospital beds, bed side lockers, maternity delivery beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, oxygen flow meters, oxygen storage capacitors, ophthamolscopes, infant incubators amongst others. Kisumu County Governor Hon Anyang’ Nyong’o who was present officially received the equipment and reserved special praises for Mozzart. “We are very excited to receive this donation. Maternal and pediatric health sections in this facility will now greatly improve their service delivery and we are very grateful to Mozzart for this noble gesture,” he said, “On behalf of Kisumu County, I want to assure Mozzart that the equipment will be put to good use to improve healthcare in Kombewa and Kisumu County at large. Special gratitude goes to Mozzart led by the Country Manager Sasa Krneta,” he added. Mozzart Country Manager Sasa Krneta said the organization would continue supporting community projects around the country. “We are very grateful for the warm reception we have received in this great county of Kisumu. We are also delighted to bring this donation which we hope will change the lives of people in the Kombewa community for the better,” he said, “We have spent over Ksh 50 million since November in community projects that include our “100 WELLS FOR OUR COMMUNITIES” water project as well as our healthcare projects. We are an organization that is human-centered and therefore we are always eager to support community projects,” he added. Between November 2020 and now, 19 different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center, Dandora 2 Health Center, Kakamega Referral Hospital, Waithaka Health Center, Vihiga County Referral Hospital, Yala Sub County Hospital, Molo Sub County Hospital and now the Kombewa Sub County Hospital. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.