Game rangers are set to get container houses as the government seeks to phase out tents traditionally used to accommodate them. The government, in partnership with three NGOs, on Monday donated two containers in a pilot programme at Nairobi National Park. The container units are self-contained and each will accommodate two rangers. The 20-foot container units are insulated against extreme weather and consist of a kitchenette, a sleeping area with a decker bed, shelves, and a washroom with heated water. Solar panels and water tanks will be installed on each unit to provide a constant water supply and electricity. The two units are the first dispatch to the rhino sanctuary. The park will receive 23 more container units to house 79 officers. Tourism CS Najib Balala said dignity housing project will provide rangers with the conditions necessary to curb poaching specifically against rhinos. "The ministry is improving all game parks to completely end poaching. Last year, the country recorded zero poaching of rhinos and 11 elephants killed. We hope to bring the numbers to zero," he said. The CS said a plan is in place to ensure all game parks and reserves receive these container units. He said they are developing a framework to engage partners in a fundraising strategy to have more units taken to all rhino centres in the country by 2022. "The ministry is aiming at having at least 250 containers spread all over the parks in Kenya, with 25 here at the National Park," he said. Stand Up Shout Out (SUSO) conservation organisation, Luigi Footprints and Maniago Safaris has partnered with the government to raise over Sh25 million for the 25 container units to be donated to Nairobi National Park. "We need more people to join this project to ensure it is a success," Maniago Safaris director Annabella Francescon said. Tourism PS Fred Segor said the move to replace tents with containers will help in mitigating problems such as poaching as the rangers will be able to offer 24-hour surveillance without fear of their houses being destroyed. "The container units are waterproof hence no damage in cases of heavy rainfall and insulated to protect the rangers from extremely hot weather," he said. The tents initially used by rangers were subject to being destroyed by wild animals and some would collapse under extreme weather conditions. In the tents, the rangers did not have access to basic amenities like toilets and bathrooms or even electricity and instead relied on torchlights, lamps and would use the bush for their toilet needs or walk long distances to access a decent washroom. On April 2, 2017, a group of armed gangs attacked rangers in the Kapkok area burning Tangul and Kamelei operations camps. Firearms, vehicles, and rangers' valuables were destroyed. A research done by the Wildlife Fund in November 2016 found that 82 per cent of rangers faced life-threatening situations, including attacks by poachers and animals, yet they were not provided with something as basic as good and quality housing. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara