The number of fans at this year's World Athletics (WA)  Under-20 Championships on August 17-22 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani will be reduced to enhance social distancing and minimise the risk of rapid Covid-19 infections. Sports CS Amina Mohammed said this measure has been prompted by the need to safeguard the health and safety of those involved in the biennial championships, including athletes. "In 2017, we witnessed record crowds at Kasarani for the under-18 championships. I am confident we will witness similar levels of interests in the under-20 championships even with the Covid-19 protocols such as the substantial scaling of fan numbers at the stadium," Amina said in a speech read on her behalf by Chief Administrative  Secretary Simon Kachapin. Amina assured the government would support the preparations for the event to ensure it replicates the success of the 2017 World Athletics Under-18 Championships held at the same stadium. "We have put in place all the measures necessary to welcome the world to Nairobi for this event. We will substitute the scaled down fan numbers by engaging the traditional and new media to beam this event to millions around the world," she said. Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei, however, expressed optimism the pandemic would abate in time for the championships so that as many fans as possible can turn up at Kasarani for the six-day event. "We are honoured to host the 18th edition of this series, which was first held in 1986 in Athens, Greece. This is the first world junior athletics championships in Kenya and indeed, Africa. We hope the Covid protocols will have been relaxed by then to allow fans into the stadium but if that is not the case, then we will inform you of the same," Tuwei said. The two were speaking at Serena Hotel on Monday during a media briefing on the preparations for the event, which was initially scheduled for last year but was shelved due to the coronavirus pandemic. Tuwei, also the chair of the Local Organising Committee, revealed plans were at full steam ahead of  the event, which is 155 days away. Part of the plans include the laying of a new synthetic track at Kenyatta University — where the over 2,000 athletes will be staying and training — as well as written invitations to 213 member countries of World Athletics. He said the issue of tartan track at Kenyatta University will be finalised by the end of April. "We are also preparing to put our under-20 team into camp. Due to the Covid-19 period, we could not do this previously. We have also sent invitations to the 213 countries and will be informing you periodically if and when they confirm," Tuwei said. Also speaking at the event, Sports CAS Zack Kinuthia urged stakeholders to work hand-in-hand and diligently to create an event of a lifetime. "We need to set standards so high that if other countries, such as Egypt and South Africa, want to host a similar event in future, they will have to borrow a leaf from Kenya. We need an aggressive campaign to market the championships to the world," he said. 