Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko’s lawyer John Khaminwa walked out of court on Tuesday in protest, saying the trial magistrate is openly biased against his client. Speaking to journalists at the Milimani law courts, Khaminwa said chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti has been unfair in rulings on Sonko's Sh10 million graft case. On Monday, Ogoti ordered Sonko to appear in court for the hearing that was to proceed on Tuesday. The governor appeared but journalists were not allowed in because of witnesses whose identities are protected. Khaminwa says he walked out because Ogoti refused to adjourn the matter so he left the other lawyers to handle the case. He said  they have also filed a complaint at the JSC against Ogoti for being biased and ruling against Sonko in all the cases. Khaminwa also said the court sits at odd hours. In the complaint to JSC, Sonko wants Ogoti investigated for alleged unethical conduct in hearing the graft case. "I have reason to believe that the magistrate has exhibited open bias against me in a manner in which he has presided over the trial," reads the petition to the JSC from Sonko. Khaminwa said they have given several reasons why the governor should not come to court but Ogoti overruled them all. One reason was that he was given 10-days bed rest after being discharged from hospital; that was overruled. Khaminwa also claimed Sonko’s driver died a few days ago and they suspect the cause was Covid-19. Lawyers requested adjournment to allow Sonko to be tested. That was overruled. Ogoti has at all times refused all his applications for adjournment of the matter even when the reasons are valid, Sonko's petition read. Sonko said justice must be seen to be done adding that the conduct of the magistrate is contrary to the law and therefore should be investigated and appropriate disciplinary action taken. The former governor said Ogoti has previously presided over criminal matters to which he was a party and ruled against him. With this in mind, Ogoti should have recused himself from handling his corruption case, Sonko said. “In the eyes of a right-thinking member of society, the magistrate already has a pre-mediated mind considering his previous rulings in the others matters [in which] I am involved,” Sonko  said. The former county boss says Ogoti went on national TV during prime time to give an interview on the cases he was handling. “In my understanding, the magistrate does not have regard for the rights of accused persons appearing before him, including myself, in an attempt to please the gallery,”  Sonko's petition read. (Edited by V. Graham)