Gukena FM breakfast co-host Jimmie Kajim held his dowry ceremony in Kamwangi, Kiambu county, on Saturday. He is set to marry his girlfriend Silvana Wambui. Speaking to Word Is after the event, an elated Kajim said he was overwhelmed by the love he received from fans and family, as well as the media, business and political personalities in attendance. "I am appreciative to God. This was an event that I was worried about, especially after the Ministry of Health directives. Having members of Parliament spending their whole afternoon with you is not something to take for granted," he said. "The support was immense and actually I have to change some of the wedding arrangements. I am grateful to our families and friends for their support. I am looking forward to the wedding day, which will be on the 1st of May this year." Kajim was planning to do spend Sh1 million on his wedding. However, his friends who attended the ceremony contributed over Sh2 million for the wedding, among other gifts. "As a youth, I have learnt to choose friends wisely. I have never wanted to associate with my agemates but I try as much as possible to walk with those who are above me so they can mentor me." Kajim was described as a man of the people by his friends, family and even his workmates. Among those who attended the ceremony were media personality Njoki Mburu, Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe and her Gatundu South counterpart Moses Kuria and Radio Jambo's Bramwel Mwololo. Njoki described Kajim as a hardworking person who has always wanted to listen and learn every day. She also helped in cutting the cake, designed in a traditional pot. She said it symbolised the deep support of the Kikuyu culture. "As a friend, I wish you nothing but the best in your marriage. May you be compatible just like the ingredients used to make this cake, and may the fruits of your marriage be as beautiful as this cake." Artistes who performed included Allan Aaron, Sammy K and DJ Fatxo. The MC of the event was comedian Muthee Kiengei.