ODM leader Raila Odinga could have got Covid-19 from a prominent Mombasa family. Raila visited the family last week when he was on a tour of the region and unknown to him some of the businessman’s relatives had been infected. “These people are known to Raila and he didn’t know that they had patients, some in critical condition. Raila met them and spent some time with them only for him to return to Nairobi with Covid symptoms,” said an aide aware of the meeting. As a result of the meeting, Raila’s entire team of about 30 staff was tested yesterday and asked to go into quarantine. "Following my letter of the 10th of March 2021 we have confirmed that Rt Hon Odinga has SARS-2 Covid-19," Dr Oluoch said in a statement Thursday evening. "He is responding well to the treatment he is receiving at The Nairobi Hospital and remains upbeat. We are continuing to monitor his progress," Dr Olunya added. The ODM leader checked into the hospital on Monday for a series of tests, some of which, according to his Dr Ouma Olunya, confirmed he was positive. In a statement on Thursday evening, Raila said "numerous and complicated tests" on him for the last two days, tests had confirmed an accurate diagnosis of his health status. “I received a briefing from the doctors who have conducted numerous and complicated tests on me for the last two days to arrive at an accurate diagnosis of my health status. “While the tests were several, one important result, which I have authorised the doctors to make public is that I have been found to have been exposed to Covid-19. “Despite the fact that I feel strong and in good shape after a few days in hospital, I have agreed with my doctors to undertake the mandatory quarantine. "I take this opportunity to thank the medical personnel for days of very meticulous work they have done to arrive at the diagnosis. “Finally, I wish to use this opportunity to emphasise to our people that Covid-19 is real, it is in our midst and we need to observe all the measures being put out by the government, scientists and health personnel. "I thank everyone for the good wishes,” he added The former Prime Minister was moved from the hospital’s North Wing VIP section to St Francis — a ward within the South Wing — where VIP patients with Covid-19 symptoms are admitted. The ODM leader is said to be largely asymptomatic and was only isolated as a precaution measure as his team of doctors led by Dr David Olunya monitor his situation. Asymptomatic patients without fever or who have not been using fever-reducing medicines are not required to take a second Covid-19 test after 10 days. Raila had checked in at the Nairobi Hospital on Tuesday evening complaining of fatigue. He was initially tested and cleared of other suspected medical conditions but was still awaiting the Covid-19 test results. But on Thursday, several sources at the hospital including a section of MPs close to the opposition chief in strict condition of anonymity told the Star that the ODM boss is battling Covid-19. However, they all said he was in stable condition. The Star has also established that Raila spoke to Luo Nyanza MPs on Wednesday night, during an informal meeting dubbed  “Duol”. On Wednesday, the Star exclusively reported that the MPs had been blocked from visiting Raila. “Yes and that is why he was put in isolation. But he is in a stable condition; he even spoke to us during our Duol meeting. No need to worry,” said one MP. A number of MPs who attended the Wednesday meeting intimated to the Star that the opposition chief was in good spirit during his address. Duol is an informal meeting bringing together all Luo elected and nominated members of the National Assembly and the Senate. The meetings are always held on rotational basis at the homes of the lawmakers in Nairobi. The Wednesday Duol was hosted by Kabondo Kasipul MP Eve Obara at her Lavington home. The Nasa leader is reported to have told them that he was on the path of recovery and will be out in two days time. During the phone caller that lasted few minutes, Raila is reported to have assured his troops that he will soon bounce back. “He talked to us on the phone, though he didn’t confirm to us his health status as you know it is a confidential matter, but he was in high spirit and sounded strong,” said the lawmaker. Asymptomatic patients resume their normal lives after 10 days. The Government adopted the rule last year following a resolution of World Health Organization and Centers for Disease Control guidelines. Initially, a Covid-19 patient had to obtain two consecutive negative reports taken 24 hours apart. The directive that was issued last year followed findings that patients whose symptoms have resolved may still test positive for the Covid-19 virus for many weeks. Despite this positive test result, the patients were found out not likely to be infectious and therefore, are unlikely to be able to transmit the virus to another person. Dr Olunya on Wednesday evening said Raila had a rigorous campaign and needed to have some check-ups. “This was carried out successfully. He is still undergoing some further investigations with a team of doctors and has been advised to take rest ,” said Dr Olunya, a consultant neurosurgeon. Raila has for the last months launched spirited BBI campaigns that saw him tour Nyanza counties, Kakamega, Busia, Nairobi, Taita Taveta, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale. Although there is a ban on political gatherings imposed by the Ministry of Health as part of the Covid-19 containment measures, the politcal class has brushed it aside. Political bigwigs including President Uhuru Kenyatta, Deputy President William Ruto, Raila, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Gideon Moi (Kanu), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) among others have been organising and addressing huge crowds in total disregard of the measures put by MoH. On Friday, Uhuru is expected to address the country on the state of the nation as far as the virus containment measures are concern.  