Nairobi Gymkhana skipper Lucas Oluoch has insisted that his side deserved a qualification spot in the Nairobi Invitational Cricket T20 tournament play-offs and promised to make full use of the opportunity. Gymkhana slumped to their third defeat of the campaign after losing to defending champions Kanbis by seven runs at home on Sunday. Despite the loss, Oluoch and his men still secured a play-off berth, largely because of their performance in the opening stages of the tournament. “Before the start of the match, I said we come to games to try and get the result our way,” the pace-man said after his side failed to reach the set target of 127 after losing the toss. “We are happy that we’ve qualified. Top two would’ve been really nice but I think we’ve played good cricket to earn a qualification spot,” he added. Gymkhana joined Kanbis, Swamibapa and Sir Ali Muslim in the playoffs set for next weekend. Apart from Gymkhana, all the other three teams played in last year’s playoffs alongside Ruaraka, who had a poor campaign this time round,  finishing seventh. Nischay Kerai bagged four wickets as the home team was bowled out for 120 runs with five balls to play. Dominic Wesonga, who was the hosts’ top scorer with 20, was the last wicket to fall. Oluoch was not concerned as much about the loss but rather delighted with their maiden play-offs ticket. “We have an opportunity and that’s all we want as a team. I’m sure the guys will be excited about what’s ahead for us. We can be brave with the bat in pockets.” The skipper said the team just has to focus on their strengths to win the upcoming matches. “With the ball, we were decent, probably we could have a strong power-play which is our strength. “If we implement those things, we’ll be at the right end of the result. It’s important to stay positive. There is going to be a lot of lessons along the way but we are glad that we are through.” Kanbis skipper Rajesh Bhudia was delighted to get back to winning ways after having gone down to Sir Ali a week ago. “Very pleased with the performance. We knew it was a do-or-die and an opportunity for us to get to the second spot. We were really motivated,” Bhudia said. With another win over rivals Swamibapa, all the three teams—Kanbis, Swamibapa and Sir Ali have 28 points from eight matches. Bhudia lauded the performance of his bowlers who laid the base for Kanbis’ comeback.  