No patient should be turned away for lack of space or bed capacity in either public or private hospitals in the country, senators have demanded. The Senate Health Committee wants the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to strictly enforce provisions of the Public Health Act to ensure all Kenyans get access to health services. “In such a time as this where the country is in crisis, we demand that these provisions of the Public Health Act be put in full force,” the committee said in a report tabled on the floor by Chairman Michael Mbito on Tuesday. Mbito reckoned that the CS should use the powers bestowed upon him by the Act to safeguard the rights of Kenyans of access health services. The upsurge in the number of Covid-19 cases has seen most hospitals across country stretched to capacity. Patient demands have outstripped both general and ICU bed capacity, forcing some facilities to either turn away patients or devise alternative ways to cope with the increasing numbers. On Tuesday, the Ministry of Health confirmed 132,646 cases from 1,480,240 cumulative tests so far conducted. “We appeal to the Ministry of Health to review all its treatment guidelines and protocols with a view towards ensuring that all patients receive appropriate and proper treatment,” Mbito said in the report. Sections 36, 38 and 42 of the Public Health Act (Cap 242) on the rules of prevention of disease gives the Ministry of Health, headed by CS, powers to contain the disease. The Bill states that through the office of the Director of Medical Services, the Ministry is empowered to require any person owing or having charge of any land or any buildings or dwellings, tents, drugs, foods …. urgently required in connection with an outbreak to hand over the use of any such …” The surge the in the cases last Friday forced President Uhuru Kenyatta impose a raft of containment measures including a lockdown in five counties – Nairobi, Machakos, Kajiado, Kiambu and Nakuru. The measures, the second in a span of one year, restricts movements in and out of the five counties, otherwise known as disease infected zones , tightened curfew hours and closures of bars and restaurants. The committee warned the medics against falling into the dangerous assumption that all cases arriving at the hospitals are as a result of Covid 19 infections. Mbito disclosed that his committee has held several meetings with the Ministry of Health, council of governors, Kemsa, medics and other players in the health sector and got a clearer understanding of the Covid 19 pandemic situation in the country.