Auditor General Nancy Gathungu wants the Nairobi Metropolitan Services probed over the irregular withdrawal of Sh32.38 million meant to fight Covid-19. This even as the auditor questioned the whereabouts of Sh180.07 million raised to aid in the fight against the virus as she flagged irregular direct procurement by the agency. NMS, the entity that took over the key functions of City Hall including health, irregularly withdrew Sh32.38 million from the KCB imprest account reportedly for the facilitation of health workers. “The management could not explain the basis of the facilitation, the authority to pay facilitation and expenditure could not be supported,” read the report in part. The money was withdrawn at the height of the pandemic on June 30, 2020, allegedly for payment of facilitation of health workers on Covid 19 rapid response activities. In her report on the special audit on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds, Gathungu recommended further investigations be conducted to establish any criminality. The auditor could also not establish the whereabouts of some Sh182.07 million donated by the Danish International Development Agency and the county’s own contribution to boosting the war against the contagion. “However, we could not establish where these funds were received and whether they were transferred to the respective health centres. This is because the county management did not provide relevant documents,” reads the report. Citing Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakango’s special report on Covid-19 funds released last year, Gathangu said City Hall and NMS received Sh17.60 million as Danida funds and Sh164.47 million as their own source contribution funds. “The special audit could not establish whether Danida funds were received and utilised at the NMS or the county government since neither of the two entities availed relevant documents,” it says. The report shows that NMS received a total of Sh394.58 million from the national government to fight the pandemic. The money excludes the county’s own source revenue and Danida funds pumped into the fight against the virus. The Major-General Mohamed Badi-led agency was also put to task for dishing out  Sh64.93 million tender for design and maintenance of the makeshift isolation centre to University of Nairobi Enterprise Services through single sourcing. “The expenditure was direct procurement of consultancy for architectural, conceptualisation design, innovation and maintenance of Covid-19 isolation centre. The firm was contracted on June 26, 2020, and already been paid Sh33.15 million as of July 30, 2020. NMS never issued UNES with a tender document contrary to section 104 (a) of the Public Procurement Disposal Act, 2015, implying that the firms might have never signed the contract. Also, the taxpayer could not have got the value of money in the contract as NMS did not appoint the tender evaluation committee to negotiate the prices before the award of the tender. Deputy Director-General Kangethe Thuku is the agency’s chief account and was therefore responsible for the appointment of the committee. Despite spending the huge cash, the makeshift isolation centre had not been put to use two months later, on October 8, 2020. Gathungu concluded that there were various irregulars and weaknesses in management and control that may have imperilled the effective implementation of budgetary and other policy decision in the utilisation of the fund.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris