 Pyrethrum growers in Nakuru have petitioned Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya to establish farmers oriented policies similar to those in the tea and coffee sectors. They appealed to Munya to save the once-vibrant sector that supported thousands of farmers. Through their spokesperson Allan Njoroge, the farmers called on the government to introduce reforms to save the sector and fast-track its revival. Njoroge urged the government to implement recommendations by the Presidential Task Force on Parastatals Reforms. “The recommendations will benefit flower farmers in 19 counties and they are eagerly waiting for implementation,” Njoroge said. The counties include Nakuru, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kiambu, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Nandi, Baringo, Laikipia, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kisii, Nyamira, Bungoma and Meru. He claimed the government and the Pyrethrum Processing Company of Kenya had no proper strategies to revive the sector. “Billions of shillings have been channelled towards the revival of pyrethrum sector since 2003 immediately after President Mwai Kibaki took over power but nothing has been realised,” Njoroge said. He said county governments have also tried reviving the sector in vain. Last year, Munya assured farmers that the government would inject Sh1 billion into the revival of the pyrethrum sub-sector to bolster rural economies in pyrethrum-growing counties. Njoroge said poor returns from an already struggling industry was a major hindrance to farmers returning to pyrethrum production. “More funds need to be injected into the ailing sub-sector in a bid to boost productivity of the cash crop,” he said. Farmer Jane Rotich said the government should consider incorporating pyrethrum growers’ welfare in the revival plan. She said it had become a big challenge to secure seedlings saying farmers in Nakuru need at least Sh40 million to sustain the sector. “Pyrethrum cost had fallen greatly in the market and many of the farmers cannot raise funds to buy seedlings and other farm inputs,” Rotich said  Edited by P.O