At least four MPs have been admitted to various city hospitals for Covid-19 complications with one of the lawmakers on life support. The Star has established that some parliamentary staff are also admitted as the third wave of the virus sweeps across the country. The critically-ill MP hails from Kiambu county and was rushed to the Nairobi Hospital over the weekend. After numerous medical tests, the lawmaker tested positive for coronavirus, our sources revealed. His condition however deteriorated on Monday forcing his doctors to transfer him to the Covid-19 intensive care unit where he was put on life support. In the same hospital, another MP from Uasin Gishu has been receiving treatment for the last three weeks. The MP was on Wednesday night moved from ICU to the general Covid-19 ward where the legislator is still receiving treatment. Another MP from Elgeyo Marakwet is also admitted at a different facility within Nairobi. He has also been battling the virus for the last two weeks. Sources said he is improving. However, another MP from Nakuru county was rushed to hospital on Tuesday morning. Speaker of the National Assembly Justin Muturi said his office was aware of the legislator's hospitalisation. He called on Kenyans to be extra careful. “I want to wish them quick healing. We are praying for them and all other Kenyans who are in various hospitals receiving treatment,” he told the Star on phone. “I want to encourage all Kenyans to follow the safety measures that have been put in place by the Ministry of Health,” he said. Some of the MPs who have come out in public to declare their coronavirus status include Nickson Korir (Lang’ata), Moses Kuria (Gatundu), Anthony Kiai (Mukuruei-ni) and Dahir Duale (Dadaab). Former Matungu MP Justus Murunga died last year in what was reported to have been caused by Covid-19. Kuria on Thursday said when one tests positive, they should not panic but seek medical attention as soon as possible. He said during the time he was receiving treatment, he followed the doctors routine urging Kenyans to continue adhering to Covid-19 prevention measures. “We are all human beings and we should accept the outcome. Other than medication and the good doctors that I had, I maintained a positive approach to life. We should not panic, that will play a role in weakening the immunity,” he told the Star on phone. Kiai said the virus is real and though stealthy and silent, it devastates families and decimates individuals asking Kenyans to take extreme precautions. Speaking to the Star, Kiai said it was a harrowing experience as he had to experience chest pain accompanied by a throbbing headache. “I can tell you things can go south very fast. One minute you are alive and kicking, the next one, your life hangs on by the straw. One second you are running a marathon, the next one you are a heap of helplessness,” he said. He added, “In the ICU, I was subjected to multiple tests. I was put on a ventilator while my blood was analysed every 6 hours to check for viral load and other manner of ailments. The doctors told me that I had only 30 minutes of living had I not reached the hospital on time. My organs were systematically failing due to carbon dioxide poisoning.” On Thursday, Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga suspended all county meetings, training and any other form of public engagements for 30 days. Kahiga in a press statement said his county had recorded a positivity rate of 25 per cent which he noted was higher than the national positivity rate which stands at 17 per cent. “Nyeri county has witnessed an increased number of Covid-19 infections in the last two weeks; coupled with a significant increase in patients presenting with mild to severe disease which is largely attributable to the recent laxity in adherence to the prescribed protocols and public health measures,” he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday last week banned all public gatherings for 30 days saying the spread of the virus had been fuelled by political gatherings and large social gatherings.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris