The Ministry of Health does not know how much a dose of the Covid AstraZeneca vaccine that arrived on Tuesday night will cost, but it won't be Sh760 ($7). And "nobody is trying to steal any money". Health officials clarified Wednesday that the $7 was only a 'working figure'. The public had reacted angrily to reports taxpayers would pay more than twice the $3 (Sh330) capped by Covax. Willis Akhwale, chair of the Covid-19 task force for vaccine deployment, Wednesday told the Star the estimate was arrived at in January when the state was unsure which vaccine it would get and the exact cost. “It is a planning cost and it is not final. The Covax estimates for most vaccines were between $6 to $8 and so we pegged our working figure at an average of $7,” he said. AstraZeneca says its shots are capped at around $3 (Sh330) per dose to provide vaccines to the widest population, with as fair access as possible, because the company is not seeking to make profits from the sales. However, Kenya’s Ministry of Health has many times said it would pay $7 per dose. Last month, the country was finally allocated 4.1 million doses of the Astrazeneca vaccine, which is cheaper. Unicef procured and delivered the first one million doses to Nairobi on Tuesday. “They will share with us their procurement documents showing the costs incurred, after which we will pay. So even now we do not know how much it will cost per dose. But we expect the cost to significantly go down,” Akhwale said. He said nobody was trying to steal any money and the government will remain "very transparent". Last month, the Ugandan Ministry of Health also came under fire after claiming it was paying $10 (Sh1100) per dose of the Astrazeneca vaccine. Uganda officially said this comprised an unexplained $7 cost of the vaccine and another $3 for shipping. “You can not expect a country with a big population to pay the same price; the big country will definitely have a higher bargaining power,” Alfred Driwale the manager of the Uganda National Expanded Programme on Immunisation, said, defending the costs. The country's Health Principal Secretary Dr Diana Atwine later "clarified" this was simply a "working estimate" and warned the public against "spreading misleading information". Unicef says all developing countries will pay $3 per dose under the Covax facility but did not clarify if this cost includes freight. “Unicef… will have access to up to 1.1 billion doses of vaccines for around 100 countries, for approximately $3 a dose for the low- and lower-middle-income countries,” said Unicef executive director Henrietta Fore. She said this was the best deal they could get from the manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India. “Sharing pricing information is also a reflection of Unicef's commitment to transparency, which we have been demonstrating for the past ten years by publishing all negotiated prices for a range of commodities,” Fore said in a statement. “As these supply agreements are concluded, we will continue to make public relevant details of the agreements, subject to the consent of the suppliers.” Kenya's vaccines arrived at 11.23 pm on Tuesday night via Qatar Airways flight QR1341, which was met at the airport by senior government officials led by the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe. Unicef representative Maniza Zaman and Dr Rudi Eggers of the World Health Organization were present.  (edited by o. owino)