Deputy President William Ruto has said that he is a Jubilee member despite the rumours of his planned removal as Jubilee Deputy Party leader. Speaking on Thursday during an interview with Citizen Radio, the DP compared the people who are behind the attempts to kick him out from Jubilee with Sanballat and Tobiah in the Bible who opposed and criticised Nehemiah’s for building the wall of Jerusalem. Ruto said that the same trend is being applied in current politics, where there are people who are not pleased with developments meant to change the lives of Kenyans. “We have gossipers who are not using most of their time to think on things that will help the country to develop...even in the Bible when Nehemiah was constructing the wall of Jerusalem, there was a man called Tobiah who criticised their work, saying that the wall being constructed can’t sustain the weighed of a small fox,” Ruto said. He continued that; “We have Tobiahs in this politics as well, who are just saying stop doing this, chase this one, do this…let us kick this one out first.” The DP said that the people who want to see him out of the party position do not want them to fix the issues that will positively change the lives of Kenyans. “Most of the people who are making noises in Jubilee Party are the people who have never sought votes from the people, they have not appeared anywhere where we were planning on how to deliver our promises to Kenyans. Their main aim is just to create division,” he said. Ruto said that those who are planning to see him being removed from the party will not succeed. At the same time, the DP has called for a speedy conclusion of the Constitutional Amendment Bill, 2020 that is sponsored by BBI in order to allow the government to continue with its delivery to the people. He said the entire BBI process has derailed the government from finishing what it had promised to Kenyans. “If we had continued with the path, which we took in 2013-2017, the Big 4 Agenda wouldn't be anything hard to achieve, but we left the road and adopted a more urgent issue that has made development difficult,” The DP has also dismissed the third-tier coalition, saying that it will take the country back to the politics of tribalism. “At the moment, they are asking people from different communities to support certain leaders in order to divide the country based on tribes as each tribe comes up with its party.” Ruto said that unity in the country will only be achieved by visionary leaders who have good plans for the country. The DP’s allies have laughed off a move by Jubilee's top organ to remove him as deputy party leader saying he moved on a long time ago. Ruto’s confidants claimed that he is no longer in the ruling party following what they termed an aggressive onslaught that pushed him to the periphery within the Jubilee rank and file. They, however, dared President Uhuru Kenyatta to convene the National Executive Committee to ratify the decision by the National Management Committee to recommend Ruto's removal.