Over 2 million people are suffering from jigger infestation in the country, Health Sector Coordination director Warfa Osman has said. The victims are spread over 42 counties, with at least 10 million more at risk of suffering from the infestation due to unavailability of water and poor housekeeping and health services seeking practices. The director who was speaking at Mihango primary school during the commemoration of the National Jiggers Day however noted that the country has made significant strides in eradication of the parasite. The prevalence rate of jiggers infestation, he noted has dropped by 70 per cent since the anti-jigger movement was started 14 years ago. The situation has especially improved since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic that saw drastic hygiene measures implemented across the country, he said. Last year, about 37,523 cases of jigger infestation were recorded in health facilities across the country. The parasite has had a major socio-economic impact as it immobilises its victims and condemns them to live in isolation with majority losing their source of income. It also results in absenteeism and dwindled performance for school going children, most of whom are unable to properly walk which limits their ability to mingle with others. In Murang’a where the fight against jiggers was started, the rate of infestation is far lower following the co-operation of leaders. “Jigger infestation is a self limiting health problem that mostly affects children, persons living with disabilities and the elderly,” said Osman, adding that its main mode of transmission is the sharing of accommodation with poultry and livestock. The director lauded both the National and County governments, and partners for sustaining the fight against jiggers and even establishing a jiggers awareness day. Chief Administrative Secretary for Education Mumina Bonaya said over 6.5 million pairs of shoes have been distributed to pupils to shield them from the parasite. Bonaya lauded Ahadi Kenya Trust which has been in the forefront in the fight against jiggers, for its efforts to ensure victims are treated and empowered. “In partnership with others, Ahadi Kenya has been making routine home visits to ensure victims are completely healed,” she said. She challenged schools to establish health clubs to promote hygiene among students and sensitise them on health matters. Bonaya further noted that the Ministry of Health is in the process of marking pockets of poverty especially in arid and semi arid areas where school feeding programmes will be established. Ahadi Kenya CEO Stanley Kamau challenged the government to set aside a kitty to support extremely needy pupils with shoes. He also underscored the need for all schools to be connected with water to help maintain hygiene standards. “After Covid-19, we should ensure that schools continue with the current hygiene measures to completely eradicate jiggers. It would be ironic for a child to carry a laptop barefoot,” he said. Kamau also noted that the poor should be empowered with income generating activities to enable them to support themselves and their children. Maragua MP Mary Waithera said most parts of her constituency are semi-arid and are affected by jiggers infestation. “The Kambiti area especially receives low rainfall which causes drought and results in decreased hygiene standards,” she said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 