Ministries, state departments and agencies have lost out on their bid for Sh240 billion to fund critical budget needs. In what could expose the country's liquidity crisis, MPs have approved requests amounting to Sh47 billion for funding in the next budget. The National Assembly's Budget and Appropriations Committee said the projects be given priority in allocation of resources raised through tax measures. The committee, chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega, said the projects they picked from the additional requests were critical and required urgent funding. BAC, in the report of its review of the Budget Policy Statement 2021, wants the National Treasury to finance the projects from revenue raised in the Finance Bill, 2021. IEBC’s request for Sh1.5 billion to purchase a building to serve as “Uchaguzi Centre” – which was unfunded, is among those recommended. Lawmakers have also recommended Sh18.7 billion for the National Government Constituencies Development Fund (NG-CDF) arrears; and Sh100 million to the Registrar of Political Parties - being Sh39.4 million for five county offices, Sh28 million for monitoring campaigns, and Sh33 million for training political party officials. The parties registrar's request for Sh50 million for training of staff, Sh30 million for political party agents and Sh60 million for printing and advertising has been declined. MPs also okayed Sh2.6 billion to the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) for recruitment of an additional 5,200 secondary school teachers, Sh500 million for courts construction, Sh9.7 billion to Energy ministry for last mile connectivity and rural electrification, Sh4.9 billion for hunger safety net and Sh5 billion for Parliament’s ongoing projects. Also approved is Sh30 million to the anti-FGM board, Sh50 million for e-government services and Sh100 million for irrigation. But in the face of the excruciating cash crunch posed by Covid-19, the team has not funded a number of budget needs by ministries, state departments and agencies. The Health ministry has not been provided with Sh18.6 billion, a chunk of which it intended to spend on salaries for staff at referral facilities. The ministry's bid for Sh4.5 billion for the acquisition of Covid-19 vaccines also flopped as well as Sh4 billion for procurement of HIV drugs and Sh1 billion for pending bills in court awards. The Wildlife department’s request for Sh3.2 billion to address revenue shortfall occasioned by Covid-19 and operationalise the Wildlife Conservation Trust Fund is unfunded. The Lands ministry’s request for Sh900 million to resettle the landless is also unfunded, as well as Sh1.95 billion it requested for the Physical Planning department. The National Land Commission lost out on a bid for Sh600 million for vesting of land compulsorily acquired by the government. MPs have also not okayed Sh4 billion court award for Halal Meat Products at the Livestock department; so is a Sh25 million court award to Exparte Associate Architects. Also not funded is the Crop department’s Sh425 million to fight fall army worms and Sh2.14 billion for the national value chain programme. Universities’ requests for Sh37 billion for staff salaries – for implementing a CBA, and Sh8.6 billion for Helb - have not been funded. Education ministry’s request for Sh7.6 billion in capitation funds, Sh1.1 billion for school feeding and Sh250 million for Knec grants have also not been provided. The ministry also requested Sh1 billion for completion of Mtihani House but only Sh600 million has been provided. Also unfunded is Sh75 billion for Infrastructure department which was to be allocated through roads bond floated by the National Treasury. The EACC’s request for Sh106 million to replace staff who had exited the commission is unfunded, so is the Office of the DPP’s request for Sh300 million for medical insurance (Sh50 million), training of prosecutors (Sh150 million) and staff housing (Sh100 million). The Witness Protection Agency also failed to secure Sh98 million – being Sh11.5 million for CEO’s gratuity, Sh56.7 million for witness protection and Sh30 million for staff mortgage. The Ombudsman’s bid for Sh110 million – being Sh50 million for staff recruitment, Sh10 million for activities, Sh10 million for public education, Sh20 million for county offices and Sh20 million for information - is unfunded. Judiciary’s quest for Sh900 million for construction of courts and to support ICT is also not catered to in next year’s budget. The Judicial Service Commission’s call for Sh57 million for implementing an approved organisation structure; Sh30 million for Judiciary recruitments; Sh65 million for infrastructure improvement; and Sh150 million for training institute have not been funded. The ICT department has also failed to secure Sh250 million for construction of Konza conference facilities; Sh50 million for data protection services; and Sh150 million for hotel to complement Konza conference facility. President Kenyatta’s flagship energy projects have also been hampered by the funding cuts in the face of no provision of Sh3.3 billion for Naivasha Industrial Park; Sh14 billion for electricity transmission; Sh1 billion for Dongo Kundu; and Sh8.3 billion for electrification of public facilities. Also unfunded are requests by Sports department for construction of stadia (Sh600 million); Sh300 million for recruitment of Kenya National Archives staff; Sh4.7 billion for National Safety Net; Sh150 million PWDs; and Sh500 million for Utalii College. Parliament was allocated Sh1.2 billion after its request for an extra Sh9.7 billion. The Auditor General’s call for additional Sh1.9 billion has not been catered to.