Six team have confirmed participation in the African Premier League cricket tournament starting this Thursday at Ruaraka grounds. The event , organised  by Nairobi Provincial Cricket Association, brings together teams from various counties, including Kisumu, Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, Uasin Gishu and Kiambu. The event will feature Nairobi Lions, Thika Hippos, Eldoret Elephants, Nakuru Leopards, Mombasa Rhinos and Kisumu Pythons. "After one round of the round-robin matches, two semifinals will be played on the April 9,  2021 and the final match will take place a day later. The event, promises to be an exciting cricket bonanza will feature 33 matches," NPCA said in a statement. NPCA further assured that the league will adhere to the rules of the International Cricket Council, including the highest standards of integrity. "NPCA will also appoint all officiating personnel for the league. An anti-corruption team will also be appointed to ensure the integrity of the tournament. They will report directly to the association," they said. Unfortunately, due to the prevailing coronavirus pandemic, the event will not admit spectators to the grounds albeit they can still savour the action through live-streams. "Kenya has a long history of great performance in cricket. The sport brought great pride to the country in the late 1990s & subsequent years when Kenya ranked among the best countries in cricket globally. The African Premier League cricket tournament aims to showcase this local talent to the world of cricket with over 150 million live-streaming global audiences,"NPCA said. The latest development is further delight for cricket lovers in the country who have been starved of on-pitch action as stakeholders of the game have been involved in court wrangles in a bid to control the management of the game. Local cricket action resumed three weeks ago during the Nairobi Invitational Cricket League featuring the top teams from Nairobi, including Swamibapa, Nairobi Gymkhana, Sir Ali Muslim Club and Kanbis. It also follows last week's appointment of the Cricket Kenya Normalisation Committee by Sports CS Amina Mohammed. The Lady Justice (Rtd) Joyce Aluoch-headed committee is tasked with mid-wifing elections for Cricket Kenya and ushering a new era for the sport in Kenya, among other tasks.