Nakuru County Health Department has opened new Covid-19 vaccinations sites following a directive that all citizens aged 58years and above be included in the first phase. Health CEC Kariuki Gichuki said Covid-19 vaccination will be conducted at all the Level Four facilities in the area to ease congestion at the Nakuru County Referral and Teaching Hospital. The level Five hospital has been receiving large numbers of people since Thursday last week, especially the elderly who have been travelling from as far as Subukia, Naivasha and Kuresoi in search of the vaccine. Being a transit town and owing to its centrality, Nakuru Level Five hospital has been receiving people from Nairobi, Kericho, Narok, Baringo, Kericho, Nyandarua and Laikipia who chose to be vaccinated there. On Monday, Gichuki said private hospitals would also be included in the programme, bringing the number of facilities offering the service in Nakuru to 21. “The County is in the process rolling out the Covid-19 vaccination exercise in all the 11 sub-counties and plans are underway to train more facilities for citizens to receive the jab at hospitals near them,” he said. Gichuki said his department was also training medical personnel to ensure a smooth exercise. “It is important to note that available doses in the first phase are limited and persons aged above 58 will be prioritised as well as those in areas with high infections,” he said. The hospitals offering vaccination include Soin, Naivasha, Subukia, Molo, Gilgil, Bahati and Njoro subcounty hospitals. Others are War Memorial, Evans Sunrise, Alexandria Cancer Centre, Valley Hospital, St Elizabeth, Joyleen Women, Egerton University, Nakuru Specialist and Mdiheal private hospitals. He said the County shall also profile critical service providers such as security, teachers, transport and those in hospitality. The county through the intervention of Governor Lee Kinyanjui vaccinated most of the journalists operating within Nakuru town. Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya had also suggested the vaccination of journalists, saying that they were among the frontline workers who interact with people from all sectors. “In the roll out, we shall make adequate provision to avoid crowding and any lapses that can risk further coronavirus infections,” he said. The virus has been very unforgiving to older persons, especially persons with pre-existing conditions. Gichuki regretted that negative unverified information on the vaccination has been circulated widely, leading to apathy and anxiety. He observed that the only way to save the country was creation of a significant population under vaccination to break the cycle of infections.