The government will start random testing of vegetables being sold to Kenyans to ascertain if they are safe for consumption. Kello Harsama, acting director Agriculture and Food Authority, has said they will ensure they enforce regulations guiding the application of chemicals on vegetables grown and consumed in Kenya. “We are all aware that these chemicals are known to be carcinogenic.” Harsama spoke in Nairobi on Thursday during the launch of an online system for the registration, licensing and approval of agricultural business processes in Kenya, including registration of importers and exporters. He said AFA officers will fully enforce regulations governing chemical residues on vegetables. “From now on, we are going to examine the level of chemical residues on vegetables which are consumed in Kenya. We will take legal action against any business person who exposes Kenyans to these dangers," Harsama said. He said they will start taking samples from major markets in Kenyan towns and examine them for these chemicals. "We want to ensure that Kenyans are safe when they are consuming these vegetables,” Harsama said. He said they will work with NMS, the provincial administration and other law enforcement agencies to ensure unsafe vegetables do not get into the market. “It will not be realistic for an authority like AFA or other agencies concerned with food safety in Kenya to be concerned with safety of foreigners only. We have seen the level of strictness which is associated with food going to other countries. Why are we not strict with the food we consume in Kenya?" Harsama asked. He said agencies at the airport are keen on ensuring that residues going to countries abroad are within the safe limits, yet they are not concerned about the residue limit applying to other Kenyans. “I have also seen vegetables that have been rejected at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport being brought back into the market for consumption. We are not going to allow that," Harsama said. "We are also aware that there are some chemicals which have been banned and shouldn't be used on our crops but which are still being used and are brought into the country from our neighbouring countries.” Harsama said they will work with the Pests Control and Produce Board, which is concerned with the regulation of chemicals. “We will all work together to ensure that Kenyans consume foods that are grown using the right chemicals. Our officers on the ground in different parts of the country will be holding sensitisation workshops for farmers to ensure that they use the right chemicals to grow vegetables,” he said.