The General Service Unit team have more time to fine-tune their preparations and improve the physical condition of the players ahead of the rescheduled men’s Africa Volleyball Club Championship. The annual continental showpiece was set for Egypt between March 31 and April 12 but has been moved to Sousse, Tunisia starting April 16-28. The change of dates and host for the competition was due to lack of confirmation from the Egyptian federation in as far as hosting the 2021 version of the men’s game is concerned. GSU are the defending champions of the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF)  league and had booked a slot alongside Kenya Ports Authority (KPA)  and Kenya Prisons who finished second and third respectively in the league.”We take the changes positively. Now we have time to work out more in the gym and do our training indoors. Since the pandemic struck last year, players have added weight because there were no sporting activities. They have shed some of it but they need to do more and get their bodies in shape,” observed Gideon Tarus. He pointed out that the team’s slow start to the league was down to fitness issues but wants his charges to also acquaint themselves with the basics and play a fast game in readiness for Tunisia. The paramilitary side are third on the log with 15 points and a game in hand. “I was not impressed with the way my team played in the first two legs. They were lethargic and slow. We are used to a fast-paced game and that is what I will require from them going forward,” added Tarus. Teams will be expected in Tunisia on April 16 and a technical meeting will be held the following day. The event will be held between  April 18 and 27. A communique from CAVB President Bouchra Hajij to clubs indicated that a maximum of 24 teams may take part in the club championship. This is contrary to 2019, where 28 teams turned up for the event held in Egypt as GSU finished ninth. Teams are also required to complete registration not later than March 31 to secure a slot. The final list of participating teams will be circulated on April 2. Meanwhile, the men’s third leg league matches will not be played this Friday due to logistical issues. The matches had been shelved owing to the Africa Club Championships earlier slated for Egypt. However, their women counterparts will be back in action on Friday at the Nyayo Stadium with four matches to be played. It is the first time the matches will be played on a week day this season.