Governors want senators to summon Treasury CS Ukur Yatani to shed light on the incessant delays to release county funds. Terming the delays the biggest threat to devolution, the county chiefs say operations in the devolved units have been affected. "The minister has made it discretionary. The minister decides which county should get funds for which month and how much," Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi said. Murungi said that most counties have been unable to pay salaries of their staff because of the inordinate delays to disburse the cash. He said the Treasury is blatantly violating the provision of the Constitution that stipulates the express release of the cash without undue delays. The governor added that issues are urgent and need immediate action lest the counties plunge into a crisis. Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora said the Treasury is also sitting on billions of shillings meant for Kenya support programmes and devolution support programmes. COG Finance Committee chairman Nderitu Muriithi said the Treasury is yet to release between Sh6 billion and Sh8 billion donated by World Bank to support the fight against desert locusts The governors spoke during a meeting with the Senate Devolution Committee on Tuesday. The parties discussed the state of Devolution. Nyamira Senator Okongo Omogeni backed the governors call to summon Yatani to explain the delays. Committee chairman Moses Kajwang said he would engage his Finance and Budget Committee counterpart to summon the CS. At the same time, senators struck a deal with governors to amend the controversial bill that created the county development committees. The committees were chaired by senators. The bill sponsored by former Nandi senator and now Governor Stephen Sang was rejected by the Council of Governors. During a consultative meeting on Tuesday, the parties agreed to amend the gill to scrap the provision installing senators as chairs of the committees. The parties agreed to establish county development coronation forums chaired by the governors to spearhead development in the devolved units. The forum will now be made up of senators, elected leaders and other players as the drafters shall agree.