 The IEBC does not pre-exist our Constitution. It is our Constitution that set it up, gave it a mandate, and can determine whether to take away part of that mandate, increase it or whether the people can take a role it had given it upon themselves. You cannot pre-exist the people. When people put you up, you cannot be bigger than those people. Our Constitution is clear that sovereignty is with the people, so when they decide to take a function from an institution, it cannot become bigger than those people. On the 70 new constituencies proposed in the BBI, it is that the people have proposed to take away a function from the IEBC. It is within their power. The servant cannot lodge a complaint against the master and tell the master what instructions the latter can give them or not. The position being taken by the IEBC is a servant saying they are more important than the master or are more powerful than the master. Therefore, no creature of the Constitution can question the supreme law. The IEBC can only propose to Parliament not to take away the power. But if ultimately the people decide to take away that power, IEBC cannot complain. We disbanded the ECK, put up the IIEC, and created the IEBC because we have the power to do so. If we decide to disband IEBC tomorrow and put up another body, we have the power – as the people, to do so. You cannot say the people who put you up have lost the power to decide what duties you can carry out or not. On the new constituencies, therefore, we are saying we want to have a political deal among ourselves. And we want that deal reflected in our constitution and we don’t want you (IEBC) to be the one making the deal for us. You cannot challenge our power to do so. A classical example is a case in Uganda in 1996. When Milton Obote took power, he overthrew the Constitution of Uganda and put in another which he told the Judiciary they’d continue to operate under. Someone sought that the courts declare the Obote constitution unconstitutional and the judges declined, saying; “I can’t do so because I am sitting on the authority of the new constitution and would be questioning my authority.” The IEBC exists because the people decided to create them, if they want to challenge that, they will be challenging the very authority under which they get their legitimacy. The former Joint Secretary of Building Bridges Initiative and lawyer spoke to the Star