ODM Party candidate Malack Matara put a sturdy lead to secure victory in the Thursday mini polls in Kiamokama, Kisii. He garnered 1,907 votes, eclipsing his challengers with a strong margin, to secure victory for the Orange party. The closest contestants Daniel Ondabu (PED) emerged second with 1,257 while Stephen Nyakeriga of New Democrats got 1,004 in to close the tally of the three best. UDA's Nyandusi Nyakeramba - who had run-ins with the police in the morning hours - garnered a paltry 491 pushing his rank to a distant fifth. A frictional start between the Tangatanga camp and delayed entry into the game limped the former tea director home with the paltry haul. The seat was left vacant by the death of Kennedy Mainya (ODM) to Covid. So lacklustre was UDA's candidate that he secured at 59 votes in a polling station outside his doorstep at Moremani area. For ODM, a one week dig by the party brigade led by County Governor James Ongwae did a tricky for Matara, a Kisumu based trader. He again led the team including Senator Sam Ongeri, Women Rep Janet Ongera to savour victory when the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission announced Matara the winner. There were song and dance from supporters who braved the cold as counting was delayed. Returning Officer Mark Manco said heavy rains delayed the release of the results. Early, voting in the Ward was marked with the dramatic arrests of the UDA candidate Nyandusi Nyakeramba and three of his supporters. Nyakeramba was whisked out of the gate of his house at 9 shortly after casting his vote at Moremani Polling Centre. Flamboyant politicians - Zaheer Chanda (Nyaribari Chache) and Don Bosco (Kitutu Chache North) - who had come to give him backing were seized at Emeroka area while en route to Kiamokama. They were driven in circles for hours before they were released in Ogembo, several kilometres from Kiamokama where they were picked from. A press aide to Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, Dalfant Nyatige, who was arrested in the company of Bosco was released and re-arrested by police in Ogembo. No reason was given for his detention. Nyakeramba was released at 3 00 in the evening together with the two politicians and Nyataige was detained at Ogembo Police Station. Police had early said they had acted to save them from an ODM mob bent for their blood". Kenya National Congress party officials termed the arrests as 'police intimidation' and a 'wanton rape on democracy by the state machinery. A party agent and a supporter of their candidate Dominic Atenga were also arrested in the wee hours as voters turned up to cast vote.