Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku should recuse herself from the assault case involving former Tetu MP Ndung'u Gethenji, the victim's lawyer has said. George Wajackoyah on Wednesday told the magistrate that they were unhappy with the way she was handling the matter. They requested Mutuku to vacate Gethenji's plea taking. Gethenji's lawyer Ishmael Nyaribo opposed the application. He said Wajackoyah had not shared the letter to Mutuku complaining of her conduct. Wajackoyah, Nyaribo and Gethenji’s other lawyer Bryan Khaemba traded accusations against each other in the courtroom. Nyaribo accused Wajackoyah of having personal interest in the matter yet he is not a complaint in the assault case. Wajackoyah dismissed the claims. Mutuku expressed disappointment in the behaviour of the lawyers and apologised to the public following the court proceedings. Gethenji was expected to plead in the case where he is accused of beating up Godfrey Mutua, a Kihingo Security Guard. The assault case against 'sickly' Gethenji was deferred. “We have had a request with the DPP to have the investigations into the police file reviewed. We believe that the decision to charge the accused was arrived at certain evidence which was not available at that time,” Nyaribo said. “Kindly extend the defence with more time so that the DPP can look at our request and respond to it. Whether positively or negatively. Then we can proceed. Our request is on good faith,” the court heard. The DPP through Anderson Gikunda did not oppose the application. Gikunda confirmed receiving a letter from Gethenji's lawyer. “I received a call from the office of the DPP informing me that a letter dated March 18 had been received requesting for review of police file before the plea is taken,” Gikunda said. He said he needed to forward a brief to the DPP to have time to respond to the letter. Two weeks were sufficient. Earlier this month, the plea was also deferred after his lawyer told the court that Gethenji was sick. Mutuku stayed the plea proceedings and directed Wajackoyah to file a formal application before the court on her recusal. The case will be mentioned on April 13. Court documents say at 11.28pm on February 5, Gethenji arrived at the gate of Kihingo Village where he lives and has been in a protracted dispute with the other residents. As a result, he has been removed from the chairmanship of Kihingo Village Management Company and no longer plays any part in the management of the upmarket estate in Kitisuru, Nairobi. Gethenji was annoyed that Securex was recently appointed to provide security to Kihingo Village and that his preferred security company 911 was blocked from entering the estate. Kihingo guard Mutua asked the driver to lower the windows of Gethenji's vehicle so that he could check that they were not smuggling in any 911 guards. An irate Gethenji and his bodyguard then got out of the car. In the CCTV video captured at the gate, the former MP appears to hit and then kick the guard. The guard was taken to MP Shah Hospital where he was given three stitches to close the wound. The assault was reported to Gigiri police station.  (edited by o. owino)