A Siaya court on Tuesday cautioned both men and women to run from their abusive spouses to save their lives. While setting free a woman who killed her husband in self-defence, justice Roselyne Aburuli said people should choose to run from their spouses who are violent. "Be remembered and celebrated as a person who escaped from the jaws of a lion and not one who condoned being predated on by the ugly teeth of the hyena," the judge said She advised both women and men to run for their lives. "There is no love that can never be lost, yet love should never be lost by killing one another, find an escape route to safety," she added. In the case, Truphena Aswani, 49, was charged in December last year with the murder of her husband and she pleaded guilty. Judge Aburuli noted that even as we marked International Women's Day this week, Aswani will be remembered as the woman who killed her husband in the process of defending her own life. "She was not willing to leave her matrimonial home because she loved her husband," the judge said. The court also noted that Aswani, who was a third wife, was ready to die under her husband's cruel hand because she had a son with him and thought he would change. This is even after her other two co-wives parted ways with him for the violence he meted out on them. Aswani had told the court that she killed her husband in self-defence and did not mean to do so. The judge ruled that due to the circumstances of the case she deserved a non-custodial sentence to enable her get counselling to recover from the traumatic experience. The court further noted that Aswani also fosters her late husband's children whose mothers left him due to his violence. Aswani was sentenced to a one-day non-custodial sentence which ended the same day after the court session. "I further order that the accused shall be aided by this court with travel expenses to reach a safe place of abode other than her matrimonial home," the court ruled. Justice Aburuli also directed the probation officer to organise counselling sessions for Aswani to enable her recover from the traumatic experience that she had with her late husband. The judge said she hoped through her judgment, Aswani and others who have undergone domestic and gender-based violence can have their voices heard. She was charged on December 28 last year with murder. The charge sheet read that  on the December 14, 2020 in Ugenya subcounty within Siaya county, she murdered James Oyengo Obochi. Aswani pleaded not guilty to the offence of murder and entered into a plea bargain with the DPP who reduced the charges to manslaughter. She pleaded guilty to manslaughter charge telling the court that she indeed killed her husband but in self-defence. In her mitigation, Aswani had told the court that on that fateful night, her husband came home drunk and asked her to give him a title deed of the land she was given by her late father-in-law. She refused because it was a gift for taking good care of the man in his last days and he knew if he gave the husband, he would sell the land. She claimed that when she refused he went to their bedroom and picked a panga and wanted to attack her but she overpowered him and cut him severally leading to his death. She panicked and went to hide his body in the nearby bush. The court noted that although from the postmortem results its shows that she used excessive force on him, it was in self-defence. Judge Aburili further noted that Aswani had several scars on her body that showed the violence that was meted out to her by her late husband. On November 6, 2020, he assaulted her to the point of near-death leading to her hospitalisation and he never went to visit her or pay the medical bills. “He acted with impunity and was determined to continue torturing her until the unfortunate fateful night when he got a dose of his own medicine,” the court ruled. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara