It’s almost Easter weekend, and for some of us that means taking a little trip to see family and friends.  Road trips are one of my favorite ways to travel as they let you really see the country, but being unprepared can definitely make things less fun. We’ve put together a list of things you should include for your Easter road trips The first thing you have to do is of course make sure that you are following the COVID-19 guidelines to keep yourself safe and those around you too. Make sure that you have a masks and sanitizers in your car and that everyone else does to. The right play list can make or break a road trip, so before you go put together a collection of your favorite tunes on your flash disk or phone for you to jam along with. If you are travelling with friends or family, get their input too, nothing beats a group sing along. Snacks are pretty important as well. While it is fun to stop at different places and try new food, sometimes you just want to keep driving so stock up on your favorite snacks and something to keep hydrated too. It may seem like a small thing but sunglasses are an important to fight that glare. Not only is it a safety thing, but everyone looks great in sunglasses. If you are leaving early in the morning, it might get a little chilly, so make sure you pack a couple comfortable blankets or sleeping bags, as well a travel pillow. While the driver can’t sleep, the passengers might as well be comfortable. Travelling with children can get tiresome, so make sure you bring things to keep them distracted. Whether its activity books or a tablet loaded with kids shows, keeping the peace in the backseat is the key to a serene road trip. Now, if you don't have a car for your roadtrip, there's one available to you for FREE on Kiss 100 courtesy of the hottest promo in 2020. It's called "Kiss My Ride" and you could be a winner. How to win the brand new car and #KissMyRide First, simply register on the Kiss 100 website (https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmyride/ ) and leave your correct details. Sit back and make sure you're tuned in to Kiss 100 every day to listen if your name will be called out on air. Everyday 9am, 2pm and 5pm, there will be a draw. If you have successfully registered and your name is called out on air, you have exactly 15 minutes to call and claim your entry. That entry will be a key which gives you a chance to win the car. On the day of the grand draw, you will be invited to try whether your key opens the car. If your key opens the car, you'll be the lucky winner who walks away with a brand new, zero mileage car. Remember, register now and tune in to Kiss 100 every day to listen if your name will be called. You don't want your name mentioned and you didn't hear it. Click on the link below to register https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmyride/