 Hunger and famine will persist and there will be unequal recovery from the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic unless more women hold leadership positions and get empowered, UN food agencies have warned. They said empowering women and girls will increase their decision-making powers — essential for food security. Heads of the Food and Agriculture Organisation, International Fund for Agricultural Development and the World Food Programme made the call ahead of their joint International Women's Day celebrations on March 8. During this year’s IWD, the three agencies will focus on the vital role that empowered female farmers, entrepreneurs and leaders need to play so that women can contribute on equal terms to the recovery from the Covid-19 pandemic. That is in addition to creating an environment to eliminate poverty, enhancing productivity, and improving food security and nutrition. "The world is home to more than 1.1 billion girls under the age of 18 who have the potential of becoming the largest generation of female leaders, entrepreneurs and change-makers ever seen for the better future. Yet, women and girls continue to face persistent structural constraints that prevent them from fully developing their potential and hinder their efforts of improving their lives as well as their households and communities," said QU Dongyu, FAO director-general. "Women and girls can play a crucial role in the response to the Covid-19 pandemic and in particular in transforming our agri-food systems. We all need to work together to spark the necessary changes to empower women and girls, particularly those in rural areas," he added. Gilbert Houngbo, president of IFAD, said it is essential that women are not only in more leadership positions, but that they are consulted and listened to, and integrated in all spheres and stages of pandemic response and recovery. Investing in rural women's leadership and involving them more in creating our post-Covid future is critical. This will ensure their perspectives and needs are adequately considered so that we can build back better food systems where there is equal access to nutritious food and decent livelihoods,” Houngbo said. "Women and girls make up half of our global community and it's time this was reflected in leadership positions at every level," WFP executive director David Beasley said. "We know from our work around the world that when women and girls have better access to information, resources and economic opportunities, and are free to make their own decisions, hunger rates fall and nutrition improves not only for themselves but also their families, communities and countries."  