An exasperated Mathare United coach Salim Ali has lashed out at match officials for orchestrating their downfall during the closely contested Slum derby that saw them fall 2-1 to Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Thursday. Ali questioned the rationale behind the single minute added after regulation time, pointing out that more time should have been added because of time wastage and numerous stoppages in the course of the game. "Yes we've lost but the officiating was pathetic. The opposition goalkeeper wasted more than three minutes and the match was stopped quite a number of times to attend to injuries on the pitch, but the match officials only added a minute," observed Ali. Ali ran into a panic attack and even replaced Bonface Akenga ten minutes after introducing him into the match. "Akenga never followed any instructions and I had to remove him minutes after introducing him," said Ali. Meanwhile, Kariobangi Sharks coach William Muluya has cautioned his players against resting on their laurels once they've gone ahead in a match. "Our players must learn to concentrate throughout a match. We conceded a goal due to concentration lapse but we hope to rectify the howlers before our next game. We relaxed a bit and allowed our opponents to come back into the game," said Muluya. Shark's Ugandan import Peter Lwasa was the toast of the day, finding the back of the net twice to pile more misery on a fast-imploding relegation-threatened Mathare United side. Kariobangi Sharks went ahead in the 7th minute after Lwasa's cross bounced off David Cheche and swivelled past a flatfooted David Okello into the back of the net. Mathare came close to restoring parity in the 19th minute but a hawk-eyed Shark's custodian Brandon Nathan pulled two saves in succession to put Lennox Ogutu and David Ochieng away from the score sheet. Eric Kapaito should have doubled Sharks' fortunes after 25th minute after he sneaked into the area to capitalise on a misjudged clearance but his cheeky header only managed to rattle the crossbar with Okello already out of position. Lwasa's sharpness and composure in front of goal added to Sharks' advantage in the 32nd minute after the Ugandan hurled a low drive into the far right corner of the net to beat Okello after successfully manoeuvring through a one-on-one situation. Ali's charges returned from the break quite a rejuvenated side, giving Sharks a nightmare. Ali then made a double substitution, introducing Daniel Okoth and Bonface Akenga for Tyson Otieno and John Mwangi respectively. The tactical change added some zest into the side and influenced the direction of the game as the Slum Boys relentlessly launched inroads into their opponents' territory. Lennox Ogutu almost pulled one back for Mathare but his 69th-minute effort from a setpiece some 20 yards out ended up clipping the crossbar. And minutes later, Lual Dani almost celebrated a goal only for his header to come off the woodwork. Thirsty for a goal and eager to save face, Ali effected another tactical change, replacing Akenga with Juma Khalid. His decision paid off as Khalid came on the end of a cross in the 85th minute to hit a consolation goal for Mathare. The result saw Sharks move to third position on the log with 28 points as Mathare remain on the brink of relegation with just nine.