Andy Murray admits he came up short in the big moments in his 7-5 6-2 second-round defeat by Andrey Rublev in Rotterdam, but the former world number one departs with encouraging signs for his future as he continues his recovery from injuries. Murray, a three-time Grand Slam winner who claimed his first tour-level victory since August in the first round against Robin Haase, held his own against Rublev in a tight first set that lasted 62 minutes before the Russian raced away with the second. The 33-year-old Briton, who is currently ranked 123rd after sliding down the rankings due to two hip operations, was pleased that he had gone toe-to-toe with world number eight Rublev. “I want to be playing at this level because I learn a lot from a match like this,” Murray said. “The issues and the mistakes that you make get amplified more at this level... “There were some good signs. Just when it mattered, I wasn’t good enough. I thought I moved well for the first hour or so. He is one of the bigger hitters and he wasn’t getting too many free points in the first set. He was having to work hard.” Murray’s long-time rival Roger Federer is set to make his return to the court in Doha next week after two knee operations in the past 12 months and the Briton has backed the 20-time Grand Slam winner to hit top gear. “I am sure he has been training hard and is excited to get back out there and compete,” Murray said. “I am sure in time, providing that his body is good, that he will play top-level tennis again because he is that good.” Elsewhere, India’s Sania Mirza said the elusive dream of winning a medal at her fourth Olympics in Tokyo this year motivated her to return to the WTA circuit after a year-long gap. Mirza, paired with Slovenian Andreja Klepac, reached the semi-finals in the women’s doubles at the Qatar Open on Wednesday, her first tournament since Feb. 2020 when she played at the same Doha event. The 34-year-old, who recovered from COVID-19 in January, said she wanted to avenge the defeat she suffered in the Olympic bronze medal play-off match in 2016 when she lost 6-1 7-5 in mixed doubles with partner Rohan Bopanna. “The Tokyo Olympics was definitely one of the reasons (for my comeback),” six-time Grand Slam doubles champion Mirza said. “We came really, really close to winning that medal last time (when) we lost the bronze medal match. “I feel when I sort of close this chapter of my life... an Olympic medal is something that I would have loved to win. So I want to give myself another shot at it. “Whether I can be or will I be able to? Time will tell, but that is something important to me and it was one of the motivations for me to come back.”