Governors in North Rift have scaled down operations in intensified efforts to battle the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Friday, President Kenyatta declared five counties as disease infested areas and put them under partial lockdown limiting free movement. The county chiefs in North Rift said they would take further measures to control spread in the region. They have suspended public participation meetings and shut down busy departments to avoid crowding and ensure social distancing. More than 1,500 cases have been reported in the region within the last three weeks along with several deaths. Elgeyo Marakwet took a more drastic decision, announcing total closure of its offices following a surge in coronavirus cases. The county assembly has also suspended its operations. The county secretary Paul Chemmuttut said in a circular that the move was taken as a way of preventing further spread of the virus in the area where fewer cases have been reported compared to neighbouring counties. “Due to the recent surge in Covid-19 spread, it is hereby notified to the general public that there shall be total lockdown of county offices until further notice,” Chemmuttut said in the notice. Elderly members of staff have been asked to work from home until further notice. “The move we have taken is necessary to ensure we stop spread of the virus that is now a great threat to lives,” said Governor Alex Tolgos. The residents have been asked to use alternative channels of communication to seek the services including the county’s email. The eight counties under the North Rift Economic Bloc have recorded more than 600 cases in the last two weeks with Uasin Gishu, Nandi and Trans Nzoia having the highest numbers. More than ten deaths have been recorded in the same period, with county hospitals reporting full admissions of Covid-19 related cases. Nandi and Trans Nzoia have also announce partial operations, urging residents to seek services or assistance through online methods. “This third wave is more serious and hard hitting than previously and we are taking measures to help control spread of the disease”, said Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, the NOREB chairman. More than 20,000 front line workers including police officers, health workers and teachers have been vaccinated in the last two weeks within the region. The CEO of Moi Referral Hospital Wilson Aruasa says they are targeting to vaccinate 7,000 staff at the hospital in the first phase of the exercise. Edited by Henry Makori