Will Lands CS Farida Karoney take action against a senior official in one of the counties in Central Kenya? The man has been accused of all manner of crimes. In fact, at one time, the county assembly resolved that he be moved. He is accused of gross misconduct, arrogance and corruption. Among the claims is that the man reports to work late and land transactions are too slow. He is said to brag about the protection of his tribesmen in big offices, including Ardhi House. At one point, he is said to have rejected summonses from the county assembly, saying he could only be summoned by Parliament. Residents are crying. They are asking Karoney, whom they say is interested in genuine land reforms, to crack the whip. “If she can’t get him sacked, a transfer would just be good enough,” some of the complainants told Corridors. Is a senior politician furious with some of his allies? Sources whispered to Corridors that the man is unhappy about the MPs' failure to deliver after they took away cash for some assignments. He is said to have been dodging these leaders, mainly youthful lawmakers since they spectacularly failed. The MPs are also said to have begun playing hardball with their leader and are now threatening to decamp. It’s said the leader is concerned that some of his allies are only interested in material gain. Have two antagonists in two arms of government made up? Well, the two senior officials were recently spotted together in what some observers believe was meant to send the message they had buried the hatchet. The two officials have in the recent past been engaged in cold wars. One even bitterly complained publicly that there was an attempt to remove her from office. Is there a mediated settlement to end the cold relationship? Who are the officers using private vehicles to execute official police duties? It is a matter that the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai and DCI chief George Kinoti should probe. The officers are said to resort to private vehicles whenever they are handling 'delicate' matters that involve money. Some officers are said to have acquired their own high-end vehicles, including the dreaded Subaru Outback and Forester—models synonymous with detectives on special assignment because of their speed and stability. One notorious team chauffeurs their private cars to some exclusive hotels where the deals are cut before collecting cash. Sadly, some of the cases by the 'roving' officers never proceed to court. However, officers on assignments considered non-lucrative but intended for prosecution use official cars. What a paradox! The devil could be in the details.