Axed Jubilee Party deputy secretary general Caleb Kositany has said his removal did not follow the party constitution. Kositany, an ally of the Deputy President William Ruto, said National Management Committee has no mandate on disciplinary matters. The Soy MP told the Star on phone that despite his willingness to relinquish the position "in the moribund party", he will challenge the decision. “People left Jubilee party long time. It is now a shell. It has been inherited by ODM among others. They will not find anything in there. Jubilee betrayed its supporters,” he said. He added: “I will only challenge this decision because the procedure for my removal was not followed. NMC which is a creation of NEC cannot carry out disciplinary matters. The move by NMC to kick out Kositany, who until Monday was the only remaining political figure associated with Ruto, is seen as the final step to edge out the DP completely from the heart of Jubilee. Kositany told the Star that “Jubilee is now dead and just a carcass saying his removal “is like appointing a new school head boy days to closure of the school”. He however said he will challenge his removal since the party constitution was not followed. He added, “I will only challenge this decision because the procedure of my removal was not followed. NMC which is a creation of NEC cannot carry out disciplinary matters. On Monday after getting the communication from the party secretary general Raphael Tuju that Kositany ceased to be his deputy, the MP accepted the decision and vowed to concentrate on strengthening the United Democratic Alliance. "Jubilee is just a forgotten story. It will not be there in 2022. It will shrink to a very small party like its friend KANU," Kositany said in an interview with Citizen TV on Monday. But on Tuesday morning while appearing for an interview in KTN News virtually, the MP said the laid down procedure for removal of a party official was not followed. “According to the Jubilee Party constitution, the National Management Committee does not have the authority to kick me out. I can only be removed if the NEC meets and form a disciplinary committee which will summon me before taking any action,” Kositany said. He added: “In that, I will petition, not because I want to remain in Jubilee but to demand the right procedure.” The MP added that until the right way is followed, he is still the member of the party and the deputy to Tuju. “They cannot remove me. I am an elected MP and not Nominated. If they failed to kick away those who were nominated, how could they eject me?" he posed. Kositany faulted the party officials for being biased when it comes to party loyalty. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara