The maize sector is in the midst of a crisis - again. Imports have driven prices down and NCPB isn't buying for lack of funds.. Most farmers are stranded with their maize harvested in North Rift where they are unable to sell to the NCPB, which is in a financial crisis. More than three million bags of maize have been imported from Uganda and Tanzania , causing prices to drop from Sh2,700 to Sh2,000 per 90kg bag. “The situation in the maize sector is worsening daily. The government must urgently intervene to help the NCPB get cash to continue purchasing to save farmers," their representative Kipkorir Menjo said. The NCPB suspended maize purchase from farmers due to lack of funds since last week NCPB boss Joseph Kimote said the board ran out of funds after buying 250,000 bags from farmers in January and February. “We do not have any funding at the moment but we are willing to take in more maize once we get money,” Kimote told the Star on the phone. He said the board had been buying maize for commercial purposes with its resources because the government was no longer in the maize business. CEO Kimote said the board was negotiating with the government to pay more than Sh16 billion it owes the NCPB so it can buy more maize. “So far we have goodwill from the government and we are pursuing the money so whatever we get buy more maize," the CEO said. The Sh16 billion is mostly agency fees charged by the board during the government purchase of maize for the Strategic Grain Reserves. Others are costs  for the importation and distribution of subsidised fertiliser. The money has accumulated for years and Kimote said they hope the government will pay soon so they can resume purchases. He said the government no longer funds the NCPB but can use its services at a fee. On Monday, Kimote urged farmers to understand the board’s current position and role. “NCPB is not government. We are a commercial entity that is supposed to pay dividends to the government if we were operating as we should,” he said. Farmers were still lining up at various depots, including Eldoret and Kitale, to deliver their maize. Some of the farmers have been in  queues for more than a week. The NCPB had used more than Sh700 million to pay farmers. It paid Sh2,700 per 90kg bag. An influx of maize imports from Uganda and Tanzania has driven prices down to about Sh2, 00 per in most areas in Western. Farmers were desperate to deliver their maize to NCPB due to better prices. Moiben MP Silas Tiren and Menjo have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to help the board continue with purchasing. “If the President does not intervene, then farmers will suffer and we will lose the gains we had made in ensuring adequate production,” Menjo said. (Edited by V. Graham)