Kenyans will be seeking to boost their Tokyo Olympics qualification chances during the next round of judo Grand Slam qualifiers in Antalya, Turkey on April 1-3. Speaking after dominating this weekend's East Africa Senior Judo Championship in Zanzibar, Kenya Judo Federation president Shadrack Maluki said the team will build upon their excellent performance in the regional championships. "These results have boosted the team so much considering this is the first time we have emerged champions in these championships. This was a never-before-seen performance, which shows how much Kenyan judo has grown in leaps and bounds," Maluki said. Maluki said they would up the team's preparations to ensure as many judokas as possible secure tickets to the July 24-August 5 quadrennial showpiece. "We have been preparing for these qualifiers for a while at a high level. The judokas are raring to go and we are confident that as many of them as possible will accumulate enough points to make it to Tokyo," he said. Despite fitness challenges facing the team, Maluki is optimistic of a good showing at the qualifiers as well as at Tokyo. "Judo is a physical sport and conditioning of an athlete is important to ensure they perform at a peak level. Due to a considerable period of inactivity last year, some of the judokas were initially grappling with fitness problems but that is something we are working hard to improve," Maluki said. At Amaani Stadium in Zanzibar, Kenya emerged first with 11 medals at the East Africa judo tourney organised by the Zanzibar Judo Association. Diana Kana (under 70kg), Caroline Odongo (under 78kg), Perister Bosire (over 78kg),  George Kimani (under 100kg), Kalvin  Munangwe (0ver 100kg) and  Johnshon Kirimi (under 90kg) scooped gold in their respective weight categories to set the country on its way to dominating the 13th edition of the regional championships. The country then added three more silver to its medal haul courtesy of  Monica Mumbi (under 48kg),  Decy Amolo (under 52kg) and Ramadhan Shagila (under 63kg). Peterson Gatiru (under 81kg) and Godfrey Omondi (under 100kg) scooped bronze to sum up Kenya's medal tally. This was four and five more than the medal tally for Burundi and Tanzania who were Kenya's closest challengers. The championships offered the perfect preparations for the judokas as they eye slots at the rescheduled Tokyo 2020 Olympics by participating at various World Judo Championships organised by the International Judo Federation. Also lined up to host the qualifiers include Morocco (April), Paris (May) and Budapest, Hungary (June 6-13) albeit the International Judo Federation has indicated more events may be added to the schedule to increases judokas chances of qualification.