Deputy President William Ruto's victory in London ward in Nakuru has bolstered his vote hunt in Mount Kenya. Ruto's allies say he has a chance to mount a winning campaign there without President Uhuru Kenyatta's blessings. London is dominated by the Kikuyu and was seen as a test on the popularity of the DP in Central Kenya Ruto's United Democratic Alliance candidate Antony Nzuki beat Jubilee's Francis Njoroge after he garnered 1,707 votes against 1,385 votes. The victory, with 322 votes, was sweet music to the ears of the DP and his allies. Fewer than 4,000 of the more than 18,000 registered voters in the ward showed up to vote. Ruto's candidate however lost the Hellsgate ward by-election, also in the same county, to the President's Jubilee Party. Politicians and analysts have opined that the victory by Ruto's Tangatanga has sent out a strong political message that he is no pushover in the fight for the Kikuyu vote basket. “We have been telling people that Mt Kenya is behind Deputy President William Ruto, but some have been doubting. This by-election result should confirm to them that,” said Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua. Gachagua, a key Ruto ally from Mt Kenya, said despite a political onslaught by Uhuru targeting Ruto and his allies in the region, the people will stand with the DP. The President has been urging his Mt Kenya people to ignore Ruto's overtures and even attacked the DP's economic empowerment model fashioned around the wheelbarrow as incitement against his leadership. During a meeting with select Mt Kenya leaders at Sagana State Lodge, Uhuru said Ruto was attempting to get into his 'bedroom' through the backdoor. Tangatanga MPs have argued that the win was a manifestation that Ruto is still the man to beat in Mt Kenya. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said the win was loaded with political significance and termed it a triumph over the so-called system and ODM working with Jubilee. The ODM candidate had dropped in favour of Jubilee. "Mt Kenya has been clear that they want economic empowerment and not mere rhetoric, because the hustler nation embodies this dream, they are solidly behind the DP," he said. Political analyst Dismas Mokua said the DP's critics especially in Mt Kenya must be worried as his forays may shock them in 2022. “It appears that the hustler message is resonating well with the people of Mt Kenya as demonstrated by the Nakuru diaspora vote in London,” he said. The ward by-election was marred by chaos, violence and claims of bribery. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika were some of the heavyweights who were tear-gassed on Thursday after chaos broke up at Milimani polling station. Lang'ata MP Nixon Korir was also roughed up by irate youth and his car smashed as police engaged goons who had stormed the polling station. Immediately after the results were declared, there were heightened celebrations among Ruto's allies on social media. Murkomen left no doubt about the political significance of the Landon victory to Ruto's State House journey. “No one can stop hustler nation, an idea whose time has come. Thank you Nakuru. We love you,” Murkomen tweeted after Nzuki was declared the winner. On Friday, Nakuru Town West MP Samwel Arama who was backing the Jubilee candidate admitted that UDA's win on Thursday in London was a strong political message. “We know they were buying votes and bribing voters all over but they won and I think they are very happy because they believe they have sent out a message to Mt Kenya,” Arama said. The ODM lawmaker said the ward is mainly populated by the Kikuyu, a fact he noted was key in Tangatanga's celebrations following their victory. “The ward is cosmopolitan, but the Kikuyu are the majority in that area,” Arama said. The by-election had been magnified into a national contests because of the 2022 politics, he said. 