The Environment and Lands Court in Eldoret will determine a longstanding dispute over ownership of Uasin Gishu Memorial Hospital, part of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital. This follows a decision by Supreme Court directing the Lands court to hear and determine the case on a priority basis. The apex court on Thursday noted that the matter has been in court for more than 20 years. A private health company, Uasin Gishu Memorial Hospital Ltd, is claiming ownership of the memorial wing of MTRH had moved to court over the matter seeking compensation of more than Sh1.7 billion for the property. The company had in 2017 won the compensation case at the Court of Appeal but the Supreme Court reversed the award and referred the matter to the Lands Court. The Sh1.7 billion compensation was awarded for land, properties, the hospital and related facilities taken over by the government in 1998 to establish the MTRH. CEO of the MTRH Dr Wilson Aruasa said they would pursue the matter at the Lands courts as directed by the Supreme Court. “MTRH and the Ministry of Health had appealed a decision by the Court of Appeal and at the Supreme Court and we will now move to the Lands court following the favorable decision made by the apex court," Dr Aruasa said. The five-judge bench of Supreme Court led by Acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu specified more than 10 issues the Lands Court should address in determining the legitimate owner of the hospital. The Lands court will determine the rightful owner of the two pieces of land occupied by the memorial hospital and how were they acquired. The court will also find out who owns the investments situated on the land, and by what means the investments made. The Supreme Court also directed the Lands Court to determine the legal status of Legal Notice No 78 of 1998 that was used to acquire the health facility and establish the MTRH. The legal notice was published on June 12, 1998, by an order then known as 'The Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Board Order, 1998'. It established MTRH as a state corporation and appointed its board to take over the private facility and properties including rights, duties, obligations, assets and liabilities. Former President Daniel Moi's regime acquired the memorial hospital, which was then transferred to be managed by the MTRH Board. Directors of the Uasin Gishu Memorial Hospital Ltd contested the move in court saying it was made without following the due process of the law being followed. MTRH moved to take over the facility in March 2001 and the hospital management and the Ministry of Health argues the facility is public property under its ownership. In August 2004 the Registrar of Companies de-registered the company and dissolved it. Court of Appeal judges Asike Makhandia, William Ouko and Agnes Murgo had earlier found the legal notice on the takeover the memorial hospital was an illegality. They said it purported to vest or transfer the company’s rights, duties obligation, assets and liabilities of its hospital and the suit properties to the MTRH Board. (Edited by V. Graham)