The government plans to leverage on ICT to ensure the uptake of the Covid-19 vaccine second dose by all those who received the first dose. Already, the Ministry of ICT has designed a digital platform that will be used to ensure data is captured to track the people who will be vaccinated, the stocks of the vaccines and to monitor the side events. The Health ministry has revealed that the second dose of the vaccine is to be administered after eight weeks. The vaccine is expected to be deployed two weeks after its arrival to Kenya. Capacity building for the trainers of trainers has already been conducted for both the healthcare workers and the ICT clerks from all the 47 counties on Monday and Tuesday. “This is about your health so we don’t expect that someone will decide they won’t go for the second dose. If you are not taking the vaccine you are just open not to take it but once you have taken the first dose you certainly must take the second dose,” Health PS Susan Mochache said. She added: “We are leveraging on technology for this so once you are registered and we have your mobile number we will send an alert and that alert will be reminding you that in five days you will be due for your second dose, two days to and on the actual date you get that reminder.” The ICT class will be required to offer support with the system issues as well as support the healthcare workers who will be doing the vaccination. Those trained during the two days are expected to cascade the training at the local level. The government plans to use level 4, 5 and 6 healthcare facilities as such facilities have adequate numbers of healthcare workers. The government had announced plans to build the capacity of more than 23,000 healthcare workers including 8,000 health volunteers in areas of vaccine administration, logistics management, data capture and monitoring. The one million doses were received on Tuesday at the JKIA under the Covax facility programme. The ministry has however noted that those aged below 18 years, anyone who is pregnant and those allergic to chicken and eggs will not get the vaccine. Unlike children where the vaccination drive involves healthcare workers moving from home to home, eligible individuals will have to visit the health facility to receive their dose Kenya requires 30 million doses to vaccinate 60 per cent of its population, as recommended by the global public-private health partnership Gavi. Head of the Covid-19 vaccine deployment task force Willis Akhwale has maintained that although Kenya  has ordered the AstraZeneca-Oxford jab, it can still buy the Pfizer vaccine once it becomes available and storage is available. Akhwale said available facilities can achieve -20 degrees Celsius and store up to 20 million vials. “Facilities with -70 are available in Kemri and a few other facilities but they are already holding other biologicals. We do not want to contaminate vaccines with those biologicals,” he said. Biologicals are products made from or containing components of living organisms. Pfizer, Moderna, AstraZeneca and other vaccines require two doses. It's not unusual for vaccines to require back-to-back doses to be most effective. The first dose primes the immune system while the second dose induces a vigorous immune response and production of antibodies. The booster dose is a way of re-exposing the body to the antigens – the molecules on pathogens that trigger the immune system to initiate part two of the response. The vaccine will be administered in three phases. The first phase of Covid-19 vaccine allocation will give priority to the high risk populations. During this phase, frontline healthcare workers, all staff working in health facilities and workers offering essential services will be inoculated with priority given to sectors such as security. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara