Helping the Kenyan healthcare system is one of Mozzart's priorities in terms of socially responsible work. Accordingly, the organisation on Tuesday 16 March donated Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs) worth sh. 2 million to the Iten County Referral Hospital. The goal of the action is to improve the working conditions of health workers and establish support for the community. At hand to receive the donation was Elgeyo Marakwet County Governor Alex Tolgos who thanked Mozzart. "We are happy to welcome Mozzart to the great county of Elgeyo Marakwet. Kenya is currently in the third wave of COVID-19 infections and these PPEs will go a long way in helping us fight this pandemic." he said. "Health is very important and I want to thank Mozzart for what they have been doing in various facilities around the country. Health is definetely an area that needs support and Mozzart has been on the forefront helping citizens since this pandemic started. This is comendable." he added. Mozzart Country Manager Sasa Krneta said the organization would continue supporting community projects around the country. "I am very delighted to be here today with my team from Mozzart to share with you these donations from our organization. Covid-19 has slowed down most sectors of the economy globally and it is important that we all stand united in the fight against this pandemic." he said "We hope the PPEs will help in the fight against Covid-19 in this area and the entire county at large. Asanteni sana!" he added. Since the beginning of the pandemic, Mozzart has invested over sh. 60 Million in medical equipment to fight Corona virus in 21 hospitals across the country. Company also launched the "100 Water Wells For Our Communities" project and four water points are now already operational. Through this water project, Mozzart aims to give back to the society by delivering clean water to the most deserving communities. More water points will be commissioned this year. Mozzart has been operating in the gaming market since 2001, when it was founded in Serbia. The company has consistently demonstrated great social engagement, through numerous donations.