 Luos should remain united behind ODM boss Raila Odinga and his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of next year's election, Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has said. He said the handshake has brought notable development projects to the community and the region. “Until such a time that he (Raila) will tell us that we stop then that is when we will ask him to give us further direction,” he said. The lawmaker said that the unity pact between Raila and Uhuru has helped in the reconciliation process following the volatile 2017 election politics. He cautioned against divisive politics, blaming it for slow growth and the ethnic hatred and bloodshed witnessed in the past. Koyoo urged leaders and residents to focus on development. “Raila is the region’s kingpin and the one trusted to give the community political direction at the right time,” he said. Koyoo told elected leaders to fully consolidate residents in Raila’s backyard to continue supporting the handshake and Building Bridges Initiative. “Our leader is Raila and anybody with a contrary opinion is daydreaming,” Koyoo said. He spoke in Muhoroni as he disbursed Sh5 million Youth Enterprise Development Fund to 44 youth groups on Monday. Raila, he said, has not personally said there is any problem between Uhuru and him over the handshake. He also urged anybody from the community with a different opinion to table it before the Luo Parliamentary Caucus chaired by Seme MP James Nyikal for deliberation. “We are ready to listen to anybody in the caucus. We welcome them and will not let them alone,” he added. Koyoo urged Uhuru not to leave Raila because their unity has ensured peace and calm in the country. “It is, therefore, our duty to continue rallying and supporting the duo until such a time Raila will advise us on the way to follow,” he said. Since the handshake, the region has also benefited from plum state jobs and multi-billion projects. Koyoo said the Nyanza region has reaped big from the peace and unity efforts championed by the two former political adversaries. He cited the completed Kisumu-Kakamega highway and the ongoing construction of Songhor-Tamu-Muhoroni road. The 14km road that links Kisumu, Nandi and Kericho counties is expected to cost Sh2.8 billion. It is expected to boost food security, trade and livelihoods. Koyoo also cited Mamboleo-Muhoroni road whose tendering is complete. The Sh3 billion facelift of Kisumu Port has also taken shape as the government seeks to restore the once vibrant East African hub to its former glory. The renovation is meant to allow bigger vessels to dock in Kisumu to enhance trade with neighbouring countries. (edited by o. owino)