Some 44,715 under-five children in Kiambu are undernourished or experiencing stunted growth despite the county being food-secure. This was revealed on Wednesday during the launch of Kiambu County Nutrition Action Plan at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. Governor James Nyoro, who presided over the event, said his administration is committed to  prioritising health matters. “The launch of nutrition action plan is a key milestone in our continued quest to tackle the problem of malnutrition in Kiambu county. We will, therefore, prioritise implementation of nutrition actions across sectors. "We are committed to smarter planning and better coordination. The development of Kiambu County Nutrition Action Plan (2020-21 to 2024-25) is recognition of the need to plan better and act together,” he said. Nearly one out of 10 children are underweight and only 22 per cent access minimum acceptable diet, while 55 per cent of women make the recommended four antenatal care visits during their pregnancy, with some sub-counties being as low as 34.1 per cent in deliveries conducted by skilled birth attendants. Kenya is among the countries where all forms of malnutrition are present. The “triple burden” of malnutrition in Kenya is characterised by the coexistence of undernutrition, micronutrient deficiencies and obesity. Last year, Kiambu, following the finalisation of a national action plan, started preparing its nutrition action plan. Nyoro said the five-year plan seeks to ensure the county is free from all forms of malnutrition and is a strategic document with a multisectoral approach involving the departments of Finance, Education and Agriculture. Health executive Joseph Murega said some forms of malnutrition affecting especially children are overweight, underweight and micro nutrient deficiency, with the key health indicator being stunting. “Stunting is chronic malnutrition which has direct and indirect economic effects on the county. Children who are stunted have a low IQ and their production is low. As a county we can't fail to address issues of Malnutrition,” Murega said. Murega said his department's key pillars are promotional and preventive, adding that their nutrition unit is key to reducing the numbers by over 40 per cent. “As a county, we have a proposed budget of Sh2.54 billion for CNAP. The plan seeks to address nutrition-sensitive and -specific challenges, and an enabling environment. These are categorised into nine key result areas cost with a clear framework to monitor programme progress,” Murega said. Nutrition International county director representative Edgar Okoth said the organisation is ready to walk with the county in implementing the plan. County nutrition coordinator Rachael Wanjugu highlighted the need for nutrition interventions at the community level to address knowledge, attitude and practice gaps that undermine the fight against malnutrition. She emphasised the need for mothers to breastfeed their children for six months exclusively as a high impact low cost intervention with a focus on reducing malnutrition.  Edited by F'Orieny 