Police have arrested four suspects in Nairobi and Naivasha over the murder of two taxi drivers last month in different incidents. The victims were hired by a couple before they were attacked along the way, murdered and their vehicles stolen. In the first incident, Naivasha-based taxi driver Isaac Thumbi went missing early February before his decomposing body was found dumped near Gilgil town a week later. And in the same week, the body of a taxi driver from Kasarani was found dumped near Mai Mahiu IDP camp after he was hired to ferry customers to Suswa. According to a police source, police first managed to arrest two suspects in connection with the murder of the Nairobi-based taxi driver. An officer conversant with the investigations said the two, one a woman, were found in possession of a mobile phone belonging to the deceased. “The two after interrogation confessed to having carjacked another taxi driver in Naivasha, murdered him and escaped with his car,” he said. Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru confirmed the arrests, adding that they had nabbed two more suspects in Naivasha over the murder of Thumbi. He said initial investigations indicated the two were working with the other two suspects in Nairobi in their robbery. “The two suspects in Naivasha would lure a suspect to ferry them before the killers would join them later along the journey and kill the taxi driver,” he said. He added that the first two suspects would be charged in Nairobi with killing the Kasarani taxi driver before being ferried to Naivasha to be charged with the other two for Thumbi’s murder. Taxi drivers in Naivasha have expressed their fear over an increase in cases of carjacking targeting them. They noted that in the last two months, four drivers had been carjacked though two of the cars were recovered by tracking companies. “We are still in shock over the murder of Thumbi last month and we hope the arrest of the killers will solve these carjacking incidents,” said Moses Ndungata, a taxi driver. Edited by Henry Makori