The government is considering setting up a well-funded national commission to fight the invasion of desert locusts in the country. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya said the state is working to scale up disaster preparedness and pest control measures into its planning. “We do not want to look at it like an emergency that is going to go away at a time when climate change is bringing unforeseen emergencies,” he said in an interview on Tuesday. Desert locusts have been sighted in Marsabit, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Lamu, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Mandera, Machakos, Kitui, Isiolo, Samburu, Laikipia, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Makueini, Nyandarua and Kajiado counties. Munya said about 300 swarms have been sighted in the second wave and that 156 swarms have so far been contained. "The control team has contained the situation by around 80 per cent and only 20 per cent is still being controlled," he said. The CS said the locusts have now invaded Mt Kenya forest and Nyambene Hills, both of which are water catchment areas. “We never expected that to happen; even experts say there are certain altitudes that locusts can’t go but they are being proven wrong. There is a swarm at the Mt Kenya moorland yet we are told they can’t go beyond -19 degrees Celsius,” Munya said. The CS urged Kenyans not to chase away the locusts but instead report to the local authority. He said chasing the swarms will scatter them so they spread to other areas and complicate the control process. “You will find that the spread especially in the settled areas takes place because when the locusts land, the community is not well prepared so they chase them away and the swarms scatter. It becomes difficult to spray them,” Munya said. “So if the community could be trained to accept that when the swarms land somewhere, they leave them undisturbed, then the control would be easier. This calls for training, sensitisation and resources.” He said the country is not out of the danger yet, as the long rains are coming and the planting season is here. “If we get other swarms when the crops are young, we will be having a disaster, so we have to be vigilant. We have to keep monitoring and surveying,” he said. “We have to keep monitoring even the very vast areas in the north where there could be swarms hiding and there are no population to sight the swarms.”