Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has condemned violence that characterised the Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections. Ojaamong said such acts should be shunned by leaders and Kenyans at large as the country prepares to go into another highly competitive General Election in 2022. Stripping leaders like it happened in Matungu is a shameful act which should draw condemnation from all Kenyans. The county chief spoke less than 24 hours after violence was reported in Matungu constituency in Kakamega and Kabuchai in Bungoma as voters elected MP in by-elections. Most of the violence was triggered by claims of voter bribery. “At no time will I allow violence in the 2022 elections. The violence witnessed in Matungu where an MP was stripped naked and also in Kabuchai is a shame to the electoral process,” Ojaamong said. He said the electoral process must be respected for Kenyans to have confidence in leaders they elect. On Thursday in Kakamega County, physical battles erupted pitting ODM supporters against those of ANC and UDA in Matungu constituency. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala who was the chief agent of ANC candidate Peter Nabulindo claimed their opponents confiscated official IEBC tallying papers for the Matungu parliamentary by-election. Malala alleged that some ODM MPs were holed up in a hotel within Kakamega town where the election materials were being tallied way before the official closing of polling stations at 5pm. Earlier, Malala had also allegedly confronted Homa Bay Woman Rep Gladys Wanga at Bulimbo tallying centre in Matungu. Trouble began when Malala, arrived at the polling station and accused Wanga of bribing voters, resulting in a physical confrontation. Kasipul Kabondo MP Ong'ondo Were was also arrested and detained briefly. In another incident, still in Matungu, former Sports CS Rashid Echesa, who was campaigning for UDA's Alex Lanya, was caught on video slapping an IEBC official at Bulonga polling station, sparking an uproar. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati condemned the assault of the election official and called for the arrest of Echesa. In Kabuchai in Bungoma county, police arrested MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei) and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei for allegedly planning violence in Kabuchai constituency. The four who claimed to be agents of Kabuchai UDA candidate Evans Kakai were locked at Bungoma police station for interrogation. The four were arraigned at the Bungoma Law Courts on Friday. Ojaamong said all acts that do not promote peace, which were witnessed during the two by-elections should never be repeated. He warned candidates gunning for the seat of governor in Busia in 2022 to ensure peaceful campaigns are conducted. “I am retiring the gubernatorial stage after serving my two mandatory terms,” he said. “Those in the race including my Deputy Moses Mulomi, Nambale MP John Bunyasi, Woman Rep Florence Mutua and Dr Paul Otuoma are all my friends. I encourage aspirants for various seats to do mature campaigns devoid of character assassination and witch hunt,” he said. “I have laid a firm foundation especially that of uniting county residents to an extent that people are doing business peacefully without tribal inclinations,” he added. Ojaamong was speaking during the burial of Anne Nasirumbi, 93, the mother to Peter Kubebea, a prominent businessman in Busia. He called on resident at the border county to support the BBI as it seeks to ensure more resources are sent to the counties for development. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara