Traditional Kenyan soccer giants Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards will both be in the thick of things as action-packed Football Kenya Federation Premier League round 16 fixtures take centre stage this weekend. Currently placed third on the log with 28 points, Leopards are hot favourites to bag maximum points from their next tie at Mumias Complex on Saturday as they rally their troops against Vihiga United, a side whose fortunes appear to be on a rapid decline of late. Vihiga are rooted in a precarious 16th spot with 10 points, and the much they can brag about at this point in time is being better placed than tail-enders Mathare United and Zoo Kericho. The Slum Boys and Kericho side are sitting miserably in 17th and 18th positions respectively and staring at imminent relegation. A win for Ingwe could secure them the second spot if Zoo happen to pull a shocker on KCB at Moi Stadium, Kasarani the following day. The bankers are high on confidence though, having stunned K'Ogalo 2-0 in their last outing. Seperated only by a solitary point, Ingwe are breathing hard on KCB's neck in what is now slowly shaping up as a tight race to dislodge runaway leaders Tusker from the apex of the log. The brewers have a tricky tie at hand in an away game to Nairobi City Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. Currently on 35 points, a win could steer them nine points clear of their closest rivals if both Leopards and KCB emerge from the fishing ponds empty-handed. Tusker will still remain seated pretty at the summit even in the worst scenario that they loss their match and both Ingwe and the bankers win theirs. It will be interesting to see how disgraced reigning champions Gor Mahia fair in their match against giant killers Bidco United at Kasarani on Sunday. While the league minnows collected a morale boosting triumph after frying leaders Tusker when they last took to the pitch, the behemoths are low on confidence, having consecutively crushed in their last two matches, first against KCB and thereafter against Posta Rangers as match-fixing allegations continue to rock their camp. K'Ogalo are eighth on 19 points while Bidco are two spots above them with 21 points. Rejuvenated coastal darlings Bandari will also be taking a long shot at the second spot when they flex muscles with an inconsistent Wazito side in the second match of the day at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. The dockers, who have been sailing on a positive tide since the appointment of Cassa Mbungo as head coach, are fifth on 26 points while the Francis Kimanzi-led charges who had earlier shown signs of battling for a top three finish, have since slid down to sixth on 24 points. Posta Rangers, riding on the back of their surprise 1-0 upset  against champions Gor Mahia at Kasarani over the weekend, will hope to extend their fortunes as they face off with a badly deflated Mathare United side. The mailmen are 14th on 14 points while Mathare are 17th on nine points. Equally tough will be the match between Kakamega Homeboyz and Sofapaka at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega. Whereas Sofapaka are tenth on 11 points, Homeboyz are hot on their heels in 11th on 10 points. Nzoia Sugar play host to Ulinzi Stars at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma on Sunday. Placed 12th on 18 points, the millers are a spot and a point above the soldiers. 