Anthony Gathu has been the most consistent face in the Bidco United starting lineup this season. The industrious midfielder was among eleven players acquired by the Football Kenya Federation Premier League newbies at the start of the season to revamp their squad when they ultimately earned promotion to the country's top tier last year after battling patiently for 15 years. Coach Anthony Akhulia's prudent decision to clinch him from National Super League side, Muranga Seal and incorporate him into the competitive squad, may have been one of the best decisions made so far. The midfielder has been at the centre of the team's impressive league outings, always providing the gusto in the midfield as a playmaker with his trademark penetrative passes that usually make all the difference. Gathu now says he is determined to propel the Thika-based giant killers to a podium finish this season. His wish could materialise judging by the side's latest results, the most recent being a 2-1 upset pulled on runaway league leaders Tusker at Moi Stadium Kasarani over the weekend. And perhaps if things turn out exactly according to his script, Gathu may also realise his ultimate dream of strutting to the platform to collect the 'Midfielder of the Year' accolade at the end of the season. "My teammates and I are gunning for a top five finish and I'm convinced I stand a chance to be nominated for the 'Midfielder of the Year' award. He has, subsequently, sent a stern warning to their opponents to underrate them at their own peril. "It would be a huge mistake for any of the teams in the FKF-PL to underestimate our potential because we joined the top tier only recently. "You've seen how teams regarded as underdogs in the European leagues end up stunning the traditional giants," said Gathu. "At the end of the da,  it's all about hard work." Like a host of local players, who have made it big abroad, Gathu says he hopes to feature in the Zambian Super League some day in the near future. "I have a soft spot for Zesco United and Bulidco in the Zambian Super League. These are the clubs I'd like to feature for because I'm familiar with their tactics, having watched them play their matches."