Kenya will not be halting the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination campaign despite concerns over the safety of the Astrazeneca vaccine. So far, several countries, including the DRC, have halted the vaccine rollout after reports of blood clots among some of those who received the jab. The vaccine was rolled out in the country on March 5, with data showing that around 10,000 people have so far been reached against the 1.25 million targets by June 30. “We are continuing administering the vaccines. The information that is out there right now does not seem to indicate any link between vaccine administration and these particular clotting events that have been reported,” Health CAS Rashid Aman said on Wednesday. The CAS noted, however, the country remains vigilant and continues to monitor what is happening across the globe and within the country through a data monitoring and reporting system already in place. “We have not covered a large number. I think we are looking at about 10,000 vaccinated so far. We have not seen any reactions reported in this period and we will continue to monitor as we await the assessments that are being done at a global level,” Aman said. Denmark was the first country to halt the use of the AstraZeneca after reports of blood clots in some people. AstraZeneca, in its defence, has said it had carefully reviewed the data on 17 million people who received doses across Europe and found there were 37 cases of people who developed blood clots, adding, however, that there was “no evidence of an increased risk” of blood clots in any age group or gender in any country. The WHO, on the other hand, has appealed to countries not to pause vaccination campaigns over safety fears. It said its advisory panel was reviewing reports related to the shot and would release its findings as soon as possible. The UN agency said it was unlikely to change its recommendations issued last month for widespread use, including in countries where the South African variant of the virus may reduce its efficacy. “As of today, there is no evidence that the incidents are caused by the vaccine and it is important that vaccination campaigns continue so that we can save lives and stem severe disease from the virus,” WHO spokesman Christian Lindmeier said. In Kenya, CAS Aman spoke during the launch of the Kenya pharmacovigilance electronic reporting system Version II by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. This system is a suite of software application for collecting and processing of information on suspected adverse drug reactions, suspected poor quality medicinal products, adverse events following immunisation, medication errors, incidences following use of a medical device and suspected blood and blood products reactions. According to PPB chief executive Fred Siyoi, the system has been in operation since 2013 and has seen the collection of more than 14,000 reports on individual case safety reports and more than 1,000 suspected quality defect reports. The reports have been used to inform policy change, review of treatment guidelines and various regulatory actions. “To continuously align with best international standards and offer better usability to the stakeholders, there was need to upgrade the system to ensure it is able to collect data on all health products and health technologies that are given market authorisation by PPB,” Siyoi said. One of the key new features is a provision for patient/consumer reporting, which is critical to ensure every person is keen on health and is able to report any concerns about health products or technologies they are exposed to. “There is a need to see how these two systems will be able to work together and enhance each other in terms of information that we want to capture,” the CAS said.