Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya on Friday  rolled out phase one of Covid-19 vaccine exercise in the county. The county government is targeting to vaccinate 27,638 people in the first phase. Speaking during the roll out at the Kakamega County General Hospital, Oparanya said the county received 12,000 doses of the vaccines. “The launch of the vaccination in Kakamega County is a boost to my government’s efforts to control the spread of the virus and ensure safety of our people," he said. Oparanya added: The vaccine we are about to administer is effective in protecting individuals from getting  Covid-19, protects the community particularly those at increased risk and boosts individual’s immunity to fight the virus.” The governor said the vaccination will be conducted in three phases as per the Ministry of Health guidelines saying the first phase targets the frontline health workers, teaching and non-teaching staff in all educational institutions and uniformed forces, immigration officers and instructors in religious institutions. Oparanya said the current supply of vaccines (12,000 doses) may only cover healthcare workers and maybe the police but he expected more vaccines in due course to complete all the phases of the vaccination. He said phase two of the vaccination which will target  the public, will be launched once the vaccine is available and appealed to development donors to support the county government’s plans to roll out the vaccination programme to the grassroot level. The governor urged the public to disregard what he termed as misinformation being spread on Covid-19 vaccine and take the jab without fear. “I have taken the vaccine today as a show to the people of Kakamega and Kenyans at large that there is nothing to fear,” he said. “I urge members of the public to strictly adhere to the containment measures put in place by the Ministry of Health to deal with the spread of the virus. Ensure you wear your face mask properly, sanitise or wash hands always and keep social distance,” he added. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara