Hotly contested by-elections on Thursday were marred by clashes,  chaos, bribery allegations and arrests in the boiling tensions ahead of the 2022 General Election. In a day of tear gas and running battles at polling stations, police arrested politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga movement over bribery claims. After weeks of aggressive campaigns by political heavyweights jostling for influence ahead of 22, ugly incidents overshadowed the by-elections, Turnout was low. Exposing the nasty scenes likely to characterise the 2022 contest, politicians battled at polling stations. The violence forced police to fire tear gas to bring the situation under control, despite protests. Ruto's allies coalescing around the newly formed United Democratic Alliance party claimed police were not impartial in enforcing the law as  youths clashed with them at some polling stations. However, politicians from other camps accused the Tangatanga troops of bribery and intimidation of voters in most of the polling stations where they wanted to run the show. There was chaos in Matungu and Kabuchai parliamentary by-elections in Kakamega and Bungoma counties. Violence also rocked London, Huruma and Kiamokama wards. Police arrested MPs Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Wilson Kogo (Chesumei) and Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei for allegedly planning violence in Kabuchai constituency. The four who claimed to be agents of Kabuchai United Democratic Alliance candidate Evans Kakai were locked at Bungoma police station for interrogation. Bungoma county commissioner Samuel Kimiti said the lawmakers were arrested while they were on their way to Chwele. "They are at Bungoma police station but I will give a comprehensive statement later," Kimiti said. Police blocked their convoy while they were coming from Pongola Primary School polling station. They had escorted escorted UDA candidate Evans Kakai to cast his vote. "They just blocked our convoy and arrested all of us...We are yet to know where we are going," Koech told the Star. Cherargei accused the government for using the police to intimidate them when they had not committed any crime. “We have done nothing wrong, we had just escorted our candidate from voting and had just addressed the press when they blocked our convoy blocking our way, claiming we have weapons,” Cherargei said. Violence was witnessed in Busakala primary where MPs Millicent Omanga (nominated), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and Lunga Lunga's Khatibu Mwashetani were roughed up by irate youths for allegedly trying to bribe voters. Police later confiscated the lawamkers' guns  as the MPs protested that they had not misused their firearms. A vehicle belonging Kakai, the UDA candidate, was smashed at Mukweya after two groups fought. The Kabuchai battle was billed to be high-stakes contest with Ford Kenya seeking to retain the seat through Majimbo Kalasinga to fend off Ruto's influence in Bungoma. Residents of Kabuchai constituency were electing their MP following the death of the lawmaker James Lusweti of Ford Kenya. Other candidates include Gasper Wafubwa (Independent), David Kibiti (Green Movement party), Amos Wekesa (Federal Party), Jeremiah Marakkia (UDP) and Peter Kapanga (Independent) as well as Stephen Barasa (MDP). In the neighbouring Kakamega county, high-octane drama unfolded as physical battles erupted pitting ODM supporters against those of ANC and UDA in Matungu constituency. Kakamega Senator Cleopas Malala who was the chief agent of ANC's Peter Nabulindo claimed they confiscated official IEBC tallying papers for the Matungu parliamentary by-election. Malala alleged that some ODM MPs were holed up in a hotel within Kakamega town where the election materials were being tallied way before the official closing of polling stations at 5pm. Earlier Malala had allegedly confronted Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga at Bulimbo tallying centre in Matungu. Trouble began when Malala, arrived at the polling station and accused Wanga of bribing voters, resulting in a physical confrontation. Kaspul Kabondo MP Ong'ondo Were was also arrested and detained briefly. In another incident, former Sports CS Rashid Echesa, who was campaigning for UDA's Alex Lanya, was caught on video slapping an IEBC official at Bulonga polling station, sparking an uproar. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati condemned the assault of the election official and called for the arrest of Echesa. "The attack was uncalled for and I urge the police to apprehend the culprit and follow due process to follow," Chebukati told journalists in Naivasha as he inspected voting at Hell's Gate ward.  In Nakuru county, chaos erupted at Milimani Primary School polling station in London ward as youths accused Lang’ata MP Nixon Korir of trying to influence the voting. Police used tear gas to disperse crowd but the MP's vehicle was smashed. Journalists also were injured in the fracas. Korir was accompanied by Senators Susan Kihika (Nakuru) and Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet). The lawmakers said they were agents of UDA candidate for London ward by-election, Antony Nzuki. Voting was paralysed for hours at the Milimani polling station after the police fired tear gas; voters fled. The London ward by-election has huge stakes in a battle pitting Ruto's  Tangatanga politicians against President Uhuru Kenyatta's Kieleweke wing of Jubilee. Pockets of chaos rocked Huruma ward by-election in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu county, where Jubilee's Lucy Ng'endo was battling 12  candidates for the seat left by the death of her husband Peter Chomba. Other candidates included Cornellius Saina of ANC Andrew Ouma (ODM), Peter Kinuthia (MCC), Moses Njehia (PDP) and independent candidates Sam Mathai and Jane Wangoi. Police clashed with UDA supporters in Kisii following the arrest of Moses Nyandusi Nyakeremba, who is contesting the Kiamokama ward by-election. Police later released a statement denying that Nyakeramba was arrested but said four suspects were arrested for allegedly bribing voters. The ward by-election in Kitise-Kithuku ward in Makueni went on smoothly. (Edited by V. Grahm) 