University students will get their loans, overdue since January, into their accounts by Thursday, the Higher Education Loans Board has said. “We have today (Monday) received the financial year 2020/21 quarter three capitation of Sh2.8 billion from the National Treasury. The pending student loan payments are currently being addressed and will be concluded by March 18,” Helb said in a tweet. The communication came days after Moi University students held a demonstration for release of the funds. Some lecturers from the University of Eldoret also went on strike over unpaid salaries. The Helb loan is released to students in two tranches in an academic year. Helb provides up to Sh37,000 to students to support both their fees and upkeep on campus. Helb chief executive Charles Ringera last week told the Star that the student loan is supposed to be released at the beginning of September for the first semester and by January for the second. Ringera said Helb had yet to receive funds for the loans from Treasury. None of the students had received the allocation for January. The situation was worse for some first-year students who have yet to receive monies for September. Moi University had written to Helb to expedite the release of funds to save the dire student situation. In December, Ringera in a presentation to MPs said the loans board estimates that that university students would need an annual budget of about Sh200,000 to meet their needs. Helb only provides the student with a maximum of Sh37,000 and the rest is left to parents to shoulder. “Given that Helb provides about Sh37,000 currently then it means the students or the household has to raise another Sh162,000,” Ringera told the committee. Geoffrey Muluvi, the chairman of the Vice Chancellors Committee, said the release of funds will be a big reprieve for the institutions that are struggling to run operations. Muluvi said some students risked being locked out of the end of semester exams if the delay persisted. “The university sector is like a chain. When the students fail to pay fees then the operations in the institutions are affected as well; you find a problem in paying lecturers and running operations,” Muluvi told the Star by phone.  