Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer praised the team’s defensive display in Sunday’s Premier League goal-less draw with Chelsea but said his attacking players have room for improvement. United defended solidly throughout against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge to earn a point as they denied the hosts a chance to regain their spot in the top four. Solskjaer’s side have scored the most goals in the league this season (53) but the Norwegian expects more quality from his side, who are second on the table with 50 points from 26 games, 12 points behind leaders Manchester City. “We’re not scoring enough goals, that’s for sure,” Solskjaer said after the match. “We came away and it’s another good clean sheet but the next step for this team is to win these games and score a goal. “In these so-called big games, we’ve kept some great clean sheets, great defending, energy, attitude. “The lads have done absolutely everything right defensively. Attacking-wise we need that little bit of quality but that will come.” United travel to face 13th-placed Crystal Palace on Wednesday. Meanwhile, Jose Mourinho sang the praises of Gareth Bale after the Welshman’s two-goal show in Tottenham Hotspur’s 4-0 drubbing of Burnley in the Premier League on Sunday. The Tottenham manager gave Bale only his third league start since he returned on loan in September, and was rewarded with a dazzling display. Mourinho has seemed reluctant to trust Bale in the league, citing his lack of match fitness and injury problems. But after his second-half impact off the bench against West Ham United last week, his midweek showing against Wolfsberger and Sunday’s two goals, Bale is beginning to blossom again. “I am very happy for him, very happy for the team because the team needs his talent,” Mourinho said. “I am happy because when his condition is good he can do things like today -- his game was very good, not just scoring, changing speeds, going inside. I am very happy for him.” Bale has now scored four goals in his last four appearances in all competitions and his revival augurs well for the rest of Tottenham’s campaign as they have a League Cup final, a Europa League last 16 and a Premier League top-four battle to play for. “It was good, I have been building up a little bit to get fully fit -- felt comfortable and my form is coming back, it’s nice to help the team,” Bale said. “I know you get criticism but I am experienced enough to keep my head down, not say anything stupid and keep plugging away.”