A family in Kajiado county is appealing for government help to secure the body of their kin who died in Bahrain under unclear circumstances. Anne Wanjiru, 35, is said to have died on February 20 and body taken to Salmayian mortuary in West Riffa Hospital in Bahrain. The family however says efforts to get help from the Kenyan embassy in Kuwait have bore no fruits. All Kenyan diplomatic issues in Bahrain are handled in Kuwait. The deceased's brother Geoffrey Wanjama and their mother Wanjiku Kamau, 70, told the Star on Friday that they spoke to Wanjiru a day before she died. They said she had called them complaining of stomach pains and also claimed her employer had refused to take her to hospital. “She told us that she had been ill for almost a month but her boss had refused to take her to hospital. She also said her boss, a retired civil servant in Bahrain, was not giving her food,” said Wanjiku. The mother said that after talking to her daughter on February 20, there was no further communication with her, however four days later she was informed of her death. “We called her on February 21, 22 and 23 to find out how she was fairing but she was not picking our calls yet her phone data was on. We sent messages on WhatsApp which indicated they had been read but there was no response,” said the mother. “We do not know who to talk to over this matter. We want justice for our daughter. A postmortem should be carried out so that we can know the exact cause of her death,” she said. Wanjama said Wanjiku’s employer sent Sh40,000 as part of her salary to his mother for the 15 months she worked for her. “My sister told us that her salary is Sh23,000 per month and she was not allowed to leave the home so she could send her salary home. We do not know where a balance of Sh13,000 she deducted every month for the 15 months went,” said Wanjama. He claimed her sister has one child and had adopted two other children, who her mother is currently taking care of. “We need justice for my sister. My mother is unwell and needs medication. My late sister bought her medicine,” said Wanjama. When we sought clarification from the diaspora office in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Friday, one of the officers handling the matter, Kizzy Miguda, said she was still following up and would provide more information regarding the cause of Wanjiku’s death. “Send us all the details you have about Wanjiku through our email so that we can follow up on our side,” Miguda said. By the time of going to press, Miguda had not responded to our questions which included why Wanjiku’s employer is alleged to have objected a postmortem. Wanjiku's family is calling for a postmortem and further investigations to be carried out by the Bahrain police in collaboration with Interpol. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 