Busia has continued to post the highest number of Covid-19 cases among the four counties constituting the former Western province. Until Sunday, the four counties of Busia, Bungoma, Kakamega and Vihiga, had recorded 307 positive cases since January 1. Out of the 307, over half are from Busia. The data shows that the border county registered 219 positive cases. Bungoma came a distant second with 46. Kakamega ranked third with 27, while Vihiga recorded only five, the least. The data was obtained from the Health ministry’s daily updates on the pandemic that has ravaged the world since last year. Comparatively, Busia is the only county among the four devolved units that has consistently recorded positive cases almost each week between January 1, and March 8, when the Star compiled the data. The only time the county ended a week without registering any case was between February 7 and 11, when no samples from the county taken to the laboratories tested positive for the virus. For the entire period under review, the county posted positive cases at least once  every three days. On February 28, the county listed the highest number of cases in a single day. Thirty people tested positive then. On that day, 32 people in the former Western province tested positive. One was from Bungoma and the other was from Kakamega. Some 325 people tested positive countrywide out of the 3,282 samples. The only other day when positive cases were slightly high was January 9, when 19 people tested positive in the county. On that day, the entire Western region had 21 cases. The country had registered 230 positive cases out of the 6,515 samples. Another day that had higher positive tests was January 1, when 15 cases were recorded. Busia, on this day, was the only county in Western that registered positive cases. Bungoma, Kakamega and Vihiga had zero. Each day on January 10, January 21 and February 17 each of the days had 17 cases. Bungoma in this period reported one case on January 10, one on January 21 and zero on February 17. Kakamega had one, two and zero cases respectively while Vihiga registered no positive cases in the three days. On March 3, Busia listed 13 positive cases when Bungoma had one positive case as both Kakamega and Vihiga had no one testing Covid-19 positive. There are 22 days in the period under review when the county did not report a single positive cases. In Bungoma, confirmed positive cases were scattered between January 1 and March 5. The day when the county registered the highest number of positive outcomes was January 6 when 21 people tested positive. In most of the days, Bungoma had at least one positive case in less than five days except between February 8 and 21 when there were no confirmed cases. In Kakamega, since January there has been no day when more than three coronavirus positive cases were reported in the county. The only days when the county registered three cases were on January 11 and March 6. There were three positive cases on each of those days. Vihiga on the other hand, has had the least number of positive Covid-19 cases since January. The county only had five people test coronavirus positive in the 66 days under review. The cases were reported on January 8, 9 and 19 when only one case was reported in each of the three days. March 5 had two positive cases reported. By Sunday, Kenya had recorded 108,827 coronavirus cases. These cases are from 1,333, 690 tests so far conducted in the country.