The county government will not pay for substandard work, Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has warned contractors. The new development comes after Mvurya launched works on several county projects, mostly expected to be complete this year. About 100 county development projects are to be launched before December. The projects include the construction of urban-rural roads, water pump systems, health dispensaries and schools. Mvurya said lazy contractors who drag their feet on crucial projects won’t be tolerated anymore. “We won’t accept any shoddy work, and you will be denied your payment,” he said. He spoke on Monday evening in an interview at Kwale headquarters. The governor said it won’t be business as usual, saying his administration will ensure there is value for every taxpayers’ money used. Mvurya said he will monitor each step of a project's implementation for efficiency. He said he wasn’t the kind of governor who will rely on falsified reports of projects on paper but will examine them physically. The governor said he promised to serve the electorate with diligence, fairness and transparency. He said any project must correlate with the funds spent for proper accountability. Mvurya threatened to blacklist the underperforming contractors. “You should conduct your work professionally or else we will cut you off permanently from doing business with us,” he said. The county chief said the contractors have no excuse to produce poor quality work, saying his government pays on time and provides all the necessary assistance. He said it is his wish to give Kwale residents massive development and transform their social and economic status. The second-term governor said he won’t allow lazy people to destroy his development record by doing shoddy work. He, however, said most of the projects started last year are completed and they will soon be launched in accordance with Covid-19 directives to benefit the locals. Currently, the construction of the Sh36 million Poster-Wayani-Golini cabro road and Sh426 million Marere water upgrade system are ongoing in the Matuga subcounty. Edited by Henry Makori