For local pros and amateur players, the Magical Kenya Open may never be the same again. The experience of back-to-back European Tour events under a bubble environment will no doubt give home players a completely new experience, as Greg Snow puts it. “We have a home course advantage, having navigated each and every corner during our practice. We should be able to play well with an advantage over the visitors. But the fact that we will be in a ‘bubble’ for the duration of the two events is a plus since that will contribute greatly towards our discipline,” says Snow. His compatriot Dismas Indiza could only be grateful for the European Tour’s gesture to finance the bubble. “There will be more commitment towards play as we will not be coming from home. We will be in isolated hotels which will give us an opportunity to concentrate a lot more,” Indiza says. Kenya’s most decorated pro, Jacob Okello, believes players will play better devoid of the pressure from spectators. “I don’t think spectators’ absence will affect the tournament that much,” he says. “In fact, it will give us more chance to play good golf and concentrate more. Spectators tend to put pressure on players and errors set in. This time we are in a bubble where we all wake up together, head to the course together. It’s like you have jetted into the country and checked in to a hotel,”  Okello observes. Golf Park professional Eric Ooko has since praised the bubble system, for the simple reason that it ensures the safety of all and sundry. “We just pray that this pandemic will come to an end one day. Now that our lifestyles have changed, we need to just watch what we are doing. We have to watch where we are going, whatever we are doing and we must put our God first. The bubble situation works out well as the essence is to remain safe,” says Ooko. CJ Wangai observes: “Playing in a bubble means we don’t have to come into contact with any other person from outside our hotel which is a good thing. It will strictly be players caddies going from the golf club to the hotel and vice versa. We would have liked Kenyans to come cheer us on but then Covid-19 is real. It is what it is. We will manage the guidelines even with the changes.” Former winner Aaron Rai of Britain, who joined the bubble earlier in the week says he will miss spectators. “It’s just a shame that there won’t be crowds this week but it’s just awesome that we’re here, playing,” says Rai. Spectators have also been ruled out of next week’s Kenya Savannah Classic, which is making its debut on the European Tour. But despite the restrictions, Karen Country Club members will be allowed to watch the tournament event though they will not be anywhere close to the players and their caddies. The members will use the clubhouse’s top half while the players will be in the bottom half. In addition, the members will have to undergo all the set Covid-19 protocol checks before entering the facility. It was also a provision for all the foreign players to present a negative PCR Certificate and go through a further test at the venue before joining the bubble. “Once inside the bubble they will be tested after three days. Those who didn’t test will be removed from the bubble,” said Patrick Obath, the tournament director. It will be the first time that the country will be hosting back-to-back European Tour events, the 20th to be held under the stringent bubble environment on the series. Corporate village activities synonymous with fans have also been scrapped. To ensure the safety of all involved, the European Tour developed a two-tier system to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The players, their caddies and all officials, staff and media who are in direct contact with the players will be in what is known as the inner bubble. This group shall be isolated and be required to spend the duration of the tournament in selected hotels. All other individuals who are not required to interact with the players and officials will be in the outer bubble. As a measure to give Kenyan journalists access to the players without incurring the cost of joining the inner bubble, the Kenya Open Golf Limited will allow a total of 12 journalists entry to Karen Country Club. The access shall be granted under strict conditions. Journalists shall strictly follow instructions from the event organisers and will be positioned in set-ups where they can engage players inline with social distancing guidelines. “When the bubble system started in October last year, it was experimental, but now there is much more experience on how to go about it. We have had a complete team of Covid-19 marshals that we have worked with for two months to ensure that we understand the nitty-gritty of the bubble situation,” says Obath. “In designing the bubble, we selected hotels where nobody else, apart from the players and officials, are allowed. Transportation of players to and fro the venue also observes stringent Covid-19 restrictions such as social distancing.” Obath, nevertheless, reveals that all is not lost. “All and sundry will be able to follow proceedings live on television and phones where results will come in real-time. You will actually enjoy the action without having to come to the course,” says Obath, as he expresses his excitement on the quality of the field gracing the event. “We have a crop of very good players at the event. We have had a very successful Safari Tour where we had players from the African continent playing like Robson Chinhoi of Zimbabwe. Our local pros got a chance to practice hard and hone their skills from back-to-back Safari Tour events. I believe they are much better,” says Obath. “We are hoping that such preparations will help us produce a local winner in the near future.” African Players from Safari Tour: ​Phillip Kasozi (Uganda GC), Andrew Odoh (Ibb International GCC, Abuja), Robson Chinhoi (Royal Harare) ​Team Kenya Amateurs: Jaydeep Sandhu (Royal Nairobi), Taimur Malik (Muthaiga), Paul Njuguna (Limuru), Adel Balala (Nyali), Isaac Makokha (Vet Lab) Team Kenya Pros: Anthony Juma, Jacob Okello, David Wakhu, Ooko Erick (Golf Park), Mathew Omondi, Edwin Asuza (Vetlab Sports), Riz Charania (Go Golf Academy), C.J Wangai (Sigona), Samuel Njoroge (Railway),  Simon Ngige (Thika), Greg Snow (Muthaiga), Dismas Indiza (Mumias), Jastas Madoya (Great Rift). 