The Nairobi Metropolitan Service will lose Sh8.9 billion if the proposed County Annual Development Plan 2021 -22 is approved by the county assembly. According to the County Fiscal Strategy Paper 2021, the county government of Nairobi has projected a Sh37.3 billion budget for next financial year 2021-22. NMS has been allocated Sh18.38 billion—Sh11.75 billion for recurrent and Sh6.6 billion for development to cater for the four transferred functions. The  county government will be left with  Sh11.9 billion This will be a drop of about Sh8.9 billion as in the current 2020-21 financial year NMS has been allocated Sh27. 1 billion—Sh18 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh9.1 billion for development. Under NMS, the Health sector received the lion’s share of Sh8.1 billion, Transport and Public Works Sh3.6 billion, Urban Planning and Lands Sh891 million, Water and Natural Resources Sh3.3 billion, Housing and Urban Development Sh1.1 billion' Energy and Lighting Sh3.3 billion and Ward Development Funds Sh1.3 billion. However, the CFSP did not indicate how much each sector of the transferred functions will be allocated for the financial year. The CFSP specifies the broad strategic priorities and policy goals that guide the county government in preparing its budget for the coming financial year and over the medium term. It is derived from the County Annual Development Plan which the draft is currently in the Assembly  but has not yet been approved. To support micro and small enterprises as development of local and foreign trade, Sh1.03 billion has been proposed for the Trade, Commerce and Tourism sector. Sh2.2 billion has been allocated to the Education sector to improve learning at ECDE centres, establish new vocational training centres as well as promote youth welfare in Nairobi. Under the Agriculture and Fisheries sector Sh409 million has been proposed to enhance food securities as well as improve food safety. The Finance and Economic Planning sector has been allocated Sh1.2 billion while the ICT and E-Government will get Sh559 million for operationalisation of data centres and establishment of staff labs. The County Assembly will get Sh3.2 billion while the Ward Development Fund has been allocated Sh1.5 billion. While passing the budget last year October, the MCAs shifted the ward development fund from the governor's office to NMS. It was allocated Sh1.3 billion with Sh30 million being recurrent expenditure and Sh1.3 billion being for development. Allocation of funds to NMS last year sparked a battle between the county assembly and former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. Sonko refused to assent to the budget and giving the governor's warrant to have the Sh37.1 billion budget implemented. The former governor had vowed not to release funds to the NMS, terming it an illegal entity. "I will not, I shall not and I'm not going to append my signature to give funds to an illegal entity,” Sonko said. As a result, the NMS faced a difficult time delivering on its mandate as directed by the President Sonko also moved to court to block Treasury from releasing the Sh27.1 billion to NMS. However, following Sonko’s ouster in December, things took a turn for the better, leading to improved working relations as the NMS and City Hall agreed to deliver services together. The cases blocking funds from being released to NMS were withdrawn. When he assumed his role as acting governor on December 21, 2020, county Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura's first duty was to sign the governor’s warrant enabling the release of the Sh37.5 billion budget. This meant that City Hall staff could now be paid their salaries, which they had been starved of for three months. The NMS could now access the Sh27. 1 billion allocated to it by the county. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 