Brazilian winger Wilson Silva scored at the death to secure a 2-1 win for defending champions Gor Mahia in a Football Kenya Federation Premier League match against Kakamega Homeboyz on Wednesday at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega. K'Ogalo were in desperate need of a win after last Sunday's 2-1 defeat to league minnows Nzoia Sugar FC at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex. They were in danger of a second straight loss after Chris Masinza's shot in the 12th minute sneaked past Boniface Oluoch in the Gor goal and ended up in the net. The goal was a cruel payback for K'Ogalo who had enjoyed the lion's share of chances, the most memorable being the one-on-one duel between John Macharia and Homeboyz keeper Godfrey Oputi in which the latter came tops. Aware that a loss would further dent their bid for a 20th national title, Gor camped in their opponents' half in a bid for an equaliser before halftime. Despite their dominant possession, their efforts came to naught as their hosts remained defensively resolute, restricting them to only one shot on target compared to two for Homeboyz. Come second half, Portuguese gaffer Vaz Pinto introduced Tito Okello for winger Clifton Miheso who had largely a subdued game. Okello repaid Pinto's faith in the 56th minute by duly converting an immaculate pass from Macharia to level the scores, much to the relief of the technical bench. The champions sensed blood and pushed forward relentlessly for the kill although the Nicholas Muyoti-coached side were determined not to let them travel back to Nairobi with maximum points. However, the home team's efforts were made harder with the 73rd minute dismissal of Thomas Wainaina after an altercation with Gor forward Samuel Onyango. Seventeen minutes later, Silva, making his first start this season, rose to the occasion with a lovely volley to make up for his two misses earlier in the match. The win pushes K'Ogalo to eighth place on the log with 19 points from 11 matches — three less than the maximum number of matches played thus far.