Residents of Mumoni subcounty in Kitui have pleaded with the local administration to step in and end rising cases of defilement. Mary Kavute Kilonzo from Ngungani location told the Star ten days a go her 14-year-old daughter was alone at home as the other family members attended a function at their neighbour’s house. As the event was ongoing, Kavute noticed people gathering in small groups and talking in low tones. When she asked what was happening, no one told her. Minutes later she received a call from one of her family members asking her to rush to their house. Upon reaching there, she found her Standard Seven daughter in tears and her clothes drenched in blood. “I found her crying and the man who had defiled her was there and admitted to have committed the offense,” recalled Kavute. They informed the police who arrested the man. “The perpetrator has been sighted moving around, meaning he was released without our knowledge. I urge the government to intervene and arrest such persons who are ruing the lives of our girls,” Kavute said. Rachael Mutindi (not her real name) said she was washing her clothes at home  alone when a man who was working on a nearby farm came. “He sat for almost five minutes without talking to me before coming to where I was washing my clothes,” recalled Mutindi. She said he offered her Sh200 for sex but when she refused he raped her. “I tried to resist but he overpowered me and raped me,” Mutindi recalled in tears. In a similar incident, Mary Mwania (not her real) said her daughter in Standard Six came home crying three weeks ago and told her she had been raped. “My daughter said she had been offered boda boda lift by some youths who are our neighbours and when they got to a thicket one boy left with the motorbike leaving the other with my daughter and he raped her,” Mwania said. He offered the girl Sh400 but she refused, telling  the man she would report him. But three weeks later, the perpetrator has not been arrested. Pastor Peter Muthui castigated the local administration and the police for laxity in curbing the sexual violence. Edited by Henry Makori