Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos has publicly complained his county is underfunded. But Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said the county failed to use more than Sh1.2 billion allocated for development projects in 2018-19. There was no immediate public explanation by the county. The county also did not explain key adverse aspects to the Auditor General. Tolgos did not respond to calls or texts from the Star. According to the audit report, the management said anomalies in the record were caused by random errors generated in a newly acquired electronic revenue management system for the county. However, the auditor general said no analysis was provided by the county to show how the discrepancies in the financial statements arose. In a counties' report tabled in Parliament, the Auditor General said Elgeyo Marakwet was allocated Sh2.5 billion for development projects that year but only used Sh1.3 billion, which was 54 per cent of the budget. “As a result the county failed to absorb Sh1.2 billion which was 46 per cent of the allocated budget," the Auditor General said. Health, Agriculture, ICT, Public Service and Youth sectors had the highest under-absorption of their budgets. Gathungu has also questioned failure by county to account for more than Sh2 billion indicated as own-generated revenue in the financial statements for 2018-19. She said that in the statement of receipts and payment that the county collected a Sh141.6 million in the year ended June 30, 2019, but records at the county treasury reflect collections totalling Sh3.8 billion. She says out of the valid receipts totalling Sh2.1 billion, only receipts amounting to Sh141.4 million were banked. “The remainder amounting to Sh2 billion has not been accounted for,” Gathungu said. In addition, she said that receipts totalling to Sh1.7 billion were shown as voided and were therefore not recognised as revenue. Gathungu noted that receipts used to collect revenues were not serialised, hence, it was not possible to confirm if all the money collected was accounted for. “In the circumstances, the accuracy and completeness of the own-generated revenue amounting to Sh141.6 million shown in the records for the year under review was not confirmed,” the audit report read. The auditor has also said receipts and payments for the same year amounting to 5.8 million, being remittances of salary deductions and payments for goods and services, were made outside the IFMIS system. The management failed to explain the reason for payments outside the system; counties are required to use IFMIS. Further, the audit report has questioned payment vouchers indicating expenses of Sh3.1 million made as domestic travel allowances, yet there were no supporting documents with approval and explanations. The audit also questioned the use of Sh10.3 million on fuel and lubricants yet the expenditure was not supported with documentation. (Edited by V. Graham)  