New dairy regulations will provide a guaranteed minimum price for milk, ensuring good profits throughout the year. Price will be reviewed every six months. Regulations will also enhance product safety and consumer protection, provide market information and mechanisms to trace and recall products. Agriculture CS Peter Munya introduced the Dairy Industry Regulations, 2021, on Wednesday, saying they would streamline the sector. “These regulations will create a vibrant, competitive and profitable dairy industry," he said in Nairobi. They have been approved by the Agriculture ministry and must be approved by Parliament before they are implemented. Dairy business operators will submit monthly returns on processed milk and quantities to the county government or the Dairy Board for policy and investment decisions. The regulations bring on board compliance officers who will be gazetted by the Dairy Board to ensure marketed products meet standards while holding officers accountable for malpractices. On Imports and exports, CS Munya said the new regulations will protect the Kenya dairy industry against unfair trade practices and competition. They will ban dumping. The CS said regulations will enhance compliance with safety standards and promote self-regulation through the adoption of global best practices. Milk will be sold first to immediate neighbours, however, it must meet standards for raw milk. Milk vendors will be required to register with the county government and get an operating licence. This requirement will not apply to small-scale farmers who milk and consume or sell to their neighbours and other consumers. Those operating milk dispensers, known as milk ATMs, will pay Sh2,500 for an operating licence. The regulations give the Agriculture ministry authority to set the minimum price at which farmers will sell from their farms. Set prices will end exploitation of farmers by middlemen, Munya said. "Concerns over low and fluctuating producer prices have made investments in the sector unprofitable, unstable and uncompetitive,” the CS said. Middlemen are faulted for buying milk at throwaway prices and reselling to processing units and other entrepreneurs for huge profit margins. Munya said the set prices will be reviewed every six months.  The ministry has set the current price  at Sh33 per litre. "The regulations will ensure guaranteed minimum prices on milk sales that will ensure farmers' investment gives favorable returns every year,” he said. Munya said the sector plays a critical role in the economy, providing employment and income for many households. (Edited by V. Graham)