Journalists need regular trauma and mental health training, ICT CS Joe Mucheru has said. Speaking during the launch of the Crime Journalists Association of Kenya (CJAK), Mucheru said reporters play a crucial role in upholding security in the country. “Journalists, especially those in the security are crucial to the growth of any country and their health must be protected,” he said. DCI George Kinoti echoed Mucheru’s sentiments saying journalist are part of a family and would therefore pass down trauma and other mental health issues to them.“Journalists do not live in isolation, their mental health is very important,” he said. Kinoti also urged the media to ensure accuracy and ethics when passing information to Kenyans.“Kenyans look upon the media for the truth. Journalists should be bound by principles and values. The pen can bring a country down,” he said. International Justice Mission boss Benson Shamala also urged the crime reporters to remain objective and avoid being sensational so as to serve justice in the community. Amnesty International Kenyan director Irungu Houghton urged the government to hasten the investigations into cases of intimidation and attacks on journalists and ensure conviction of cases. He said: “Kenya has been gradually backsliding on international press freedom security index.” He urged the ICT CS to ensure the freedom of expression and access to information is upheld in order for efficient functioning of the media. Mucheru also commended the CJAK for the inception of an online news platform, Shahidi news, that provides employment opportunities for journalists from all genres. He however, warned the members to ensure the association is not compromised by criminals and other vigilante groups for the spread of fake news and misinformation.“Operate within the confines of the law and ensure accuracy in your reporting. "We shall support you by ensuring you have access to information and scholarship opportunities,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara