Small-scale businesses and residents of Western Kenya are expected to gain from the 5G technology that has been launched by telco company Safaricom. The unveiling of the new technology, which was done simultaneously in Nairobi and Kisumu, will be available in areas with no fibre connectivity. The launch in Western Kenya was done at Safaricom’s Kiboswa main station in Kisumu county and attended by Safaricom staff. Safaricom’s Network director James Maitai said the ultra-high speed broadband will be available in all major towns of Kisumu and Kisii before being rolled out to other towns Kakamega, Busia and Bungoma. Maitai said the region has been experiencing erratic network coverage and with the new launch, customers can be assured of high speed connectivity, especially in areas where there is no fibre infrastructure. "This technology will help the government to roll out broadband connections across the country,” he said. "We urge the youth to take advantage of this technology by being innovative for employment opportunities.” Among the benefits will be telemedicine, online trading, online gaming, wildlife conservation, food air drops, entertainment industry, online trading and live streaming, multi-level security and smart cities. The system will allow several networks to work on a single network, in what is referred to in technology circles as network slicing. Once fully rolled out across the country, patients will now be able to have X-ray done and specialists across the world will immediately analyse the results. This means that patients presenting themselves in hospitals in rural areas with limited capacities will not need to travel to seek health services or wait for long hours for analysis. It also means that digital services can now be possible to subcounty and ward levels. Safaricom’s head of station in the greater Western and Rift region Patrick Wanjau said with challenges brought about by Covid-19 pandemic, the introduction of the 5G network will enable users to work from anywhere because it is super fast. This will benefit both consumers and enterprise clients who may need high speed connectivity. “Our customers have been complaining of poor network services and with this technology, we expect to have more better customers because they will experience better services and in turn will spend more on our services. With this technology, payment of rents and land rates will now be happening online. For YouTube and Gig economy, this new high speed broadband connectivity will come in handy for those wishing to upload content generated anywhere in the country. Through this technology, users will be able to integrate more sensors and this will be able interact and influence the everyday life of the citizens. The country’s ambition of achieving its dreams such as having smart homes, smart cities, smart education, and smart water metres will now become a reality.   