Ukambani leaders have been castigated for abandoning Kenya’s Ambassador to Seoul Mwende Mwinzi as attempts are being made to "sack her unfairly". Mwinzi hangs on the tender-hooks and is likely to lose her job as an envoy after Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau disclosed last Friday that she has been asked to renounce her American citizenship to retain her job. Currently, she enjoys dual citizenship. Kamau, who was being grilled by the National Assembly Committee on Implementation, said his ministry had given Mwinzi, who hails from Mwingi West subcounty in Kitui, 10 days to make up her mind over her citizenship or lose her job. On Tuesday, Kitui politician Moses Banda said he was concerned that Ukambani elected leaders were in deafening silence as their very own Mwinzi was being tormented and harassed. “I want to raise my concern over the ominous stance Ukambani leaders have taken of burying their heads in the sand as one of their own is tormented and harassed over her recent posting as Kenya’s ambassador to South Korea,” he said. Banda, who is the Kitui Central subcounty Jubilee party chairman, said it was a big shame that the leaders have maintained a deafening silence instead of defending one of their own in the wake of the spirited attempt to strip her of the ambassadorial position. “Where are the elected leaders from Ukambani in this conversation. The trend has always been that other communities have fiercely defended their own in the face of a similar onslaught. For Kamba leaders to keep quiet on this issue is a big letdown,”  Banda said. In a statement to the media on Tuesday morning, Banda raised the question of why the leaders had chosen to abandon Mwinzi in her hour of need. President Uhuru Kenyatta appointed Mwinzi to the ambassadorial position in Seoul in 2019 but MPs said Mwinzi would only take up the job if she renounced her American citizenship. Mwinzi proceeded to the court to rule against Parliament’s decision. In a ruling dated November 14, 2019, Justice James Makau said, “No one chooses his or her place of birth or parents.” The court ruled that Mwinzi did not have to renounce her American citizenship to take up the job. On Monday, Banda also took a swipe at Parliament for failing to adhere to the court orders. Neither did it appeal against the court decision. “An appeal which Parliament overlooked would have ensured due process and adherence to the rule of law. It should therefore not be allowed to employ backroom tactics to sack Mwende Mwinzi,” Banda said. He said if Parliament truly wants to ensure compliance with the law where the issue of dual citizenship is concerned, it should walk the talk by not only exposing but also getting rid of MPs who hold dual citizenship. “I, therefore, condemn the double standards by parliamentarians who have shown open discrimination against our own Mwende Mwinzi when we have a big number of them holding dual citizenship,” Banda said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris