ODM leader Raila Odinga’s long break from public engagements could set back the Building Bridges Initiative campaigns that are to culminate in a referendum in June. A referendum is facing other serious hurdles, including apparent lukewarm support from State House, indifference from the population and questions about the legality of placing 70 constituencies. But Raila's absence is felt most keenly. His allies and critics agree that no one can match the campaign zeal the 76-year-old former Prime Minister has committed to the BBI process. His absence will have far-reaching consequences as he has been the political steam and the engine powering the BBI process. In fact, he drove the train crosscountry, preaching the referendum gospel. Last week on Sunday, hours after being discharged from The Nairobi Hospital where he tested Covid-19 positive, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s handshake partner announced that he was taking leave from all public engagements. “I’ll be strictly self-isolating until further notice,” Raila said.  Raila's last BBI stop was at the Coast where he visited four counties — Taita Taveta, Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale. After he returned from the gruelling five-day tour, he was fatigued and checked into the hospital. Over the years, has earned himself names such as Baba, Tinga and Agwambo and he evokes mixed emotions — he is both loathed and loved. Before phase two of BBI campaigns, Raila had led the BBI caravan in touring counties such as Kisii, Meru, Kitui, Mombasa and Kakamega during the validation process. Political analyst Jeremiah Kirui said, “Without Raila, BBI is a good as dead. It is it only in his bastions that the initiative has been received well and given much-needed support.” “Raila Odinga was and remains the engine running BBI. Without him, everything has come to a standstill. When you look at other political leaders, they seem lost and they do not know how to proceed,” he told the Star on the phone. Kirui said despite the government imposing a ban on public gatherings, Raila— if he is well — could devise away to continue with the BBI campaigns. “The country is calm, no one is talking about BBI but if he was well, he could still occupy national discourse with his activities. If he takes too long a break, BBI is likely to suffer a lot,” he said. There are other political heavyweights including Musalia Mudavadi (ANC),  Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetan'ula (Ford Kenya) and Gideon Moi (Kanu) who boarded the BBI train midway but it seems no one is capable of driving. Before the Covid-19 ban on rallies, Gideon, the son of former President Daniel Moi, started criss-crossing the country holding huge rallies to campaign for BBI. Observers say he is being groomed by Uhuru to take over in 2022. His last rally was in Bomet county and before that, he had toured Garissa, Kajiado, Samburu, his own Baringo county, among others. However, he did not gain traction like Raila. Uriri MP Mark Nyamita said Raila, the son of Kenya's first vice president, Jaramogi Oginga Odinga, is a skillful leader with unmatched political acumen and without him BBI could stall. Nyamita told the Star Raila controls half of the voters in Kenya and his support in any political activity is critical. “You cannot compare Raila with other politicians you see around, he plays in a different league and hat is why the country can feel his absence. His support permeates from Nyanza to Western to Coast and other parts of the country. His role and presence in BBI activities gave it the necessary support,” he said. Nyimita, however, sought to allay fears that BBI could die with Raila’s absence, saying the African Union envoy on Infrastructure will bounce back soon. “Raila is committed to the BBI process and he would want to see the it concluded by June. We are fully backing him and praying for him to heal as soon as possible," he said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi described Raila as a democrat who has sacrificed a lot in his fight against dictatorship and his commitment to BBI is part of his journey to see a just society. The-second term MP who is a close confidant of Baba argued that Raila commands huge support such that his break is felt immediately. “The country is attentive when Raila is speaking. His position on issues is taken seriously. Despite taking a break from BBI activities, Kenyans still follow his position,” he said. Some of his critics said, however, that  Raila is tired and he should retire from active politics and leave it to the “young blood”. Belgut MP Neslson Koech said it was time for Raila to groom another leader. “He has done his part and we appreciate that, however, considering his advanced age, he should retire and support other young leaders. Though it's difficult for him to divorce himself from politics, sometimes, it's good to say enough is enough," he told the Star Mathira MP Rigathi Gachugua said Raila was using BBI campaigns as a stepping stone to State House. The close ally of the Deputy President William Ruto noted that despite outright resistance from Kenyans against the push to amend the 2010 Constitution, Raila still went ahead to team up with Uhuru to “force the changes”. “BBI is the biggest undoing for Raila. He has always claimed to be a champion of what is good for this country but what is contained in BBI is not. BBI is an attempt to reverse all the gains we have in the 2010 Constitution,” he said. Gachagua said Raila should just abandon BBI and if indeed he is interested in running for president in 2022, he can do so under the current Constitution. “BBI is proposing to give the President more powers which ordinarily  would be dangerous. Any right-thinking Kenyan cannot support such changes of creating a dictator. Raila now wants to take us there. He should wake up,” he said.   