The first alternative dispute resolution centre has been commissioned in Lamu county. The centre was launched on Wednesday by the Kiunga Youth Bunge Initiative in partnership with the Program for Legal Empowerment and Aid Delivery in Kenya with support from the United Nations Development Program. The centre located in Witu town will offer out-of-court dispute resolution services. The ADR committees comprise local administrators, elders, Nyumba Kumi officials and other local policing units. Three other similar centres are to be commissioned in Mpeketoni, Hindi and Mkunumbi towns, all in Lamu West, soon. Speaking at the launch, KYBI and PLEAD project officer Moses Maina said the centre will enable marginalised and poor families to access justice and legal aid. He said the idea was initially fronted by his office and that of the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Judiciary to reduce the backlog at the various law courts in the region. “The plan is to have at least four. Today we launch the first then the other three in Mkunumbi, Hindi and Mpeketoni soon. All this is to promote alternative dispute resolution techniques like arbitration, mediation and also plea bargaining, ” Maina said. He said the KYBI continues to implement a host of activities including radio programs in pursuit of the overall realization of the PLEAD program objectives. He said the ADR committee members have since received training on basic legal procedures to enable them to discharge their duties fairly while ensuring justice for all. Speaking at the launch, Mpeketoni resident magistrate Pascal Nabwana urged members of the public to seek help from the ADR centre over minor cases instead of rushing the same to the courts or police. He however warned that major crimes like defilement, rape, murder, robbery with violence among others shall be handled by the courts and not the ADR committees. “We are glad that with this centre in place, the backlogs shall be addressed and reduced. However be warned that major crimes must always be reported to the police and brought to court, ” Nabwana said. The ADR committee chairperson Joseph Kamau pledged to work with all players in ensuring the smooth running of the centre and justice for all.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris