Lamu Muslim clerics and faithful have expressed displeasure over the President’s extension of the curfew period for 60 days, saying it will hamper Ramadhan. The announcement among other measures was made on Friday by President Uhuru Kenyatta in abid to contain the third wave of Covid-19. The Muslims are expected to mark the holy month of Ramadhan from April 13. They had anticipated some adjustments to be made to accommodate them during that period. Led by the Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics chairperson Mohamed Abdulkadir, the faithful said they expected the President to make adjustments that would make it easier for them to mark Ramadhan without too many restrictions. He said it will be difficult for them to attend to their prayer schedules especially at night and very early in the morning as the hours fall under the curfew time. “We would have wished for the President to exempt Lamu and Coast region from the curfew so that we can mark Ramadhan in peace. This decision is working unfairly for some groups and they need to consider, ” Abdulkadir said. Ustadh Mohamed Mahfudh said they wish the President would place the curfew times between 4 am to 11 pm. He said the current curfew hours will hamper their prayers and other activities during Ramadhan. “With Ramadhan, most prayers happen at night and that also applies to visitations. They should have adjusted the timelines for this holy month. It is not too late for them to make some changes, ” Mahfudh said. The clerics, however, lauded the President for banning political and social gatherings for the next 30 days saying it would help restore sanity among those who had thrown Covid-19 protocols to the wind. “They have been a source of careless gatherings and a ticking time bomb in as far as the spread of the pandemic is concerned and we are glad that we shall be seeing less of such, ” cleric Mohamed Shafi said. The clerics have asked fellow faithful to use the month of Ramadhan and pray that Allah delivers the globe from the pandemic and many other tribulations. The country first went under curfew on March 26 last year to restrict movement and curb the spread of the coronavirus.  Edited by Damaris Kiilu