Je vous tire mon chapeau Harambee Stars. For those of you who engaged your French teachers in endless hide and seek games in school and never quite got to sit for the final exam, this is simply to say "I take my hat off to you Harambee Stars". And why not! The Stars sparkled brilliantly, putting up an awesome fight both on Thursday night against the Pharaohs and on Monday night against the Togolese. After a long streak of tragic outings that previously forced us to hang our heads in utter shame, we finally felt a sense of national pride and honour, a perfect reason to celebrate a rare moment in Kenyan football. Daring the Egyptians to a successful duel at home was impressive enough, but thrashing Togo in their backyard came with an exhilarating effect. Bravo Eric 'Marcelo' Ouma, the lad who gave Liverpool star Mohammed Salah a reason to look for Harambee Stars in their dressing room right after the match just to give them a pat on the back for their exceptional performance. I extend my hand out with all humility to greet Dan Sakari, the enterprising Kariobangi Sharks right full-back who tirelessly dashed up and down the flank while thwarting looming attacks and equally feeding our strikers with enticing crosses. Let me compose a special song in praise of Abdalla Hassan, the Bandari attacking midfielder who twice gave Kenyans a reason to smile after finding the back of the net, in Nairobi and in Lome. I salute Anthony Teddy Akumu, the Kaizer Chiefs defensive midfielder whose command in the middle third of the pitch left us all wowed with his mesmerising skills and unbridled courage. Let the charismatic Simba SC centre-back Joash Onyango receive my heartfelt appreciation for a splendid work done, especially in containing the marauding Egyptians. He stood firm and tall like a symbolic wall. It would be pretentious of me not to mention both Ian Otieno and James Saruni, the impressive custodians whose outstanding performances in Nairobi and Lome respectively kept our opponents' names away from the score sheets. But my heart bleeds for Johnstone Omurwa, the awesome centre-back who wrapped up the night in tears with a straight red card despite a wonderful display of utmost character. Let me take this special moment to appreciate Kevin Kimani, who inspired an entire generation with his world-class skills in setpiece delivery. How could I possibly forget to recognise the exceptional exploits of Sofapaka industrious midfielder Lawrence Juma, who worked tirelessly to pick out our strikers with pinpoint passes. I'm propelled to the apex of inspiration by Masud Juma, who despite being denied a brilliant goal in Nairobi after the linesman adjudged him to have handled the ball, went on to convert from the spot to seal victory for Kenya in Lome. I toss a bouquet of flowers to the able men comprising the technical bench. Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee, Twahir Muhirdin, William Muluya, Haggai Azande and Enosh Karani... kindly accept my apologies for ranting about your failures against Comoros. How could I possibly exit the stage before blowing a million kisses to all Harambee Stars players who despite remaining on the bench are still very much part of the team's campaign.