Any hopes Harambee Stars had left of making it to Cameroon for the African Cup of Nations finals went up in smoke after Egypt held them to a one-all draw at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Thursday. Two minutes into kick-off, Kenya found themselves on the back foot and chasing the wind. Mohamed Magdy Afsha blasted the roof of the net with a splendid shot, leaving Zesco United custodian Ian Otieno absolutely dazed and desperately spitting out chunks of grass he swallowed up after tumbling clumsily to the ground. And before the hosts could settle, Salah was at it again, his effort yielding a corner after dispatching Eric Ouma with a cheeky stunt that left the full-back mesmerized and sent spectators tantalised and squealing ecstatically. A couple of minutes later Olunga squandered a perfect opportunity to bring the hosts back into the game, his 7th-minute attempt ending up in a baby shot that landed softly and calmly on Mohammed El Shenawy's palms. Then on the half-hour mark, Ouma made a splendid run down the left channel, leaving his markers punting like dogs from a hunting mission up the hill, but his resultant cross went wooshing past Olunga on the far end of the field, Kenya missing out on another open opportunity to level the terms. Minutes later, it was Teddy Akumu wrecking havoc at the precincts of Pharaoh's palace. The Kaiser Chief midfielder pounced on a loose ball deep in the midfield and unleashed a thunderbolt shot that tore into but eventually bounced off El Shanawy's gloves, the keeper visibly bewildered and trembling nervously. And in the 41st minute, Masoud Juma thought he had capped off his national team appearance with a brilliant goal but his celebration was nipped in the bud when the linesman flagged him down for handball. The Kenyans, buoyed by a handful of supporters relentlessly rallying behind them made incessant inroads in the opponent's territory. It wasn't long then before the on form Egyptian custodian  El Shenawy was called to duty again, first blocking Juma's effort before denying Olunga a glaring chance on the second bite of the cherry. Their efforts eventually paid off. Kenya won a corner in the 65th minute and from it Abdalla Hassan's eventual equaliser. The Bandari forward stretched out his long limb to poke the ball right into the back of the net after a ping-pong goalmouth melee that drew in a host of Egyptians and a couple of red Kenyan shirts, Olunga in the thick of it. Right after the breather, the hosts emerged from the tunnel fired up for the second half. Mulee made a double substitution, bringing on Clifton Miheso and Nyakeya for Masoud Juma and Hassan. But all hell suddenly broke loose. Just 14 minutes to the full time, Stars were reduced to a man less after Johnston Omurwa got his marching orders, the Wazito man harshly penalised for an apparent off the ball incident with Ahmed Mostafa. The decision left Stars dejected and for a moment the crust seemed to have opened up and gobbled them alive. They went back to the drawing board and were compelled to park the bus just to hold on to at least the solitary point they already had in the bag. The outcome means that the next matches between Kenya and Togo as well as that between Egypt and Comoros have been reduced to sheer formalities.