Frontline health workers have been reluctant to take the Covid-19 jab, though they were selected to be first beneficiaries of the vaccination. The Senate's Health Committee heard on Wednesday that the healthcare workers are not volunteering to take the jab, citing safety concerns. Unions and associations representing the health workers further said the Ministry of Health and counties did not conduct enough sensitisation campaigns and training of their members. Kenya Medical Association vice president Amos Otara told the committee their biggest concern since the campaign was launched on March 5 is the dismal turn up among health care workers. “Health care workers have volunteered in a very small percentage. This is largely because of the messages being sent out by anti-vaccine crusaders that the jab is unsafe,” said Otara. He said there are messages doing rounds on social media that there is the risk of thrombosis (blood clot) when one gets the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine. “The messages have had a direct impact on the uptake of the vaccine. A lot more needs to be done for us to get returns on the investment. As much as we get them for free, there is a big financial input into it,” he stated. The secretary general of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union Chibanzi Mwachonda said the rollout was not done in consultation with healthcare workers. “There has been no adequate communication and sensitisation. Yes, health workers are aware of vaccines, but this is a novel one, which was developed in the shortest time in history,” he explained. He said the Ministry of Health should engage health workers and listen to their concerns. Kenya National Union of Nurses, like KMPDU, said they were never consulted. “Nurses were not involved in the rollout of the vaccine. We have not been invited to any training yet we are the ones administering the jabs and people have a lot of questions for us,” said KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako. The National Nurses Association of Kenya said the acceptability of the vaccine among members is at about five per cent. The Ministry of Health had said the first beneficiaries of the vaccine would include frontline workers such as healthcare professionals, teachers and security personnel. On March 10, Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe told the public of the vaccine’s efficacy and safety. The World Health Organization has noted that although Covid-19 vaccines were rapidly developed, “the regulatory and scientific reviews of the vaccines have not been compromised”. The Kenya Catholic Doctors Association recently issued a press statement discouraging people from getting Covid-19 vaccines, calling them unsafe. The statement was released the day after more than one million Oxford-AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccines arrived in the country. The Catholic Bishops however distanced themselves from the association’s statement and expressed support for the Kenyan government’s efforts to provide Covid-19 vaccines to the population. Edited by Henry Makori