Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya has disbanded the Chepchoina settlement scheme committee over bias and corruption in allocation of the 3,000 acres of land in Phase Three. Speaking on Monday at the disputed scheme where over 700 people have been displaced, Natembeya tasked Trans Nzoia and West Pokot county commissioners to vet another committee. He cautioned the committee that has been disbanded from filing  a case in court. “Nobody should go to court to dispute this. I will hunt you forever. The county commissioner should ensure another committee is in place and should be well represented from all communities set to benefit from the scheme,” he said. The committee, he said, will be overseen by independent people. “The committee should move fast and ensure that the true beneficiaries are allocated the farm within one month,” he said. The commissioner also put on notice the National Lands Commission for colluding with cartels to frustrate government efforts to settle allottees at the troubled scheme. Natembeya said preliminary investigations have established that some NLC officials were interfering with the process and issuing double land titles. He also asked leaders who have been given a chance to serve the government to be true to the calling and stop oppressing the poor. He appointed West Pokot and Trans Nzoia county commissioners as coordinators of national government to inspect what is going on in various offices in their regions. “Use intelligence, criminal investigating department and anti-corruption commission to unveil the rot in the offices in your region. Those found should be sacked and Kenyans who are ready to serve be given the chance,” he said. Natembeya said they are going to clean up the region. “There are those who are going to be affected and there are those who are going to be happy with the outcome. Let’s support the government in cleaning up the region,” he said. The commissioner asked national and county government leaders who own land in the disputed scheme to surrender it since it was meant for squatters. “Let’s give room to the poor to own land. Most of the politicians and commissioner are greedy and want to own land in all schemes in the country,” he said, adding that genuine beneficiaries will get two and half acres from the scheme.  “Let’s give those who have benefited enough time to pay for the land. Those in charge should stop issuing 90-day notices to the beneficiaries. This has resulted in chaos since most of the squatters are unable to pay for the rates within the stipulated time,” he said. The commissioner said the right channels for repossessing land from owners who have defaulted payment should be followed. “You cannot repossess land immediately after the notice expires. There should  be a clear way of doing it,” he said. Kapenguria MP Samuel Moroto said the land in dispute was a battlefield for cattle rustlers and had no owner. “The land was subdivided to three communities that were engaging in cattle rustling so that they can live in peace and leave outdated cultural practice,” he said. The MP blamed officials at the Land ministry from Trans Nzoia county for fuelling the conflict that is being experienced in the region currently. “The officials have allocated the farms to more than two people and genuine beneficiaries have been left out,” he said. West Pokot Senator Samuel Poghiso asked the Land ministry to speed up issuance of title deeds to reduce the conflicts that result annually due to land ownership in the region. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 