Nairobi ODM MPs have resolved to back Raila Odinga for the party’s presidential ticket, dealing a blow to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya in their bids. A top party official claimed that Raila is the automatic ODM presidential flag bearer and told off those challenging him to seek other seats. “We are telling those who are moving around asking for presidential ticket in ODM, the ticket for a presidential candidate is one, and it will go to Raila Odinga,” ODM Nairobi branch chairman George Aladwa said. This even as the Orange party made a U-turn on the planned grassroots elections, and instead, opted for harmonisation to fill the positions. The party had announced plans to hold nationwide grassroots elections as part of its wider strategy to strengthen and rejuvenate its grassroots networks ahead of the 2022 General Election. Terming it a special message from Raila, Aladwa said: “Elections for ODM, we have agreed, will not take place. We shall have harmonisation because of the BBI, some rogue people will infiltrate our elections and destroy it and say ODM is a party that loves chaos.” Aladwa, who is also the Makadara MP, told Joho and Oparanya, both of who deputise Raila in the party, to shelf their ambitions and seek other positions. “Those serving their last terms as governor should finish and look for other seats. There are many seats; MPs, ministers but they should forget about presidential ticket,” he said. Aladwa spoke at PAG church in Kibera on Sunday before leading a rally at Kamukunji grounds where he reiterated their resolve as ODM MPs and delegates to back Raila for President. Raila was widely expected to attend the rally but gave it wide berth with Aladwa saying he had other engagements. Embakasi MP Babu Owino, who was among a host of MPs who accompanied Aladwa, said he shared in Makadara MP’s sentiments. He said the ODM boss is the only person in the party who has never achieved his ambition. “This time round, we want all our arsenals to be focused …therefore, we are telling them, do not be over ambitious," he said. The remarks are likely to spark a fresh row in the ODM party that is already witnessing heated exchanges over the presidential ticket. Joho has hit the road running for the ticket and has already submitted his papers to the party’s elections board for nomination. During Raila’s tour of the coastal region last week, Joho made it clear that he will go the whole- hog for the party’s ticket. “Raila has said ODM is a democratic party and it allows everybody space to vie for the presidency. I will go through the primaries and if ‘Baba’ beats me, I will support him. I also expect him to support me if I win,” Joho said. ODM delegates are expected to vote for the party's presidential flagbearer later in the year. Aladwa led the MPs, MCAs, aspirants and branch officials in drumming support for Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) where they took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto for disrespecting other leaders and deceiving other Kenyans with his wheelbarrow narrative. Nairobi Woman representative Esther Passaris, Mathare MP Antony Oluoch and former Makadara MP Reuben Ndolo took on the DP for not showing respect for other leaders. “He is calling Raila mtu was vitendawili, he is calling Kalonzo watermelon and he calling Mudavadi the way he want to tell him, respect other leaders,” Passaris said. Ndolo dared Ruto to face them – BBI proponents – head on, saying BBI Mashinani campaigns have kicked off across the nation.