Kitui Flour Mills is banking on strong distribution capabilities in its next phase of growth as it looks to expand its presence in the East Africa market. The 'Unga wa Dola' parent company said it has made significant investments in trucks across the country, and a robust network of distributors that will ensure its products reach even the remotest areas of the region. KFM Chief Operating Officer Anwar Bajabeer said the firm has placed a strong emphasis on supporting households and businesses to meet their demand for flour to keep businesses going. “Given the incredible success of Unga wa Dola brand and our plans to accelerate our expansion in the region driven by strong demand, we are strategically positioning our company to more effectively support our growth strategy," said Bajabeer. Kitui Flour Mills has a combined wheat and maize milling capacity of 2,500 tonnes per day. “East Africa is an area of high focus in KFM's growth strategy and in order to further grow the business. A focused distribution strategy is one element to ensure our food brands have the support required to continue to build on the success in the region,’’ Bajabeer added. KFM produces six popular flour brands in the market including Dola Premium Flour, Jahazi, Dola Bakers, KFM Chenga and Baba Lao. The miller has depots in 10 different counties with Nairobi being the latest to open doors, which the company says will help boost its capacity and supply of products to the nearby counties. Bajabeer added the company is particularly betting on planned entry to the East African market to push its aspirations of being a pan-African miller. “We thrive on our vision: ‘Africa’s largest milling company,’ and we are currently in talks with our neighbouring countries not only to expand but also to innovate new products that the specific markets require,” he said. KFM is also aligning its business as a digital-first milling company in Africa to continue ensuring the availability of its superior products across the continent.