Kisumu, Siaya, Kisii, Homa Bay and Nyamira counties are reporting significantly lower numbers of health workers vaccinated than their projections. On Monday, Kisumu had vaccinated 763 health workers out of the 916 who had registered. They were 359 women and 404 men. County director of health Fred Oluoch said the administration had targeted 2,000 in the first week. Kisumu received 15,000 doses. The target was scaled down to 1,000 because only one vaccination centre had been set up at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong'o led the top county officials to take the jab and encourage more health workers to volunteer for the vaccine. "We've narrowly missed the target for week one. We managed 763 out of the 1,000 target. Now that we've come out strongly as a county having seen the top leadership from the governor, CECM Health and other officials taking the vaccine and addressing various myths and concerns. We're hopeful to achieve our targets," Oluoch said. In Homa Bay county, a health official told the Star that only 91 health workers had received the vaccine by Friday last week. Another 100 medics had registered for the vaccine by Monday. The county received 9,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. In Nyamira, county chief officer of health Jack Magara could not give the exact number of persons who had received the jab by Monday. The county got 6,000 doses. Kisii had by Friday vaccinated 301 of its health workers according to county public health officer Richard Onkware. The vaccination is being conducted at the Kisii County Referral Hospital before being rolled out to the subcounty facilities. The county received 9,000 doses. Siaya had by Friday vaccinated only 62 of its health care workers. The county got 6,000 doses. County chief officer of health Dr Eunice Fwaya said there were mixed reactions to the vaccine administration by those targeted. Kenya National Union of Nurses Siaya branch secretary Sylvester Ng'anda said he was not keen to take the jab. Concerns are rife that some health workers might not want to take the vaccine following international media reports of adverse side effects. Some health workers in Kisumu said they were being forced to be vaccinated. A facility located near the Kisumu International Airport had allegedly instructed all its staffers to take the jab. A source said the head of the facility had told all staffers that they were expected to take the vaccine without fail. Kisumu county director of health promised to investigate the claims. "We have not received such reports but we will investigate to establish the truth. I had only sent out a polite reminder to the heads of public facilities to encourage their teams to take advantage of the exercise," he said. He emphasised that the vaccine remains voluntary. Kisumu targets to vaccinate 4,000 health workers in private and public hospitals. Teachers and security agents will be targeted in the second phase of the exercise after the second week of its rollout in the county.  (edited by o. owino)