KCSE candidates on Monday take their day two tests—Mathematics Paper 1 and Chemistry Paper 1 exams. The Kenya National Examination Council termed the start of the tests on Friday a success. It will end on April 21. Students will take a maximum of two papers a day as has been the case since 2016. Some 752,933 candidates are sitting the exam in 10,437 centres. It is the 32nd examination in the history of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education and comes amid the Covid-19 crisis. President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered the closure of all learning institutions on Friday but exempted the candidates. It is the first time the exam is held outside the usual November-December period. Basic Education PS Julius Jwan on Friday noted that the exam had started smoothly and no delays were witnessed. He attributed the situation to the favourable weather condition. He said students displaced for one reason or another had been moved to other institutions to take their tests. "We cannot punish young children for our own mistakes as adults, you can notice in a place like Kisii, we had eight candidates who went on for learning for a whole year but were not registered and they sat exams in a different centre," Jwan said. Students who fall ill of Covid-19 during the examination period will take their tests in isolation rooms, the Education Ministry had earlier announced. Knec CEO Mercy Karogo said on Thursday that all possible hitches had been put into consideration and no delays would be witnessed. “Like in the previous year, this will be a multi-agency exercise involving the Education ministry and their Interior and ICT counterparts,” she told the Star on the phone. This year’s test will be the fifth to be administered under stringent rules since the introduction of measures to weed out rampant cheating that had undermined the integrity of the exam. On Wednesday, Education CS George Magoha ordered that all schools receive two police officers to aid in securing exam centres. He said the institutions could have more than two officers but not less. Meanwhile, the KCPE exam marking is underway. PS Jwan called on examiners to take the Covid-19 jab to boost the effort to curb the spread of the virus.