A magistrate who was fired two years ago for operating a bar in his station of work has been reinstated by the court. The Court of Appeal on Friday reinstated Joseph Ndururi as principal magistrate, ruling that he was unfairly dismissed from the judicial service on March 27, 2019. The Judicial Service Commission had appealed the decision by the Employment Court to award Ndururi 10 months’ salary for unlawful dismissal. However, the appellate court set aside the award and instead reinstated him. "The magistrate was unfairly terminated and he did not contribute in any way to his termination," the court ruled. The court ruled that it was upon the JSC to prove that Ndururi undermined his judicial office and the Judiciary as a whole by operating a bar at Mumias Civil Servants Club. Justices Gatembu Kairu, Agnes Murgor and Wanjiku Karanja further held that the magistrate had served for 15 years before he was sacked and may thus not have  many opportunities to secure another job. "The Judiciary is a large institution, indeed a whole arm of government, with courts in dire need of staff. Ndururi can be redeployed to serve in those courts," the judges ruled. The court also noted that his reinstatement will not cause any hardship or prejudice to the JSC as the contact is minimal. The court also said the relationship between the JSC and Ndururi was not strained. "The respondent is hereby reinstated to his employment with immediate effect to the office of the principal magistrate without loss of back pay salary and benefits," the court ruled. The judges noted that the charge that sent him home was said to have been committed over 10 years earlier — in 2006 — and it had not prejudiced the JSC as he had continued to serve in various capacities before he was sacked. The court also faulted the lower court for not reinstating Ndururi when it found out that he has been unfairly dismissed. "The learned judge having found that the dismissal was unfair, the judge ought to have considered reinstatement or given reasons as to why it was not a suitable remedy," the court said. “It is clear from the record that the respondent prayed for reinstatement but the learned judge did not address that issue." The court noted that the pub he was accused of running was a public service bar, which is a common phenomenon in many districts outside Nairobi, where head of departments converge and relax over a cup of tea of beverages after a hard day’s work. “From the material on record, the district heads based in Busia were the patrons of the said club. This was not a bar open to members of the public. It was not a bar where the respondent would serve impressionable members of public or litigants," the court said. The court further ruled that there was no evidence or suggestion that the respondent used to serve litigants or other persons of dubious character in the facility. 