The Kenya Private Sector Alliance wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to impose stricter measure to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the country. In a statement issued on Wednesday, KEPSA said that it had noted with concern the spike in COVID infections these last few weeks with the positivity rate now stands at a worrying 16.5 per cent. KEPSA wants the ongoing nationwide curfew that starts at 10pm to commence from 9pm to 4am. "Restaurants and night clubs to close earlier if curfew starts at 9pm for the next 3 weeks," the statement signed by KEPSA CEO Carole Karuga states. The organisation has also recommended that cessation of movement in and out of five most affected counties be imposed for at least three weeks. The five are Nairobi, Mombasa, Nakuru, Kiambu and Kajiado. KEPSA however issued a revised statement removing the recommendation on cessation of movement. KEPSA also wants the government to restrict all social gatherings "including in homes for the next three weeks." "The social gathering include ceremonies to mark Idd and Easter celebrations, weddings etc," the statement states. KEPSA also wants the limit number of people attending funerals to below 15 for the next 3 weeks. This would be below the 100 cap announced by the President two weeks ago. KEPSA also recommends that there should be a reduction in the number of people attending physical meetings in offices for the next three weeks. On March 12, Uhuru announced the extension of the ongoing night curfew which has been running from March 27, 2020, for another period of 60 days. He also announced a ban on all forms of political gatherings for a period of thirty days - that's up to April 13. Kenya has however seen an increase in the number of new cases and recorded the highest number yet on Wednesday at 1,540. It is also during this same period that the country has recorded the highest number of daily fatalities at 28 on March 19. Doctors have warned that the country is running out of ICU beds with most Covid-19 patients now taking up the space. In relation to the ongoing vaccination exercise, KEPSA says that there should be a clear massive vaccine rollout plan which stipulates the number of people to be vaccinated by when. They also want a blanket indemnity to be issued by the government to enable the private sector to bring in more vaccines in the country. "Encourage public, private and religious leaders to take Covid vaccine and create more awareness. This move will increase public confidence and increase vaccine uptake. Private sector leaders above 50 years are ready to get vaccinated publicly in order to create more awareness on vaccination," the statement states. KEPSA also says that it will revive the partnership with the Inspector General of Police on call number 1196 for reporting on those not adhering to rules. It is also calling for the enhancement of enforcement of Covid-19 protocols in all markets and trading centres, public transport including SGR night train, serviced apartments and Airbnb. In addition, KEPSA is calling on the government to increase the number of ventilators, field hospitals to boost the capacity of health facilities which is still the same as it was at the beginning of the pandemic last year. It also wants NHIF to expedite the accreditation and contracting, capitation, pre-authorization and claims turnaround processes. "This will create capacity at primary health facilities to provide other medical services hence continuity of care as we manage Covid-19 cases in the designated treatment and isolation centres - Faith-Based and Rural hospitals are most affected by the NHIF delays," the KEPSA statement says. It adds; "The private sector will play its full role in ensuring that such additional measures and any others that government puts in place, are implemented effectively, all the while taking into account the absolute priority of protecting livelihoods and ensuring our economy continues to deliver for all Kenyans."