Partners in the One Kenya Alliance risk losing plum parliamentary positions if they proceed to formalise their marriage before withdrawing from existing coalitions. And the fear of being stripped of the posts has slammed brakes on the alliance comprised of Gideon Moi (Kanu), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Mose Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). The four unveiled the One Kenya Alliance last week but could be forced to buy time in the hope of keeping the positions before signing any binding agreement ahead of next year's election. A legal provision that bars political parties from being in more than one coalition is another hurdle blocking the formalisation of the new alliance. Allies of Kalonzo, Wetangula and Musalia hold some Minority leadership positions as well as committee slots courtesy of their moribund Nasa pact with Raila Odinga's ODM. Their parties also hold lucrative positions in county assemblies across the country, including deputy speakers, Majority leaders and their deputies—benefits they risk losing if they sign a new coalition. “They are cowards, they can pontificate in the public but in private enjoy the benefits. The moment they officially join another coalition, they will lose the positions in Parliament and in the county assemblies,” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said on the phone on Tuesday. Sifuna said the party leaders are being hypocritical by criticising ODM, yet they cannot be bold enough to walk out of Nasa. Gideon's Kanu enjoys senior parliamentary positions after it inked a coalition agreement with President Uhuru Kenyatta's ruling Jubilee Party last year. Should the four One Kenya Alliance partners sign a political deal, Wiper will lose the Minority Whip position in the Senate held by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr courtesy of Nasa. Wiper will also forgo its deputy Minority post in the National Assembly held by Kathiani MP Robert Mbui, a key ally of Kalonzo. Kanu's Samuel Poghisio, the Senate Majority leader, also risks losing his position. Ford Kenya's Eseli Simiyu, the Tongaren MP, would also lose his deputy Minority Whip position if his party officially divorces Nasa by signing a new agreement. On Tuesday, Kimilili MP Chris Wamalwa, who sits in the 12-member One Kenya alliance steering committee, told the Star that the new formation was being strategic to ensure it does not breach the law. “We shall exit from our existing coalitions at the right time. For now we know we cannot be in two coalitions,” Wamalwa said, insisting that proper timing would be of essence before the final move. According to the MP, the four partners have initiated preparatory steps that would culminate in the signing of a 2022 alliance. “We do not want to rush because there is a lot of negotiations and  considerations that must be factored in before the deal is signed,” Wamalwa said. The Nasa pact provides that the outfit will cease to exist upon the 2022 General Election, although it is dysfunctional following an internal implosion triggered by competing interests. To beat the law, the One Kenya Alliance principals are said to be considering legalising the coalition with the Registrar of Political Parties by February next year, six months to the polls. This would insulate their MPs from losing their seats as the Constitution bars the electoral commission from holding a by-election six months to a general election. Last week, the One Kenya leaders announced that they will traverse the country to market their alliance once the Covid-19 containment measures are lifted They also revealed that Jubilee was part of the new alliance, lifting the lid on political intrigues behind its formation amid claims that it has the backing of President Uhuru Kenyatta's confidants.