It's another perfect opportunity for Kenyan amateur pugilists to strut their stuff on the international stage. The moment is finally here for them to limber up and oil their joints, which may have gathered rust and turned creaky after lengthy periods of inactivity due to the intricacies associated with the novel coronavirus pandemic. A strong contingent of 16 Hit Squad members hit the road running early Sunday morning for the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championships that officially kicked off in Kinshasa, DRC on Monday evening. They include the Tokyo-bound quartet of Nicholas Okoth (featherweight), Elly Ajowi (superheavyweight), Christine Ongare (flyweight) and Elizabeth Akinyi (welterweight). Others are Shaffi Bakari and David Karanja (flyweight), Martin Odour (featherweight), Victor Odhiambo and Joseph Shigali (lightweight), Boniface Mugunde (welterweight), Edwin Okong'o and Cosby Ouma (middleweight), Hezron Maganga (light-heavyweight), Joshua Wasike (heavyweight), Elly Ajowi (super heavyweight). The women's contingent also has Stacy Ayoma (lightweight) and Elizabeth Andiego (middleweight). The 12 men and four women flying Kenya's flag in Kinshasa have stumbled upon one of those rare moments this year to show the world the arsenal they possess to effectively charge for medals at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games in July. Hopefully, they will give local fans all the more reason to celebrate after a dull spell of endless frustrations in the ring over the years. Kenyans yearn for the good old days when the Hit Squad — the country's source of pride then — left opponents dazzled and petrified. We relive the momentous 1987 All African Games in Kenya, where each of the eight Hit Squad members bludgeoned and vanquished their opponents to plunder all the gold medals. We still hold these heroes in high esteem for bringing us honour and pride. Hats off to David Kamau (welterweight), Stephen Mwema (bantamweight), Patrick Waweru (featherweight), John Wanjau (lightweight), Maurice Maina (flyweight), Mohammed Orungi (welterweight), Robert Wangila and Chris Odera (superheavyweight). We fondly reminisce about Robert Wangila's splendid exploits at the 1988 Seoul Olympics where he became the first African to scoop an Olympic gold medal after walloping Frenchman Laurent Bouduani. Christopher Ochieng Sande (middlweight) bagged bronze. Kenya conquered the Commonwealth Games in 1982, 1990 and 1994. During the 1990 edition, Joseph Akhasamba (light-heavyweight) and George Onyango (heavyweight) won gold and Abdirahman Ramadhani silver. The country went into an even more ecstatic celebration at the 1994 All Africa Games when Abdirahman Ramadhani and Omar Ahmed (heavyweight) won gold in their respective categories. David Miriambo Anyim (super heavyweight), Peter Wanyoike (middleweight) and Odhiambo Opiyo (light-heavyweight) won bronze medals. During the 1982 Commonwealth conquest in Brisbane, Ibrahim Bilali (light-flyweight), Michael Mutua (flyweight) and Hussein Khalili won gold while light-welterweight Charles Owiso got silver and heavyweight Mohammed Abdalla Kent settled for bronze. Bilali also bagged a bronze medal at the 1984 Olympic Games. Undoubtedly, with more advanced technology, the country has greater potential to unleash a new crop of world-beaters who can punch furious power on the bag and, hopefully, leave both Kinshasa and Tokyo bewildered and mesmerized in equal measure. Go Hit Squad, go! 