The Principal Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Ibrahim Mohammed launched the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) vaccination exercise against Covid-19 pandemic at the Defence Forces Memorial Hospital in Nairobi. Speaking after receiving his vaccine jab, the PS said those who would be vaccinated will still be required to fully observe the Covid-19 protocols for the total success in the fight against coronavirus. The National Police Service has so far started vaccinating their members. “It is important that we all get vaccinated since this is another intervention that shall help us curb the spread of the virus. Let us continue observing the protocols and not leave anything to chance because we have been vaccinated," he said. Mohammed assured the KDF personnel that the vaccination exercise will be rolled out to the various military barracks across the country where all medical staff, KDF personnel and civilian staff alongside their families will be vaccinated. "Since March 2020 when the first case was reported in our country, the Ministry of Defence adopted all measures as outlined by the Government to prevent further spread of the virus," the PS said. "Due to observance of the protocols, our numbers have been minimal. We therefore thank the health workers at KDF for the work well done." He thanked the Government through the Ministry of Health in conjunction with the Ministry of Defence for making the vaccine available to military personnel who have been considered front line workers and essential services providers. The Director of Medical Services Major General George Ng'ang'a also received the vaccine alongside the PS and reiterated to the KDF personnel to continue observing the Covid-19 protocols while on duty and at home. "Unlike other sectors, it's very hard for the military to work from home. We have never missed work since the pandemic struck and we thank our staff for adhering to the protocols," said Maj Gen Ng'ang'a. The DMS further reiterated to the service personnel to continue observing Covid-19 protocols both at work and at home so as maintain low numbers of infections. Other senior officers, mostly from the medical corp, also received the jab together with other officers and service members. Commander Kenya Air Force (KAF) Major General Francis Ogolla was among the senior officers to undergo the vaccination exercise at Moi Air Base (MAB) in Nairobi. Maj-Gen Ogolla encouraged all Air Force Personnel to participate in the exercise and continue observing the Ministry of Health Covid-19 protocols. "This vaccine is developed by experts and has been tested and found effective. Of importance also is to continue observing the preventive measures currently in place even after getting vaccinated,” said Maj Gen Ogolla. Senior Medical Officer Colonel (Dr) Nicholas Mugweru said that KAF has been at the forefront in Infection Prevention Control (IPC) by observing Covid-19 protocols by testing personnel as well as isolating those found to be positive for treatment. Among those vaccinated were Service Members above 50 years of age.