Counties and the state should not wait for drought to get worse to start providing assistance, Wajir East MP Rashid Kassim has said. Kassim said the national government has made it a tendency to intervene only when the situation is already out of hand. He wants the county and state to begin the livestock offtake programme, mobilise resources for animals feeds and enhance water trucking to areas with acute water shortage. Already, the National Drought and Management Authority has issued an alert over emaciation of livestock and a decline in milk production. The Meteorological Department in its March forecast showed there would be drought conditions in much of Northeastern. In January, the NDMA said storage and water sources were being depleted following failed October-November-December rains. Kassim said the livestock sector was the economic backbone of the residents hence should be given the attention and seriousness it deserves. “We all know that it’s the national government that controls the biggest chunk of funds. They should move with speed and provide assistance to our people. We don’t want to witness a last-minute rush to assist as has been the case,” Kassim said. He asked the county to prudently use what they have to reach out to all corners of the county and assist drought-stricken residents. “Let our people feel that they have an administration that not only cares for them but is there at their hour of need.” Kassim spoke to the press after visiting Sitawario and Wajir for for drought response and recovery initiatives. He regretted that the drought had become a cyclic problem. Pastoralists should be encouraged to diversify and venture into crop farming, he said. Last week the MP urged school heads not to send students back home for fees because the drought and Covid-19 pandemic have made life difficult for parents. He issued bursary cheques to students from 129 schools. Kassim said a majority of parents depend on livestock to raise school fees for their children but that they were not able to sell the animals because of poor prices. Kassim said his office will undertake electrification, water and sanitation projects to Stawario and Wajir Bor areas to build communities’ resilience to recurring drought. “Once completed, the water project will reduce the daily burden of water collection that falls on women and children. The incidence of water related disease will decline and local farmers will be able to increase crop production,” he said.  (edited by o. owino) 