I want to agree with the three colleagues who have spoken before me — honourables Aden Duale [Garissa Township], John Mbadi [Suba South] and Junet Mohamed [Suna East]. We are worried as a House. The high-powered joint Justice and Legal Affairs Committees of the Senate and the National Assembly did not understand the mandate we gave and their terms of reference. The terms of reference show the committee was to table a report today (Tuesday). The two committees finished conducting public participation last Thursday and were expected to table their report. The committee has no business coming to amend or propose fresh terms of reference, where they are giving themselves sweeping powers, which they do not have. As per the Article 257 of the Constitution, when you are going direct to the people, the House only plays a ceremonial role. An amendment to the Constitution was proposed by a popular initiative and signed by at least one million registered voters. You cannot expand the mandate of the joint committee to include the things the chairman of the committee is talking about. That there were referendum issues, litigation, public participation and Constitution and governance issues. He actually called them extensive issues. Now that the chairman of the committee did not have the opportunity to amend what he was requesting, he just wanted an extension of the period within which they should have submitted their report. He is asking for an indefinite period which the House may not be willing to give because we do not want to open that kind of gate. I want to give an example from the Bible in the Book of Genesis during the construction of the Tower of Babel. When they came together to build the tower to avoid a second flood, the people did not know their mandate. It is for that reason, Mr Speaker that I ask the House to intercept the report of the committee or have it tabled next week. If that is not possible, committee members should get out of the process. Igembe North MP Maoka Maore, the Deputy Majority Whip, made the remarks in Parliament