The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued travel restrictions to passengers from two African countries who are planning to travel to the US. In a statement, CDC said that from March 4, 2021, airlines and other aircraft operators will be required to collect and transmit contact information to CDC for all passengers boarding flights from DRC and Guinea within 21 days before their arrival to the US. It said that the move is for appropriate public health follow-up and intervention following an outbreak of Ebola Virus Disease (Ebola) in the two countries. The centre said the ability to identify and locate people in the US who may have been exposed to a communicable disease, such as Ebola, abroad is critical to help prevent the spread of disease within US communities. “Having access to travellers’ contact information will allow US federal, state, and local health departments and agencies to provide health information, monitor travellers for signs and symptoms of Ebola, and ensure those who develop symptoms are quickly isolated and receive appropriate medical evaluation and care,” part of the CDC statement reads. The order follows the February 2020 interim final rule that authorized CDC to require airlines and other aircraft operators to collect certain data from passengers before they board a flight to the US, and to provide the information to CDC within 24 hours of a CDC order. “Timely public health follow-up requires health officials to have immediate access to accurate and complete contact information for travellers as they arrive in the US,” said CDC Director Dr Rochelle Walensky. Dr Walensky added that “Inaccurate or incomplete contact information reduces the ability of public health authorities to swiftly protect the health of travellers and the public. Any delay in contacting exposed individuals can increase the likelihood of disease spread.” According to CDC, air travel has the potential to transport people, some of whom may have been exposed to a communicable disease, anywhere across the globe in less than 24 hours. It also said that in certain situations, public health officials may need to follow up with travellers who have arrived from a country where an outbreak is occurring, such as the Ebola outbreaks in DRC and Guinea. CDC has further identified the minimum amount of information needed to locate travellers reliably after they arrive in the US. The information required includes full name, address while in the US, primary contact phone number, secondary or emergency contact phone number, and email address. Airlines and other aircraft operators will collect this information and submit it electronically, to enable CDC to receive this data in a timely manner. Further, the US will begin to redirect air passengers from DRC and Guinea to six US airports where over 96 per cent of air passengers from these countries already arrive. The six airports include New York (JFK), Chicago (ORD), Atlanta (ATL), Washington D.C. (IAD), Newark (EWR), and Los Angeles (LAX).