Haki Africa has asked the government to abolish taxes on 20 commodities including petrol, diesel, kerosene, flour and sanitary towels. It also wants Parliament to review the law that provides the formula for calculating fuel prices. The lobby group said the high fuel prices have made life difficult and the government should do something to lessen the burden on Kenyans. The group said the government should introduce Robin Hood tax to take from the rich and share with the poor. Executive director Hussein Khalid said the government should use the money for the development of the country. Free Kenya Movement leader Bob Njagi said fuel is the most used commodity by all businesses and a hike in the price is highly burdening the ordinary mwananchi. “If the government does not react, we will be forced to mobilise mass action across the country to ensure our rights are tended to," Njagi said on Friday in Nairobi. On March 14, the  Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) reviewed the fuel prices upwards. Prices of petrol, diesel and kerosene increased by Sh7.63, Sh5.75 and Sh5.41 per litre, respectively. The landed cost of a litre of petrol last month was Sh49.84, Sh46.82 for diesel and Sh42.96 for kerosene. The three products will be retailing at Sh122.81, Sh107.66 and Sh97.85, respectively, in Nairobi, as Kenyans pay nine different taxes and levies on the products. They include excise duty of Sh12.95 per litre of petrol and Sh11.37 on a litre of diesel and kerosene. “If motorists decide to hike transport cost by 15 per cent, then it is the ordinary mwananchi that will suffer," activist Yasa Yasin said. The Kenya Transporters Association has already advised its members to increase transport cost by 15 per cent. “The financial crisis currently faced in Kenya is the main reason to an increase of mental stability leading to an increase in suicide cases as well as increasing crime rates among the youth in the country," Njagi said. “Since Kenya laws criminalise suicide, this fact causes communities to hide cases related to suicide for fear of arrest or stigma.”    