Embattled Kenyan ambassador to Seoul, South Korea Mwende Mwinzi now has 10 days to make up her mind over her citizenship or lose her job. Foreign Affairs PS Macharia Kamau on Friday told Parliament that they have written to Mwinzi over her dual citizenship and will report to the Parliamentary committee on her response within the next 10 days. Mwinzi has been having trouble with Parliament over her dual-citizenship. During her vetting, the lawmakers approved her nomination with a caveat that she denounced her US citizenship. She was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to a Kenyan father and an American mother. Mwinzi however went to court to challenge the MPs' verdict. Macharia was appearing alongside Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo before the National Assembly Committee on Implementation regarding the implementation status of the House resolution on the conditional approval of Mwinzi as an Ambassador to Seoul, South Korea. “We have written to her to ask her the same question. We had to do so because until we triggered the appointment, it was impossible for her to say that I want this job or I want to retain my citizenship. This is the conundrum we were putting on her,” Kamau said. Omamo during a closed door session confirmed that Mwinzi had reported to South Korea. “She confirmed that the lady has reported. As a committee we made it clear that we are not varying the resolution of the early committee. We have asked the ministry to write to her and give the status of her citizenship,” an MP who attended the closed door session said. Last month the issue of Mwinzi's reporting to her work station against the resolution of Parliament angered MPs after it emerged that she had assumed her duty amid a row on her dual citizenship. The matter was raised by Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei. Mwinzi had presented her credentials to South Korea President Moon Jae-In. South Korea Foreign ministry released several photos where Mwinzi posed with Jae-In after presenting her credentials. “This matter has threatened to create a rift between Parliament and the Executive. It has come to our notice that the lady has been dispatched to South Korea,"Narok North MP Moitalel ole Kenta said. "We want to know if this is the position and whether she has renounced her citizenship and if not, how did she ended up as ambassador to South Korea?” he posed. Mwinzi went to court to stop MPs from forcing her to renounce her US citizenship as a condition for taking up the job, she argued that the caveat would have violated her constitutional rights. In a ruling dated November 14, 2019, Justice James Makau said “No one chooses his/her place of birth or parents” The court ruled that Mwinzi did not have to renounce her American citizenship to take up the job. Makau further noted that an ambassador is not a State officer, but a public officer and hence is not required by law to renounce one citizenship. MPs had cited section 31 (1) of the Leadership and Integrity Act, which bars persons with dual citizenship from holding State offices unless they renounce one. Also, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi in his communication to members later on stated that the fate of Mwinzi lied with the President and not the House. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 