A widower has sued Mater Hospital for detaining his wife's body over Sh3.5 million bill. Nyabuti Maina says despite paying half of the bill, the hospital has declined to release the body of Priskillah Kemunto demanding the arrears be cleared first. Kemunto died on January 8 after incurring a Sh7 million hospital bill, part of which has been settled. She was admitted to the hospital in a coma on November 9 last year and immediately taken to the high dependency unit. On the eighth day, she recovered from the coma and was transferred to the general ward. However, after two weeks, her health deteriorated and she was taken back to the HDU. She was there for three days before being moved to the intensive care unit where she later died. The hospital has since been charging a daily mortuary fee of Sh1,600, leading to the accumulation of the bill. Maina wants the court to order for the release of the body for interment. “The respondent (hospital) continues to unlawfully, illegally and improperly detain the remains of Priskillah Kemunto Oendo to emotionally depress, oppress and blackmail me or my family members for its commercial gain, yet it cannot auction the cadaver or the remains to recover its dues," he said in an affidavit. "I keep seeing the deceased at night while sleeping, she keeps asking me why I have not buried her which has caused a lot of psychological trauma." Maina wants the court to stop the hospital from levying morgue fees on account of keeping the body. Also sought is a declaration that detention as security for debt payment is contrary to the public policy on health. He says he has shown willingness to clear the bill but has reached a dead end as he was partly dependent on his wife. “On February 15, 2021, I wrote to the respondent for a consideration of Sh2,000,000, which I had fundraised from relatives, friends, family and well-wishers,” the affidavit reads. He says the hospital has the option of seizing his wife’s estate but insists on detaining the body. The hospital had yet to file its response.