The government is accelerating planting of more than 2 billion trees to raise the national forest cover from 7.2 per cent to 10. Environment Principal Secretary Chris Kiptoo said the government has set up several measures to ensure the country attains the target by end of next year. He spoke in Eldoret during an inspection tour of Eldoret Arboretum with Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago. “We have a strategy in place for achieving the 10 per cent tree cover by 2022. The strategy is first to have as many seedlings as possible and then involve all stakeholders in planting them,” Kiptoo said. He also revealed that the government has already approved the expansion of the Kenya Forestry Research Institute from the current six centres to 16 as part of efforts to attain the required minimum tree cover. “Through expansion we want Kefri to train more staff and provide the necessary expertise that will enable us implement the strategy we have,” he said. Kiptoo said the state is working with all counties in the plan to plant more trees. Each has been given a target of planting more than 43 million trees as part of the collective efforts to get to 10 per cent tree cover. The PS welcomed the setting up of the arboretum and said the ministry would soon sign an agreement with the county on supporting the plan to develop and upgrade the arboretum in Eldoret to international standards. “We want to have footpaths, benches and modern toilets at this place so that it is of the international standards required,” Kiptoo said. Governor Mandago affirmed his administration’s commitment to working with the national government to attain the 10 per cent forest cover. “We will set up committees in every ward, subcounty and villages so that we increase the forest cover,” Mandago said. He also noted that the arboretum will play a key role in the push for Eldoret town to be elevated to a city. “Under Urban Cities Act, it is a required for a city to have public places and with the help of KFS we want the arboretum here to be in a good state . We will also expand the Sosiani Park in the town,” Mandago said. The governor revealed plans by his administration to request the winding up of the Central primary and secondary schools so that the space the two schools currently hold can be turned into a park. “We have GK Magereza primary and secondary, Uasin Gishu, Kapsoya, Sosiani , Umoja and several other schools around the town. We don’t need to have a school in the middle of the CBD,” Mandago said. The county boss called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider enhancing the Kazi Mtaani initiative so as to have youths help in tree planting. Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said the idea of setting up an arboretum in Eldoret was informed by lack of a place for the citizens to relax.  Edited by Henry Makori