The upgrading of sports and recreational facilities at Jomo Kenyatta Sports grounds in Kisumu is on course, an official has said. Kenya Urban Support Programme coordinator Charles Omollo said the works are progressing well and within the contract’s timeframe. Landscaping and walling off the facility are nearing completion. The contractor, he said, has also done walkways and planted natural grass. Omollo said the facelift targets by Brama Logistics Limited will modernise the facility to international standards. The Sh111 million project, which is funded by KUSP from World Bank, is expected to be completed by September. The upgrade is a partnership between the Kisumu county government and the national government. “We signed the contract with Brama Logistics Limited in September last year. Upon completion the contractor will still be on site for another year for maintenance,” Omollo said. There is a proposal to rename the facility to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga recreational Sports Center, although it has not been done officially. The upgrade will include an ultramodern football pitch, refurbishment of Od Mikayi, canopy shades, open event garden, tennis court, hockey pitch, fountain and restaurants. Other facilities are changing rooms, modern ablution blocs, sports and leisure gym, drip irrigation, automated ticketing system and monuments to honour heroes. Upon completion, Omollo said the football, hockey, volleyball, basketball and netball pitches which are currently dilapidated will be modernised as per international standards. He said the hockey pitch will come with artificial turf. In 2018, the county renovated the two basketball courts but are now in a dilapidated state. “We are going to rehabilitate the pond. The works include cleaning and disinfecting the pond water to hygienic approvals, repairing the water circulations system in the pond including the pumping and filtration system,” Omollo said. He said a restaurant will also be built at the pond area adjacent to the food court at the hawker's sheds. “We are still looking at the design of having a floating restaurant at the pond and if it can fit within the project’s budget,” Omollo said. At Od Mikayi, a hardscape will be installed on the front side to form a platform for functions. The facility, he said, will have modern gates with security booths installed. Brama Logistics Limited managing director Bob Ndolo expressed confidence that they will complete the project within the stipulated time. In phase one of the project, he said they have achieved their target as required. “A lot of work has been done and we are moving on well,” Ndolo said. He said the current football pitch will be rehabilitated to host Ligi Ndogo matches. “The pitch will have spectator stands and areas for technical bench and reserve players to sit,” Ndolo said. Last year, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed said the government was committed to upgrading Moi Stadium and Jomo Kenyatta Sports ground. Edited by Kiilu Damaris