Detectives have arrested two more suspects in connection with the murder of businesswoman Caroline Wanjiku. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations said their team arrested the two at Suneka in Kisii county. The duo includes a 17-year-old. The team drawn from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau, Special Service Unit, DCI Dagoretti and their Kisii counterparts acted on intelligence and tracked down two mobile phones previously paired to the deceased's simcards in Kebuye village. The first phone — a Samsung Galaxy A20S — was traced to a matatu tout named Justus Nyamete Manyura alias Dennis Ongingo. He is a tout with Safeline Sacco that plies the Kibera route in Nairobi. The minor was identified as a male student at St. Lawrence Nyabieyo Secondary School. He was arrested with the second phone — of Oppo make — which had also been paired to a third simcard registered under the name of Jonah Munyao Gato. Both mobile phones were previously paired to Safaricom lines registered under Wanjiku's particulars, and which she used in her online transactions and communication. “Detectives are probing to establish how the two suspects got possession of the handsets, hence they remain in our custody assisting with further investigations,” the DCI said in a tweet. Wanjiku was abducted by unknown people two weeks ago. The body was discovered two days after her abduction by Kajiado locals who alerted police. In the February 13 report at Muthangari police station, Wanjiku's Toyota Axio car was found abandoned in Nairobi's Kawangware area near Gatina Primary School, a day after she went missing. Heightened investigations showed that prior to her disappearance, she had withdrawn Sh350,000 from a bank in Nairobi, before proceeding to a meeting for a ‘business deal.’ She made a phone call to a female friend, explaining her meeting with one of the suspects was to guide her into boosting her Stima Sacco shares with the withdrawn amount. But once at Ngara, the venue of the meeting, she was forced into a black Toyota Crown car in which one of the suspects was waiting. She was sandwiched by the other suspects and handcuffed. Suspects Mercy Gitiri Mongo, Edwin Odiwuor, Samuel Adinda, and Stevenson Ouma were arrested in connection with the murder. 