When Foreign Affairs CAS Ababu Namwamba was appointed the Sports minister in 2012, he was a greenhorn in government. Luckily, his Permanent Secretary James Waweru was a long-time provincial administrator. The veteran taught Namwamba the ropes. Waweru was the Provincial Commissioner for Nairobi from 2006 to 2009. When Kibaki government exited office, he became the founding chairman of the Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya. The Jubilee Party executive director died on Tuesday while receiving treatment at the Karen Hospital, aged 66. His son Victor Waweru said he succumbed to a cardiac arrest. The former PS is survived by his wife Cecilia Muthoni and five children. At the time of Namwamba's appointment, Waweru had served as Sports PS from 2009 under minister Hellen Sambili. At the news of his death, Namwamba recounted his experience with Waweru, saying as his PS he “always guaranteed discipline, loyalty, attention to detail, dedication to duty, depth of knowledge and incredible patriotism.” “James inducted me in the workings of government and Cabinet and together we achieved ministerial landmarks,” he added. Among the achievements the two attained together include enacting “the long-desired Sports Act, expansion of the National Youth Enterprise Fund and launching of the National Youth Council.” Namwamba said they also streamlined the National Youth Service. Waweru's style of administration was working behind the scenes, letting his work to speak out. At Jubilee headquarters, very little was heard from him and not many people can attach his name to face. President Uhuru Kenyatta mourned Waweru as one of the country’s seasoned administrators who serve with “commitment, personal discipline and loyalty to the country [that] saw him rise through the ranks to be become a top public administrator.” "As the ruling Jubilee Party, we've lost a trusted, loyal and efficient leader whose contribution, as the most senior executive, has ensured our stability and progress," he said. His son Victor described his father as loving family man who valued integrity and hard work. "My dad liked working in the background and did not want to take any glory. He was heavily involved in Jubilee, helping people with campaigns but no one knew," he said. Edited by Henry Makori