Greenpeace Africa has demanded that Nema designs and implements proper waste management infrastructure including proper sewage and drainage systems for settlements near the lakes. This follows the recent calamity of poisoned fish in Lake Nakuru and Lake Victoria. Greenpeace Africa wants the National Environment Management Authority to commit to stopping pollution in Lake Nakuru and Lake Victoria. "Relocate sewage treatment plants in Lake Nakuru to a location that will not lead to the mixing of lake water and raw sewage whenever water rises in the lake," it said. In a statement on Monday, Greenpeace said Nema should also implement policies that regulate the disposal of industrial and municipal waste by ensuring that all waste is properly treated before disposal to avoid pollution. Piles of dead Nile perch have been washing up on the shores of Lake Victoria in Uganda and Kenya, threatening the livelihoods of the surrounding communities. There has also been several incidents of fish dying in Lake Nakuru, prompting the government to issue  a warning on consumption of fish from Lake Nakuru citing poisoning from sewage. Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute said tilapia and other fish from Lake Nakuru are poisonous and unfit for human consumption. Barely three months after fishing in the lake started, the research institute said consumption of Nakuru fish will have serious health effects on consumers. Fishing has been declared illegal. “Pollution is leading to fish poisoning threatening both the health of consumers and the livelihood of communities living around Lake Nakuru and Victoria,” said Amos Wemanya, Greenpeace Africa Campaigner. “Raw Sewage is contaminating our lakes, poisoning our fish and poisoning our children, Nema needs to step up and protect the lakes from perennial pollution,” he said. The Lakes have for a long time been a sink to excessive nutrients and untreated effluent that have led to fish die-offs, algal blooms and the spread of hyacinth, a ferocious waterweed. Flooding episodes around the lakes is exacerbating the existing pollution menace. This has continued to negatively impact millions of people in Uganda, Tanzania and Kenya who depend on Lake Victoria and Lake Nakuru for their livelihood. "The rising lake water in Nakuru mixes with the raw sewage in neighbouring sewage treatment ponds leading to pollution that puts the lives of those who live close to the lake at risk,”he said. NEMA has the mandate and power to implement laws and policies that protect Kenya’s rivers, wetlands and lakes from pollution.