Murang’a county health workers are wary about the Covid-19 vaccine even as the virus continues to ravage the country. A majority of them have kept off the vaccination centres. The county has at least 3,000 health workers but only 300 have received the vaccine. This has resulted in a slow uptake of the vaccine even as government officials continue to downplay allegations that the vaccine could have some side effects. Health executive Joseph Mbai on Wednesday urged health workers to take the jab and dismiss lies being peddled about it. “Adequate tests have been done and the vaccine has been certified. I am asking all health workers to come out and be vaccinated to safeguard their lives as frontline workers,” he said. The CEC launched the vaccination programme on March 11 after the county received 3,000 vaccines from the national government. Mbai said the vaccine has the potential to save lives and asked Kenyans to stop spreading misguided fears about it. The vaccine, he said, has been used in other countries with success and that health workers have no reason to avoid it, save for the little pain and irritation that is expected of every vaccination. He urged those vaccinated to ensure they take their second dose after eight weeks adding that teachers and security officers will be factored in the second phase of the programme while in the third, the public will be vaccinated. The county has lost 25 patients to the virus since the onset of the pandemic with a total of 788 people testing positive. According to a report by the Ministry of Health, the county lost two on Wednesday while four recovered and were discharged from health facilities, bringing the total number of recoveries and discharges to 730. Kiharu subcounty is leading with the number of reported infections with 328 while Maragua follows with 165. Gatanga is third with 77 patients, Mathioya has 67, Kigumo has 56, Kandara has 54 while Kangema is last with 41 reported cases. Currently, three peole are admitted to isolation centres while one is in ICU and four suspected cases are admitted to isolation facilities awaiting results. The county has 22 patients under home-based isolation and care. About 24 per cent of the reported cases are aged between 30 and 39 years. Men have been the worst-hit by the pandemic as they represent 62 per cent of the reported cases and only 6 of the deceased are women. Among the 25 mortalities, eight had co-morbid conditions, six did not while 11 had missing data. With over 4,398 samples collected, about 1,452 contacts have been listed with 33 being under follow up. The AstraZeneca vaccine has hit roadblocks after several countries suspended its use over concerns that it may cause blood clots in some people.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris