Candidates in the Matungu by-election engaged in the final campaigns on Monday. Trucks mounted with public address systems were seen crisscrossing the constituency. The official campaign period closes at midnight on Monday. The election is set for Thursday. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi joined his candidate Peter Nabulindo in the final mobilisation where he campaigned at Ekama area, Namulungu ACK and Musambaa. Mudavadi asked youths to transform themselves into a security team to guard the vote after casting their ballot. He said that the vote for Nabulindo was the key to changing Western leadership. He asked residents of Matungu to ignore pleas by Kakamega governor Wycliffe Oparanya that victory for ODM will enable him move to national leadership. "Oparanya cannot come here and cheat you that he wants to be president because ODM leader Raila Odinga's brother Oburu Odinga has already declared that Raila will be on the ballot in 2022," he said. Mudavadi said that Nabulindo election will be a major political statement by the Luhya community. Senator Cleophas Malala and MPs Ernest Ogesi, Beatrice Adagala, Titus Khamala and Alfred Agoi, KNUN secretary general Seth Panyaco and activist Stanley Livindo accompanied Mudavadi. Malaba said that the Matungu vote is a vote for restoration of the Luhya community pride. He said that victory in Matungu will give Mudavadi traction in he presidential bid. He alleged there was a plot to rig the election after sensing defeat. "They are buying ID cards and planning to deploy goons from Kisumu to disrupt the counting," Malaba said. Khamala said that time to balkanise the Luhya community is long gone and those who have been riding on the community should learn to stand on their own. ODM ended its campaign rallies on Sunday at Mwira grounds with Oparanya addressing the crowd. Party leader Raila Odinga rallied support for David Were on Friday. On Monday, ODM deployed MCAs in their respective wards to engage voters in the final plea to voters. Other candidates opted for the door to door approach to make their last pitch for votes. The by-election has attracted 15 candidates including nine independents. The campaigns have been largely peaceful. The Matungu returning officer John Kirui said that all is set for the by-election.