Muguga MCA Eliud Ngugi will be buried on Friday at his Cira farm in Kabete constituency, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro has said. Nyoro spoke at Ngugi’s home, where he attended a meeting by the funeral committee led by Nyathuna MCA Edward Kinyanjui. Ngugi alias Thithia succumbed to Covid-19 complications at the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital. The governor said the service will be held at St Kevin Catholic Church field before mourners proceed to his farm. “No politician will be allowed to address the gathering since time will strictly be observed,” Nyoro said. He said his administration will not allow foods and drinks for mourners or during the funeral except for the family members. Nyoro said this was to observe instructions issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta during his address to the nation on reducing new infections. “We want to give Ngugi his last respects. We do not want to hear that people were infected with coronavirus at his funeral. We shall ensure there is plenty of water and soap for handwashing, no food or drinks will be cooked,” Nyoro said. The county boss urged residents to take extra care of themselves, saying his government has laid strategies for handling the new wave of coronavirus infection. He revealed that Tigoni hospital has been reverted to being the county Covid-19 centre. The hospital resumed normal operations in February after the coronavirus infections went gone down. Nyoro revealed that the county had 1,000 beds in different hospitals and enough ventilators were ready to assist Covid-19 patients. He was accompanied by Kabete MP Githua Wamacukuru, assembly speaker Stephen Ndichu, MCAs Edward Kinyanjui (Nyathuna), Samuel Kimani (Kinoo), Joseph Kahenya (Limuru Central) majority leader Gideon Gachara who is also Ndeiya MCA among others. Nyoro told mourners that his administration has agreed with his family not to transfer his body to a nearer morgue and that it would remain at Kenyatta Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital, as burial arrangements continue. Wamacukuru described Ngugi as a leader who was loved by locals since he served with a lot of respect, saying he will live to be remembered. “Let us keep praying for his family and observe the guidelines given by the Ministry of Health so that we can be safe,” Nyoro said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris