Deputy President William Ruto has said he cannot rule out reuniting with ODM leader Raila Odinga ahead of the 2022 General Elections. Ruto, in an interview with Radio Citizen on Thursday, said he is ready and willing to work with all like-minded politicians who share his dream for the country. “Anybody who wants to join us to fight poverty and other things that ail the country is welcome,” Ruto stated. He added that if Raila agrees with his manifesto and his belief that poverty should be fought from the bottom to the top, they could work together. “We have our plans, if he believes in us, we will agree and work together,” the Deputy President added. His remarks come barely three weeks after Raila's elder brother Oburu Oginga said the ODM leader may work with the Deputy President in the 2022 elections. This was after rumours surfaced that Raila and Ruto could be talking behind the scenes. The East African Legislative Assembly MP said Raila and Ruto differ politically but explained nothing stops them from working together. There has also been speculation that President Uhuru Kenyatta's ultimate choice of a successor could reunite his deputy with Raila. The President has never pronounced himself publicly on his successor, but some of his close associates are reportedly pushing for a Musalia Mudavadi presidency. On Thursday, Ruto pointed out that the differences between him and the ODM leader are only political. “There are many things agree with him totally. For example, I agree with him when he says political parties should be national and not regional,” he stated. Ruto censured Raila's coalition partners Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) for seemingly pushing for regional parties. Raila has been left out in a new alliance of Kalonzo, Mudavadi, Wetang'ula and Gideon Moi (Kanu), which is said to have the backing of Uhuru allies a Raila and Ruto worked together during the 2007 elections. They were both members of the Pentagon—a powerful five-member ODM summit. The Pentagon comprised Raila, Ruto, Mudavadi, Tourism CS Najib Balala and the late Cabinet Minister Joe Nyaga. Narc leader Charity Ngilu also joined the team. The Presidential election results were disputed, leading to the formation of a grand coalition government. Ruto served as Minister for Agriculture and Raila as Prime Minister in the Grand Coalition coalition government. The two then went separate ways Ruto going to UDM before settling down in United Republican Party, an outfit through which he entered into a political marriage with then-Deputy Prime Minister and TNA leader Uhuru.