An  82-year-old woman is appealing for funds to clear a Sh480,000 hospital bill after her relatives abandoned her at a private hospital in Mavoko, Machakos county. Agnes Nziani said she was on February 7 taken to Katani Hospital by her relatives who have since disappeared. Nziani said she was taken to the hospital from her rural home in Ikolomani, Kakamega county, by the relatives after they heard the hospital was well equipped and could get treatment for her ailment. “I was taken to several hospitals in Kakamega but did't get the help I needed. I was later brought here at Katani Hospital where I have been treated, I am yet to pay for the treatment since I don’t have money,” Nziani told the Star in her hospital bed on Sunday. Nziani was admitted at the facility with a broken hip that was operated on and fixed. She added: “I am requesting for assistance to help me clear the Sh480,000 medical bill. I want to return home since I have been treated and can walk.” Jackline Tabi, one of Nziani's daughters, said their mother fell and broke her hip. Tabi said she has been looking for money to settle the bill but has not yet been successful. She also said her four siblings whereabouts are unknown as some had not been in touch for over 10 years. “Our mother broke her hip while at home. We tried to take her to several hospitals but she wasn’t treated. Only an X-ray was done on her in one of the hospitals. We heard about Katani Hospital and brought her here where she has been treated,” Tabi said. She added, “She has been treated and ready for discharge but we are unable to settle hospital bill. I have even tried selling my mother's land in vain," she said. Katani Hospital CEO Modesta Vesonder said the woman was dropped at the hospital by a car on February 7 and the occupants, save for the daughter who helped in processing her admission, left immediately. “The patient was frail and weak when she was brought in. She was put on antibiotics as part of her treatment, she had to be hydrated and other medication given. She has been treated and ready for discharge,” she said. Vesonder added:“Right now she has a leftoral epictorial hip replacement done, she underwent the procedure well and now undergoing physical therapy. I am happy to see that at her age she was able to endure the procedure.” She confirmed Sh480,000 as her pending hospital bill saying: “The woman hasn’t paid anything, she says her children are jobless while some had disappeared for long. We hope she can eventually be able to clear the bill,” Vesonder said. "The patient can be assisted through the hospital's pay bill number 753126 and the facility's management can be reached on 0759636717," the CEO said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 