ODM communications director Philip Etale has announced that he is Covid19 positive even as those who interacted with Raila Odinga at the Coast tour take tests. Etale, who was with party leader Raila Odinga during the former Prime Minister’s whirlwind tours of the Coast region, announced that he had the virus on his social media accounts. “Although devastated, I remain strong, determined, and in high spirits. By his stripes I will triumph, I will be healed. Please pray for me dear friends,” Etale said. Raila’s doctor David Olunya announced on his positive test on March 11 saying the former PM was responding well to treatment and was upbeat. In a statement, Raila called on Kenyans to observe all the measures being put out by the government, scientists, and health personnel. ODM insiders intimated to the Star that those who interacted with Raila have been asked to take the tests, go into self-quarantine. A number of the said persons attended the public participation forum held at the Senate to deliberate on the Building Bridges Initiative bill. A number of Raila allies who accompanied him for the tour have taken the tests, of which some were cleared to travel out of the country. About 30 staffers at Raila's Capitol Hill offices have also taken the tests and sent on self-quarantine. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko travelled to Dubai on official duty after testing negative for the virus. Sources around Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho told the Star that the county chief travelled to Zanzibar after testing negative. Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, who accompanied Raila to Coast, cancelled his activities in Homa Bay and has gone into self-quarantine. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who was among key figures in the ODM leader’s tours, said he’d take the tests but exuded the confidence he was out of danger. Health experts on Wednesday called on citizens to be wary as the country was experiencing a third wave of mass Covid19 infections. The infections hit the peak in June and July, decreased sharply in dates to September before hitting another high in November. The numbers were low in January and February but recorded a steady rise in March, stretching the country’s limited high-dependency units. Kenya’s cases stood at 111,935 as of Friday after 750 more tested positive to the disease. Nairobi had the highest number of cases. The death toll of the disease hit 1,901 after two died; while 632 are currently admitted to various health facilities countrywide. At least 88,209 recovered. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday escalated measures to contain the virus, spelling a ban on all political rallies that are deemed ‘super spreaders. The government also extended the night curfew by a further 60 days; with burials having to be conducted within 72 hours of death. Attendance to family gatherings and funerals is capped at 100 while a gathering of faithful will be limited to a third of their worship places’ capacity. Bars and restaurants will be closed by 9 pm with only construction sites, factories working night shifts, and essential workers spared the curfew restrictions. The crisis has seen court stations closed and staff sent on self-quarantine. The Mavoko law court was closed after a staffer died of Covid19. The Family Division at the Milimani law court was also closed after three tested positive.