Zoo Kericho head coach Herman Iswekha was over the moon after his charges squeezed out a crucial point from a highly-rated KCB side during their closely contested Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Utalii Grounds on Sunday. "It's most certainly a big plus for us considering we picked a point against one of the league's frontrunners. I urge my players to maintain the strength going into our next matches," observed Iswekha. KCB enterprising forward Derrick Otanga was disappointed that his goal wasn't enough to slaughter the visitors, who have struggled to make a good impression this campaign. "I still can't believe we failed to win this match which, to me, should have been a walk in the park. To some extent, it has impacted negatively on our chances at the title this season," said a visibly dejected Otanga. Zoo, looking uncharacteristically composed in the match, started off the better side as Sammy Ggolola and Matthew Tayo strung together crisp passes that easily exposed the bankers' defence and made goalkeeper Gabriel Andika vulnerable. After settling in the match, the bankers advanced a raging storm into their opponents' territory. Henry Onyango should have broken the deadlock in the 19th minute but his connecting header from Reagan Otieno's rasping cross swirled inches off the bull's eye. Minutes later David Owino picked out Simon Munala with a pinpointed pass on the counter. The bankers' skipper rued his benevolence after his decision to set up Otanga instead of finishing the job himself denied them yet another opportunity. And shortly after the breather, KCB got a breakthrough when Otanga pounced on a loose ball for the bankers first after Zoo defenders failed to clear Otieno's well-delivered cross from the left channel, the midfielder having initially pulled off a cheeky stunt on Pascal Ogweno, leaving him breathless and sprawling helplessly on the ground. Determined and resilient, Zoo stuck to their guns and ultimately caged the hosts in the 60th minute when Castro Likhanga found himself isolated in a strategic position to nod in the equaliser from an enticing Daniel Kiprono's cross. Elsewhere, Alex Opuku's goal was sufficient for Kakamega Homeboyz to sink Sofapaka at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega as Nzoia Sugar and Ulinzi played out to one-all draw at Mumias Complex. Joseph Njuguna came on the end of Daniel Waweru's nicely-floated cross to nestle the ball finely in the corner of the net for Ulinzi's opening goal before James Kibande pounced on a rebound to level the terms for the hosts 10 minutes to the break.