Vihiga Queens coach Alex Alumira has challenged teenage sensation, Anne Norah, to hit the ground running following her debut goal in their 4-0 win against Oserian in Naivasha on Sunday. The 17-year old marked her debut by coming off the bench in the remaining five minutes to score the last goal. Topista Situma and Phoebe Owiti had given the defending champions a 2-0 lead at halftime before the red-hot Tereza Engesha scored five minutes after the restart. Commenting on the win, Alumira said: "Every win is important and three more points is a step in the right direction. I am pleased that Norah scored. She's young but her potential is limitless. She just needs to remain focused, work hard and everything will fall in place for her." Unbeaten Queens' have 28 points from 10 matches and will get a welcome distraction when they face Bunyore Starlets in the inaugural FKF Women's Cup this weekend. His Oserian counterpart, Hudson Odari, lauded the opposition's display but remained optimistic his team will produce results to avoid the drop. "We tried our best but you cannot control the result. Vihiga had a good day and took their chances. The team will fight to the end because we still have a chance. Trans-Nzoia Falcons and SEP Oyugis, who are above us, lost their matches and we will try and get something from them when we face-off before the season ends," said Odari. Oserian remain seventh with eight points, Oyugis have nine while Trans-Nzoia have 14 points. In another match, Kisumu All Starlets ran riot at the Moi Stadium Kisumu, demolishing winless Eldoret Falcons 5-1, condemning the Uasin Gishu side to their 10th consecutive loss. Trizah Akoth scored twice while Ann Anyango and Monica Etot managed one each. Falcons' goalkeeper scored an own goal from a Cynthia Akoth corner kick. With four matches remaining, Eldoret Falcons are staring at relegation. Elsewhere in Zone 'A', Makolanders boosted their chances of evading relegation with a 1-0 over Mathare United. Midfielder Rael Kamanda scored the all-important goal as Mike Okanga's side recorded their second win of the season. Makolanders remain second last from the table with eight points and will be targeting at least two wins to ensure safety.