Lawmakers have recommended biometric registration of all pensioners to avert loss of taxpayers’ money in fictitious payments by the Pension department. The Public Accounts Committee wants the National Treasury principal secretary to review the operations of the department and initiate the registration. MPs further want the PS to operationalise the pension payment management system within six months to seal loopholes used by unscrupulous officers to siphon funds. The committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi made the recommendation following revelation of payments to ‘ghost’ beneficiaries. PAC, in its review of the national government audit for the year ending June 2018, called for investigations into payments made to some Asian and European officers. During the period under review, it emerged that pension amounting to Sh58.6 million was indicated as having been paid to Asian and European officers. However, no individual officer files were made available to authenticate the payments, casting doubt on the part of the officers manning the scheme. Another case of Sh27.4 million paid to deceased persons was also discovered during the review, of which Sh12.6 million related to repeat payments to deceased persons bank accounts. The payments were made even after being returned by the receiving bank, a case which the auditor said should have been flagged in the first instance. The Auditor General said the Pension department should have suspended further payments into an account on return of the pension paid or sent. Auditors flagged another Sh20.8 million that was paid out to pensioners and dependents who could not be traced at their indicated areas of residence. Department of Pension’s records and physical verification by the auditor with the government administration representatives revealed the anomaly. PAC raised concerns of fraud as no individual officer files were made available to authenticate pension payment of Sh58.6 million to Asian and European Officers. “This is a pointer to opportunistic pension fraud incident,” the Wandayi-led team said. “There is a need to investigate the pension payment of Asian and European officers.” MPs, however, said the repeat payment of Sh12.58 million to deceased persons’ bank accounts was not intentional, though marked the query as unresolved. “There was no officer at the department perpetuating identity fraud for personal benefit,” the committee said in its report tabled in Parliament. The National Treasury had indicated it was in the process of undertaking biometric registration of all pensioners and dependents to ensure that only eligible pensioners were in the payroll. MPs also marked as unresolved payment of Sh20.3 million to Crown Agents for pre- and post-Independence pensioners residing in the United Kingdom. OAG said the expenditure was not adequately supported by way of payrolls detailing the said beneficiaries, hence the accuracy of the expenditure could not be confirmed. Treasury said the Pension Department agreed with Crown Agents to manage the accounts of pre- and post-Independence pensioners residing in the United Kingdom on its behalf. PS Julius Muia said the department relies on monthly reports from Crown Agents to make monthly payment schedules and payroll, indicating that the same was available for audit review. “Every year, the department receives copies of life certificates to confirm that the beneficiaries are alive. Field inspection is to be conducted on this matter,” the PS said. But PAC said that much as the details of the pensioners and payment schedules had been made available, there were no payrolls to back up the schedules hence marked the matter as unresolved. “The accounting officer should review the operations of the pensions by launching biometric registration of all pensioners,” the committee said. Also cast in doubt is Sh817 million on account of pension returns from previous years, a figure which Treasury said is supported by schedules of the returns from the banks. Muia said the schedules indicate pensioner number, the name and the amount adding that the returns from the banks are filed per bank in box files which are available at the department for audit. PAC said the department failed to provide a comprehensive schedule clearly supporting the balance in the financial statement and in the system. “The accounting officer should within three months of tabling and adoption of this report avail the comprehensive schedule clearly supporting the payables balance in the financial statement,” the Wandayi committee said. An overpayment of Sh86.6 million in gratuity payment for the military was also not resolved in the audit review by MPs. PAC said the matter is outstanding indicating that the error, which the PS attributed the query to, is likely to recur. Also outstanding is an expenditure of Sh1.3 billion which was funded from unspent balances for the year 2015-16.