The government could have lost tax millions in the procurement for Covid-19 items in Mombasa county. An audit report on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds shows the county awarded tenders worth millions to tax noncompliant firms and failed to withhold tax on all its procurements. Mombasa, initially of one of the hotspots, received Sh633.01 million from the government and donors to fight the virus. According to the report tabled in the Senate, the county awarded a Sh590,300 tender to Seliyani Ventures for supply and delivery of safety gear. However, the special audit established that the company was awarded the contract in March 2020 while the company’s tax compliance certificate had expired on January 31, 2020. Further, it was noted that Aidarus Commodities was awarded the tender for catering services for Covid-19 patients in the isolation centres at a cost of Sh1.91 million but it had not submitted tax compliance certificates. “The special audit established that Mombasa county was not withholding tax on all the payments to suppliers,” reads the report. This is contrary to Tax Procedures Act, section 42 (a) (1) that requires any procurement entity to withhold six per cent of the taxable value on purchasing taxable supplies at the time of payment. The audit also puts Governor Hassan Joho’s administration on the spot for dishing out tenders valued at Sh33.81 million to several firms without notifying them of the bidding process outcome. They include Kitui Flour Mills which was awarded a Sh28.75 million contracts to supply foods stuff (maize flour) for emergency household relief and natural support. Reidsville was awarded the contract to supply equipment used during Covid-19 response at a cost of Sh1.74 million. Mombasa awarded Classic Building Works a contract for installation of mass manual sanitising tents at a cost of Sh1.92 million, which was paid. Also not notified of the outcome of the bidding process but awarded a tender is Ruwaza Enterprises which supplied stationery at a cost of Sh954,784. Apicalmed was awarded a contract to supply monitors at a cost of Sh450,000, which was paid. In addition, the county procurement officials failed to appoint a tender opening and evaluation committee contrary to section 78 (1) of PPAD Act 2015. The auditor revealed the Mombasa paid out Sh3.19 million to 121 non-medical staff using money meant for health workers. This violated an advisory by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission that such allowances should only be paid to medical personnel. “The county management, however, explained that these employees were working in the hospitals and isolation centres, but their jobs had been wrongly defined in IPPD,” reads the report in part. Edited by Henry Makori