Two men who allegedly assaulted a caretaker have been charged with causing him grievous harm after they fractured his hand. Barnabas Ochunyi Akwela and Stephen Githae Chege were on Tuesday charged at a Makadara law court. They were accused of jointly and unlawfully injuring David Gikunju Ngatia on February 26 at Pangani area within Nairobi. According to the documents before the court, Ngatia had accompanied a contractor he had hired to renovate some houses when the two attacked him. The contractor escaped unhurt during the incident and sped off towards Pangani police station to report the incident. Ngatia was rescued by his son after he screamed for help. Akwela and  Chege denied the charges before principal magistrate Jackie Kibosia. Through his lawyer, Ngatia asked the court to deny the two bonds as he fears for his life due to the constant threats he has been receiving. The court ordered the two to remain in custody until the complainant testifies on March 19. Ngatia and the two suspects are embroiled in a tussle over allegations the latter  want to grab the property the caretaker is managing on behalf of his employer who lives in Ireland. Ngatia was on March 9 last year arraigned before the same court together with his son Zakayo Ngatia where they were charged with violently robbing  Akwela. They were accused of robbing Akwela of his two mobile phones all valued at Sh27,000 while armed with stones. The two were accused of committing the offence on February 26, 2020, in Pangani within Starehe Sub County. But Ngatia told the court how Akwela and Chege assaulted and broke his arm during the incident at the same premises and later made a false robbery complaint at the Pangani police station. He said Akwela was using police to harass him in a bid to take over the property and his (Ngatia’s) son was in court only because he came to his rescue when he was being beaten by the two. He further told Nyaga that he had lodged several complaints against Akwela and Chege at Pangani police station before the alleged robbery but the police never took action. He had a fractured hand and said he sustained the injury during the confrontation at the residential apartment. Nyaga released  Ngatia and his son on a free bond pending review of charges against them. The magistrate agreed with him because the incident happened during a commotion between tenants and directed the prosecution to re-look at the charges against the two.