The Kisumu county government has banned burials and cremations  at undesignated sites within the city. Acting City manager Abala Wanga said burials and cremations must be done at the designated cemeteries and crematoria. In a public notice on disposal of bodies dated March 2, 2021, Wanga said the city has identified and designated specific sites as official cemeteries and crematoria. They included Mamboleo, Muslim and Hindu crematorium. He said levies charged for burials and cremations cost Sh2,000 for adults for ground only. He said the ground and dug grave will cost Sh3,000. It will cost Sh1,500 for children for ground only and Sh2,000 for ground and dug grave. He said burials and cremations are prohibited in Mamboleo, Manyatta B, Market Milimani ward, Railways ward and Shaurimoyo Kaloleni ward. Other areas included Kondele, Migosi and Nyalenda B wards. “Residents of these areas are hereby notified of the prohibition of burial of bodies in unathourised places pursuant to section 144 (1) and (2) of the Public Health Act Cap 242,” Wanga said. He urged residents to adhere to the notice and ensure that burials and cremations are done at the designated sites in accordance to the Public Health Act and City Regulations. The acting city manager said any breach will amount to prosecution in a court of law. The ban has caused public uproar with residents saying it was ill-advised. Lawyer Joshua Nyamori said parts of Nyalenda, Manyatta, Obunga, Mamboleo, Kolwa, Kogony are ancestral villages, on freehold land regime. “Legal and cultural reforms backed by credible and well-orchestrated policy framework that is subjected to effective public participation, will be necessary before an attempt to regulate where and how to bury the dead in these area,” he said. Nyamori said: “As my respected senior JV Owiti opines elsewhere, the purported notice is ultra vires, null and void ab initio.” John Opiyo, a resident in Nyalenda said the public should be engaged before  the county implement the prohibition and cremation of bodies. “Nyalenda is our ancestral home. How can you prohibit us from burying our loved ones in our lands? That is unrealistic,” Opiyo said. Mary Auma from Manyatta B also opposed the ban saying it was done without public participation. “We must respect the dead and give them a decent burial next to their loved ones,” she said. Last year, Wanga said plans were underway to pass a law that will prohibit burials in the city. He said families in Manyatta, Obunga, Nyalenda, and Bandani slums were burying their loved ones within the estates. “This should not be the case. We are working on a bill to be tabled to the assembly,” Wanga said. He said Kisumu City Board will work closely with the County Assembly to enact a law that will prohibit such burials. Wanga, however, urged residents in slum areas to bury their loved ones in the gazetted cemetery in Mamboleo or take them to their rural homes. “Everybody who came to Kisumu must be ready to ferry their loved ones home for burial if they don’t want to bury at the cemetery,” Wanga said. He said the city status requires burials in the cemeteries and urged residents to comply once the law is put in place. Wanga said future plans for the expansion of roads and other amenities in the city may stall if burials within the estates are not stopped. He announced plans to draft waste management regulations that will ensure strict disposal and penalties. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara