The Environment and Land Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition by Buxton residents seeking to halt redevelopment of the estate. This paves the way for Buxton Point Apartment Ltd to move to the site and start the Sh6 billion project. The project involves demolition of the 502 units currently on the estate for construction of 1,860 new apartments. Justice Sila Munyao said Buxton estate was one of the 10 estates in a previous suit in 2016 where there was already a determination. “This court would not have jurisdiction to reopen those matters. I would be violating the res judicata principle,” he said. Munyao said the only thing that may have evolved since 2016 when a similar case was determined is the actual removal or the need for tenants to vacate. “That can only be subject to determination. I have assessed, therefore, whether the manner in which tenants are expected to vacate violates, in any way, their rights. I have not found any violation of their rights,” he ruled. The petitioners had argued that by being forced to vacate their fundamental rights would be violated. However, the developer had argued that they had conducted several meetings with the tenants and there was consensus on compensation for vacation during construction. Contrary to arguments by the petitioners, Justice Munyoa said the developer had proved that there was public participation, which a third party, Muslims for Human Rights, who had been enjoined in the case as an interested party, had confirmed. “There was public participation and meetings held. I have seen the minutes of the meetings and the attendants list of the public participation exercise,” said Munyao. The judge said the developer had gone out of his way to issue a 90-day notice of vacation despite the contract that the tenants signed indicating only a month’s notice would suffice. “The respondent has gone out of his way to make some pint of ex-gracia payments and I say ex-gracia because it was not in the contract,” Muyao said. Buxton Point Apartment Ltd wants to construct modern houses on the 14-acre land. However, the petitioners, represented by lawyer Ngibuini Gikandi, argued the developer will cause them suffering making them pay as much as three times what they are used to paying in rent. They said the units will be sold at prices they cannot afford and thus they will lose them to richer people. Currently, there are one and two-bedroom units for which they pay Sh2,800 and Sh3,662 respectively. Once complete, the new one-bedroom units will go for Sh1.8 million each, two-bedroom for Sh3 million and the three-bedroom units will go for Sh4.2 million. There will also be bedsitters which will be going for less than Sh1 million. Already, youth from within the area have been trained on technical skills that will come in handy once construction starts. The developer says they will give priority to youth from within the area for jobs. Gikandi said he intends to appeal the judgment. Edited by Henry Makori