Three aspirants will battle for the ODM ticket to vie in the Bonchari by-elections. Immediate former Kisii County Government Environment and Water minister John Bill Momanyi, former Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority  director general Pavel Oimeke and businessman David Ogega submitted nomination papers on Thursday. The Bonchari MP the Oroo Oyioka's widow Teresia Bitutu who had shown interest in the party’s ticket changed her mind in the last minute and joined UDA which is associated with Deputy President William Ruto. “There is lack of openness in ODM that is why I decided to jump ship after PDP party leader Omingo Magara advised me. I want to complete my husband's term,” she said during an interview on Minto FM. Kisii County Agriculture Chief Officer Geoffrey Mogire and former Kisii Woman Rep Mary Otara did not return nomination papers. The deadline for returning nomination papers was on Thursday at noon, according to the party’s National Elections Board chairman Catherine Mumma. Oimeke resigned from his position this week to plunge into politics. “I, Pavel Oimeke would like to announce my resignation from director general at the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority. I formally submitted my resignation to the appointing authority Energy CS Charles Keter,” he said in his letter. The party performed dismally in the 2017 elections, failing to clinch a parliamentary seat in all the nine constituencies in the county a trend the party wants to reverse by clinching the Bonchari seat. On Friday, the party held a meeting with the aspirants to plan party nominations. On Thursday, Daniel Manduku’s Party of Economic Democracy nominated Lave Victoria South Water Works Agency director Victor Omanwa  to fly the party’s flag in the by election. Others seeking the seat are former MP Zebedeo Opore who is targeting the Jubilee Party ticket, youthful Johah Onkendi Ondieki, who was formerly based in the US and youthful political operative Douglas Ogari. Prominent Nairobi lawyer Cliff Ombeta who had initially been identified as the UDA candidate pulled out of the race to focus on the 2022 elections. “I will dig my path slowly for the 2022 elections,” he told the Star. He warned voters against recycling leaders. “Some people have been there for more than 10 years. What is it they are going to do that they didn’t do before?” he posed. Oyioka who died a month ago at Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu after an illness. The by-election will be held on Tuesday, May 18, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara