Researchers in the country have been challenged to provide solutions to problems facing Kenyans through their work. Mount Kenya University vice chancellor Prof Deogratius Jaganyi said scholars in the country could play a pivotal role in providing solutions to the day-to-day issues facing Kenyans. Speaking after signing an MoU between MKU and the United Nations Institute for Training and Research in Thika on Monday, Jaganyi said researchers can influence policy-making decisions through their work. The don said problems including poverty, diseases, unemployment, drought, depression and non-communicable diseases, corruption and child labour, among others can be solved through research. “We have a mandate as a university and researchers to join hands with like-minded partners to conduct need-driven research and disseminate the findings to offer solutions to the social-economic problems facing the society,” the VC said. He also challenged researchers to commercialise their findings as well as patent their work for their own benefit and that of society. Jaganyi advised researchers to go beyond undertaking research on the problems afflicting society and ensure their research findings are known and in turn help in policy-making processes at the national and county levels. “It is also important to disseminate research output to influence policies as well as conduct research capacity building workshops to mentor other upcoming researchers and scholars,” he said. In the meantime, Jaganyi noted that both MKU and UNITAR will work together in different areas including research, curriculum development, institutional capacity building and community outreach. “Other areas of collaboration will include marketing and expansion into other Commonwealth countries in the EAC, increased access to attachments, internships and scholarships for students and customised training for county government leaders,” he said. MKU Corporate Services head Prof Peter Wanderi said the university will also be working together with other universities in the country to bring to fruition the objectives of the MoU with UNITAR. “We shall identify other like-minded partners in carrying out our joint mandate in training, research and community engagement.  These partners are from both the industry and Universities,” Wanderi said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 