The planned expansion of Malindi International Aiport in Kilifi county will affect nine villages, the National Environment Management Authority has said. In a gazette notice, Nema said the Environmental Impact Assessment study showed there would be loss of land and property in the affected villages. Consequently, Nema has asked the public to submit oral or written comments within 30 days from March 19 to the director general to assist the authority in decision-making process. The authority named the affected villages as Majivuni J.C.C, Kalimani Poa, Majivuni, Ziwani, Bondeni, Furunzi A, Furunzi B, Majivuni B and Mtangani. “Compensation for loss of land or property should be done promptly and should be based on market rates,” said the notice. The Kenya Airports Authority plans to, among others, extend the main runway to the north from the current 1.4km to 2.4km to allow large planes to land with ease. Extension of the main runway will allow direct flights from Europe. Malindi airport currently occupies 248 acres and needs a minimum of 640 acres to extend the runway and ensure security and safety of the facility. Nema added that the proponent—Kenya Airports Authority—should liaise with the physical service providers to plan for the re-routing and reconnection of electricity, water, sewage and infrastructures services before project construction commences. The authority further added that any land to be acquired as way-leave for re-routing infrastructure or damage to property should be adequately compensated in compliance with laws. It added that KAA should constitute a grievance redress mechanism comprising representatives of all stakeholders. The authority advised that the resettlement and compensation should be implemented in accordance with national and international guidelines. Nema said KAA must prepare a detailed report on compensation which shall be made public to avoid corruption and unfairness. “Such a report shall contain the list of the project affected person, property affected, terms and rates of compensation among other details,” it added. The notice further added: “The consultants should prepare livelihood restoration strategies and measures necessary to assist people affected by the project improve or restore their livelihoods.” In October 2020, the airport manager told the National Assembly's Transport Committee that the facility is seeking about Sh4.3 billion to acquire land for the expansion. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 