Mathare United head coach Salim Ali is under intense pressure to vacate his position after a string of consecutive defeats in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. The Slum Boys crushed 2-0 loss to Posta Rangers at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Friday marking their ninth defeat of season in thirteen matches. Alex Lungaji and second-half substitute Amos Kigadi scored in the sixth and 80th minutes to give the mailmen a second successive win in the league. The loss heaped more pressure on the Slum Boys who are yet to register a win in their league assignments since seeing off tailenders Zoo 2-0 at the same venue in their opening match of the season. Tired of the heartbreaks, impatient fans have now turned their guns on the soft-spoken tactician as they bay for his blood. "We want him out immediately. As he leaves, he should take along the likes of David Okello and Lennox Ogutu who have become a liability," said an enraged fan. This comes exactly two months after three enraged fans accosted club chairman Bob Munro demanding an explanation for the team's declining fortunes in the top tier, following their 1-0 loss to Tusker at Moi, Kasarani. Munro said the occurrence had prompted him to schedule a meeting with fans where they plan to put the code of conduct in black and white. "Of course, the fans have a right to demand an explanation when they feel the team isn't doing well, but the approach they took was entirely wrong. There are better channels that can be used to air such grievances," said Munro. Ali, who took up the mantle this season after head coach Francis Kimanzi was snapped up by Wazito, has come at the end of heavy criticism by disgruntled diehard fans who strongly feel the shoes are too big for him. The Slum Boys are trotting precariously on the brink of relegation with only nine points after round 16 fixtures, their worst season since they made a dream debut in the top flight competition thirteen years ago. They beat all odds and successfully challenged for the Moi Golden Cup in 1998 and 2000 before capping off their glittering career with the Kenyan Premier League title in 2008. They kicked off the season late in the day after being kept out in the cold by a heated broadcast rights tussle that put them at loggerheads with Football Kenya Federation and Startimes. Mathare were among the four teams that declined to append signature to the document since the Chinese-based TV channel took over the broadcast rights of the top-flight league, which saw them expelled from the league before they were reinstated by a local court. Ali has previously gone on record placing their predicament in the competition at the feet of "biased match officials", who cost them their games with questionable decisions. Mathare's woes could be compounded by the challenging financial constraints they are experiencing at the moment with sources intimating the club has been struggling to pay salaries and allowances for a long time now.  