World and regional leaders widely mourned John Magufuli following the announcement of his death on Wednesday but its unlikely they will attend the burial. This is  due to Covid-19, which has disrupted travel and gatherings, although the measures have not been observed in Tanzania. President Magufuli dismissed the seriousness of the pandemic in Tanzania, urging his citizens to "pray coronavirus away.” The East African country has not reported Covid-19 figures since April 2020, prompting the World Health Organization to raise concerns about the situation in Tanzania. Last month, the US Embassy in Dar es Salaam warned that Covid-19 cases in the country had been surging since January. Most western nations have also advised their citizens against travelling to Tanzania. Travel increases chances of infection and spreading of the virus, which informs movement restrictions. No sitting EAC President, for instance, attended the burial of the late Burundi President Pierre Nkurunziza, who also succumbed to the virus, in June last year. President Uhuru Kenyatta was represented by EAC Chief Administrative Secretary Ken Obura, while Magufuli sent Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, who led a  21-member delegation. Uganda President Yoweri Museveni was represented by the country's Ambassador, Matayo Kyaligonza to Bujumbura, while President Salva Kiir of South Sudan sent a condolence message. And given the current third wave of the pandemic, gathering for the funeral could be dangerous to attendants. The more people interact, the closer in distance the interaction is and the longer the interaction lasts, the higher the risk of spreading the virus. Health officials have pointed out that many people have contracted the virus through gatherings such as funerals. It is expected that the physical attendance at the funeral will be limited to a small number of immediate family members, friends and top government officials. However, world leaders could connect virtually with family, friends and Tanzanians in general for the funeral.