Kenya Commercial Bank  women's volleyball coach Japheth Munala ranks among the best in the country and indeed, all over Africa. The Luanda-born tactician's decorated CV includes six Kenya Volleyball Federation League titles with Kenya Pipeline (201, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017), Africa Games and All Africa Games titles as an assistant to Paul Bitok at Malkia Strikers. At the high school level, he turned Malava Girls High School from perennial underachievers to East African volleyball giants courtesy of three national titles between 2008-2010. He repeated the feat with Kwathanze Secondary School in 2013-2014 with whom he won both national and regional titles. However, Munala, 57, would never have achieved this stardom status in the world of volleyball were it not for his volleyball captain at Musingu High School who convinced him he had the ingredients to excel in the sport. He confesses that he hated volleyball — as well as athletics — and would have rather been caught dead than step foot on a volleyball court. "To be honest, I did not love volleyball. However, the captain convinced me that my height and physique were suited for the sport. I submitted to his demands and joined the school team in form 3," he says with a beaming smile. As he got to grips with the demands and rules of the game, his mindset about it gradually started to change. By the time Musingu were amassing titles at district and provincial levels, Munala was completely sold into volleyball as his career path. "My determination was unmatched and by the end of Form 3, I was in the school team. In my final year, we qualified for the first time in the institution's history to the nationals and we became runners-up," Munala recalls. Club career Munala joined MOTC Kakamega Club for three months in 1989 after his A levels at Musingu. He also played for Kenya Posta in Kakamega the same year, where his match-winning exploits attracted the then league champions Nairobi Posta. However, it was not easy-going at Nairobi Posta, where he had to settle for a bench role. Not content with this role, Munala's hard work in training earned him a starting berth, which he held onto with an iron grip through excellent performances on the court. At the age of 41, he transitioned into coaching and enjoyed instant success as the Telkom tactician. "My first coaching was the Telkom Division Two team and I won the trophy in 2006," he recounts. He is nostalgic about his time at Kenya Pipeline because this is where, he earned  national limelight, thanks to the six national titles won with the oilers. "I won the first title in 2011. In the sophomore year, I lost but won subsequent titles in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. This is a period that really lifted me up," the father of six points out. Chemistry with Bitok Before joining Kenya Pipeline in 2011, he was an assistant to Bitok at KCB and succeeded him when the latter left for Rwanda in 2008. In the same year, Munala guided KCB to the league title. Currently, Bitok is on KCB's technical bench in as much as  Munala deputises him at the national level. Theirs is an intriguing relationship, which requires mutual respect, understanding of each one's philosophy and friendship for it to work effectively. "Bitok's  expertise in the specialty has been the reason why our understanding has been superb. I was the national team coach before I stepped down for him because of his vast experience. I am his assistant at the national team. He is our technical director at KCB and is helping us seriously in volleyball matters," Munala says. He is grateful for the much he has learned from his well-travelled counterpart and believes his presence on the bankers' technical bench will pay huge dividends in the long run. "Sometimes there are some things that a coach does not understand or see. He (Bitok) is helping us identify our weaknesses; how to maximise our strengths and other key decisions during matches," he says. Vision for KCB Although they boast one of the most talented squads in the league, KCB  finished second behind Kenya Prisons in the last league campaign. This prompted the management to sign seven new players including Malkia Strikers captain Mercy Moim, Edith Wisa, Sharon Chepchumba and Sharon Amita. Kwathanze duo of Immaculate Nekesa  and Sharon Sandui as well as  Rwandese middle blocker Ernestine Akimanizanye also joined the bandwagon. "Nekesa and Sandui have shown glimpses of what they can offer. We want to transition them slowly into the team. Remember, they are young and they need to get confidence in this competitive league. I expect remarkable improvement from them in the next fixtures. Nekesa, in particular, is training very hard. In fact very soon she will be in the national team," Munala says of the duo. With such investment, the moneybags would be forgiven for demanding instant success and placing weighty expectations on Munala's shoulders. Nonetheless, Munala is not a worried man but is confident that his vision for the bankers will bear fruit if only players, management and fans rally behind him. "There are two outcomes in volleyball and patience is key. We can win easily and win the hard way. You can also lose, it happens. Covid-19 gave us time to be together. Thorough recruitment  comes with added pressure  because a lot of money has been invested and results need to back that up," Munala says. He is full of praise for the systems of training in place at the club and plans to maximise on them to take the club to the highest level. "We have a physical conditioner and trainer who take the ladies through training sessions. Currently, four players have been training for an hour and that's why the girls are in shape. After physical conditioning, volleyball trainers and coaches  come in for the technical aspects of the game. This will definitely give us an edge going forward," he explains. Professionalisation of the club, in his assessment, will also make them competitive at the international level. "It has given us an edge over other clubs. We have the best players in the country playing for KCB. Our obligation now as coaches is to fight for titles," Munala says. Soweto volleyball team In his efforts to improve volleyball at the grassroots, Munala is also the coach of Kibera-based Soweto Secondary School volleyball team. His work at the slum-based school will no doubt benefit the bankers who may be assured of a steady stream of young, talented volleyballers for many years to come. "I have two players from Soweto: Jemimah Siangu and Sharon Cherop who are fitting in well at KCB. When you fit in at KCB, you can seamlessly fit into the national team. KCB also has an academy in Kitale that acts as a feeder to the senior team and players are absorbed after form four. It won't be easy for KCB to die," Munala says. Across the volleyball divide, Munala advices clubs to embrace the indoor version of the game if Kenya is to progress in international tournaments. "We get beaten in international competitions because we play outdoors. Players must get used to the gym,and adapt to the changes. Service and reception gives us a problem and that's why we lose," he explains. It might be a bit too soon for fans of Kenya's oldest volleyball club to start dreaming of glory but in Munala, they have a coach with a winning DNA. 