A young man was on Monday lynched by a mob at Ngungi village in Nzambani subcounty of Kitui after he allegedly killed a boy, roasted his head and ate his brains. Ngungi assistant chief Muli Ngwele said the man accosted the PP1 learner at Katumbu Primary on his way to school at around 7am on Monday in Kanduti area. He allegedly knocked the boy down and carried him into a nearby bush where he decapitated him. The man then made a fire and roasted the boy's head. In the mid-morning, the headless body of the child was discovered by passersby. After a long search for the suspected killer, members of the public cornered him at his home. He then allegedly led them to the bush where he showed them remnants of the head. The assistant chief said the mob set on the suspected killer and beat him to death. Police arrived and took the two bodies to the Kitui County Referral hospital morgue at around 6pm on Monday. Nzambani subcounty police boss Joseph Obulo confirmed both murders. He said he could not provide more details as he was away on an official trip in Nairobi. Area police boss told the Star to reach out to the assistant chief for more details. On Tuesday, the man's uncle Munyalo Kyale said the alleged murderer had shown signs of serious mental illness. "His family was planning to take him to hospital for a mental check-up after he stole two goats from neighbours and skinned them and offered the meat for sale to residents claiming it was game meat," Kyale said. He said less than a week ago, the 19-year-old had threatened to behead a boy in the neighbourhood, saying his head would make a good meal. "Seeing that his actions and utterances were a bit bizarre, family members locked him in his house as they made plans to take him to hospital only for him to pull down part of the wall and flee into hiding," Kyale said. The uncle said he only resurfaced after he allegedly killed the little boy on Monday morning. The young man had returned from Mombasa where he was working and had behaved normally until nearly two weeks ago, he said.  (edited by o. owino)