Mombasa county assembly Speaker Aharub Khatri has just recovered from Covid-19 and said it pains him some people still dismiss the potentially deadly virus and live recklessly. On Wednesday, he narrated his three-week battle with Covid, saying the disease drained his strength and Sh1 million from his pocketbook. Speaking in his office, Khatri said he learned a lot from the grim experience. “This thing is not a joke. You start thinking a lot about your loved ones, which makes you panic even more. “I thank God I did not get to that stage where I needed oxygen. I am now negative,” he said. He said he was weak, his temperature soared and his joints ached. “My head was pounding, I had a terrible backache and I lost my sense of taste,” Khatri said. He expressed dismay with some private hospitals he said are taking advantage of the Covid-19 virus to fleece those who are suffering. He said apart from expensive medication he must buy, certain foods improve immunity. However, all these require money that most Kenyans are struggling for. “Some people cannot even afford two meals a day. How will they foot such huge bills should they become victims?” Khatri asked. He urged residents to get vaccinated for free. “Let us not ignore the vaccine. We have all seen how the Covid-19 has ravaged the world. This is an opportunity to protect ourselves from the pangs of the virus,” the speaker said. He called on the health department to aggressively sensitise residents on the importance of the vaccine. MCAs, he said, must lead by example and go for the jab. “They interact with many people at the grassroots and some of them are vulnerable due to their advanced age,” Khatri said. “Most people in social media mislead others about the vaccine, affecting the number of people willing to be vaccinated. These must be countered by the correct information,” the speaker said. He said he himself cannot be vaccinated for three months because of the medication he took while in isolation. He said as Christians head to the Good Friday and Easter Monday holidays, they must take care of themselves and their loved ones by observing the Covid-19 protocols. Family get-togethers and religious gatherings can be super spreader events. There are no plans to close the assembly, no cases have been found there. The number of cases in Mombasa, compared to the five disease-stricken counties, do not warrant such a drastic move, the speaker said. He said all protocols are observed in the premises and all MCAs and staff are tested every two months.This week, all MCAs and staff will be tested again. “Prevention is better than cure. Let us not find ourselves in situations like the five locked-down counties,” Khatri said. (Edited by V. Graham)