At least 4,000 households will have sewer connections as the government scales up efforts to improve sanitation in the city. This will be implemented after construction of the Sh1.8 billion Mwiki and Clay Works Reticulation Sewer under the Nairobi Rivers Sewerage Improvement Programme Phase II. The contract was signed last week between Athi Water Works and the African Development Bank. The project will involve the construction of 154km of primary, secondary and reticulation sewers and sludge disposal facilities. Athi Water Works will also drill and equip 10 boreholes and associated water infrastructure. Once complete, the entire project will benefit more than 150,000 residents of Mwiki, Clay Works, Kasarani, Gatina, Dandora, Embakasi North and Nairobi South. Last month, Athi Water Works also signed a contract for the Kahawa-Githurai sewerage network project under NaRSIP Phase II programme. The project will be implemented to serve more than 160,000 people within Githurai 44 and 45, Kahawa Sukari, Kahawa Wendani, Kenyatta University Referral Hospital and the environs. Nairobi residents are still facing challenges in accessing proper water and sanitation despite efforts to restore the sewer system. Last year, the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention said in order to improve health a sewerage system is vital but is often not implemented due to lack of space, resources, technology and infrastructure. According to Water CS Sicily Kariuki, the ministry has been faced with a lot of challenges, among them encroachment, as the government attempts to improve the city’s sewer system. Last year in April, the ministry started repossessing grabbed sewer land, with 1,600 acres recovered in Ruai and in Kariobangi North where at least 5,000 people were left homeless after their structures were demolished. Nairobi has only two main wastewater treatment plants in Kariobangi and Dandora (Ruai). The Ruai Sewage Treatment Plant is the third largest in East and Central Africa, treating up to 80 per cent of waste generated from Nairobi. It treats 210,000 cubic meters per day while the Kariobangi plant treats 32,000 cubic metres daily. However, the capacity has significantly declined to 11,000 cubic metres per day, with illegal occupation being the most contributory factor. The ministry had noted that almost half of the 75 acres initially earmarked for the facility had been occupied by squatters and private developers. Reclamation of the land has given room for the state to implement sewerage projects within the city.  Edited by Henry Makori