Lush green sukuma wiki thrive on farms in Kinisa village in Moyale subcounty of Marsabit. The farmers also grow bananas and pasture for their livestock. Unlike other parts of the region, this small village has water, thanks to a borehole sunk under the Kinisa water project in 2019. The village has become the source of fresh produce and fruits to most of the area. Many are practising mixed agriculture: rearing their livestock and growing crops. Dahabo Mamo said their lives were tough before borehole was sunk as they travelled for kilometres in search of water. With a smile on her face, she said that their families were now assured of three meals a day, education and other basic amenities. Mamo said the fresh produce had a ready market as many other people in need of food have to source it from them. “This water is being used by the locals and our neighbours from Ethiopia and it has turned our sufferings to celebrations as our produce is ever on-demand,” she said. The borehole yields 36,000 cubic litres of water per hour, supporting over 40,000 families in the area and pastoralists from neighbouring Ethiopia. The project was implemented by the Strengthening the Resilience of the Livelihoods of Agro-Pastoralists in Eastern Africa programme. The programme by Welthungerhilfe and funded by the German government was meant to reduce conflict, malnutrition and hunger in the communities. WHH project coordinator Antony Kibata said the programme targeted cross-border communities living in Kenya, Uganda and Ethiopia. He said the Kinisa water project had changed the residents’ lives for the better with scores of pastoralists taking up farming. Kibata said their partner, Pastoralist Community Initiative and Development Assistance, oversaw the project. “After drilling the borehole, the community was provided with a solar-powered system, which is less costly compared to the generator previously used,” he said. Amina Isako from PACIDA said cases of malnutrition have dropped sharply due to the availability of fresh produce. She said that with water provision from the borehole, many of the residents are now seeking to expand the land under irrigation. “Previously undernutrition levels were very high, but we have seen a major change thanks to the ongoing farming in Kinisa area,” she said. Kinisa borehole chairman Isaac Hassan termed the project a blessing and best gift ever to residents who have clashed over water for years. He said the kiosks and water troughs are well managed by residents with no more congestion and scramble for the commodity. “The only challenge we have is lack of water for nearby schools, but currently we have every reason to smile due to this water project,” he said. Kinisa chief Mohammed Hassan called the water project a godsend as it has improved the livelihoods of families. “We have enough water for our livestock and vegetables for residents and cases of community clash due to lack of water is now a thing of the past,” he said. In many parts of the North, drought has left several people without water and pasture for their animals. Turkana, for instance has raised the alarm that about 640,000 people face starvation.  (edited by o. owino)