Raila Odinga’s ODM has appealed to members of Parliament to approve the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 to effect the much-needed reforms for the country’s wellbeing. Raila is a partner in the Handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta that birthed the Building Bridges Initiative. The party said that the bill contains progressive proposals that if implemented, will lead to a united, socially and economically inclusive and prosperous Kenya. “We fully support the bill and urge the National Assembly and the Senate to unanimously pass the bill so as to bring forth the desired changes in our socio-economic and political architecture,” the party’s executive director Oduor Ong’wen said. Ong’wen alongside side the party’s secretary General Edwin Sifuna appeared before the joint Justice and Legal Affairs Committee during the public participation hearing on the Bill in Parliament on Thursday. The joint committees are co-chaired by Nyamira senator Okongo Omogeni and Kangema MP Muturi Kigano. “We are happy to note that the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020 has addressed the issue of shared prosperity, strengthening devolution, gender parity and inclusivity in development among others,” Sifuna said.While going through specific amendments, ODM said the proposed changes will entrench devolution stir development in the wards. Sifuna cited the Bill protects Constituency Development Fund (CDF) and Ward Development Fund (WDF) to ensure performance of national government functions especially on socio-economic front. This, he said, is critical for areas that have lagged behind in development. “The mandatory allocation of these funds to the wards ensures that development will be evenly undertaken regardless of the voters’ political persuasion. This will enable members of the Ward to prioritize the needs of their localities,” he said.In addition, ODM reiterated that the bill increases allocation to a minimum of 35 per cent of the National Revenue to counties. “Increased resources to Counties will translate to more development in the local units hence improving the people’s livelihoods,” he said. Further, ODM said that the BBI bill prioritizes the need to ensure the attainment of the economic and social rights. “Allocating resources towards programmes that impact on economic and social rights means budgeting will take a pro-poor development approach and this will have a direct effect on majority of Kenyans,” Sifuna said.