Deputy President William Ruto has asked MPs to amend clauses in the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020 that undermine women leadership. While celebrating International Women's Day on Monday, Ruto said a section of political leaders were out to curtail the role played by women in the National Assembly. "Let us not reduce the leadership of women in Kenya to tokenism because they are as capable as men,"he said. "Let us allow women to be elected to the National Assembly just like their male counterparts." Speaking in Embakasi West, Nairobi, Ruto said the International Women's Day celebration was a reminder that leaders should always thrive to empower women. However, women are among the major beneficiaries of the Building Bridges Initiative report. Though the 47 woman representative positions have been scrapped and replaced with an equal number in the Senate, a closer analysis of the report indicates a win compared to the current set-up. If proposals contained in the 214-page document are passed, the country could attain the elusive two-thirds gender requirement. The Deputy President further said he will not allow his detractors to drag him into tribal politics instead he said he will focus on serving Kenyans. He was accompanied by MPs Nixon Korir (Langata), Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Moses Kuria (Gatundu North), Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho), John Kiarie (Dagoretti South), Kimani Ichungwa (Kikuyu), Susan Kihika (Nakuru), Rahab Mukami (Nyeri), Millicent Omanga (nominated), James Gakuya (Embakasi North), Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central) and former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru. The MPs asked independent government agencies to stop engaging in partisan politics and serve all Kenyans equally. Korir condemned the use of security agencies to influence the country's politics. The Langata legislator asked the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to stop issuing illegal orders aimed at undermining the will of the people. "IG should stop misusing the police. He should decide if he is running a police service or a militia group," he said. Gathiru said the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC) was engaged in partisan politics. He said NCIC is an independent institution that should execute its mandate independently devoid of political interference. "We have seen some leaders make offensive utterances. However, they are only summoning leaders from the hustler nation,"he said. Gakuya wondered why there was a clamour for constitutional amendment yet the current constitution is disregarded. "If we can not obey the current constitution, what's the need for BBI?" he asked. 