Only government vehicles should be used to transport KCSE exam materials, secondary school principals have been told. Education CS George Magoha on Monday said the government does not have a shortage of vehicles to be used in the transportation of exams. KCSE exams started on Friday. “I don’t want to hear people asking if they can use private transport or whether security officers can have mobile phones with them,” he said. Magoha spoke while supervising the opening and distribution of exam materials at the Kenol container in Maragua, Murang’a county. The CS said each of the centre manager should be escorted by two security officers. “This is a public examination being executed by the government and its transportation must be public. The government has many buses to be used and even private schools have buses,” he said. Magoha said security officers will not be allowed to have phones while manning exam centres. They can, however, access them in case of an emergency. “The rule of thumb is nobody should have a phone during exams. We don’t want a situation where people scan and photocopy exams and send them to students.” Magoha said his officers are monitoring a school in Western region where the principal is getting experts to sit exams on behalf of candidates. The principal then finds a way to smuggle the papers back into the classrooms to make it look like the candidates did them. “This should serve as a warning. The principal should be ashamed of himself. It’s a very good school and students perform well. There is no reason why he should do that but my people are on the ground watching,” Magoha warned. The CS said KCPE exams are 35 per cent marked and the process is going on as scheduled. He said President Uhuru Kenyatta’s announcement suspending physical learning does not affect national examinations in public, private and international schools. “What was banned was face-to-face teaching in schools and we intend to ensure that is observed,” Magoha said. He added that all children who are not sitting their national exams should be at home until the President advises otherwise. “We are watching and hope to work together with international schools without hiccups,” he said. Edited by A.N 