At least 70,000 police officers will be deployed to safeguard this year’s national examinations. The officers will be drawn from the regular police, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and the National Intelligence Service. They will be responsible for undercover operations, mobile phone tracking, manning school premises and emergency responses. A special operations centre has been established and will be manned by multiagency teams to monitor the exercise to stop any planned or ongoing cheating or stealing of the exams. The teams are set for an official briefing in Nairobi by interior CS Fred Matiang'i, his Education counterpart George Magoha a and ICT’s Joe Mucheru. President Uhuru Kenyatta will receive regular briefing on the progress of the exercise, an official aware of the plans said. Schools that will be used as exam centres will be allocated two police officers, who will provide security during the exam period. Only head teachers will be allowed to carry their phones to schools as part of the measures to tame cheating. This year's exams will be done in March and April. Traditionally, the tests are conducted between October and November. For KCPE, 1,191,411 candidates are registered to take the test in 28,451 centres, while there are 752,933 KCSE candidates, who will sit their tests in 10,437 centres compared to 10,287 approved in 2019. The examinations will be the fifth in a row to be administered under the strict measures adopted in 2016 to prevent cheating. Supervisors and invigilators The Kenya National Examination Council says 286,901 field officers—supervisors and invigilators—will be contracted to administer the exams compared to the 173,000 field officers engaged in 2019. Following the long closure of learning institutions, Knec is gathering data on schools closed down during the shutdown and the candidates affected. Issues put into consideration include likely adverse weather as the exams will be conducted during the long rains season. The council also points out insecurity and flooding of major lakes and rivers in various parts of the country. In this year's examinations, the council has secured 479 containers at the subcounty headquarters where the examination papers will be stored. The containers will have a double locking system and the subcounty director of education and the deputy county commissioners will be the only ones authorised to open and close them. Vast subcounties will get extra containers that will be located in the assistant county commissioner's office. Knec will also put in place the required mechanisms to be used to deliver and return the exam materials. Preparation for marking of the exams is also ongoing and those involved in the process will include 7,402 KCPE examiners and 27,248 for KCSE. Road and air transport will be used to avert any disruption that could occur. KCPE exam will commence on Monday, March 22 and end on Wednesday, March 24. KCSE candidates will rehearse on March 25 before sitting their exams from March 26 to April 21.