The board of management at Chacha Moronge Secondary School in Kuria West has asked for time to resolve the insecurity that has led to constant attacks on teachers. Earlier this month, education stakeholders in Migori demanded the closure of the school for attacks on teachers by the community. The first principal's arms were chopped off and two others have left for fear of their lives. Poor results and insecurity have also affected enrolment, with only 65 students left in Forms 1 to 4. On Wednesday, board chairman Simon Marwa said they have worked out plans to ensure the school goes back on track. “We call on the government not to close down the school. We haven’t exhausted all avenues to make the school turnaround in security, enrolment and getting it back on foot,” Marwa said. The school’s last principal Joseph Owiti refused to report to the institution for a month from January and asked for a transfer. The deputy who took over in an acting capacity also left, claiming his life was in danger. Marwa called for patience as the first principal’s attack happened a long time ago in Sirare town where the teacher lived and not in school. “No member from the community or board was ever arrested over the incident. The case gave us a bad image as any teacher employed here starts working on an exit plan with insecurity as the main one,” Marwa said. Marwa said they want to reduce fees, have community donate foodstuff and ask more students to join and boost enrolment to 150 by next year. “We have asked for patience; community members have refused to take their children to the school. The problem has been made worse by teachers who get posted here and seek any means of transfer over our bad image,” Marwa said. Samuel Orwa, Kuppet secretary for Migori wrote to TSC on March 3 demanding all its staffers transferred from the institution. He wanted the school closed. Orwa said there was “an intolerant community and the school board of management has clearly demonstrated their disliking of non-local teachers”. “A principal of the institution had his hands chopped off over issues related to school financial mismanagement, the principal who replaced him was equally removed by the school community,” Orwa said, adding a third principal was also removed only two years later. Migori county education officer Elizabeth Otieno said the school has a security concern and attempts to arbitrate between the board and principals have failed. “Those teachers who left followed due process and reported to the police with evidence they could not access the school because of hostility. A teacher came with his hands and left without them. The only solution will be to close down the school,” Otieno said.  (edited by o. owino)