A state corporation controversially moved from one ministry to another is in the eye of a storm. Why? A wave of rebellion is building against top management over recent decisions by the CEO.  Insiders claim that board members and top decision-makers have stuffed the place with their relatives. At a recent staff retreat in Naivasha, a student intern — and the child of a boss — asked, "What can I do to take over your job?" One board member who has since been appointed ambassador is reportedly still flying back occasionally every so often to attend board meetings. Insiders are compiling a dossier of  what they say is deep-seated rot to be taken to the EACC (headquarters pictured). *** A governor in Western is said to have parted ways with a close aide who 'ate' facilitation fees for a funeral service. The aide is said to have squandered cash the governor had given him to calm the ground ahead of his arrival. The governor believed the ground would be receptive if locals were given cash but things turned ugly when he stood to address the crowd. The county chief was booed and forced to end his speech abruptly. The governor is said to have been told his aide never dished out any money in advance as planned. It was an Australian Author Peter Drucker who once remarked, "There is  nothing so useless as doing efficiently that which should not be done at all." *** A vocal MP from a county in Rift Valley is the talk of the town for allegedly evicting an elderly woman from her land. The woman is accusing the lawmaker of manipulating papers to evict her from properly where she has lived for over four decades. The MP is said to have transferred the land to his name and is now using goons to threaten the woman with dire consequences should she remain. The woman has sought legal redress but is living in fear as the goons promised they would show no mercy when they return. *** The majority leader of a county assembly in Western region is in panic mode after getting information that ward reps were plotting to remove him over alleged abuse of office. The MCAs recently removed him from another influential position but the majority leader, probably never thought the 'cleansing' would continue.  The MCAs are scheduled to meet the party leadership any day now to affirm they indeed had resolved to kick him out. The majority leader,on the other hand, is said to have tried to reach out to individual MCAs to convince them to abandon the plan, but in vain.