Orphaned at an early age, Evelyn Atieno endured hardship growing up without motherly love. A single mother of two, she has defied the odds to ensure her children’s survival. With little education and the need to provide for her children, Atieno decided to join the construction industry, not many a woman’s cup of tea. The 28-year-old Std 8 dropout does not hesitate to carry heavy bricks and mix mortar, just like her male colleagues. “I started working at a hotel where I earned Sh100 a day then ventured into business selling chips, which collapsed,” she says. “I then joined construction, which I find more reliable and well paying.” Atieno comes from Gem subcounty in Siaya but lives in Siaya town. She says construction work pays well she pockets Sh1,000 daily, money that enables her to provide for her two schoolgoing children and pay rent. Atieno raises her children by herself after separating from her husband. She is presently working in a construction site at Mwisho Mwisho hotel in Siaya town. Atieno seems unbothered taking on a job typically reserved for men and doing it with vibrant determination. “Those who know me from childhood understand that I have always loved manual labour and right now I do not feel out of place here,” she says. Three years ago Atieno worked as a casual labourer at construction sites earning Sh500 per day. “I grew to love the job and through dedication, other senior masons offered me on-the-job training which enabled me to become a mason,” she explains. The training was not a bed of roses. “I had to finish chores assigned to me in a construction site, such as sweeping and concrete curing before I could be allowed to learn a thing or two from the experienced masons,’’ she says. Heavy duty jobs are typically left to men but Atieno believes women can carve a niche for themselves in such sectors. “If I get enough capital to start a business, I would rather employ an assistant while I continue with masonry,” she says. “This job is not for the faint-hearted. For example, we started out 12 women at the beginning of this project but today only three of us are left. This job really needs determination and dedication.” Zachary Awiti who has worked in the construction industry for more than 19 years is impressed by the passion and determination Atieno puts into her work. He says including women in construction is not just a way of empowering them but also an effective way to ensure gender inclusivity Awiti says employers at construction sites pay male and female workers equally and there’s no favour in the allocation of duties. “Before, light duties such as concrete curing and sweeping floors would be assigned to women but now the exemplary work done by women such as Atieno is proof enough that they can take on heavier duties such as mixing mortar and carrying heavy bricks,” he says. Atieno says she has never suffered any form of intimidation because of her gender. “Sometimes people think women get jobs through sexual favours but we get hired because we are just as competent and hard-working as men,” she says. Joseph Musumba is the executive director at Mwisho tourist hotel and has an ongoing construction project where Atieno currently works. Musumba says he is always intrigued by the relentlessness of women and has never regretted involving them in his investment projects. He encourages his contractors to hire more women to ensure gender inclusivity and women empowerment in the construction industry. Atieno would like to get more involved in masonry but she is a single mother of young children and cannot travel to distant towns like the men. Outside of work she has been ridiculed for joining a male-dominated field and some of her friends have even urged her to quit and start a business instead. But her family is supportive and this keeps her going. She says they understand and accept the challenges that come with her line of work. “I like my job because when I am out of my work clothes I look as smart as other women with other jobs and most importantly, it really feels good to walk home in the evening with money in my pockets,” she says, smiling proudly. Atieno advises fellow women stuck in low-paying jobs to venture further afield and try the dusty but well-paying jobs such as hers.