Lamu fishermen have failed to agree on where to station a Sh20 million boat donated to them by the national government under the blue economy initiative. The boat is among three fishing vessels donated in Lamu, Kwale and Kilifi last month through the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries to enable deep-sea fishing. All three boats cost Sh60 million. A group of fishermen from Kiunga on the border of Lamu and Somalia want the boat to be stationed in their area considering the area is a major fishing hub in the county. The spokesperson of the Kiunga fishers Mohamed Omar also said the fact they have to constantly face off with repercussions caused by Al Shabaab raids in the areas is also another reason why they should keep the boat in their area. “Kiunga is the leading fish hub in Lamu. We supply fish to Lamu and beyond including Malindi, Kilifi, Mombasa and Nairobi,” Omar said. Another group of fishermen wants the boat to remain on Lamu island to enable easy access by fishermen from around the archipelago. However, speaking in support of the Kiunga fishers, MCA Abdalla Baabad said they deserved to be empowered to boost their venture bearing in mind that the areas produce and exports the largest consignments of fish to other parts of the country. “The boat will enable adequate exploitation of the Blue economy by the fishers. For years, fishermen have been denied the freedom to fish at night due to insecurity, something that greatly affected the sector,” Baabad said. Lamu Fishermen and Dealers Association chair Abubakar Twalib felt the vessel should be situated in Lamu island and most fishermen came from within. “We cannot have the boat in Kiunga yet most of us are from around here. The vessel can only serve its purpose if it's placed here in Lamu island,”  Twalib said. Lamu county fisheries officer Simon Komu said they were in talks with various Beach Management Unit officials across Lamu to find an amicable resolution to the standoff. “We shall have a solution and we are calling for patience. Basic questions to ask ourselves is for instance how will the vessel be managed and by which BMU, the role of that BMU and county government in the management of the boat and so on,”  Komu said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris