Sir Ali Muslim Club spinner Abdul Rehman has warned rivals that the Nairobi Invitational Cricket League (NICL) Twenty20 finalists can get even better as they chase their maiden domestic title in decades. Rehman’s side sailed into their second domestic successive final appearance with a blistering 101-runs victory over T20 defending champions Kanbis in their Qualifier One tie at Nairobi Gymkhana. The win was second in a row for the Park Road Estate-based side after having beaten the multiple champions by 51-runs at Eastleigh High School three weeks ago. Sir Ali are now set to play the winner of Qualifier Two between Kanbis and Swamibapa. But, in a warning message ahead of the final, the club’s senior-most player, Rehman still sees room for improvement from his outfit. "It feels good to get to where we are (final). It has not been a fluke but a lot of hard work from everyone. We have developed strong teamwork and we know each other quite well and how demanding the management is,” he said after bowling out Kanbis for 96 in their pursuit of 197 for 3. Sir Ali were ruthless with both bat and the bowl, reducing Kanbis to just an ordinary side despite the experience they had fielded. Dhiren Gondaria (21) was the only batsman who put on a fight against the Sir Ali bowling attack led by Rehman (3 for 12) and Ashutosh Sharma (3 for 12). Despite this performance, Rehman feels his side still needs to up their game. "There's a lot to be done on individual performance and the players need to get the finer details about their game right," he said. Despite bagging three scalps, Sharma was also instrumental with the bat with his second consecutive half-ton in two matches. He put on an opening stand of 87 runs with Joseph Owino (34) before he was caught in the 10th over after hitting eight boundaries and two sixes. Rehman said: “We knew the quality of player we were getting in Sharma and he has lived up to expectations. We couldn't have asked for more. He has also given great advice to the young players." 