Garissa Township MP Aden Duale is seeking an official statement from Interior CS Fred Matiang’i on the progress of delisting his constituents from the UN refugee agency’s database. The vetting of several Garissa residents who were signed up with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees began in November 2019. The Kenyans had listed themselves to get food aid and support relocating to the West. Interior CAS Patrick Ole Ntutu presided over the launch in 2019 of the vetting to delist Kenyans from the database. Several local leaders were present. Garissa leaders say the process has dragged and is shrouded in secrecy. On Monday, Duale alleged there was a politician from Garissa who was hell-bent on ensuring the exercise is not completed. “We have since learnt that there is a local politician who is busy moving from one office to another in Nairobi to scuttle the process. He is corrupting the officers and telling them to make sure that the more than 20,000 ID cards are not produced,” Duale said. Persons in the UNHCR database Monday pleaded with the government to expedite the process as they have gone through untold suffering. Daiman Farah, 28, said she has been unable to secure birth certificates for her three children since she doesn’t have an ID card. “It has been hell on earth for me. Can you imagine I can’t even walk in town freely leave alone travel for fear of being arrested yet I am Kenyan? “Yes, we I know I registered as a refugee sometimes back but it’s the prevailing circumstances that forced me to do so,” she said. Feisal Sheikh urged the government to issue him an ID card, so his life can get back to normal. Massod Farah, 32, said he has a university degree but cannot get a job because he lacks an ID card. “We have become refugees in our own country. All we are pleading with the government is not to allow politicians to derail the exercise because doing so is only salt to injury,” Farah said. On Thursday Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana urged leaders from Garissa to be patient over concerns that the exercise had dragged. Ndalana said that the exercise was on course and “soon there will be some positive news”. Holugho MCA Adow Mohamed said he knows of several genuine cases in his area who have been unable to travel from the area because they lack ID cards. “Surely how does it feel for a father who has spent school fees educating his children up to university level then the same is unable to get a job simply because he lacks that important document,” Mohamed asked.  (edited by o. owino)