Jubilee party executive director James Waweru has been laid to rest in his Mang’u village home, Kiambu county. Waweru, who succumbed to Covid-19 complications while undergoing treatment at Nairobi’s Karen Hospital on Tuesday last week, was eulogised as a seasoned public servant who left a mark of excellence in the various fields he served. Leaders present during his interment on Tuesday hailed Waweru as a patriotic leader who served his country diligently. Those present included Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju, Kiambu Governor James Nyoro and his Nyandarua counterpart Francis Kimemia, Thika MP Patrick Wainaina and Paul Otuoma, who served with Waweru under the Ministry of Fisheries. Tuju said Waweru was an outstanding leader who served Kenya with distinction. When Tuju suffered injuries from a road accident in February last year, Waweru took over the party’s operations. “He was a seasoned public servant who left an indelible mark in all the places he served. His commitment, personal discipline and loyalty to the country saw him rise through the ranks to become a top public administrator,” Tuju, who read President Uhuru Kenyatta’s speech, said. Nyoro said Waweru was passionate about the economic development of Gatundu North and spearheaded initiatives to grow, manufacture and market pineapples, tea, milk and avocados. “He will be remembered for being at the forefront in championing the economic development of this region and fighting for farmer’s welfare. He was a development-oriented leader,” the governor said. Thika Town MP Patrick Wainaina eulogised Waweru as a man of integrity, a role model to many from his village and a man who respected all. “He has supported many youths from Gatundu North at large to rise to better status of life. We have lost a man who respected all people and who was very committed in service,” the legislator said. Waweru served as Sports PS and Nairobi Provincial Commissioner during President Mwai Kibaki’s administration. Edited by A.N 