Is it time President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) took an extensive tour of Nairobi’s Maringo estate? He could provide a solution to the long suffering of the residents. The roads are in a pathetic state. They are impassable including those leading to Makadara law courts and the Huduma Centre. Residents are wondering if officials from the Kenya Urban Roads Authority or even those from Nairobi Metropolitan Services are aware of the difficulties they have endured for almost five years. They have been forced to adopt “hop, skip and jump” along the roads doted with potholes that have also been filled with  sewage. What a double mess for the taxpayers to find themselves in. *** A Principal Secretary has developed bad manners . The PS who heads a crucial docket is hardly in the office but he is often spotted roving from one hotel to another within the CBD and Upper Hill area attending to private matters. A source tells Corridors secretaries in his office are now tired of telling lies of how their boss is always out for official government meetings. He is said to show up in the office once in a week. Just to sign pending files. One wonders, for how long will this continue? *** With the 2022 General Election just 16 months away, a senator from the Coastal is not leaving anything to chance. A source with knowledge of his tactics says the man has in recent days unleashed online campaigns targeted at his potential competitors. It is reported the man has employed a number of youths who flood the social media platforms with negative propaganda. The latest victim of the senator’s wars is a former county MP who has had to come out to rebuke the hired 'mercenaries' whom the former legislator described as “blood suckers”. *** They say what goes around comes around. This adage has come to apply to the chairman of a state parastatal. Corridors has been told that all is not well between a board chairman and an acting managing director. Reason? The MD has blocked the chairman from accessing the office building, even when there is an official board meeting. The man is said to behave like an executive chairman and has been reporting to the office daily, interfering with the work of the management. Despite not being entitled to an official car since he gets an allowance, the man has been bulldozing his way around but that has been put to an end. The chairman was instrumental in pushing for appointment after he successfully fabricated accusations against a former MD who was removed from the position in unclear circumstances.