Lamu communities have successfully tamed female genital mutilation, with many of the traditional circumcisers joining anti-FGM campaigns. The practice has been common among the Boni and Orma minority communities of Lamu but has been tamed by community-led initiatives. Traditional circumcisers have since ditched their tools of trade and joined hands with anti-FGM campaigners to speak out against the practice and its effect on the health and wellbeing of girls. Since the practice had been more of a source of livelihood for the circumcisers, many have since embarked on trade and farming to eke a living. Villages that were previously renowned for FGM like Bulto, Dide Waride in Witu division and also Bargoni in Hindi division have since turned into fierce anti-FGM crusaders with chiefs, Nyumba Kumi officials, elders, community leaders and the circumcisers taking the lead. It is these locally initiated and led campaigns that have seen FGM reduce by over 90 per cent in all the previously recorded hotspots. Dide Waride Chief Abdi Bocha said the government started off by targeting traditional circumcisers and sponsoring them to conduct alternative economic activities like milk vending, fish mongering and selling groceries. “They are all women and we knew that getting them to stop without offering an alternative would be impossible, which is why we introduced them to other activities to earn them an income as they quit this one,” Bocha said. With time, the circumcisers became successful businesspeople and joined the campaigns to stop the practice. Husna Mwanali who has been a traditional circumciser since 1994, says she regrets all she did out of ignorance and wishes she would take it back and make better decisions for the young girls that faced the cut. “I have circumcised hundreds if not thousands of girls. I did it before I knew how bad the practice was and how it was affecting the girls. Now that I know better, I am dedicating my life to speaking up against FGM. No girl deserves to go through what I did to them,” Mwanali said. Rehema Rashid, who was also a circumciser, urged parents, especially mothers,  to shield their daughters from the cut, terming it degrading. The practice is among the leading causes of school dropouts and early marriages among young girls, as many who undergo the cut quit school to get married. “My two daughters didn’t even go to Form 4, they got married as soon as their wounds healed. I wish I knew better then, they would be in college or even working. I am warning parents not to allow their girls to undergo circumcision. It destroys lives,” Rashid said. The traditional circumcisers have taken it upon themselves to lead other campaigners in sensitising rural communities on the implications of FGM. Through rigorous training by the national government, the anti-FGM crusaders have been furnished with adequate information on how to convince and discourage the communities from partaking in or supporting FGM. Chalaluma chief Hussein Dokota said they discovered that much of the cuts were secretly happening during school holidays and that as such, they intensified the campaigns during that period. “FGM is a vice which we want to completely eliminate. It’s unfortunate for those who went through it but we are hopeful that our girls will have a brighter future ahead as the campaigns continue. We shall soon report a 100 per cent turnover,” Dokota said. The situation has tremendously improved following rigorous anti-FGM campaigns that have seen an increase in the number of girls attending schools in the area. “Stop looking at girls as if they are tools and objects to only generate dowry and wealth once they get married. If we empower these girls, our future won’t stay the same, they have the potential to change our society for the better,” anti-FGM campaigner Halima Gona said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 