Joseph Murimi, the prime suspect in the murder of 23-year-old Velvine Kinyanjui will remain in police custody for 10 days. Detectives said that the ruling by Kiambu Law Court Chief Magistrate Patriciah Gichohi will enable them to piece up the evidence and complete investigations surrounding Velvine's death. In a virtual ruling on Friday, the magistrate allowed detectives a miscellaneous application for custodial orders. The suspect had earlier been arrested by Kiamumbi police officers but was later released. Kinyua was charged with rape, and released on Sh100,000 cash bail. The suspect allegedly met Velvine two days before going for a date on February 23. On the same date, Kinyua is said to have picked Velvine at Kirigiti, before the two proceeded to Q West restaurant in Kahawa West for drinks. After some time, they moved to another restaurant (Kijito) along Kamiti Road, before booking a room at Sinnot Hotel. Detectives said that the two had been captured on CCTV cameras at the restaurant’s reception, collecting the key to their room at around 9pm. A bar attendant whose statement was recorded said he ushered out the suspect at around 10.30pm, an hour and a half after the two entered their room. Later on, Kinyua is said to have moved out of the room and allegedly told the barman that he had left Velvine in the unlocked room to rest as she was exhausted and that he (Kinyua) couldn't spend the night out since he was married. The following day in the afternoon (February 24), Velvine is said to have called a female friend from the hotel requesting her to go along with another person to help her get to the hospital. Her friends took her to Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral, and Research Hospital before proceeding to report the incident to the police. Velvine was treated for spine-related complications and cervical fractures for several days. On March 9, Velvine died at the hospital. She had been an employee at Ruiru's Destiny Park while Kinyua is a salesman who trades in assorted spare parts.