Three invigilators failed to turn up at Kisii Primary in Central Kisii as KCPE exams got underway. A fourth invigilator turned up late and was kicked out by Early Learning and Basic Education PS Julius Jwan. The invigilator had driven himself in minutes past 8am when the PS ordered him to leave the venue. “Just reverse your vehicle and go; you cannot report late and expect to invigilate an exam,”  Jwan said. The PS said the Teachers Service Commission would institute disciplinary measures against the invigilators. “We have already brought in their replacement but be assured action will be taken on those who failed to report to duty,” he said. Jwan also said one candidate in Kenyenya subcounty will be writing his examination in the hospital. More than 36,883 candidates in 979 centres would be sitting the 2020 examinations. Earlier, when he officiated the opening of the exam container in Kisii, the PS maintained that county remains an examination cheating hotspot. Consequently, all invigilators and supervisors were put on the spot to ensure heightened surveillance throughout the exam period. Jwan said the government has stepped up surveillance to stem any cases of cheating. “I think it is not a secret that this region, including Nyamira, Homa Bay and Migori have a bad name and it is for this reason that I'm here,” he said. Such ill reputation, he said, would only be sanitised through proper invigilation and supervision of examinations. He said learners must be given a chance to prove themselves through properly conducted exams. “Let's give the learners a chance and this would only be through examining in atmospheres that are free from cheating or attempts to do so,” Jwan said. The government, he said, has already deployed enough officers to all examination centres in the county to ensure proper supervision and invigilation. He said they still have intelligence that some of the schools were planning to cheat. “We do not want to cite names today but know that we are alert and watching. We will not delay taking action if any is caught with irregularities,” the PS said. Last week, political leaders from the region led by Governor James Ongwae protested against the move by Education CS George Magoha to constantly refer to Kisii as a cheating hotspot. They said children from the region study hard and compete fairly with their peers from other parts of the country. They were especially irked by recent utterances by Magogha that Kisii was on their watch list. “Our children have been doing well on exams over the years irrespective of where they are. This is no proof that they cheat,” Ongwae said on Friday. PS Jwan said only through concerted efforts from the stakeholders can guarantee free and fair examinations. He further told the supervisors to ensure the candidates wear masks as advised by the Ministry of Health. County Commissioner Allan Macharia said all security officers deployed are under instruction to take immediate action on cheating suspects. “We are not leaving any room for irregularities,” he said. He also told invigilators and supervisors to use masks during invigilation.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris