The family of Sheria Musyoka who died in the USA, California in February has vowed to remain connected with the deceased wife. Sheria and his wife Hannah Ege had a three-year-old son, Theodere. The 26-year-old died after he was knocked down by a speeding car near Lake Marced Boulevard in San Fransico. He was cremated by his American wife. “Sheria had a son with his wife and that is our blood. It obviously creates a lasting bond with mother and son notwithstanding Sheria’s demise. We will forever bear in mind we have a family in the US,” family spokesman Caxton Munyoki said. Munyoki briefed the media on Wednesday on plans Sheria's family had after burying part of the ashes that were flown back home after cremation. The ashes were buried at his father's home in Maai village, Mwingi Central constituency, Kitui county last Saturday. He was the son of politician Musyoka Wanzili. Munyoki said the fact that Sheria's wife had him cremated, pegged an agreement they had earlier which confirmed they lived happily. He said the family respected her spousal rights as enshrined in the constitution and legal statutes. Munyoki said the family would send emissaries to Ege to make her understand the bond that exists between her and her husband’s family according to the Akamba customs and traditions. “We want her to know that since she had a son with Sheria that is our blood and we remain attached to them forever,” he said. He said Ege needed to help the son trace his roots. Munyoki explained that Hannah Ege most likely failed to attend the interment of her late husband’s remains in Kenya because she was said to be too traumatised by the death to make such a long trip. He was optimistic the widow would sooner than later visit Sheria’s family in Kenya. The family spokesperson pointed out that there was no intention whatsoever to force Sheria's widow to come and live in Kenya against her wish. “We only want her to know that we recognise her and the son as part of our family even as they live in the US,” he said. Munyoki said the late Sheria’s family will, after the lapse of 40 days of the mourning period since his remains were interred, reach out to his widow in America to create a lasting connection with her. He said she will be reached through emails and other channels including sending people to talk to her. “Soon after her husband’s death and the cremation of the body, our daughter-in-law left California and went to seclusion in Hawaii to have peace because of trauma. We will reach out to her as soon as mourning is over and the spirits are fully appeased,” Munyoki said. He said at the end of the mourning period and in a final bid to appease the spirit of the dead and ensure they have fully settled, a spotless he-goat will be slaughtered and blood sprinkled at the tomb site by elders. “Our family is not combative neither do we need to get any monetary benefits from Sheria's death. Any possible benefits should go to the wife who is legally the next of kin. We can even offer support if need be to ensure that she gets what is due to her,” Munyoki said. He however lamented that before his passing away Sheria did not introduce his parents and other relatives to his wife’s family. “As a family, we will also embark on a mission to get to know our daughter-in-law’s family and develop a relationship as tradition dictates,” Munyoki said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris