Nacada has partnered with security chiefs in new efforts to stop trafficking of bhang from Ethiopia to consumers mainly at the Coast. National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse CEO Victor Okioma on Monday said drug traffickers have  become innovative with concealment methods and routes to avoid security officers. Trafficking of the bhang from Ethiopia through Moyale to the Coast remains the biggest challenge in the fight against drugs, he said. He spoke in Meru after a meeting with regional commissioners, county commissioners and county police commanders from Coast, Central, Eastern and Northeastern regions. Okioma said the Coast region is the biggest consumer of the drugs from Ethiopia. The meeting was to discuss new strategies in dealing with the trafficking menace. Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana said the area is a big transit route although it does not have a lot of consumers of the drugs. “Recently, we have made major arrests in Garissa and Wajir counties and we are still working hard as a multi agency team to weed out the cartels,” Ndalana said. He said the approach of fighting drugs as a multi-agency team will bear fruit. "From the meeting we had, I have discovered new routes in my area that I never knew about," he said. Central regional commissioner Wilfred Nyagwanga said there ought to be stiff penalties when the drug traffickers are arrested. “Someone cannot be doing drugs business worth Sh3 million and he is fined just thousands of shillings when arrested,” he said. His Coast counterpart John Eungata said drugs are a menace in his region. “We have managed to scale down the sale of heroin and cocaine but bhang is a major threat as it is trafficked using several routes,” Elungata said. Eastern deputy regional commissioner Abdi Hassan said Marsabit, Isiolo and Meru have started to consume huge volumes of bhang. “We are going to work hard to stop this menace to ensure our people are safe and we urge Kenyans to volunteer information that will lead to nabbing of drug traffickers,” he said.  Edited by P.O