Lawmakers have embarked on a bid to deny the National Treasury exclusive control of monies allocated to the NG-CDF kitty. MPs want the law changed to allow them to spend CDF cash and retain balances once monies are sent to the various constituency accounts. A bill sponsored by CDF committee chairman Wafula Wamunyinyi (Kanduyi MP) seeks to provide that allocations to CDF are channelled to an operations account. This would allow expenditure of CDF cash even after the lapse of a financial year unlike the current situation where such monies can only be released in a supplementary estimate. If approved, all unspent monies—including for discontinued projects—will be retained in the fund to avert a cash crisis normally staged by delays in release of CDF monies. Constituencies are currently owed about Sh25 billion, affecting projects which the various committees had commissioned. The situation has ignited protests among MPs who accuse the National Treasury of not living up to its commitments on timely release of the cash. In the wake of the prevailing situation, MPs are now pushing that each constituency be allowed to operate a deposit bank account for purposes of holding third party monies. The changes to the National Government Constituencies Development Act further provide that each constituency will open and maintain the accounts at any commercial bank. Accounts opened for such purpose will, however, have to be approved by the National Treasury with fresh calls for the board to provide oversight on management of CDF projects. Only one extra member of the CDF board would be required to sign payment cheques and or instruments related to the release of monies from the fund. Two are required currently. Wamunyinyi said the changes are aimed at facilitating timely and efficient disbursement of funds to constituencies. “The proposed amendment will establish structures for the efficient and prudent management of the fund,” the Kanduyi MP said. From the foregoing, the law is being changed to provide that the board shall consider and approve or reject project proposals submitted to it, and release funds immediately such approvals are obtained. MPs are also pushing for room to increase the bursary allocations at will from the current cap of 35 per cent of the amounts allocated per constituency. “A constituency committee may, with the approval of the CDF board, allocate additional funds to cater for education bursary schemes and education days,” the bill reads. MPs are further seeking room to engage private practitioners to assist in the costing and implementation of projects, a role currently played by Public Works officers. CDF committees will also be the ones to determine the quantum of instalments for disbursement to projects within the constituency, taking into account the amount received and the project requirements. “The committee shall within 45 days of allocating funds, inform the board of such allocation,” the proposed law reads. The bill also changes the current signatories to CDF accounts to provide for a signature of an officer seconded by the board, at least a member of the committee, and a subcounty accountant in charge of the fund. Similar signing instructions will apply for the deposit account save for the fact that a member of CDF committee shall not be the same signatory to the operations account. CDF board members who miss three consecutive meetings without the chairpersons’ permission will be removed in the new law. The board will be required to hold its first sitting within 120 days of the election of a new Parliament while vacancies on the board would be filled within the same period. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara