Coast leaders who were with ODM leader Raila Odinga during his five-day tour of the region continue with their political activities even after he tested positive for Covid-19. Those who interacted with him during his BBI campaigns have not bothered to test, self-isolate or scale down their political activities. However, some have come out to publicly announce that they have been tested for Covid-19 and the results were negative. Raila, 76, was taken ill on March 9 and was confirmed to be positive for Covid-19 on March 11 after a two-day hospitalisation. He was at the Coast from March 1 to 5, touring Taita Taveta, Kilifi, Mombasa and Kwale counties. He interacted with three governors in the region, a host of MPs, senators and other political leaders. Raila also held a meeting with Luos living in Mombasa at Hotel English Point. Coast leaders are accused of exposing Raila to Covid-19 in meetings and political rallies. In many instances, Raila did not wear a face mask. On Sunday, at Methodist Church Changamwe Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir said he regularly tests for Covid-19 and was as fit as a fiddle. “Contrary to what you have heard or read in the media, a majority of us usually go for Covid-19 tests regularly,”  he said. Nassir, who is eyeing the Mombasa governor seat in the 2022 general election, was among leaders who mingled with Raila on March 4 during his Mombasa visit. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who travelled to Zanzibar last week, is said to have tested for Covid-19 before he flew out of the country. According to his handlers, his results were negative, which is why he was allowed to travel. In Zanzibar, Joho visited the family of the late first Vice President of Zanzibar Seif Shariff Hamad to condole with them. Hamad, 77, was on February 1 confirmed to be Civid-19 positive. He died on February 17 while receiving treatment at Muhimbili Hospital. Joho also paid a courtesy call on the president of Zanzibar and chairman of the Revolutionary Council Hussein Mwinyi at the State House. He visited various manufacturing and service establishments where he said they shared policy insights in creating strategic partnerships and facilitating skills and knowledge transfer between businesses in Mombasa and Zanzibar. Last Saturday, Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja was vaccinated against Covid-19 at his Mwakishimba residence in Wundanyi. Several days before, Samboja had said priority would be given to health workers, police and teachers. “I urge our people and the rest of Kenyans to embrace the vaccine. Taking the vaccine will help us strengthen immunity, protect our loved ones and the community‚” he said. After Raila tested positive for Covid-19, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi is the only Coast politician who publicly wished him a quick recovery. Kingi, who had a spat with Raila over the formation of the Coast political party, said they hope to see the ODM leader recover. “Our prayers and best wishes for you Baba and hope to see you up and about, serving Kenyans, as soon as possible,”  Kingi said. However, Kingi has not confirmed whether he tested for Covid-19 or not.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris