Homa Bay government has banned residents from eating at funerals in a bid to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infections. The directive was issued in a joint statement by Homa Bay county commissioner Moses Lilan and Governor Cyprian Awiti on Friday. The two, head the county emergency response committee on Covid-19. It has been a  tradition in the Luo community to eat at funerals, but the two leaders said it promotes gathering and it should be avoided to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The food should only be prepared for immediate family members at funerals. “Let’s avoid eating food in funerals especially during burial ceremonies to contain the disease,” Awiti said. In his statement, Lilan said nobody in the county should eat at funerals with immediate effect. The administrator who was flanked by the county police commander Esther Seroney and the county prisons commander Robert Basigwa said security officers have been directed to enforce the order. He said they are working together with Awiti to ensure all measures put in place to guard against the spread of the virus are implemented. “Funeral goers are susceptible to contracting covid-19. It has been established that eating in funerals leads to hygienic issues hence encourage the spread of coronavirus,” Lilan said. At least an animal must be slaughtered for residents to eat at funerals especially during burial ceremonies in the Luo community. In his speech, Lilan also directed that burial ceremonies will be attended by not more than 100 people including family members. Families will also have to bury their loved ones 72 hours after death. Night vigils have also been banned. “All funerals, cremations and burial ceremonies must be conducted strictly within 72 hours after confirmation of death,” Lilan read. The ban is expected to be a blow to many residents who perceive funerals as mandatory joints for feeding. Politicians were also told to stop their campaigns. Lilan said any politician seen holding a gathering will be arrested and charged. “There shall not be political gatherings in Homa Bay regardless of the social or political status of the convener for a period not less than 60 days,” the statement read. Wedding ceremonies or rites will be attended by a maximum of 100 people. “National Government Administration officials and police will work with the county government enforcement officers to enforce the orders,” he said. Residents were also directed to adhere to other covid-19 protocols such as putting on masks, hand washing and keeping social distance.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris