Members of Parliament have initiated an ethnic audit of the Kenya Revenue Authority senior positions. On Thursday, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi sought answers from Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani about the ethnic composition of top KRA positions. The lawmaker demanded a detailed list of names, ethnicity and county of origin of who is who amidst claims that one community accounts for almost all the critical posts at the Authority. “Could the Cabinet Secretary provide a detailed list of all top management positions at KRA indicating the position, names of current holders, county of origin, ethnicity, academic and professional qualifications of holders and numbers of years of service,” he said. Section 7 of the National Cohesion and Integration Act states, “No public establishment shall have more than one-third of its staff from the same ethnic community.” Section 65 of the county government Act lists issues to consider during appointment including “the need to ensure that at least 30 per cent of the vacant posts at entry level are filled by candidates who are not from the dominant ethnic community in the county. In 2019, KRA’s hiring document tabled before the National Assembly's National Cohesion and Equal Opportunity Committee chaired by nominated MP Maina Kamanda showed members of the Kikuyu community hold a firm grip on the country’s tax collections. The community was in control of almost half of the senior executive positions at KRA. Out of the 133 senior management positions, 50 are held by members of the Kikuyu community, translating to 37.59 per cent of that workforce. This hiring leaves the remaining 83 slots to be shared among the remaining 41 Kenyan tribes. Of the 83 slots, Luhyas are 19,  Luos 16, Kamba 13, Kisii  9, Kalenjin 8, Meru 4, Embu 2, with Tharaka, Samburu, Maasai, Burji among others having one member each. The matter was referred to Finance and National Planning Committee chaired by Homabay MP Gladys Wanga. Osotsi also wants the taxman to explain the cause of declining national revenue performance and the status of investigations on senior KRA officials alleged to be engaging in tax fraud. “Could the Cabinet Secretary further explain why the tax appeal and disputes mechanism has occasioned questionable and irregular tax reduction and avoidance in favour of some potentially large taxpayers leading to massive national revenue decline?” he posed.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris