Improvement in individual performances and conditioning are among the aspects of play Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu is looking at fine-tuning during Shujaa's 10-day high-performance training currently underway at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Simiyu's charges stepped into camp last week to prepare for the Dubai Invitational tournament slated for this weekend. While expressing confidence that the team will exceed their showing at last month's Madrid Sevens, Simiyu said: "We have played two tournaments so far and this has helped us understand the areas we need to improve on. With a couple of such tournaments coming along, we can get sharper." Simiyu lauded the government for organising the Kasarani camp as they prepare for the ultimate event of the year, the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. “We really appreciate the effort by the government through the Ministry of Sport as well as other stakeholders like National Olympic Committee of Kenya, Sports Fund and Sports Stadia for making this high-performance camp a reality," said Simiyu. "It will go along way in ensuring the team performs well at the Olympic Games and hopefully, get a medal.” Skipper Andrew Amonde, who missed the two tournaments in Madrid, has linked up with the team in camp and expressed confidence on Shujaa's chances in Tokyo. "Our preparations are good and the boys are excited with how things have turned out. We are looking forward to the remainder of the pre-Olympic tournaments as well as the Olympics proper,” said Amonde. During the Madird Sevens, Shujaa swept away Portugal, Spain and the United States but found the going tough against Argentina on three occasions. Felix Oloo, the Lionesses head coach said the team’s plan is to keep on improving tournament after tournament. Lionesses will be hoping for a top-three finish in Dubai after a mixed showing at the Madrid Sevens, where they beat Spain but lost to Russia and Poland. “Our rest and recovery protocols need to be very thorough going forward because it plays a big role in our performance," said Oloo. "As a technical team, we have a player-centred approach where the players give suggestions on what they consider to work best for them on the pitch and the management team does the same, we then compare notes and go with what can be actualised more efficiently.”