Despite registering a comfortable 2-0 win over hosts Nairobi Stima at Camp Toyoyo to move third on the log with 26 points, Vihiga Bullets head coach Edward Manoah is a worried man. Manoah says he is deeply concerned that the side's future is in doubt given their shaky financial status. "We are coming from a very complicated season due to Covid-19 and the situation has been worsened by the current financial struggles we are experiencing at the moment. This is affecting our progress in the league but we need to focus on every game at a time," said Manoah. His Stima counterpart Barry Ouma commended his charges for displaying character in the match despite the daunting loss at home. He added that the team still requires some time to gel having only been patched up five days to the start of the season. Ouma said they would capitalise on the new transfer window to sharpen the striking force. The side missed promotion to the top tier by a whisker after wrapping up the season in fourth. "We are creating many chances but not converting them. We need to concentrate on our finishing. We are looking to making use of the new transfer window to plug the existing holes," said Ouma. Sagida Kevin put the visitors ahead in the 31st minute before Mwavali Kevin doubled the lead in the 67th minute. In the second match of the day at the same venue, Talanta ran over Mt. Kenya with a comfortable 3-0 win. Mt. Kenya’s hunger for an opener showed early in the game and barely minutes into kick off, Clement Masakidi's well struck free-kick from the edge of the box came off the frame of goal. Pressing on, they had another close sniff at goal when Benson Majengo's close range attempt was smothered away by keeper Kevin Otieno. Just 27 minutes in, Mt. Kenya came at the end of Talanta's wrath, Kahiro Francis capitalising on a glaring defensive howler to put Ken Kenyatta's charges ahead. Then seven minutes later Ken Mutembei punished Mt. Kenya for yet another defensive lapse to nestle the ball in the corner of the net with a simple tap-in. After the breather, Barrack Odhiambo unleashed a rasping shot on the edge of the area for Talanta's third, effectively condemning Mt. Kenya to yet another relegation scare. Elsewhere, Coast Stima held Police 2-2. Clinton Ochieng and Khamis Aboud scored  for Stima with Police finding their goals through Clinton Kinanga and Samuel Odongo. Sony and Shabana played out out to a barren draw at Awendo Green Stadium.