Reigning champions Gor Mahia will be banking on the midas touch of their new Brazilian striker Wilson Silva to silence KCB when the two sides face off in a tricky Football Kenya Federation Premier League encounter on Saturday. Silva snatched a last-gasp winner for K'Ogalo as they silenced Kakamega Homeboyz 2-1 at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega on Wednesday. Gor will proceed into the match as firm favourites following the win while the bankers will have to put up a far much better performance than what they displayed in their last attempt against Kariobangi Sharks who thrashed them 3-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani over the weekend. Although currently second on the log with 26 points, KCB's title dreams appear to be flickering unsteadily lately after a string of unconvincing outcomes against Nzoia who beat them 2-1 at Sudi and Sofapaka who held them 2-2 at Wundanyi. The bankers need to start registering consistent results to close in on runaway leaders Tusker who sit pretty at the summit of the log on 32 points. Tusker could widen the gap further at the top of the table if they manage to collect maximum points from their tie against Ulinzi Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Friday. Their Impressive run this season was, however, halted momentarily after they suffered a shock 2-1 loss to Bidco over the weekend. Ulinzi are placed eleventh on 17 points. Kariobangi Sharks, who are currently fifth on 24 points, have a golden opportunity to secure third spot after the round of 15 if they see off struggling Posta Rangers at Kasarani Annex on Friday. Posta sit precariously in 14th with 10 points, only two spots above the playoffs zone and three above the relegation bracket. However, Shark's fortunes on the log will largely depend on the outcome of the match between Bandari and Nzoia at Mbaraki Grounds on Saturday. Bandari are currently third on the log with 25 points and could climb up to second if they overcome the resurgent millers. AFC Leopards will host City Stars in a Nairobi derby at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in one of the fixtures set for Saturday. The 13-time champions are placed fourth on the log with 25 points same as Bandari and a win over their opponents could take them second too. Ingwe enjoy a better goal difference over Bandari. Sofapaka will host Bidco United at Wundanyi Stadium, Taita on Saturday. The 2009 champions have been raiding the market lately for fresh talent with their latest acquisition being their opponents' top striker Piston Mutamba who joined them on Tuesday. They are tenth on 18 points, three spots below Bidco who have amassed 20 points in their 13 matches. Vihiga United, albeit equally treading on the edge of disaster, will seek to pile more misery on relegation-bound Zoo when the two sides face off at the Green Stadium, Kericho. The FKF-PL returnees are 15th on 10 points and the best a win can do is take them to a spot higher given Kakamega Homeboyz, who occupy 13th lot, are five points clear. Moneybags Wazito travel to Kisumu tomorrow to honour their date with Western Stima at Moi Stadium. Wazito are sixth on the log with 24 points and a win over Stima could fire them up to second. On Sunday, Salim Ali's charges Mathare United will seek to redeem themselves from a series of pathetic results that also saw them crash under the weight of Nairobi City Stars on Monday when the two sides clash at Kasarani Annex in the only match of the day.