Kisumu local residents in Milimani have complained that the County Government of Kisumu spared an Asian tycoon who has encroached on a public road while demolishing other properties. The Asian tycoon Jayesh Patel is on the spot for encroaching a road in Kisumu’s Millimani Estate which the county government had given the notice to be demolished. It is said that the county government effected the notice and demolished other houses but spared the tycoon house which is still intact despite being marked for demolition. Jayesh Patel, the proprietor of Jumbo Foam Mattress is alleged to have been trying to evade justice to avoid demolition of his house which has blocked a three-meter pathway off Jobita Road Kilimani. On December 17, 2020, the county government gave notice to owners of two parcels Kisumu/Block 8/259 and Kisumu/Block 8/211 to demolish their walls which sealed off the road. The county government went ahead a brought down walls of one of the residents’ parcels, while Patel declined to give way for the public road. In a response to the media, Patel claimed that he had bought the property over ten years ago, and did not know that it was sitting on the road. He claimed that blockage of the road could have been to ensure the security of their premises. A letter by County Director of Surveys Rogers Kobado following a survey of the road indicated that the three-meter-wide pathway passing through parcel numbers Kisumu/Block 8/259 and Kisumu/Block 8/211, connecting Jobita road with an adjacent road had been blocked by a stone wall. The letter dated December 17, 2020, and addressed to the Chief Officer Lands, Surveys and Physical Planning however noted that despite the perimeter fences of the two parcels having been clearly defined, a block fence had been constructed, sealing off the road. “By this letter, I hereby confirm that the proprietor can be addressed to open the right of access as defined by this official map,” part of the letter, referring to a map attached read. Those who have been affected by the demolition to open up the road now claim that Patel may have compromised the county government so as to avoid demolition of his residential house. “This is unfair. How can our premises be demolished, but that of Patel left untouched even after being marked to have encroached on the road? This is unfair,” said one of the neighbours. City Manager Abala Wanga indicated that he had visited the site and admitted that Patel’s house had encroached on the road. He however said after discussions, the proprietor said the road had been sealed because of security reasons. However, the locals want the house brought down. “Several people have suffered due to the ongoing demolitions in the town. Why are some people given the opportunity to be heard even after it is found that they encroached on public land?” complained one of the residents.