Jubilee party primaries in Juja have been marred with low voter turn out as voter bribery allegations and harassment of officials allied to certain candidates also emerged. The party is conducting the exercise to get a candidate who will battle it out with other candidates for the Juja parliamentary seat. The seat fell vacant following the death of MP Francis Munyua alias Wakapee. The by-elections will be conducted on May 18. Those seeking the party ticket include departed MP ‘Wakapee’s widow Susan Njeri, JKUAT  Don Muiga Rugara, former Kiambu education executive Joseph Ng’ang’a, businessman Antony Kirori and Karanja Ngarachu. The candidates urged the party to ensure that the primaries are conducted in a free and transparent manner and allow residents to vote for their leader of choice. Susan Njeri who spoke at Jomo Kenyatta primary school polling station in Juja town after casting her vote exuded confidence that she will clinch the party ticket and enable her to compete for the Juja parliamentary seat. Njeri applauded the Jubilee Party for giving all candidates a fair level playground. “The voting is going on well smoothly with no hiccups and even though the turnout is still low I believe that candidates have been given a fair chance to compete. I’m urging all residents to come out and vote for the leader of their choice,” Njeri said. The late MP’s widow called on Juja residents to observe peace noting that so far there hasn’t been any incidences of scuffles. However, her strong opponent Muiga Rugara who also cast his vote at the same polling station expressed concerns of voter bribery at several polling stations across the constituency and called on the authorities to arrest the perpetrators. “Voters are being bribed to vote a certain candidate. This is election malpractice that should be looked into by the relevant authorities,” Rugara said. He also claimed that some of the officials at the polling stations who are deemed to be his supporters have been harassed. “I hope the entire exercise will be free and fair otherwise we will contest the results,” Rugara said. There have been concerns from some of the candidates that the Jubilee party has already settled on one candidate a matter dismissed by a Kiambu Jubilee Party Official. Jubilee's Kiambu county assembly caucus chairman Elijah Njoroge commonly known as Kururia dismissed as baseless and malicious, claims that the ruling party has already settled on one of the aspirants. The Biashara ward MCA in Ruiru constituency who had earlier briefed journalists said the party will respect the will of the people and hand over the nomination certificate to whoever wins the primaries. “The nominations will be free, fair and transparent. Jubilee Party has promised all contestants that they will be accorded a fair level playing ground and that the most competitive candidate who will be elected by residents will be the party’s flag bearer,” Njoroge said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris