Refugees in Kenya could get Covid-19 vaccines before most citizens after Gavi announced it will send doses meant specifically for them. Gavi said it will set aside 100 million doses through the Covax Facility for refugees and other high-risk populations in humanitarian settings in poor countries. These doses will be availed by end of this year, Gavi said in a statement. Gavi noted national governments are ultimately responsible for providing Covid-19 vaccines for all high-risk groups within their respective territory. However, most governments in developing countries have not done so. "The Covax buffer will be available for use where there are unavoidable gaps in coverage, for example in instances of state-failure and conflict, and in areas controlled by non-state armed groups inaccessible to governments," Gavi said. It did not say how the doses will be shared out, but most vulnerable groups will be prioritised. Kenya has close to one million refugees, the majority of them from Somalia in Daadab camps. Others are in Kakuma camp in Turkana county. The number of refugees from Somalia is over 274,000 which is the largest compared to those from South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Ethiopia, Rwanda and Uganda among other neighbouring countries. The country's vaccination plan leaves out refugees because most Kenyans are not expected to get vaccines by 2023. Kenya expects to have vaccinated only 30 per cent of the country’s population by June 2023, using about 49 million doses. UNHCR said governments must be aware of their obligation to give vaccines to refugees. “It’s in the country’s interest to make sure that there’s no one on their territory that is unprotected and exposed because that will then hamper progress made in combating the virus and stopping the pandemic. No one is protected unless everyone is protected,” Shabia Mantoo, spokesperson at UNHCR, told Devex, a development agency. Refugee vaccination in Kenya is likely to be hampered as the government has already told UNHCR to close the Dadaab and Kakuma camps. The reason given was attacks planned from Dadaab and Kakuma refugees camps. “There is no room for negotiation. We must strike a balance between Kenya’s international obligation and her domestic duties. We do have a domestic responsibility to protect Kenya,” Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said in a letter to UNHCR representative to Kenya Fadhilaa Addala on Tuesday. It will be the third time Kenya is reviving the push to close down the refugee camps. A similar attempt was made in 2019 following the dusitD2 complex terror attack in Nairobi in which 21 people were killed. Gavi said their buffer vaccine will cover all high-risk groups, irrespective of their legal status. “As we have started the rollout of millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccines to Covax economies, it is essential to also protect high-risk groups caught in crisis settings,” said Dr Seth Berkley, CEO of Gavi. The Covax buffer will be funded through the Gavi Covax AMC for humanitarian situations in AMC-eligible economies.  (edited by o. owino)