Senator Sylvia Kasanga has said mental health must be discussed openly to save the lives of hundreds of traumatized Kenyans across the country. Kasanga said the pressure under which Kenyans have been living during the Covid-19 period has left the majority with mental problems. “The loss of jobs, lockdowns, the uncertainty that came with Covid-19, are some of the issues that affect our youths and we are hoping that now with the interventions that are going to come this year and next year, we will see some changes,” Kasanga said. She spoke during the launch of a modern library and Justice Kasanga Mulwa Foundation at Lukenya University, main campus in Makueni on Friday. Kasanga said she is a mental health champion and sponsored a Mental Health Amendment Bill at the senate. “I am happy to report that the bill has come back to Senate. The Ministry of Education has indicated they will support mental health programs, we will have a budget on mental health in our learning institutions,” the Senator said. She said Covid -19 had adversely affected the youth and especially the girl child thereby compromising their education. “A lot of our girls get pregnant and drop out of school. We have raised the issue at the Senate and when I chaired the Ad hoc committee on Covid -19 in the Senate, I said safe houses should be introduced in the community to rescue girls and be re-instated back to school,” Kasanga said. She said, “Even those who get pregnant should give birth and go back to school. This is a conversation we have had even in Senate with the Ministry of Education that we must find ways of supporting girls.” Kasanga said the Covid-19 pandemic period was the worst of inhumanity and as a society, we need to change the way we do things. She said a lot of complaints came up from communities over gender-based violence when they went around the country as a committee. “Gender-based violence was on the rise because of lockdown, even the boy child was sodomized in their homes. Inhuman actions happened during the lockdown period, the reason why mental health has become a critical part of the government’s agenda.” She said the launched Foundation, named after her father Justice Kasanga Mulwa supports the destitute in the society especially children, youth and women achieve their dreams, life aspirations and earn livelihoods. The foundation has been launched in honour of Justice Kasanga Mulwa who was passionate about empowering young people so that they have the power to earn livelihoods and the ability to create a peaceful community in the future, the senator said. Kasanga said her father had been empowering children, especially from humble backgrounds through education and career mentorship. When he was a judge, he gave lawyers stewardship. “We are continuing with our late father’s vision of ensuring quality life to young people, supporting needy and vulnerable children and green agenda.” She said that was the vision Lukenya University and groups of schools were founded. The university offers three programmes, Education, Businesses and Agriculture. “We want to tell young people that Agriculture doesn’t need to be your fore-back plan. We can cover career from Agriculture and we are offering those courses, you can find livelihoods from that,” Kasanga said. Kasanga encouraged students to read and research more in the newly launched library as opposed to spending lots of their time on phones chatting with friends.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris