Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM party is on Wednesday expected to make public the party's 2022 presidential ticket contestants. This would be the first step in the orange party's search for its presidential candidate in next year's general election. The party will be seeking a fourth stab at the presidency even as it is widely believed that Raila will get the final nod to fly the flag. On Tuesday, secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the party would on Wednesday afternoon announce the list of applicants. “Tomorrow (Wednesday) at noon, we shall have released the names of all who have applied,” Sifuna told the Star on the phone. Raila is expected to face off with Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho. The two who are Raila's deputies are out for a daredevil fight for the ODM presidential ticket against the former PM. ODM initiated a three-month search for 2022 presidential aspirants in what is anticipated to rekindle the 2007 memories. Then Raila defeated Pentagon members William Ruto, Musalia Mudavadi and Joe Nyaga to clinch the presidential ticket. Najib Balala had earlier withdrawn his candidacy and backed Raila. Initially, aspirants were given up to February 26 to apply for the party’s flagbearer in the 2022 presidential election. This was, however, pushed back to March 31 in a notice by ODM National Elections Board chairperson Catherine Mumma. Some 3,954 delegates drawn from the sub-branches (constituencies) and branches (counties) will take a vote to elect the ODM presidential candidate next year. Each of the 290 constituencies, according to the ODM constitution, is represented by eight delegates, with at least three of them being women, while every county sends to the NDC 20 delegates. Apart from Joho, it was not clear yesterday whether Raila and Oparanya had submitted their applications ahead of today’s deadline. Raila has been unwell since March 9, raising fears he might have failed to submit his application. But Sifuna, without confirming whether the opposition chief applied, asked supporters to wait for the names that will be released today. “How do you know he did not apply before he fell sick?” he posed. Requirements for any aspirant for the seat include being a Kenyan citizen, registered voter and life member of the party. Such a person was also to pay Sh1 million non-refundable registration fee and possess a degree from a recognised university. The ODM candidate will be expected to face off with Deputy President William Ruto and One Kenya Alliance candidate in next year's polls. One Kenya Alliance brings together Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) and Gideon Moi (Kanu). Other aspirants who have expressed interest in the country’s top seat are former UNCTAD boss Mukhisa Kituyi, Governor Alfred Mutua (Machakos) and his Makueni counterpart Kivutha Kibwana. Edited by Henry Makori