The Judiciary on Sunday announced the closure of Thika Environment and Land Court after three staff members tested positive for corohnavirus. Acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu said the three cases were found over the last 24 hours and all urgent matters be directed to the Murang’a Environment Court. Justice Mwilu said all the 10 staff at the Thika court were identified and asked to self-quarantine in line with protocols issued by the Ministry of Health. Kiambu county, where Thika lies, recorded 54 new Covid-19 infections. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said Kenya's number of confirmed infections had increased by 465 to 108,827, from a sample of 5,691 tested in 24 hours. The Ministry of Health also reported that two more patients had died within a day, raising the death toll to 1,876. Twenty more patients recovered, 17 of them at health facilities countrywide and three in the home-based care programme, raising the number of recovered patients to 87,570. Kenya is inoculating its health workers with the first batch of the vaccine that arrived in the country last week as part of efforts to contain the spread of the virus. A number of government departments keep locking offices for quarantine over surging cases of the pandemic. This comes as the Kenyan government issued a notice on countries whose residents should under mandatory quarantine upon arrival in Kenya. The notice issued by Kenya Civil Aviation Authority stated that the requirement is effective from March 8. Director general captain Gilbert Kibe said the 14 days quarantine is mandatory for people coming from Brunei, Czech Republic, Kuwait, Spain, Switzerland and Thailand. "Travellers from the listed states and territories shall be required to undergo mandatory quarantine upon arrival into Kenya at their own cost. This is effective from Monday March 8, 2021," the notice read. The notice further stated that travellers shall be required to be in possession of a negative PCR-based Covid-19 test result conducted within 72 hours before travel and not display any flu-like symptoms upon arrival. "Travellers must provide evidence of their booking for the quarantine locations 24hrs before boarding," said KCAA. Kibe said the list of facilities available for quarantine can be obtained from info@kmpdc.go.ke. Travellers from over 200 countries will be exempted from quarantine among them Tanzania.