Only less than one per cent of Nyeri residents have taken insurance policies, Commissioner of Insurance and the CEO of Insurance Regulatory Authority (IRA) Godfrey Kiptum has said. More than 60 to 70 per cent of insurance policies in the country are sold in Nairobi while the remaining 30 to 40 per cent is distributed in the rest of the counties. Other counties that have had high uptake are Kiambu at four to five per cent, Mombasa, Nakuru and Eldoret. Insurance penetration in Kenya, which is the ratio of gross direct insurance premiums to Gross Domestic Product, is about three per cent, according to the IRA. “Nyeri has less than one per cent of premiums that have been sold in the whole country and that is one of the reasons why we are here so that we can have that uptake increased,” Kiptum said. Kiptum spoke during the Grand opening ceremony of the Nyeri insurance open day at Whispers Part in Nyeri town on Friday. The aims of the open day was to create an understanding through creation of awareness  why people need to get insurance covers and increase uptake. He called on Nyeri residents to take insurance policies saying insurance covers are of great benefit. Nyeri being an agricultural county, people can take insurance for their livestock and health and not to concentrate only on motor and compulsory covers, he said. The event was attended by various insurance companies and brokers among other members of the insurance industry. IRA had pitched camp in Nyeri from Monday to Saturday. “We have been here since Monday, we met journalists on Tuesday, met bodaboda people on Wednesday, and this place was opened on Thursday for members of the public to walk in, learn about insurance and create awareness so that we can be able to provide that services here,” he said. He said IRA is out to ensure it brings more people into the insurance industry and increase coverage. CEC for Education Margaret Macharia, who represented the governor, thanked the IRA for the move saying many people have the notion that insurance is only for a certain class of people.