Harambee Stars head coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee has finally named a strong 28-man provisional squad ahead of the remaining two African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Egypt and Togo later in the month. The list comprises eighteen local-based players and ten foreign based luminaries. Mulee arrived at the final list after gauging the mantle of his charges during the two closely contested international friendly matches against South Sudan and Tanzania in Nairobi a week ago. Kenya were outstanding in both fixtures, first seeing off South Sudan 1-0 at Nyayo Stadium on Saturday last week before beating Tanzania 2-1 at the same venue a couple of days later. 2021 J-League Most Valuable Player and golden boot winner Michael Olunga who has since joined Qatari champions Al Duhail SC from Keshiwa Reysol leads the strong legion of foreign-based players summoned for national duty. Mulee has also retained the current Football Kenya Federation Premier League leading scorer Eric Kapaito who found the back of the net against Tanzania in Kenya's second friendly tie. Sofapaka skipper Michael Kibwage, Tusker hitman Henry Mejja and Bidco United's first choice custodian Omar Adisa are the surprise omissions from the star-studded squad. The 28 players will hook up in camp as the squad assembles for the final time to gather sufficient ammunition ahead of the qualifiers. Harambee Stars will be hosting the Pharaohs in Nairobi on March 25 in a Group G tie as they frantically battle for enough points to revive their slim chances of making it to the finals in Cameroon. The will thereafter hit the road to Togo on March 30 for the final qualifying rounds of the 2020 Africa Cup of Nations. Kenya are third in Group G with three points, two adrift of leaders Comoros who tie at the summit with Egypt with a similar goal difference. Togo are last having collected a solitary point from their three matches. Final Squad Goalkeepers: James Saruni (Ulinzi Stars), Joseph Okoth (KCB). Defenders: Johnstone Omurwa (Wazito FC), Nahashon Alembi (KCB), Baraka Badi (KCB), Harun Mwale (Ulinzi Stars), Daniel Sakari (Kariobangi Sharks), David Owino (KCB). Midfielders: Lawrence Juma (Sofapaka), Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia, Danson Chetambe (Bandari FC), Kevin Kimani (Wazito FC). Forwards: Boniface Muchiri (Tusker FC), Abdallah Hassan (Bandari FC), Elvis Rupia (AFC Leopards), Erick Kapaito (Kariobangi Sharks).