ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said his quest to form the next government with Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya) is unstoppable. He said Kenyans should know the unity of purpose crafted by ANC, Ford Kenya, Wiper, Kanu and other like-minded political parties is unrelenting. “It is a march towards the realisation of a better Kenya for all. For us, nothing matters more than a decent life for every Kenyan. We should not gamble with people’s lives through mediocre leadership,” he stated. Speaking at Musalia Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi, the ANC leader reiterated that the alliance seeks to end the culture of political deceit and impunity. The so-called Sacred Alliance will face ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto in next year's presidential contest. The quartet detached from Raila and is forging a new coalition that will end up being the third force. Already, the four leaders have picked a 12-member team to spearhead talks on the formation of a coalition for the 2022 presidential contest. Some analysts have argued that the alliance will disintegrate when the time of picking its flagbearer comes. “The unity of the four will be tested when they will need to rally behind a single individual. That could be their point of disintegration,” Advice Mundalo, a political analyst, told the Star. But Lugari MP Ayub Savula dismissed opinions that the group might disintegrate when picking a presidential candidate. “This is a team of leaders who are keen to change the lives of Kenyans. They will sit down and agree on who is best suited to fly the flag,” he said. Mudavadi, Moi, Kalonzo and Wetang'ula are all nursing presidential ambitions. Some political commentators have said they are keen to get President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement which may see them share the positions envisaged if the changes proposed in the Building Bridges Initiative sail through. Moi, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have been campaigning for the Wiper candidate in the Machakos senatorial election to be held on Thursday. “We appeal to the people of Machakos to show solidarity with the Wiper Party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. By voting for Agnes Kavindu, they will be sending a national message that they are united behind their leader,” the ANC leader said on Tuesday. He appealed to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct the elections in a transparent and accountable manner. “On March 4, Kenyans received the message that the people of Matungu and Kabuchai sent when they rejected political merchants planted by divisive elements to act as spoilers. The people of Machakos should affirm the same this week,” he added. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara