Virtual court hearings are expensive. Most court users also lack the required tools for virtual proceedings. That is what most litigants said following the scaling down of Judiciary operations after the third wave of Covid-19 infections. The move is aimed at minimising the chances of the possible spread of the virus. On Monday, most litigants were caught unawares at the Milimani law courts in Nairobi where they were turned away. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi addressed them outside the court and advised that they use the links provided to access the courts for mentions of their cases. Due to the lockdown imposed on the five 'disease-infested' counties of Nairobi, Machakos, Kiambu, Nakuru and Kajiado, most litigants are unable to physically attend sessions for their cases. A litigant told the Star he was asked to access the court virtually but was unable to owing to logistics. Litigants are required to log onto Kenya Law.org and search for the cause list that links one to his/her respective court. For one to be able to access a virtual court, you must have a smartphone and data bundles to be able to log in. But disgruntled litigants said some of them cannot even afford a meal. This has led to the adjournment of most cases that were scheduled for physical hearings in the criminal courts. Lawyer Shadrack Wambui whose cases has been adjourned said it was hard for criminal cases to proceed virtually. “It is obviously difficult for criminal cases to proceed virtually for the mere reason that documents in criminal cases especially evidence is not served in advance to the court. The trial entails the production of these documents in piecemeal as the case proceeds,” Wambui said. He said he had several murder cases at the high court that have since been delayed because the court is unable to proceed with the hearings. “I think it’s a very sad day for justice and especially for those accused persons who are in custody waiting for their cases,” Wambui said. The lawyer decried the presumption that people can afford or have access to smartphones and can easily access internet. “There are accused persons who only have “kabambe” and do not even know how to operate the internet and they are required to be in virtual courts or risk issuing of warrant of arrests against them,” he said. He praised magistrates who have been lenient to accused people who fail to log in for virtual hearings. “For example, a Kiambu court on Tuesday issued warrants for an accused who did not log in for virtual sessions but did not forfeit the cash bail so when the accused will come to court he will only lift the warrant,” he said.  Edited by P.O