Former Kenyan international Boniface Ambani believes the current Harambee Stars squad assembled by coach Jacob Ghost Mulee for the crunch group 'G' Afcon qualifiers tie against Egypt has the capacity to prevail in the match. Although the Pharaohs have already made their intentions quite clear by summoning their star players Mohammed Salah (Liverpool) and Mohammed Elneny (Arsenal), Ambani is urging Mulee’s charges to seize the opportunity and prove to the world that they are equal to the task. Speaking in Kakamega on Monday, the former AFC Leopards striker said Harambee Stars should be motivated by the opportunity to share a stage with some of the world's top stars. “Stopping the Pharoahs will prove that our players are ready to conquer the world of football and that they are capable to claim their position in the top clubs around the world. At the moment Egypt is beatable and they should not fear them. “It's perfect time to beat them considering the home advantage and the realisation that the gap between the North African teams and the rest of the continent has narrowed down and I believe with proper approach, Harambee Stars stand a better chance to win the match,” pointed out Ambani. Ambani urged the government and other stakeholders to support the team and motivate the players ahead of the match as he believes that a conducive environment could bear the desired results that the fans look forward to. He termed Mulee's experience as key to the success of the team given he has previously guided Kenya to an Afcon qualification. Ambani also termed African football as competitive, with some of the teams that were previously looked down upon as underdogs causing upsets, a development he says is good for Africa's football. “Our opponents are normally dangerous when you give them room and allow them to play football at ease, we should not fight for each ball and not to allow them an early goal that will make them settle.” Mulee made some drastic changes to the current squad that shocked soccer fans across the country, choosing to drop long-serving skipper Victor Wanyama who plies trade with Montreal Impact, winger Ayub Timbe currently with Vissel Kobe in Japan, among other stars.