Kanu boss Gideon Moi has assembled an ambitious political machine that is sending a message to rivals that he will be a wily contender for State House. Gideon has in the past six months breathed life into the once-thriving Kanu political juggernaut. A shadow of its lofty and ruthless 70s, 80s and 90s, Kanu still enjoys pockets of support in swathes of pastoral Kenya. The senator, a scion of the monied Moi family, has used President Uhuru Kenyatta's BBI crusade to revive Kanu. Behind the scenes, Moi has assembled a well-funded secretariat to cobble up a campaign platform and organise several whistle-stop public meetings. The team is also charged with drawing Gideon's messaging for each region the senator is visiting. The Star has established that Kanu youth, women wings and county leadership have been activated for aggressive campaigns the senator plans to unleash. Gideon is reported to be the favourite of part of Uhuru's family and is understood to be being groomed to succeed the President. The alleged hand of Uhuru's power men to propel Gideon to power has caused disquiet in ODM leader Raila Odinga's camp. Raila's think tanks were banking on the handshake between the President and the former prime minister to pivot their efforts in the August 2022 race. Gideon is a top player in a new team christened Sacred Alliance with Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula of Ford Kenya. On Friday, Kanu MP Abdikhaim Osman (Fafi) told the Star that they have hit the ground running with their eyes on the presidency. Osman said the Independence party is determined to activate all its countrywide branches as they woo like-minded partners for the high stakes 2022 polls. “We are prepared for 2022; we are working as a team. Our focus as Kanu is the big seat,” Osman said. Kanu secretary for legal affairs Gordon Ogolla told the Star that the party is currently focused on the Building Bridges Initiative. “In the last two elections the party had taken a sabbatical. Currently, the process of revitalisation is going on. Together with the popularisation of the party, its chairman is also meeting its grassroots leaders and members,” Ogola said. The former Migori speaker said Kanu is also expanding its political networks as it prepares for a 2022 political battle. The Baringo senator had lined up four-day inter-county engagements beginning this Friday, including in Uhuru’s Kiambu. He will have to suspend them at least for the next 30 days when the President will review the status of Covid-19 in the country. On Friday, Gideon was supposed to be in Bomet to lead a fundraiser at Kugonoi Primary School and later address a rally at Longisa town. Bomet is the home county of Kanu's long-serving secretary general Nick Salat and also Chama Cha Mashinani boss Isaac Rutto. Rutto, the former Bomet governor, was a staunch supporter of Gideon but has now declared support for Deputy President William Ruto. On Saturday, Gideon was to team up with Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang’ula in campaigning for Wiper candidate Agnes Kavindu in the Machakos by-election. The Senate by-election is scheduled for March 18 and the Sacred Alliance will pitch camp in the county for three days, ending with a major BBI rally in Masinga. On Tuesday next week, the Baringo lawmaker was to end his whirlwind tours in Kiambu at an Akorino tree planting event in Kinale Forest. The succession plan hatched by alleged powerful senior public servants to favour Moi was evidenced last month at State House when the senator read a joint communication of party leaders. Raila and members of the Sacred Alliance and Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu of Narc — all senior politicians — were present. (edited by o. owino)