A witness on Monday told a Nairobi court that due process was not followed in the award of a Sh588 million roads tender that has seen former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu and others charged with graft. Dr Justus Bundi, supply chain management director at the county government of Kiambu, said the tender evaluation committee introduced a new criterion being ‘serialisation of documents’ that was not part of the bid document. This new criterion, he said, changed to the disadvantage of some bidders. “Bidders were evaluated on new criteria they were not aware of. The serialisation of the documents was a disadvantage to other bids. The outcome would have been different if re-evaluation had been done,” said Bundi. Bundi was testifying against Waititu, his wife Susan Wangari, chief officer roads, works and transport Lucas Wahinya. Others charged in the corruption case are Charles Chege, BethWangechi, Zacharia Njenga, Joyce Ngina, Simon Kabocho, Anselem Gachukia, Samuel Muigai, Testimony Enterprises Limited, Saika two estate developers limited and Delta hotel. It is alleged that between July 2 last year and March this year in Kiambu county, Waititu knowingly acquired an indirect private interest of Sh25.6 million in respect of payments made to Testimony Enterprises Limited for contracts awarded to the company by Kiambu. He faced another count together with his wife and a company they co-founded, Bienvenue Delta Hotel. It is alleged that between October 3, 2018, and January 2019, the two proprietors of the said company jointly received Sh7.2 million from Testimony Enterprises while having reason to believe that the amount was acquired from Kiambu county through corrupt conduct. The tender for the project was issued on February 12 and awarded to Testimony Enterprise, owned by Charles Chege and Beth Wangeci Mburu after quoting Sh588 million. Bundi on Monday told Senior Principal Magistrate Thomas Nzyoki that Wahinya disregarded his professional opinion regarding the award of the tender to Testimony.  He said after going through all the adduced documents, he observed some gaps. He, therefore, recommended the gap be addressed in accordance with Section 46 of the PPA Act. The section gives powers to the accounting officer to order for re-evaluation of the tender by same committee or appoint another ad hoc committee to re-evaluate and compare the results. It is, however, at his discretion. “After my professional opinion, I submitted the report to the chief officer road and works. He noted the observations, signed and retained a copy,” he said. "He said few issues noted above cannot affect the outcome even after the re-evaluation and therefore he awarded the tender to Testimony Enterprises Limited." The hearing continues on Tuesday.  -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 