Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has asked his constituents to continue wearing face masks, social distancing, handwashing and avoiding public places to keep the coronavirus at bay. Mwathi said so many people are disregarding the simple Ministry of Health rules to prevent the spread of coronavirus, despite reports new infections are rising. He said it was sad that the number of people wearing face masks has reduced and handwashing in public places has also not been taken seriously. The lawmaker attributed the rising numbers of infections to ignorance and Covid-19 scepticism. Speaking in Limuru town on Saturday, Mwathi urged people to be more vigilant. “If the government did not care about its people, it would not have given such instructions. It is also giving us the disease's report every day so as to keep us enlightened and we should play our part by protecting ourselves even better,” Mwathi said. Mwathi praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for extending the Kazi Mtaani programme for another six months. He said President Uhuru had realised that given the fact that the workers were still attached to the programme, they might suffer if any other instruction was given. “Kazi Mtaani workers are a happy lot because most of them depended on the wages they get straight from the government. This was a good project,” he said. All workers were recalled last week on Friday, in the programme which started with a budget of Sh10 billion and employed 280,000 youths in 900 informal settlements across the 47 counties. Monica Njeri said despite having been taught entrepreneurship and saving by banks and other money lending institutions, it was hard for them to save money. “You live with your children in a rented house. They need to eat, pay school fees and they have some needs just like you. Then, these cohorts only work for two weeks,” Njeri said. "When you get paid, you use that money and when your cohort goes back, you will have depleted your money, you do not have anything, what can you save?" she asked. Mwathi asked the government to come up with a strategy on how it can absorb all the workers to work on its main projects. 