The extortion case against blogger Cyprian Nyakundi hangs in the balance after the High Court ruled that the evidence was procured illegally. Nyakundi was charged in January last year alongside Emmanuel Nyamweya with the offence of attempting to extort Sh17.5 million from Victoria Commercial Bank. The money was supposed to enable the blogger to pull down and desist from writing negative articles about the bank on his blog. In a judgment delivered on Thursday, Justice Antony Mrima ruled that the evidence obtained by the DCI for the extortion case was done illegally and is therefore inadmissible before court. The court noted that it was the DCI who set a trap for the blogger and helped the bank to negotiate the money to be paid out to him. Nyakundi, through lawyer Ochiel Dudley, argued that their prosecution on the basis of illegally obtained evidence violated their right to a fair trial. Ochiel told the court that the DCI went beyond providing an opportunity and even induced the commission of an offence. According to court papers, Nyakundi believes that the DCI instigated the offence and there is nothing to suggest that he would have committed the offence without the DCI’s intervention. After the bank allegedly made a report on Nyakundi, the DCI officers advised them that the best way to go about the issue was to get the blogger on the table to negotiate. That’s why the court ruled that the evidence obtained for the extortion was through entrapment, which is illegal. “Entrapment by the DCI also violates the petitioner's right not to self-incriminate under Article 50(2),” Ochiel argued. Nyakundi had further argued that if their prosecution continued with that evidence, he would be convicted and punished for doing something he would not have done had he not been  “incited, instigated, persuaded, pressurised, or wheedled into committing” by the DCI himself. “The DCI were or may reasonably be suspected of bias, the decision in issue was taken with an ulterior motive or purpose calculated to prejudice the legal rights of Nyakundi,” the court records read. Nyakundi further argued that there was an abuse of prosecutorial discretion and that the decision was unreasonable and was made in abuse of power. According to police records, on January 3, 2020, Nyakundi published an article concerning the CEO of Victoria Commercial Bank that was in bad light. On January 12 the DCI laid a trap for Nyakundi through two people inviting him to a meeting to discuss pulling down the stories. Nyakundi asked for Sh30 million then came down to Sh20 million but the DCI continued to negotiate it down to Sh17.5 million. They promised to pay him the money in instalments because it was a huge sum and the first amount was to be delivered by the CEO himself. On January 20, the DCI and two others led an ambush on Nyakundi when he went to Westgate Shopping Mall to receive the money. 