An MP has defended his ownership of a property in Nairobi worth Sh1.5 billion. Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua says the property which is situated in Industrial area which is also claimed by a retired civil servant is legally his. Gachagua says he bought the property in 2012 at Sh24 million and the National Lands Commission also found that it is his. John Michael Ohas also claims the land is his and complained that it was grabbed. But Gachagua says Ohas never even appealed the decision by NLC which found that the title deed to the land in question which is held by the legislator is genuine. Through his lawyer Philip Nyachoti the MP complained of interrogations by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations which he termed as unconstitutional. DCI had investigated the matter and concluded that there was fraud in the matter. But Gachagua questions the DCI motive saying it was not made in good faith and the same are tailored towards achieving some other ulterior motives and purposes other than the sanctification of the criminal justice system as required by law. DCI had recommended the cancellation of the title held by the MP. Ohas, a former director of physical planning in the Ministry of Lands, moved to court saying the title held by the MP was obtained fraudulently. He was allocated the plot near Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) in 1994 by late former President Daniel Moi. Ohas was allocated the land through his company Columbus Two Thousand Ltd and paid Sh50,000 after accepting the offer in May 1996. "Since the investigations by the DCI was completed and a fraud established, they instructed the department of Lands to recommend the cancellation of the fraudulent title and issue a genuine one to Columbus Two Thousand Ltd," Ohas said. According to the MP, the land was allotted to Karandi Farm ltd, owned by Peter Nduati and Pauline Muringe and who paid Sh54,000. The couple later approached the MP’s company Wamunyoro Investment ltd and sold him the land for Sh24 million in June 2012. He later charged the property to Equity Bank. Ohas lodged a complaint with National Land Commission in January 2016 but the commission upheld the lease by Wamunyoro Investment because Ohas was unable to provide the original letter of allotment or receipt showing he accepted and paid for the offer. The case will be heard on June 7.