Harambee Stars head coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee will be groping for his second consecutive victory in a tricky international friendly as he unleashes his inexperienced charges on a cunning Tanzanian squad at Nyayo Stadium this afternoon. Mulee pulled off a sweet slim hard-fought triumph over South Sudan at the same venue on Saturday to redeem his blotted image occasioned by the disheartening debacle in their African Cup of Nations double header against the Comoros Islands last December. Even though his fleet-footed youthful mercenaries exhibited some pockets of genius in their triumph over South Sudan on Saturday, local tacticians are of the opinion they still appear shaky and unconvincing in the battlefield. Perhaps, another win over the better ranked Kilimanjaro Stars might erase any aspersions cast on the team's ability to compete effectively against Togo and Egypt in the African Cup of Nations qualifiers later this month. Bidco United head coach Anthony Akhulia thinks the side is not yet ripe for any serious commitments. "They won the match, yes, but I'm yet to see a a side that can pose any serious threat to either Togo or Egypt," said Akhulia whose custodian Brian Adisa was handed a starting role in the match. Former Nairobi Stima tactician George Oduor equally expressed reservations about the team's performance. "Until Mulee is bold enough to invite a serious opponent to put his mantle to real test, I still believe we have a long way to go. South Sudan assembled their team in Nairobi a day before the match and as such, I don't think they offered the best challenge to Harambee Stars," observed Oduor. The tie against South Sudan offered a perfect opportunity for the veteran coach cum radio presenter to plug the loopholes in his squad and put a finger on the right blend before the nerve racking qualifiers. There were exceptions of brilliance in the lineup though, notably Football Kenya Federation Premier League golden boot contender Elvis Rupia who was the toast of the day, netting the only goal of the match and Bandari playmaker Danson Chetamba who provided the assist. The Kenyan lads looked menacing right from the initial whistle and in the 13th minute John Macharia picked out Rupia with a neatly delivered cross only for Bright Star skipper Peter Mabok to steal the ball from his feet as he aimed at the goal. 