A Kisumu Employment Court has upheld the decision by Masinde Muliro University to take away the title of Professor from one of their Executive Deans Dr Charles Chunge moved to court three years ago to challenge the decision by the University to remove the professor title from his name. Chunge was appointed as the Executive Dean School of Medicine on July 27, 2015 and in the letter the university had addressed him as a professor. The University wrote to him two years later saying the title in the appointment letter was an error. The University told him that if he wanted the title he should apply for it. Justice Stephen began his ruling by quoting the famous Shakespeare play Romeo and Juliet and asked what was in a name? "What's in a name, that which we call a rose by an another name would smell as sweet," the judge posed. Judge Radido agreed with the university that the use of the term professor was in error. "The position of a professor being an appointed and academic office with minimum standards, the court agrees with the university that the use of the term professor in the offer letter was in error and it was rightly corrected," the judge ruled. The court noted that even the ad hoc committee formed in 2017 to review his case established that he did not qualify. Judge Radido said since Chunge did not have the qualifications for the position of professor in 2015, the court was unable to buy his argument that the reference to him as professor was enough to bestow the position to him. In order to be appointed as a professor, you need to demonstrate that you have been involved in research and innovation which has attracted research funds. You should also have supervised at least four postgraduate students to completion with one of them being a doctoral student. Judge Radido ruled that it was incumbent for Chunge to satisfy the University during his interview that he had qualifications to be appointed as a professor. In the case Chunge insisted that he was appointed Professor at the same time as Executive Dean because he had the requisite qualifications. He told court that he is was an honorary lecturer at Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons in Glasgow which qualified him to be a professor. The Dean argued that he had the title of Professor way before he joined the university.