All food vendors in Nyeri will have to be tested for Covid-19 to continue trading, Governor Mutahi Kahiga has directed. The move is aimed at checking the spread of the third wave. Kahiga in a public health advisory in Nyeri on Thursday also suspended county meetings, training or any form of public gatherings for the next 30 days. The governor directed that all county government staff with pre-existing medical conditions and those aged 58 years and above to be considered for the Covid-19 vaccine. “All county departments to undertake regular fumigation of their office premises, public washrooms and vehicles, minimise walk-in visitors except by prior appointment,” he said. The county chief said a functional contact free thermometers will be  at all entrance points to check the temperatures of staff and clients. Any persons with high temperatures will be reported to the surveillance team on 0717001649/ 719. “All staff and persons visiting government facilities must always wear face masks that covers nose and mouth,” he added. The Heath department will also enhance inspection and supervision of all public premises such as restaurants, churches, eateries, supermarkets, markets, among others. As of 18 March, 2021, Nyeri had recorded 1,364 cases of Covid-19 from a sample of 5,377, translating to a positivity rate of 25 per cent. Two-thirds of the Covid cases are from the Nyeri Central subcounty, which has continuously recorded the highest burden. Some 52 Covid-19 deaths have been reported since the beginning of the outbreak. Kahiga attributed the increase of the number of positive cases in the country in the last two weeks to the recent laxity in adherence to the prescribed protocols and public health measures. Nyeri had vaccinated 485 people by Thursday. “The uptake has been very good. Remember two days ago we were at 186 but the number has doubled and I would also want to ask all the leadership to lead from the front and give guidance and leadership in the matter,” he said. The county has increased the vaccine administering centres from three to eight. They include Nyeri County Referral Hospital, Mt Kenya, Outspan, Mathari Consolata, Tumutumu, Karatina, Othaya Level 6, Othaya Level 5 and Mukurwe-ini hospitals. The county also plans to add three more health facilities. They are Mweiga and Naromoru health centres and Kaiyaba dispensary. 