Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has blamed delayed fencing of Kakamega forest— and creation of a gorilla haven — on frustration by the national government. Plans have been underway to fence the forest for Sh400 million to make a tourist attraction for primate viewing. According to the environmental impact assessment report, the Kakamega rainforest has been encroached upon and has been turned into farmland. There had been plans to fence it off to prevent further encroachment and destruction. Oparanya said the project has been scuttled by officers in the national government who have failed to play their role to make it a success. "We have had plans to fence the forest with intentions of getting gorillas from Congo forest so we make the forest an attraction facility. But  these plans have been frustrated by some officers in the national government who have looked down upon this noble idea," Oparanya said. He spoke while meeting a team from Tourism Fund who paid him a courtesy courtesy call in his office on Tuesday. “The project was going to be a game-changer for tourism in the region as it could be one of the key sources of revenue for both the national and county governments,” he said. The county chief also said an NGO had agreed to donate Sh156 million to the project. He said Vihiga county agreed to contribute Sh20 million. "The project could have taken three years to complete. We have already allocated Sh100 million for the project but up to now it is yet to be implemented," the governor said He cited the ministries of Tourism and that of Environment and Forestry as stumbling blocks. "Our meetings with the Kenya Wildlife Service and the Kenya Forest Service to have the project commence have been fruitless," he said. He urged the Tourism Fund to partner with the county to construct a four or five star hotel and a convention centre. The county would provide land. "This region lacks a five-star hotel yet it has a high population and potential. We are ready to partner with Tourism Fund and other stakeholders to have one built," the governor said. Alfonse Kioko, chairman of Tourism Fund, expressed regret and promised to intervene and try to have the project implemented. The proposed fencing of the 117 square kilometre (28,991 acre) forest was to be undertaken by Kakamega county, KFS, KWS and the Rhino Ark Charitable trust. It has been delayed for two years. Also present was Alfred Matianyi, Kakamega county executive for trade, tourism and industrialisation. (Edited by V. Graham) 