The Kenya Revenue Authority has appointed two substantive commissioners as part of an ongoing leadership capacity enhancement programme. KRA’s commissioner-general Githii Mburu, made the appointment through a statement, confirming Lilian Nyawanda and Edward Kinyua Karanja as the new commissioners of the tax agency. They will serve as Commissioner of Customs and Border Control and Commissioner of Investigation and Enforcement respectively. Mburu said the two roles are key pillars in delivering KRA’s vision to be a globally trusted revenue agency facilitating tax and customs compliance. “The two leaders will play a key role in spearheading and sustaining revenue mobilization and institutional transformation agenda,” he said. Before her appointment, Lilian Nyawanda served as the Customs and Exercise Manager of Africa Region at the Diageo Centre of Excellence overseeing the customs governance, risk management and international trade operations. She started her career in tax at KRA in 2003 as a Revenue Officer (I) after undergoing the graduate trainee program. She holds a Master of Business Administration (Strategic Management) degree from United States International University and a Bachelor of Commerce (Finance) degree from the University of Nairobi. She has a certificate in Customs and Tax Administration from the Kenya School of Revenue Administration. Currently pursuing her Doctorate in Public Policy & Administration from Walden University. On his part, Edward Karanja is substantively the Deputy Commissioner – Investigation and Enforcement, a position he has held since 2019. Karanja joined KRA in 1992 as Assessor II (Special Unit Income Tax) and served until 1997 when he became Principal Revenue Officer Head of Audit Large Taxpayers Office. Karanja holds a Doctorate in Business Administration from Washington International University. A Master of Business Administration (Entrepreneurship and Strategic Management) from United States International University. Master of Arts in Public Finance from Grips University, Tokyo, Japan and a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Economics and Mathematics from Egerton University. He is a Member of Certified Fraud Examiners and a Fellow of the Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya and a member of the Kenya Institute of Management.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris