Fifty three firearms have been recovered in a month long police operation in Kapedo area, Baringo County. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi said this was made possible through the efforts of security teams the chiefs, peace committees, inter-faith groups and the elders through high level engagements with the illegal firearm holders. “Cattle rustling, banditry and general lawlessness has been brought under control. Learning, and other socio-economic activities have also now resumed,” he said in a statement on Monday. He said following the lapse of the 30 day curfew period imposed on Kapedo, and the successful restoration of peace and normalcy in the area, he had directed the lifting of the 6.00pm to 6.00 am curfew. “We shall however retain the 10.00 pm to 4.00 am nationwide curfew in line with the Presidential Directives on the Revised Covid-19 Containment Measures,” he said. He added road blocks within Kapedo area will be retained but humanitarian assistance shall be facilitated by security officers to ensure that it reaches the targeted beneficiaries. Matiang’i said the government’s comprehensive and multi-faceted responses to insecurity and lawlessness continues to dramatically change the security landscape within the region and beyond. “A collaborative partnership by various State and Non-State agencies, including the National and County Governments, Private Sector and Civil Society has contributed largely to return to the relative normalcy in the region.” He added security teams in the area will not relent but rather step up vigilance and patrols to ensure that the security situation does not slip back. “In this regard, therefore, we shall maintain strong operational patrols within the area. We appeal to the general public to continue working closely with the security agencies through regular information sharing in support of the efforts for peace and tranquillity in the larger Rift Valley Region,” he said. Matiangi said as the area remains under close surveillance the government will not hesitate to re-impose curfew measures should there be any further escalation of tensions. At least three police officers were killed in the area in January in an ambush prompting the government move to impose a curfew. The operation covered Kapedo and Arabal areas in order to bring the killers to book, recover illicit arms and stolen animals. The area has for years known no peace as rival communities engage in never-ending war. In November 2014, 21 police officers were killed during an ambush attack in the Kapedo area. Some 42 others had been killed in the same area in 2009. The government plans to build a training camp in the area to act as a buffer zone between the warring communities and deter further fighting.