 Politicians sabotaging the push for Luhya unity should not be allowed to speak at funerals, Musalia Mudavadi's spokesman has said. Kibisu Kabatesi who speaks on behalf of the ANC party leader said Western residents should eject from funerals any politicians who speak ill of Mudavadi. Mourners should not accept to be duped by 'trouble-makers' whose only interest is to derail the push by Mudeavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula. “We know sell-outs who pretend to support him (Mudavadi). Don’t allow them to sneak into funerals with tokens yet they talk ill of Mudavadi. Reject and eject them,” Kabatesi said on Saturday. He was speaking to mourners during the burial of Richard Chapenda, 86, in Mululu village in Sabatia constituency. Mudavadi hails from Mululu village. Kabatesi said politicians serving the interests of "outsiders" are scared of the Western community voting as a bloc in 2022 and were therefore trying to scuttle the plan. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have joined hands to ensure the communities living in the Western region vote as a bloc. They have joined the sacred alliance comprising that also brings together Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and Kanu's Gideon Moi. Their 'unity of purpose' was tested in the March 4 Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections where both Mudavadi and Wetang'ula backed single candidates to avoid competing against each other. Their candidates won in both constituencies. Kabatesi told mourners to ask politicians seeking to address them whether they stand with Mudavadi or not. Those who do not support the former deputy prime minister should not be allowed to speak, Kabatesi said. He said the Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections confirmed that Luhyas had rediscovered themselves and were ready to chart their own destiny. "No aspirant can be so good that they are seeking your support without supporting your son Musalia for the presidency. They may be people you know, sisters, brothers, mothers, fathers and relatives. But beware! These are political Pharisees, Jezebels and Judas Iscariots. They should be injected from genuine supporters. Don’t allow them to foul the political hygiene of this region,” Kabatesi said. He urged residents to strictly adhere to Covid-19 containment rules. “Coronavirus is real. But I see church ministers, administrators and most mourners don’t have masks yet we are squeezed together. When I walked in everyone was stretching an open hand to me in greeting as if there is no virus. Please take care. Wear a mask. Let’s stop shaking hands until the virus is eradicated.” Kabatesi said.  Edited by P.O 