Mozzart company has donated medical equipment worth Sh3 million to the Kombewa Sub-county Hospital in Kisumu. The donation includes hospital beds, bedside lockers, maternity delivery beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, oxygen flow meters, oxygen storage capacitors, ophthamolscopes, and infant incubators among others. The equipment were received by Governor Anyang Nyong'o, who noted that that service delivery at the maternity and paediatric section will greatly improve. Nyong'o assured the  that the equipment will be fully utilised and put to good use to improve the health of the people within Kombewa and Kisumu County as a whole. “We are very excited to receive this donation. On behalf of Kisumu County, I want to assure the betting company that the equipment will be put to good use to improve healthcare in Kombewa and Kisumu County at large,” he said. The company country manager Sasa Kmeta noted that they will continue supporting various community projects around the country. Kmeta said they hope the donations will change the lives of the people of Kombewa for better. The leading gaming company has continued to help Kenya's health system by donating medical equipment to hospitals within the counties. The company, according to the manager, has spent more than Sh50 million since November in community projects that include their 100 wells for community and  various healthcare projects. “We are an organisation that is human-centered and therefore we are always eager to support community projects,” he added. Between November, 2020, and now, 19 different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital. Others are Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center, Dandora 2 Health Center, Kakamega Referral Hospital, Waithaka Health Center, Vihiga County Referral Hospital, Yala Sub County Hospital, Molo Sub County Hospital and now the Kombewa Sub County Hospital. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks according to the company.