The sound of an aircraft hovering around ignites optimism in Tharaka Nithi residents. Theirs is a hope they have kept alive for over 50 years, awaiting confirmation of minerals availability in the county. For years now, residents say there have been claims of the existence of minerals such as  lime, copper, gemstones and iron ore and want the government to step in and explore. Their claims have been backed by the county Deputy Governor Nyamu Kagwima who says he hired France Army consultants who explored to know if there were minerals in the county. “They took the samples to South Africa on quality and production and the results are impressive. I sought the consultants privately. This was done professionally,” he said. He said he is pushing the county and national governments to assist and “I am happy mining PS Joseph Kaberia has agreed to assist by establishing an office at Marimanti, so that this can be done comprehensively.” However, reached for a comment, the PS did not confirm or deny Kagwima's claims only saying :“Remember I am also a journalist and these are told stories, but let me pick my bosses’ incoming call, I will call back.” He never called or answered subsequent calls made. Lime is used to neutralise soil acidity while iron ore is used for production of steel and many other items. Residents are accusing their leaders of not pushing for the mineral exploration. James Mugwika who claims to have been extracting iron ore for more than 20 years noted that despite the mineral discovery  in Tharaka 50 years ago, residents are still vulnerable and poor. He said they have raised beacons in areas suspected to have copper, lime and iron ore deposits. He claims they have been selling lime to farmers within the county but a machine they have been using recently crashed. He says if the minerals are exploited and a factory established, it would create employment for many in the county. “My father is buried at one of the iron ore sites. He never benefitted from the minerals. We used the iron ore stones to kill birds until 1965 when a white settler, only identified as John arrived in Kithiori and discovered the mineral. He never made any gains for us. He then relocated," Nkirang’a Mutiria, 74, from Kithiori told the Star. Mutiria said the current Tharaka Nithi Deputy Governor Kagwima, when he was the Tharaka MP, enhanced some extraction activities but currently nothing goes on. “Where did Kagwima go to? Where is Senator Kithure Kindiki and county government? Will they return here during the electioneering period with the same promise that they are following up on the exploration?” asked Mutiria. “Why can’t the government invest in machinery and build a factory at Kithiori for processing these iron ore? I am aware iron ore is good for making steel. There was a time some private investors wanted to establish a factory but politicians fight over where to establish the plant derailed the project,” he said. He urged the government to take the issue of minerals as seriously as it does to miraa trade. “I have about 50 acres which  I suspect have deposits of iron ore but I am poor. What benefit will I get being buried in such wealth?” he posed. The mineral deposits are said to be in Kibung’a, Maragwa, Marimanti and Kithiori areas. Agnes Muthoni said in 1987 many of their houses were demolished to pave way for extraction that did not take long. They were not compensated. “I could not have dropped from school due to lack of fees if mining iron ore paid off,” she said. She said the sites were left open posing a danger to residents, their animals and also raised concern that they could no longer use the land for farming. She said it is sad that politicians use the mineral exploration as a campaign tool  but never look into it once elected to office. “From time to time, people come here and request us to get them samples. We extract the mineral at throw away price where one is paid Sh100 per wheelbarrow but we don't get feedback,” she said. Tharaka MP Gitonga Murugara appealed to the Mining ministry to fast track efforts of conducting thorough research to establish whether the suspected minerals are viable or not. Murugara said his efforts are slowly bearing fruit because the Mining Act gives him hope that one day his constituents will benefit. “I am lobbying the government through the Mining ministry to have a mining officer stationed at Marimanti. He is on his way, I think he is at Chuka coming over to Tharaka. He will advise everyone on the viability of the iron ore deposits. “We are laymen and we may think there is iron ore mineral only to be told sorry, this is not viable. I have lobbied mining PS Kaberia and he gave me the office to look into ways of exploiting minerals in Tharaka,” the MP said, urging his constituents to exercise patience. Kagwima on the other hand assured residents saying they have something to smile about because he is set to establish a lime extraction plant at Maragwa and revive the iron ore plant. “The initial works was an exploration to check if the minerals are there and on possible production. I am involving other stakeholders to put big plants machinery from China and other countries. In the meantime, to enable people continue eke a living, we will revive the iron ore production and we will establish a limestone plant at Maragwa,” he said. The deputy governor said apart from iron ore, there is presence of low quality copper at Maragwa but in big volumes. I am pushing to get machines to clean copper. The limestone plant will create about 500 jobs. We were earlier producing 200 bags per day but we aim to be producing 1,000 of 50kgs bags of lime per day,” Kagwima said. He added: “When the heavy machines arrive we will produce 4,000 to 10,000 bags per day to serve Central and Mt Kenya region because Mashamba fertility has deteriorated. This will increase farmer’s harvests.” -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 