 The Kenya National Examination Council on Tuesday said no cases of malpractice had been recorded since the KCPE exam began on Monday. Knec chief executive Mercy Karogo said no form of cheating was reported in the first two days. On Tuesday, the candidates took Science, Kiswahili, and Insha tests. They are expected to take the Social Studies and Religious Education test on Wednesday morning as the exam ends. “So far so good, the exams have not witnessed any major hitch and expect this to continue as the candidates write their final paper tomorrow (Wednesday),” Karogo told the Star on the phone on Tuesday. This year’s test is the fifth to be administered under strict rules to curb cheating cheating. The measures were introduced in 2016 to weed out what was considered rampant cheating that had undermined the integrity of the exam. Marking The end of the test will give way for the commencement of the KCSE exam for 751,150 candidates with rehearsals set for Thursday. The marking for the KCPE exam is set to begin on the first week of April. While the marking of the answer sheets will be computer-assisted, about 7,000 examiners are expected to mark Insha and Composition papers. The Star has established that Knec could release the KCPE results in early May. The candidates are expected to report to Form 1 in July. In Tuesday's exam, Education CS George Magoha led the supervision of distribution of materials in Machakos county. Basic Education PS Julius Jwan supervised the exam distribution in Uasin Gishu county. In Nyamira county, seven candidates who had not registered for the exam were cleared to sit the test. The private school they attended failed to register them, they said. Karogo said the matter was under investigation. "While the other arm of government is being investigated, we want to make sure that the candidates are not punished for a mistake that is not of their making," she said. In Turbo subcounty in Uasin Gishu, 45 girls were sitting the exam while pregnant, subcounty director of education Ole Sauna said. He said some girls failed to write their exam because their parents relocated to rural areas after losing their jobs due to the Covid-19 pandemic. A total of 1,191,725 candidates in 28,467 schools were registered to sit the exam.  Edited by P.O