John Musingi's Machakos senatorial campaign rallies are intimate — residents have to come closer to his Land Cruiser Prado to see who's talking to them. He won't be found waving and addressing the crowds through the sunroof of his vehicle. On many occasions, Musingi will stand by the front passenger door for support and try to convince the Machakos residents that he is best to represent them in the Senate. Recently, aides heard some people ask why mheshimiwa would not get away from his car and address them. They told the curious residents he is disabled. A road accident years ago left Musingi in need of crutches to move around. The race to replace Senator Boniface Kabaka, who died on December 17 last year is crowded. Ten people among those supported by political heavyweights Deputy President William Ruto and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka are gunning for the seat. Musingi, an academic and activist, says he can beat them all. The University of Nairobi lecturer and environmental planner says he is the most qualified of the contestants. Musingi has taught at UoN's Department of Geography and Environmental Studies for the last 20 years. He is vying on a Muungano Party ticket having lost a chance to run on DP Ruto's United Democratic Alliance. The UDA ticket went to Urlbanus Ngengele. Among the candidates are John Katuku (Maendeleo Chap Chap), Stanley Muindi (Party of Economic Democracy), Jonathan Maweu (independent), Francis Munyambu (independent) and Sebastian Nthama (independent). Others are Simeon Kitheka (Grand Dream Development Party), Otto Edward Musembi Nthenge of Ford Asili and Wiper’s Agnes Kavindu. On Sunday, Musingi met residents at Kalama in Machakos town. The following day he traversed Kimutwa, Makaveti, Kyangala, Kiaituni, Miaani, Manzaa, Muumandu, Kalima Mungu and Kola areas. Musingi said he is in the race to serve the people of Machakos. “My motivation is to serve the people because after all I have a nice job as a senior don but decided to dust my hands and work for Machakos people,” Musingi said. The soft-spoken orator has taken advantage of interacting with the electorate to persuade them that he is their best chance at responsive representation. He has touted his modest entourage of three vehicles — his Prado, a chase car and another vehicle mounted with the public address system — as a sign of his humility. Musingi trashed the narrative that the by-election race has only two or so front runners, while the rest had no impact on the ground ahead of the March 18 poll. He criticised some of his rivals for going round cheating the electorate about their support base. His team is gaining ground on them, he said. “We are surprised at how people are taking our candidature. It’s good, and those who are calling us ‘others’ are now stepping back and thinking hard about it because we are winning this race,” Musingi said. He said his campaign is going to finish the race well because it has become more powerful and stronger every day. “We are doing well in our campaigns. They are peaceful and our strategy is to have a one-on-one with voters. We have been doing that throughout the county and the results are overwhelming,” he said. Musingi said voters know that in the contest, he is the most qualified in terms of academics. “I have a bachelor's of science, master's and Doctor of Philosophy degrees from the University of Nairobi. None of the others has reached that level. In terms of advocacy, I have done a lot,” he said. He said he has been agitating for the protection of residents against pollution in several parts of the county. “I have been talking about pollution of Athi River, quarrying in Mavoko subcounty and advocating for ndengu farmers alongside environmental conservancy and climate change.” He said during his campaign tours across the county, he had realised that devolution had yet to improve the living standards of residents. “I was in Kalama and I was surprised they don’t have water and have terrible roads. They are part of the county yet have nothing to show for it. We are building white houses, planting many flowers all over while people of Kalama, Ndithini, among other places are suffering,” Musingi added. He said he will ensure sanity and equity in resource distribution and county development if elected as the third senator of Machakos. Musingi said he will use his international networks, experience and expertise to mobilise resources for the county’s development as he executes his mandate as a senator. The campaigns will go on for one more week and Musingi has promised to continue meeting the people and selling his agenda at close quarters.  (edited by o. owino)