A suspected thug was Monday evening shot dead in Nairobi’s Umoja area in a botched robbery mission and a pistol that had been stolen from police found on him. Police said the suspect known as Abbas was wanted over a series of criminal offences in the area. Buruburu police boss Adamson Bungei said the deceased man was a pillion passenger of a numberless motorcycle on Kangundo Road when he attracted the attention of detectives on patrol prompting a chase. He was shot a few meters away after a brief chase even as the rider who was carrying him rode off. He added the detectives recovered one Glock pistol suspected to have been stolen from a police officer, three live rounds of 9mm calibre, and 11 other live ammunition of different calibre from him, indicating that the suspect might have been in possession of another firearm. According to police, Abbas was a dangerous criminal connected to a spate of murders within Buruburu, Kayole and Dandora, including the shooting of a woman in Kariobangi who was lucky to survive, a few months ago. The firearm was taken for ballistic tests. Cases of armed robberies have been on the decline in the city amid sustained police patrols. Meanwhile, a faceless police officer behind social media pages christened “Hessy wa Dandora” has issued a chilling warning to muggers and petty thieves that are reported to operate along Outering Road, Nairobi. This follows reports many pedestrians avoid the footbridges because of thugs who hide and attack them there. The crime buster said he had been alerted of cases of insecurity, mostly on the footbridges. “Been alerted of insecurity on Outering footbridges from Alsops, Naivas, Kariobangi/Kiamaiko, Equity and Donholm. Manhunt has started without stopping,” he said in a post. And given the response on the pages, it indicated the thugs operate there with impunity. Hessy uses the page to issue warnings to alleged criminals and later posts pictures of their lifeless bodies while taking credit for allegedly killing them, in actions that have been praised and criticized in equal measures.