The planned delimitation of constituency boundaries by the IEBC could be thrown into disarray after revelations the agency lacks population data for every ward and constituency. It emerged on Wednesday the electoral agency has been embroiled in a year-long-stand-off with the Kenyan National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS). This discord has frustrated the generation and tabulation of data. KNBS has accused the electoral agency of frustrating the process of validating its population data per electoral unit. “There are boundary issues which are touching on the ward and we require shapefiles that are officially held by IBEC defining every ward,” KNBS director general MacDonald Obudho said on Wednesday. He was presenting his views during public participation on the BBI Bill before joint parliamentary committees on Justice and Legal Affairs  at Parliament Buildings. Obudho said despite holding several meetings with the IEBC and requesting release of shapefiles, KNBS has not received them. Shapefiles are digital maps that would help the agency to locate the exact boundaries of the electoral units. He reiterated that due to a number of boundary disputes and contradicting information from the ground, the IEBC — charged with delimitation of boundaries — is the only source of truth. As such, the agency is unable to validate its raw data and produce a report capturing population distribution per electoral unit. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati, who was presented when Obudho made his presentation, said he had not released the data. The electoral agency boss said releasing the digital maps on wards and constituency boundaries to KNBS would amount to ceding its mandate to the statistics body. “I want to confirm to this committee we agreed with KNBS that we shall give them hard copies of the relevant maps of all the constituencies for “But we have not given the soft copies of the shapefiles for the simple reason that that is ceding our mandate to another agency to do the work for us. We don’t know how they are going to populate them,” the chairman said. The revelations came as a shocker to the committee which asked how the commission was preparing for the delimitation of boundaries and the 2022 General Elections without official population data on wards and constituencies. “There is a matter that members want clarity on. That you don’t have data per constituency — is that the case?” committee co-chair senator Okong’o Omogeni asked. Constitution Articles 84 (4) (c) and 89 give the IEBC the mandate to delimit constituency boundaries every eight years but any review shall be completed at least 12 months before a general election of MPs. The commission uses the data per constituency in delineating boundaries. Currently, it is based on a population quota of 132,138 people per legislator. Obudho said KNBS has only captured the population for 765 of the 1,450 wards leaving a balance of 652 wards. But Chebukati said there should be no cause for alarm as the two agencies have formed a technical team to review the maps and tabulate the population data. The chairman told the joint committee that the commission that started preparations for the delimitation exercise after delays caused by lack of budget and data. He said that while the commission was ready, there were delays to get funds from the Treasury and data from KNBS. He said, however, they have received some funds in the current financial year and are putting in place infrastructure for the boundary review. (Edited by V. Graham)