A women's lobby group wants the national government to limit its foreign borrowing, saying it is overburdening an already struggling citizenry. Members of the National Women’s Steering Committee, an umbrella organisation for 44 civil societies and NGOs, have said the high cost of living has been caused by the foreign loans taken by the government. This has in turn caused the government to overtax Kenyans to service the loans, making basic commodities unaffordable to many. It has also restrained the number of funds available to finance the government’s operations and constricted service delivery. The group’s Murang’a branch coordinator Reginah Wambui said the government has been unable to control its expenditure, causing it to operate on a deficit. “The current economic situation has been caused by the government’s inability to tame its non-priority spending,” Wambui said. Parliament has failed in its role to oversight the government and put a stop to the endless borrowing, the group said. The situation, she said, cannot be solved through increasing taxes which only serves to worsen the quality of life for the common Kenyan. “We have been losing a lot of money through corruption and if such loopholes were sealed, the government would have more funds at its disposal,” she said. Wambui further underscored the need for the government to ensure it operates within its means while limiting its development ventures. “Let us also check our procurement procedures and find out why we are procuring things at triple the price from the highest bidders,” she said. Wambui took issue with the decision by the President to give MCAs car grants to support the BBI Bill while the country is suffering from insufficient funds. “It's ridiculous to make such decisions and then increase taxes,” she said. The branch coordinator said the government should have a structured way of spending its resources. Wambui also highlighted the need for the government to have a debt management strategy to control haphazard borrowing. Felister Muiruri who represents the youth in the committee said women are the hardest hit by the slump of the economy and the high cost of living. She challenged the government to establish measures that could help spur the economy with many people suffering from joblessness especially due to the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Muiruri said raising the debt ceiling will only aggravate the situation and urged the government to only engage in priority projects. Catherine Maina said political leaders should prioritise healing the economy instead of focusing on the constitutional review that will only cost the taxpayers more. Maina said due to its failure to represent Kenyans and fight for their interests, the national assembly should be dissolved. She said the public should be engaged in finding solutions for the high cost of living and help make proposals for economic recovery. A few days ago, the government increased fuel prices causing an uproar from Kenyans, many saying they are already suffering from the effects of the pandemic. The Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority said the pricing of petroleum in Kenya is undertaken per the Energy Petroleum Pricing Regulations, 2010 and has a predetermined formula   Edited by Kiilu Damaris