Energy Cabinet Secretary Charles Keter has said Coast residents should soon enjoy reduced power interruption and cheaper electricity costs. Speaking in Mombasa on Wednesday, he said the ministry has stepped up the construction of the Rabai control unit and other sub-stations in Kilifi and Kwale. Keter said this will allow the  Suswa-Isinya power line to reach the Coast and ensure a steady supply of power. He spoke during a meeting with the Senate Energy Committee chaired by Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina. The ministry is decentralising the control centres so that whatever happens to the main one in Nairobi does not affect the entire country. Though the stability of power supply at the Coast has improved because of the 400KV line from Suswa-Isinya-Coast, Keter said, completion of the Mariakani substation, which is currently at 60 per cent, will further improve supply. “With the investment at the Mariakani substation, we will be able to use more of geothermal which is cheaper at six cents per kilowatt-hour. Currently, we are running over 20 cents,”  Keter said. Most of the power plants at the Coast are thermal and run on diesel, which makes it expensive. The expenses are transferred to consumers. The total capacity of the power plants at the Coast is 300MW, according to the CS. The CS said they will also be commissioning other substations in Kwale and Kilifi counties to enhance the reliability of the power supply in the region. Many Kenyans are shifting to solar power and buying solar panels because of the expensive cost of electricity. However, Keter said this does not worry the ministry in terms of possible revenue loss. He said the ministry encourages more Kenyans to use solar power “The use of solar power will reduce the use of electrical power which will, in turn, be used somewhere else where more power is needed, the CS said. Nyeri Senator Ephraim Maina said they are however concerned by the cost of power in the country. He said lamentations from Kenyans across the country about billing and reliability of power is something that the committee is in discussion with the ministry to solve. “Disruptions seem to have increased,” he said. Narok Senator Ledama Ole Kina said they are in discussions with the Energy ministry to ensure that Kenyans pay for only what they consume. He said many Kenyans receive exorbitant and inexplicable bills from the Kenya Power Company. He however lauded the ministry for being responsive to the concerns raised by Kenyans which they relay to the ministry and the people’s representatives. “We raised the issue of tokens and they dealt with it. Today, it gives us another opportunity to get to know the elements of power transmission and distribution so we can better understand how Kenya Power works,”  Ole Kina said. The CS said Kenya has come a long way in power supply and there is only a little more to be done to ensure a steady supply. In 2006, the government decided to buy emergency power from Uganda because of the constant outages in the country. Out of an installed capacity of 2,800MW in the country, 700MW are thermal power plants that run on diesel. This causes the tariffs on the diesel power plants to charge 20 cents per kilowatt-hour. The KenGen power plants sell at about 10 cents while the independent power plants, which mostly use wind power, sell at about nine cents per kilowatt-hour. In terms of policy and planning at the ministry, any power plant coming in now substitutes the high cost of the thermal power plants. “The cost of power is not something which you wake up today and determine. KPLC buys it from a power generator and this costs money,” Keter said. This is why the cost is then transferred to the consumer. Mombasa still has thermal power plants running and is one of the areas that house the 30 thermal power plants in the country. Others are in Garissa, Mandera, Wajir and Turkana, among others. Kisumu’s thermal power plants produce 60MW, which is sold to KPLC at 35 cents per kilowatt-hour. The government buys 50MW of power from Uganda at 10 cents per kilowatt-hour. “We are working on the transmission line to West Kenya and once this is done we will reduce the cost of power. This is a plan which we have. We cannot achieve it within one day,” Keter said. The Coast region used to produce 350MW entirely under diesel, which is unreliable. “That is why there was a lot of unreliable power. People were having generators in their houses,” the CS said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris