Kenya plans to eradicate the deadly PPR livestock disease by 2027, three years before expected global eradication. Livestock diseases have reduced Kenya's exports to international markets and mass, countrywide vaccination is necessary. Livestock PS Harry Kimtai said on Monday they have partnered with the Food and Agriculture Organization and International Livestock Research Institute to reach the goal. He was speaking in Gunga village in Migori county where he issued 50,000 doses of PPR vaccine. “Our strategy is to eradicate PPR (Pestes des Petit Ruminants) by 2027," Kimtai said. He said eradicating livestock disease will safeguard food security. Kimtai said the department has met all agricultural executives in all 47 counties to schedule harmonised, simultaneous vaccination of livestock. He said the county was making great strides in eradication of PPR,  commonly referred to as sheep and goat plague Roll-out is planned for other counties where livestock farming is an economic mainstay. Harmonised vaccination will prevent cross-border spread because counties cannot do it alone. Hamisi Muo, FAO deputy country representative, said livestock is critical in supporting rural livelihoods. "A loss means a child not going to school, a family sleeping hungry and unable to afford medical care. It is for this reason FAO prioritises such a diseases as PPR.” Hamisi said. PPR is a highly contagious and fatal disease mainly affecting sheep and goats. It is characterised by lack of appetite, diarrhoea, nasal discharge and death within 10 days of infection. “This disease is fortunately preventable through vaccination. It will be the second livestock disease to be eradicated after rinderpest, which was  eradicated from the globe in 2011,” Muo said. Migori county CEC for agriculture Valentine Ogogo said PPR is not the only challenge; other diseases are a problem. “We are next to Ruma Park, you know the effects of the tsetse fly, and at the same time we are bordering Tanzania and other counties,” he said. 