President Kenyatta is scheduled to break ground for the Buxton housing project in Mombasa on May 1. However, it is unclear whether the current lockdown and restrictions to fight the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic imposed by the Head of State on Friday will affect the plan. On Friday, Housing and Urban Development PS Charles Hinga and Presidential Delivery Unit secretary Andrew Wakahui inspected the project in the company of businessman Suleiman Shahbal and project manager Ahmed Badawy. This is a vote of confidence and a blessing for the project, which has had its fair share of criticism because of the underlying political undertones that surround it. Shahbal, the public face of the project developers, is eying the governor's seat against area Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir. The two will be battling it out for the ODM ticket to vie for the seat occupied by ODM deputy party leader Hassan Joho. Nassir had been opposed to how the whole process was conducted, saying the residents had not been properly consulted before their houses were demolished about a month ago. On Friday, PS Hinga and PDU secretary Wakahui expressed confidence in the project, saying it is the largest in the country. The Sh6 billion project will see 750 jobs created directly and about 3,000 more indirectly, according to Shahbal. “At least 1,850 families will get new affordable houses and at least 300 businesses will be opened once the project is completed,” Shahbal said. The PDU boss said the goal of the project is to bring together an all-inclusive setting of both residential and commercial property for sale and rent from Buxton Point and Mombasa county. “The site has been secured awaiting groundbreaking to be held on the May 1, 2021,” tweeted the PDU on Friday. Hinga and Wakahui said the project is a good example of Public Private Partnership in achieving the Big 4 Agenda. “It is estimated that the project will attract more than Sh50 billion in investment,” said Hinga, who has been championing the construction of 500,000 units of affordable housing under the Big 4 Agenda. The project plan is to build residential units comprising one, two and three-bedroom apartments, a youth centre, at least one kindergarten, a social hall, an open playing field, commercial units and many other facilities. Initially, the plan was to have President Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga break the ground on January 1 but a section of the Buxton residents moved to court to try to stop the project. Their case was dismissed, allowing the county government to demolish the doors and windows of the houses to make them inhabitable and force residents out. All the tenants received cheques of Sh240,000 to seek alternative places of residence as the project is undertaken. The residents will be given priority once the project is complete. There were 502 one and two-bedroom units whose rent was Sh2,800 and Sh3,662 a month respectively. Once complete, the new one-bedroom units will go for Sh1.8 million each, two-bedroom for Sh3 million and the three-bedroom units will go for Sh4.2 million. There will also be bedsitters going for less than Sh1 million. However, these will paid in form of rent so that after some time, the units will eventually belong to the tenants once the respective amounts are attained. About 65 youths have been trained at the National Industrial Training Authority on practical skill courses like plumbing, masonry, mechanical, electrical, carpentry, folk lift and interior design ahead of the project. The project’s community liaison manager Beatrice Gambo on Sunday told the Star the 65 youths will undergo more training on site once work starts. The youths are from Buxton area. “We intended to have more youths trained so as to provide skilled labour at the site once the project begins but the court cases delayed everything,” said Gambo on phone. Shahbal said the project will be a game changer in the county. “It will provide job opportunities to our youths. When the construction starts, at least 3,000 youth will get jobs there. It's a new lifestyle for the residents of Buxton and Mombasa at large,” he noted. Edited by Henry Makori