The Law Society of Kenya, Rift Valley Chapter has condemned cases of violence, verbal insults and voter bribery witnessed in the by-elections in Kabuchai, Matungu constituencies and Nakuru's London Ward. The more than 30 lawyers led by Rift Valley Chapter chairperson John Ochang’ and LSK Council Member, Bernard Kipkoech, urged politicians and their supporters to respect the freedom of press and independence of IEBC. Kipkoech said it was wrong for hired goons to attack journalists who were peacefully going about their businesses during the London Ward by-election. He asked the Interior Cabinet Secretary, Fred Matiang’i and the Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai to take action against the culprits. The lawyers also offered to give pro-bono services to four journalists injured during the March 4 by-election in the London Ward of Nakuru Town West Sub-County. “It is very sad that there are politicians who still believe that they can not win in elections free of fights, insults and bribery,” said Kipkoech. Addressing the media outside the Nakuru Law Courts, the LSK Council member said such acts were a shameful precursor of what will happen in 2022 if fast and punitive action is not taken against the perpetrators. He noted that the rapid eruption of violence was a frightening indicator that the country was on the brink of collapse. “Matiang’i and Mutyambai should ensure that organisers of the violence seen in the three by-elections are captured and charged with the offences. Kipkoech said it was very sad to see leaders harassing and beating up IEBC officials and flogging journalists as police watched adding that those officers should also be incarcerated. He added that there were laws governing IEBC and the media and they should be left to work on unethical staff instead of subjecting them to mob justice or physical abuse. A video of Former Sports and Heritage Cabinet Secretary, Rashid Achesa slapping an IEBC during the Matungu by-election in Kakamega went viral while three journalists were attacked and injured by goons in  Nakuru. A fourth journalist was injured on his waist after he was hit with a teargas canister during the scuffle. Kipkoech observed the politicians were misusing their freedom of expression and opinion to incite Kenyans against each other and pulling the country back into the culture of ethnically instigated political violence. “We have witnessed politically instigated violence in Kenol, Muranga, Githurai, Burma and even Kisii during the burial of the area Deputy Governor father’s burial and all these cases show that the country is in a bad state in terms of unity, peace and cohesion,” he said. Ochang’ said that Kenya had been turned in to a political arena where campaigns start immediately after elections. He said the security apparatus should do more to secure the country because the hatred and violence experienced between different political factions was bound to cause national conflicts.