This report is a disappointment, to say the least. While the CEO may have been a mastermind of the scam and the board failed to provide oversight role on the management, it is not enough for a scam of that magnitude to lack the big fish. There are people in a high office in government and, even out of government, who should be held responsible. The people who were giving the CEO instructions in a dotted line. The Senate committee should have identified some of the senators because we are aware there are high-ranking politicians who were beneficiaries and should also be prosecuted. So this is a raw deal to Kenyans and a waste of taxpayers cash, considering that the committee took long investigating this matter. The long and short of it now is that money is not going to be recovered and this will end up like other scandals. You cannot blame only the CEO and not look at specific people who took the money. In any case for us, this is like a cleansing exercise that is trying to preempt what the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission was going to do. The EACC has been investigating this matter for months now and this report is trying to absolve some powerful individuals who should be prosecuted by trying to sacrifice the small fish. There was a huge web of powerful businessmen and politicians who took advantage of the lockdown to steal from Kenyans and all the Covid-19 millionaires should be brought to book. Our verdict: This is a shoddy report. A report that Kenyans should not take seriously. We should expect a thorough report from a combined team of EACC and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions should from there prosecute the culprits. The war on corruption, especially in the Ministry of Health, has been defeated. The flip-flopping by government agencies to fully investigate scandals at the ministry is worrying. We have had several scandals in this ministry but nothing has been done. It is a total letdown. Highly connected people are usually at the centre of these scandals that's why no successful investigation and prosecution have been conducted. The Cofek secretary general spoke to the Star