The Association of Media Women in Kenya has called for the speedy conclusion of the investigation into the murder of journalist Jennifer Wambua. At the time of her death, Jennifer was the deputy director of communication at the National Land Commission. Jennifer is set to be buried on Wednesday at her Katheka home in Machakos county. Police say they will then progress with the probe into the murder. The motive of the killing is yet to be established. Jennifer went missing on March 12 before her body was found dumped in Ngong Forest the following day. Police say they are investigating a murder incident. The association said they have noted with sadness the heightened incidents of femicide in the country. No arrest has been made but investigations into the murder of Jennifer continue. She was a mother of two. Some staffers at the NLC have been questioned as part of the probe. An autopsy showed she was strangled with bare hands. Her husband Joseph Komu recorded a statement with police for two days. He was among those who talked to Jennifer moments before she went missing. It is not clear what police asked him to explain for the two days - Friday and Saturday - that he appeared before the detectives at the DCI headquarters. A team investigating the murder say they are analysing various evidence collected from scenes of interest before they decide on the way forward. These include mobile phone data and CCTV footage. Police say Jennifer might have been lured by someone known to her and trapped before she was killed. Detectives handling the matter say that is one of the theories they are pursuing. The theory came up after it emerged she left all her belongings including her handbag and mobile phone in their car and walked away leaving no trace of her next destination. More than 50 calls found on her mobile phone are being analysed. Jennifer was a witness in a case where 19 people including Lugari MP Ayub Savula are charged with Sh122 million fraud at the Government Advertising Agency. There has been no link so far between her murder and the case.  Edited by P.O