Energy CS Charles Keter has said slow response by Kenya Power to electricity emergencies would earn the responsible staff the sack. Keter said his ministry has embarked on a crackdown to rid Kenya Power of staff who take too long to respond to emergencies after being notified of anomalies in electricity transmission. “Most of the senior staff are now on contract and not employed on permanent basis. It is expected of them to respond very fast to emergencies. Those who will be unable to do that will just go home,” the CS said. Keter made the remarks before the Senate's Standing Committee on Energy on Wednesday. Senators had asked why it takes too long for Kenya Power to restore power after an outage, particularly in rural areas. Nominated Senator Pretronilla Were told the committee residents of an area in Nambale have been without power for weeks even after reporting the matter to the nearest Kenya Power offices. “This last mile connectivity programme is very much welcome but it seems the project has had terrible effects on the quality of services we get from Kenya Power,” she said. Laikipia Senator John Kinyua said Pesi, a trading centre in his county, has been without power for a whole month. Keter regretted the delays in restoring power and promised to act on the matter promptly. He told the committee the frequent power outages in Western Kenya will end with the completion of the Olkaria- Lessos transmission line. “The prevailing load management, network constraints and power outages in western Kenya will be resolved with the completion of 220 KV Olkaria- Lessos- Kisumu transmission line. Ketraco is currently constructing the line which is almost complete,” he said. Keter said the line is likely to be complete by the end of April. “The project will be completed soon after we get Sh500 million from the National Treasury. We were to get the money some two weeks ago. We are still waiting for disbursement,” he said. He noted that frequent power outages in Vihiga county are due to load management during peak hours, which affects the larger Western and South Nyanza regions. “Three 11kv primary substations namely Boyani, Chavakali and Cheptulu have their supply source from Kisumu 33 KV substation which is affected by load management for three days in a week. Outage on these substations affects 75 per cent of Vihiga county customers,” Keter said. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri had asked for an explanation to the numerous power outages in the county. Keter said other causes of power outages are faults occurring in the feeder lines, distribution transformers and low voltage lines.  