The ANC party is set for restructuring to position itself for the 2022 succession race, deputy party leader Ayub Savula has said. The Lugari MP on Tuesday said in Kakamega that Luhyas in top positions will opt out to give party leader Musalia Mudavadi space to reorganise the outfit to have a national face. "I have opted to leave as deputy party leader so the position can go to other communities and others have been requested as well," he said. Savula said that it had been agreed that the positions of secretary general and deputy party leader will be handed over to other communities. The position of secretary general has been vacant for months after Barrack Muluka resigned and joined Deputy President William Ruto's camp. He said the party was abolishing the party National Executive Council and replacing it with the National Governing Council as the supreme party decision-making organ. Savula spoke after attending a meeting by the Kakamega county ANC branch officials. The meeting at Ikonyero Catholic Church brought together all officials of the youth, women and the branch. He said that the National Governing Council met last year and endorsed Mudavadi as the party's automatic flag bearer and he will not be going for anything else in whatever formation he finds himself in. Savula said the party was set to carry out grassroots elections in the next two months to re-energise ahead of the general election. He said the party national election's board chaired by Isaac Litali was currently sensitising branch officials on the changes in the party structures. This will be followed by sensitisation on the changes in the party constitution by the party legal team, Savula said. ANC has teamed up with Ford Kenya, Wiper and Kanu in the Sacred Alliance that is positioning to take on Deputy President William Ruto's UDA in 2022. Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka and Kanu's Gideon Moi campaigned together for ANC and Ford Kenya candidates in the Matungu, Kabuchai and Machakos by-elections where they won the seats. During the Kakamega meeting, Lurambi MP Titus Khamala was endorsed as the branch chairman. He replaced Julius Arunga who has been unwell for months now. Savula said Arunga had given an okay to be replaced as branch chairman. The party had already advertised for applications by aspirants for various elective positions ahead of the 2022 race. Edited by Henry Makori