Kirinyaga tea directors have applauded Wednesday’s court decision to suspend an order given by President Kenyatta instructing tea factories to conduct directors elections within 60 days. The tea directors insist they are in the office legally. The directors drawn from five factories namely Ndima, Mununga, Kangaita, Kimunye and Thumaita say their stay in office is secured by a stay court order that was sought by the office of the attorney general  last year and given a boost in the Wednesday court directive Speaking to the media at the KTDA Kangaita tea factory in Kirinyaga central, the directors led by their spokesperson  Erastus Waihura said they are legitimately elected into office by the farmers and have vowed to stay put in order to protect their interests from external intrusion. They further accused the government of violating the order and instead sanctioning for a fresh election while it is the very arm that sought an injunction. “We respect the president but as it is now, we are law-abiding citizens and we cannot afford to defy a pending court order. When the time comes for elections to be conducted, we will fully back  free and fair elections .” They expressed their concerns over the government’s exceptional interest in the tea management sector saying the interference could lead to the collapse of the sector. They defended KTDA and tea factory managements which they say have been crucial organs that have systematically overseen the success of tea farming and prompt payment of farmers. “Tea is the only cash crop that has been left stable in the market. Many of the public entities have either been registering losses or have since collapsed.” “We have had coffee which is now on its knees. Cotton, Pyrethrum, sisal and other cash crops were once key drivers of our economy. Not to mention the national carrier Kenya airways which have been choked by debts over the years while under the management of the government‚” they said. Peter Migwi, a board member at the KTDA representing Kirinyaga county took a swipe on the government for constantly imposing new reforms in the sector without engaging the stakeholders. Migwi said with the exception of this year due to covid-19 directives, they have all along abided by the company’s act that dictates the retirement of a third of directors at KTDA  who are elected by the shareholders annually “We have all along conveyed AGMs to elect new directors except for this year where we sought for a postponement by writing to the registrar of companies who okayed our request to conduct the AGMs within a period of 6 months if the covid-19 directives will have been lifted‚” he said. Migwi further accused the government of trying to take over the tea sector by imposing directors who don’t have the farmers interests at heart. They are now pleading to have a sitting with the government so as to enable them to iron out the issues so that shareholders will not suffer. Meanwhile, a group of farmers from the county have vowed to show up in their respective factories come April 10 for fresh elections. They have vowed to oust the current directors who they accused of colluding with top KTDA managers and some court staff to frustrate the executive’s efforts in overseeing an overhaul in the tea sector. “Their insatiable greed has often driven them to seek court orders to curtail any move that is meant to upscale tea farming. We want all farmers who are the actual owners of these tea factories to show up and put responsible people in the office,”  John Mithamo said. “Our intended action is in line with the company’s act for individual factories to conduct elections. The court order has not barred factories from conducting elections to select their directors rather it imposes a restriction to KTDA from managing the elections,” said another farmer Kariuki Ndathi. Another tea farmer, Maina King’uru said they are fully behind the government’s tea reforms which seek to empower small scale farmers while protecting their fortunes. “We are baffled at the wanton defiance of the Presidential order. That is unheard of and we are certain that there are some crooked deals somewhere that have resulted in this. We know KTDA has been using our money to file petitions against the new tea reforms ” They called on all farmers of the five factories to show up overwhelmingly while at the same time urged the government to beef up security and ensure elections are held as scheduled.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris