The few times I have participated in a number of policy formulation processes, especially at validation stages, I am almost always convinced that either we do not get serious when on public assignments or are constantly creating loopholes to be exploited by those who are in the system and their allies at the people’s expense. We are using public resources to exclude the same citizens by creating phony accountability platforms that are not only manipulable but are a haven for perpetuating theft of public resources. Looked at against the almost 60 years of self-rule, one can be excused to think that mandarins who have perfected the art of state capture do not think of a Kenya without them at the helm. We are so good in putting word to paper in terms of policies, regulations and even laws but abrogate, abuse and/or selectively use the same for selfish end. Many countries such as Rwanda are keenly implementing policies and laws that were first formulated here but are either gathering dust in government offices or are being put to use with the aid of political lenses. We think we will fix purely political problems that have in their wake created class exclusionism with new laws that, incidentally, do not address even the simplest problem of ridding the electoral commission of political interference. For doubters, the recently concluded by-elections are good pointers. The knee-jerk reactions by the state after many atrocities before and on Election Day show that nothing will change simply because we are changing the laws. In fact those laws are aiding the commission of electoral malpractices because they are promulgated with just such intent. Then there’s the biggest elephant in the room—political deceit. Politics, as we practise it here, is a game of interests, bereft of any morals. If we continue with shameless deceit to score goals then such short-term, cosmetic approaches will breed unnecessary rifts that may boil to dangerous levels. We cannot have a country where it’s debt all over. If it is not foreign and/or domestic debts then it’s individual politicians claiming payback. Parties, ethnic communities or various groups are also making debt demands. All these emanate from people who deceitfully got what they wanted but are now looking elsewhere citing spurious reasons. Honesty is needed to strict observe Chapter Six of the 2010 Constitution. As it is now, it’s a fertile ground for political machinations and malicious application by the state. Economic and political analyst