Clerics have said the electoral agency urgently needs more commissioners and is ill-prepared to handle the BBI referendum and 2022 General Elections. Lack of preparation could undermine the integrity of elections, as in the past, the National Council of Churches of Kenya said on Tuesday. Clerics told the media the electoral agency needs more commissioners and staff well ahead of the referendum and national polls. The NCCK expressed concern over lack of preparedness in the Independent Electoral and Boundaries commission. It operates with only three commissioners instead of seven, including the chairman. It also  lacks a CEO. NCCK Nyanza regional committee chaired by Bondo ACK Diocese Bishop David Kodia said that IEBC needs restructuring. Currently, the electoral body has only three commissioners – chairman Wafula Chebukati, Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye. Kodia said the IEBC is inadequately constituted despite the country facing a BBI referendum in a few months and the 2022 General Election. The Treasury has set aside Sh84.5 million to recruit commissioners. Kodia, who read the press statement on behalf of the committee, said the problems that afflicted previous general elections were yet to be addressed. “We are especially concerned because of shortcomings in the electoral system and processes that resulted in violence, chaos, and death in our region,” he said. The clerics said they would not wish a repeat of the cycle of demonstrations and violence in 2022. They called on the government and other stakeholders to speedily implement required electoral reforms for a free, fair and peaceful elections. The NCCK also denounced the trend of politicians using churches as platforms for campaigning and vilifying rivals, turning worship services very toxic. “This committee strongly condemns this trend and we have urged our brothers and sisters who are clergy to stop politicians who want to campaign in churches,” Kodia said. The leaders also cited issues including wanton demolitions in Kisumu and generally deteriorating healthcare services. 