Rains are expected to spread across the country this week, according to the latest prediction. The forecast also shows April will be wetter than usual. The rains are expected to extend to June in Western Kenya. The Dagoretti Corner-based Igad Climate Prediction and Applications Centre said temperatures will likely remain normal over Central, Coast and Northwestern Kenya. “Wetter than usual conditions are expected over Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Tanzania, much of Somalia, southern and northern parts of Ethiopia, and much of eastern South Sudan,” Icpac said in regional forecast for April. The Kenya Meteorological Department is expected to issue a localised forecast for the country. April is the peak season for the long rains, which have already started in Western Kenya and parts of Central such as Nyahururu. The Coast and large swathes of northern Kenya have not rained this year, but Met says rains will begin Tuesday (today) in many places. The rains will ease the current deteriorating hunger situation, especially in northern Kenya. According to a Food and Nutrition Security Assessment report, 1.4 million Kenyans are currently facing hunger. The assessment was carried out by the Kenya Food Security Steering Group between January 13 and February 18 to determine the impacts of the 2020 short rains on food and nutrition security in 23 ASAL counties. The report shows that the number of people facing acute food insecurity is about 1.4 million, an increase from 739,000 reported during 2020 long rains assessment and requiring food assistance. “Out of 1.4 million, it is estimated that 238,000 people spread across Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Marsabit, Samburu, Turkana and Isiolo counties are in emergency phase. The rest are in crisis phase." The report attributes the increase in numbers to below normal performance of the short rains, thus worsening the already fragile food security situation in the ASALs. “Moreover, the situation is expected to further deteriorate during the March-May long rains season with an estimated two million people likely to experience acute food insecurity,” it reads. The pastoral counties experienced a deterioration in food security situation owing to lingering impact of desert locust and Covid-19 control measures alongside below average short rains. In February, the National Drought Management Authority warned of a drought situation in Baringo, Isiolo, Kilifi, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir and Turkana. According to the National Drought Early Warning for February the situation is worsening in Garissa, Lamu, Tana River, Samburu, West Pokot, Kitui, Laikipia and Kieni in Nyeri. NDMA attributed the declining trend to the poor rainfall performance observed during the October-November-December 2020 short rains season in the affected areas. “In addition the sunny, dry and hot weather conditions that prevailed over most parts of the country in January 2021 also worsened the situation," NDMA said. The authority said this is because the higher-than-average daytime temperatures experienced in many ASAL counties, led to high rates of evaporation and evapotranspiration. "This caused faster reduction in water levels in open water sources and from the soil surface, hence resulting in rapid drying up of dams and water pans, and wilting in pasture and crops,” NDMA said. Edited by A.N