On January 27, Pakistan’s Minister of Planning, Umar Asad, tweeted that the "system for vaccination is in place", and that "hundreds of vaccination centres in the country will be administering Covid vaccine." He also announced that Pakistan would start inoculating frontline healthcare workers, a process that began on February 3, 2021. While Pakistan has approved Oxford-AstraZeneca’s vaccine, China’s Sinopharm and Russian Sputnik V for emergency use, the country has decided to use Sinopharm for the first wave of vaccination. Another Chinese vaccine, Can Sino, is currently under Phase III trials in Pakistan. China has been aggressively marketing its vaccines across the world, despite shaken confidence in it. Brazil is a good example of this, where Sinovac has been produced and approved for emergency use. This is despite the fact that Brazilian trials had shown only 50.4 per cent efficacy in vaccine during late-stage trial. Indonesia and Turkey also exemplify nations wherein despite the discrepancy in data which China had presented regarding vaccination, vaccines are being imported in bulk of millions of doses. There are also indications of coercion being used, as several leaked papers of correspondence between Nepali Foreign Ministry and Chinese embassy therein seem to suggest that Nepal was pressured into accepting the vaccine, or they will have to wait for a long time as the vaccine is in “great demand”. In Pakistan’s case, Sinopharm’s approval has allowed for expedited immunization of frontline workers. China has decided to play the ‘vaccine diplomacy’ card, and pledged 500,000 doses of vaccines as donation to Pakistan. It is this batch that is being used for the vaccination cycle from February 3. However, Pakistan’s problems will not resolve itself with mere 500,000 vaccines, when it has a population of over 220 million. Pakistan aims to provide injections to about 70 per cent of the people free of cost, which it will need to procure from outside. WHO announcement that it will use its Covax facility to send 1.3 billion vaccines free of cost to 92 low-income countries has ensured that Pakistan will source some free inoculations. Interestingly, Pakistan’s immediate neighbour, India, has been able to not only launch one of the biggest vaccination drives in the world successfully but is also capable of sending vaccines in aid to its neighbourhood as well as countries outside its immediate geography. Perhaps it is a testament of poor relations between Islamabad and New Delhi that former has not been part of India’s vaccine diplomacy. Indian foreign ministry spokesman has gone so far to point out that he was not "aware of any request for India-made vaccines" from Pakistan. Thus, it is clear that Pakistan may be seeking support from China, the other Asian vaccine giant, to ensure that vaccine is supplied to them. It was expected, not only due to obvious indication from China’s donated vaccines, but also since Pakistan and China’s bonhomie has been one of the most advertised geopolitical relations in past few years. However, these potential purchases hold worrying implications on the prevailing financial asymmetrical relations between Pakistan- and China. Pakistan has been facing an economic crisis in the past several years, which has been worsened due to COVID-19. In 2019, Pakistan recorded a growth rate of mere 1.9 per cent, a significant decline from decadal growth rate of 5.8 per cent just a year before. Inflation had also reached 10.7 per cent in Covid-19 hit 2020, with food prices skyrocketing within Pakistan. As if an economy in such dire straits was not enough, not to mention the threat of FATF Blacklist looming on it like a Sword of Damocles, Pakistan also has to pay a significant amount of external debt, much of which is owed to China. According to IMF, Pakistan’s debt to China was reported at$6.7 billion worth of commercial loans in 2019, due dates of which were spread across three years till June 2022. These borrowings rose since the CPEC project began, and have been used to tide over a growing financial crisis. The recent reports on Pakistan asking China to provide relief on the power-generation infrastructure related loans, and those on growing conflict regarding interest payment terms on new CPEC loans (wherein Pakistan has been asking for low interest rate concessional loans when China has posited terms of a mix of concessional and higher interest rate commercial loans) suggest that Pakistan is in fact in no condition to pay its loans. Additionally, the trade relations between the two country are already imbalanced; Pakistan exports to China stood at $1.7 billion, yet imports at a staggering $12 billion. A large bulk of these imports have been CPEC related commodities, but there had also been an uptick in medical supplies, in provision of which China had shown a ‘preferential treatment’ towards Pakistan. While trade deficit in itself is not necessarily bad, it heralds further economic crisis for a country like Pakistan which is already facing high inflation and stunted economic growth. With its economic backbone injured down due to COVID-19, even if we presume that vaccination will help in bringing some economic activity back on track, fact remains that Pakistan will remain in need of further assistance, by aid or by debt, for many years to come. The above two aspects come together to paint a very poor picture for Pakistan, especially in relation to China. There have been many allegations and denials regarding China’s predatory debt trapping of countries. Pakistan today is struggling with older loans, seeking newer loans to pay them from IMF and China itself, and has to additionally buy necessities en masse from China which it cannot necessarily afford. All of which has now landed it into a debt trap against China, and with little recourse against it given the poor relations with India and a deteriorating one with the Middle East. However, given how Pakistan continues to look to China, even when the vaccine option they give has been proven to be sub standard at best (and does not meet basic WHO standards in terms of efficacy by a large margin), the fact that Pakistan may be being leveraged against and be headed towards a worse economic disaster (both due to poor quality of vaccine and the costs around it) does not seem to have been driven home.