A woman in her early forties  has been barred from leaving her husband who is in his eighties and barred from cohabiting with her herdsboy lover. “Let it be known to all in Isiolo the petitioner (woman) is the respondent’s legal wife. She be and is hereby restrained from cohabiting with any man other than her husband,” the Kadhi's court ruled on March 25. Senior principal Kadhi Abdullahi Athman further directed the couple should not have sex until she gives birth. The herdsboy is the father. Under Islamic law, a person may be denied a valid legal right, if he or she hastens to prematurely acquire it. The court said the woman came to court with 'unclean hands'. "She admitted adultery and infidelity. She is unapologetic and remorseless. She failed to demonstrate any grounds for divorce," the court said. “It would appear she no longer loves her husband and would wish to live with a younger, more energetic and handsome young man and wishes the court to assist her in her endeavour.” The Kadhi added, “Courts are hallowed halls of justice. They cannot be used as instruments to encourage or assist immoralities and injustices.” The two have been married under Islamic law for about 30 years, living in Isiolo county. They have 10 children, some of whom are married. The woman, in her early forties, left her legal spouse, an elderly man. She cohabited with and conceived a child with the younger man. She claimed her husband abandoned her and had never shown spousal and fatherly affection and love to her and the children. She wanted court to grant her a divorce and compel her husband to pay maintenance for her children. The husband claimed the wife ran away from him and the children. He said she stole 30 goats and Sh700,000. She is cohabiting contrary to law with another man, he said. He also said the woman had been in charge of managing his resources. He wants her to be compelled to return his money, goats and dowry. At pre-trial, the woman denied she has a sexual relationship and conceived with another man. The court directed her to have a pregnancy test. She refused, stating she is pregnant and the herdsboy is the father. The woman’s actions have the potential to create public outrage and insecurity, the court said. It directed OCS investigating officer Ngare Mara to probe further  and asked the DPP's office in Isiolo to consider charges of bigamy against the woman and her lover. The court said the expected child cannot be biologically or legally related to the husband and declared the child belongs only to the mother. (Edited by V. Graham) 