A section of Kikuyu elders has endorsed the elevation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to Mt Kenya spokesperson. The Kiama Kia Ma (National Gikuyu Cultural Association) approved a request by Embu cultural officials and Meru's Njuri Ncheke to make Muturi the region's voice. Muturi was early this month enthroned as Mt Kenya East spokesman by Nchuri Ncheke in an elaborate ceremony attended by several elders. The endorsement by Kiama Kia Ma now makes him the spokesperson for the entire Mt Kenya region. Kiama Kia Ma derives its membership from Kikuyu-speaking counties of Kiambu, Murang'a, Nyandarua, Kirinyaga, Kajiado, Nakuru, Nyeri and Laikipia. “Elders present and national elected Kiama Kiama officials, without objection, agreed that honourable Speaker JB Muturi is endorsed as the Mt Kenya East spokesperson and this endorsement be conveyed to the Njuri Ncheke and Embu Cultural officials," the elders said in a statement read by national chairman Ndichu wa Njuguna. The statement was signed by the group’s patron Kungu Muigai. Initially, there were reports the elders from the vote-rich region, which is President Uhuru Kenyatta’s political bastion, was divided on Muturi’s installation. It makes Muturi the fifth leader to be installed by elders after Kenya's first President Jomo Kenyatta, former President Mwai Kibaki, President Kenyatta, and Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi. Addressing a press conference in Nairobi on Monday, Njuguna said they will soon hold a special event to officially endorse Muturi. He said they will sensitise their bases before officially endorsing him at "our Holy Shrine of Mukurwe Wa Nyagathanga at a date to be disclosed later". The 58 officials spoke after a consultative meeting in Nairobi. Elders and political leaders from Mt Kenya East have been laying the ground for Muturi's 2022 presidential bid. But Muigai said their endorsement of Muturi has nothing to do with 2022 politics, adding that the elders are apolitical. “We don’t have any say on political matters. We support the government of the day and the county government of the day. There are many people who are coming to Mt Kenya and we need a spokesperson,” he said.