The late Kiambaa MP Paul Koinage was calm, soft-spoken and a smooth operator per excellence who had the ear of President Uhuru Kenyatta. He was so loyal to the President he detested anyone who spoke ill of him. Despite being the chairman of the National Security Committee in the National Assembly, he was often spotted walking from Parliament to Harambee House which houses the Office of the President and the Ministry of Interior without bodyguards. He would also take a walk from Parliament to Jogoo House “A” seeking answers from Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to numerous questions asked by MPs revolving around security and the conduct of police. He was a fierce defender of the office holders in the security docket—Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, PS Karanja Kibicho, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and IG Hillary Mutyambai. Every time they appeared before his committee, Koinage guarded them from "harassment” from the MPs. In most cases he kept his committee sessions closed-door, locking out media from covering them. At one point the members of the committee wanted to remove him from the chairmanship after they complained that Koinange was too protective of the security officials and he would even answer questions on their behalf. Matiang’i while mourning the MP alluded to how Kionange steered the security committee in the National Assembly. “I am broken by the terrible news of Hon Paul Koinange's death. A father figure and great model of a Christian leader, I mourn him in truth and deep frustration. He was the indisputable steady and stabilising factor in the National Assembly's National Security Committee,” he twitted. He said: “My colleagues and I in the internal security sector will miss his wealth of experience, unparalleled wisdom and political maturity that strengthened us all. My condolences to the family, friends and the constituents of Kiambaa.” Because of his low profile in politics and friendly demeanour, Koinange could easily walk the busy streets of Nairobi unnoticed. He was however the holder of the sledge hammer who recently proposed a law to criminalise Deputy President William Ruto’s “Hustler movement” slogan. His National Cohesion and Integration (Amendment) Bill, 2021, sought to criminalise incitement against any person, group or community on the basis of social status. It proposed a Sh5 million fine or five years imprisonment or both to any person who utters words intended to incite feelings of contempt, hatred, hostility, violence or discrimination against any person, group or community on the basis of the social status of a person. The MP, a nephew of former Cabinet Minister Paul Mbiyu Koinange, passed away on Wednesday at The Nairobi Hospital after weeks of battling coronavirus related complications. His father Charles Karuga Koinange, who passed away in 2004, served as a chief of Kiambaa in 1951 and later a provincial commissioner in Central and Eastern provinces. Towards his last days in hospital, he is reported to have been put on life support machine after his heart, lungs and kidneys failed. Mbiyu Koinange, who was Jomo Kenyatta’s brother-in-law and confidant, served in the independent government and that of former President Daniel arap Moi, died on September 3, 1981. President Uhuru described Koinange as a dependable leader whose undivided focus was the unity, stability and progress of the country. “The cruel hand of death has robbed us of a steadfast leader. A leader and gentleman whose undivided focus was the peace, stability and progress of our country,” he said in a statement. "Through the National Assembly Departmental Committee on Administration and National Security where he was the chairperson, Hon Koinange advanced legislation and policy interventions that sought to create a peaceful, stable and tranquil nation," the President mourned. Ruto said Koinange was a dependable, illustrious and visionary figure who worked for the people of Kiambaa constituency with diligence. "He was a progressive and selfless politician whose exceptional servant leadership will be missed," he said. "We pray to God that He grants strength to the family, their loved ones, the people of Kiambaa and our Parliament at this time of grief. Rest In Peace, Hon. Koinange." In a statement, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said Parliament had been robbed off a very committed and dependable member. Muturi said Koinange served with utmost dedication as chairperson of the Departmental Committee of Administration and National Security and as the co-chair of the National Prayer Breakfast Committee. “It is very sad that the country has lost him at such a time, just when he was spearheading his committee in the efforts to consolidate peace and security among communities involved in inter-ethnic conflicts across the country,” he said. ODM party leader Raila Odinga said the people of Kiambaa have lost a diligent and dependable leader saying he was focused on the unity, stability and progress of the country. "He was a personal friend of mine for many years. My heartfelt condolences go to his family, friends and constituents. May His Soul Rest In Eternal Peace,” he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara