Ulinzi Starlets coach Joseph Mwanza has cautioned his charges not to rest on their laurels despite their 4-1 win over Kayole Starlets at Stima grounds yesterday. Mwanza said the team is still work in progress and was happy the girls played according to instructions. "It was a thoroughly deserved victory. Our first half strategy of getting early goals worked well for us. "It was a faultless display in the first 20 minutes and we proved too strong for them. "We cannot dwell much on the victory but we have to work for three points in our next match. Our priority is to finish among the top three teams in zone A," Mwanza said. His counterpart, Joshua Sakwa, blamed the defeat on poor goalkeeping decisions and the unavailability of star midfielder Esther Mazira owing to academic duties. "We gifted them the first two goals. The goalkeeper had an off day and it became difficult to turn the tide after they scored two goals within the opening 15 minutes. Our midfield was overrun and the absence of the combative Mazira was felt," said sakwa. Mazira will be available when we play Gaspo this weekend but I will also make decisions in the goalkeeping department," Sakwa said. Lucy Mukhwana opened scoring in the eighth minute, tapping into an empty net after Kayole goalkeeper Sharon Miloya parried a tame shot straight at her. Seven minutes later, Siliya Rasoa buried a free kick to double the lead.Captain Neddy Atieno made it 3-0, rounding the goalkeeper in the 21st minute to cap a faultless opening half an hour. Atieno was then guilty of a missed near post tap-in opportunity. Kayole's Ngoizi Christine reduced the deficit, scoring in the 40th minute to ensure 3-1 halftime score. Despite Kayole's Andibo Juliet rattling  the crossbar in the 47th minute, the soldiers extended their lead ten minutes later as Rasoa completed her brace. Elsewhere, Immaculate Awour and Gladys Akoth gave Mathare United their first win of the season in a 2-1 victory against Kibera Soccer. Former Mathare player Lorna Nyarinda grabbed a consolation for Kibera. Zetech Sparks played out  a 3-3 draw with Makolanders. Thika Queens maintained their unbeaten run by beating Gaspo FC 2-1 at Ruiru grounds. Mwanahalima Dogo and Nuru Halima scored for Thika as Diana Wacera scored for the Isaac Maluki-coached side. In zone B, defending champions Vihiga Queens registered a routine win over newbies SEP Oyugis. Forwards Topista Situma and Tereza Engesha scored for Vihiga. An Esther Kwamboka solitary goal was all that Oserian needed to overpower Kisumu All Starlets.