The biggest mistake that the Jubilee administration made was to borrow and invest in projects that had no immediate value. Going forward, it is going to get tougher. The government spent much of the borrowed loans on projects that did not have immediate impact on the economy while in other cases, the projects were highly over priced like the Standard Gauge Railway. It was a reckless way of borrowing that went into capital intensive projects. It was reported that some of the projects were marred by corruption. There is doubt that the economy would sustain any further borrowing because Kenyans are already overburdened. It is actually taking a toll on ordinary Kenyans. Getting out of the current situation would mean that the government starts to restructure its loans with financial partners and especially China. The debts should be renegotiate and spread over a longer repayment period of time so that the economy is not overstretched any further. This is what has been a global phenomenon and many countries across the world are rescheduling loans with their creditors. The plan will ease pressure on the economy and allow the government fiscal space to provide wages to civil servants and meet other recurrent expenditure. The situation is expected to get worse with the coronavirus pandemic. Already the government borrowed money from the International Monetary Fund to pay wages. That was a sorry situation that spoke of how the economy is no longer sustainable. With the Covid-19 here with us, the government is going to incur costs for the distribution of the vaccine that is being given out for free. Even if the vaccine is landing for free, the government must foot the cost of ensuring the doses are available to Kenyans including those from the far-flung areas. The rising Covid-19 numbers have also worsened the situation. We are now in the third wave of the pandemic and the situation is expected to get even worse. We are getting into a very terrible situation. It is going to be very hard. We don't have the option of borrowing any more. It is enough. The government must now demonstrate that it has curbed corruption and sealed all graft loopholes. Corruption has been overburdening the economy. The economist spoke to The Star