A former senior police officer who was sacked from service five years ago, for not accounting his wealth, has been reinstated back to office. Justice James Rika on Friday ordered George Mburugu Ikiara to go back to service ruling that his removal was unfair and a violation of his rights. Ikiara moved to court in 2019 challenging his removal by the National Police Service Commission saying it was a violation of his rights. In his judgment, Justice Rika allowed the petition by the officer and reinstated him back to his position as a chief inspector of police without loss of salary and benefits. “The Petitioner is reinstated to the position of Chief Inspector of Police, without loss of salary, service, privileges and other benefits,” the court ruled. The judge ruled that his reinstatement and back pay will be compensation for the violation of his constitution rights by NPSC. The court also quashed the entire proceedings of the vetting that declared him unfit to serve as a police officer. Ikiara was sent home in 2016 and prior to that he was serving as a Driving Test Examiner at the Eldoret Driving Test Centre. The court wondered why transactions of less than 2 Million by Ikiara bothered the commissions when he had worked in the police service for 24 years. “He was an officer who had access to sacco loan facility, he had invested in some residential blocks; and was involved in maize and sale of clothes with fellow officers and friends,” the court said. Justice Rika further ruled that Ikiara was not given a fair hearing by the panelists especially the chairpersons Owour and Johnston Kavuludi even when he reviewed their ruling. “The court does not think that the language of the panelists, especially its chairpersons Owuor and Kavuludi, was temperate, creating the right atmosphere for fair administrative action,” the court ruled. Ikiara was given 10 minutes to prosecute his review and commissioner Owour told him from the beginning not to go to other stories. “In the view of the court, the petitioner was justified to feel prejudged, the review was a formality. The language and demeanor of the chairpersons, was not to be expected of a fair administrative process,” Judge Rika ruled. The court further noted that the hansard did not contain the evidence of officers Kennedy Rucho, John Wainaina and Polycarp Ochieng who allegedly testified against Ikiara. “It is hard to tell when and where these Officers gave evidence with regard to the petitioner. It is hard to say whether they agreed with or contradicted the Petitioner on the nature of business carried out by the Officers,” court ruled. Judge Rika also noted that Kavuludi signed the decision to remove Ikiara when he didn't participate in the deliberating and was therefore not seized of the matter. He questioned the integrity of the panel noting that the hansard shows that commissioner Owour was the chair and by the time the meeting ended Kavuludi was still not there. “It is unlikely that Kavuludi would arrive, and quietly observe the proceedings from a corner. There is no record of such arrival. Kavuludi simply was not there,” he said. The judge said, “The integrity of the vetting panel itself comes into question. Why would the hansard list Kavuludi as one of the participants, while clearly he was not.” The commission had told court that Ikiara’s M-Pesa account was found to have frequent and huge transactions involving him and his fellow officers who were his seniors at some point. The amounts in question were Sh 1.6 M, Sh 1.1 M and Sh 671,000 that was passed through M-Pesa tills. Ikiara explained to the panel that he had a Sh 997,000 loan from his Sacco which he transacted through M-Pesa tills. The court ruled that Ikiara was entitled to a notice containing a summary of adverse information before he went for the vetting but the commission did not give him that information. Justice Rika also noted that the service number used by commission during the vetting did not belong to Ikiara and even when he reviewed the decision later there, was no explanation given. “It is therefore shocking that the respondent got the petitioner’s service numbers wrong, and even when afforded an opportunity to explain the mix-up on review, said nothing of the discrepancy in the decision,” the court said.