The reason why KCB find themselves in the thick of a Kenyan Premier League title race for the first time in their history is because of their solidity in their back-line. The bankers possess the second meanest defence in the top-flight league, having conceded eight goals in twelve games. Brian Wepo has been an ever present figure in the right side of KCB’s defence in their surge to second place in the league. The former Nzoia United defender, who moved to the bankers last year, maintains that an impregnable defence is the foundation on which many title challenges are built. “The league is very difficult as the last few weeks have shown. Any team can beat any team. For us, we have shown we can keep it tight at the back because we are confident we can always score goals. Every player feels good about our situation at the moment and we all have confidence in the tactics of our coaches,” said the 20-year-old. “I hope we win the league actually and I believe nothing is impossible,” he added. Wepo started playing football at a fairly tender age under the guidance of coach Elly Mukolwe in Mumias. “It’s him who taught me what it takes to succeed as a footballer. From a very early age, I knew I wanted to be a professional footballer and I received the support of those who were close to me,” recalled Wepo, who grew up admiring swashbuckling Brazilian right-back  Dani Alves. “I liked the way he (Alves) played football. He was always committed to attack and providing assists and at the same time defending strongly. He was well ahead of his time because now all over the world more so in the big teams, fullbacks are also an attacking outlet,” he said. Like most of his age-mates, lack of equipment was a bother but that did not stop him from always playing football anywhere he could as he pursued his dream. “I used to work hard since I was 7 years. I had a dream to play football in the future. I believe that with God and hard work nothing is impossible,” said the under 20 international. Wepo’s prodigious talent was exposed early on when he led his St. Peter’s Mumias Primary School to win the national championships. He followed that up with another national crown in the Kenya Secondary Schools Sports Association games while at the famed Kakamega High School team ‘Green Commandos that also featured in the National Super League. “I enjoyed success very quickly. It gave me the winning mentality that I carry up to now. I am a sour loser. That is why I leave everything on the pitch to try and win football matches,” said Wepo, who was part of the Rising Stars squad, that reached the finals of the Cecafa Under-20 tournament, losing to Uganda. “Being in the national team at whichever stage is a good experience. Playing against different nationalities gives you a learning moment. I took on a lot from other players in those countries that I must push hard to be a great player in the future,” Wepo said. Having seen the most famous product from the Green Commandos Eric ‘Marcelo’  Ouma go on to forge a career in Europe, Wepo hopes to follow a similar path in the future. “ Every player dreams to play abroad so if that chance comes my way, then I think I will take it with both hands. But I know for that to happen I must continue to perform at a very high level everyday,” he said. Growing up in a rural set up means Wepo knows the value of agriculture as a source of income. It is for this reason that despite the flashy lifestyle of footballers, he still invests in farming. “ I do farming at home. I also have a small business of selling clads and I also own a beauty shop,” he said of his engagements off the field. Wepo admires English Premier League side, Arsenal having grown up seeing them a scintillating attacking side with buccaneering fullbacks like Lauren, Emmanuel Eboue, Bacary Sagna and Ashley Cole  among others. “Even though I was still very young, I admired Arsenal a lot. It was the team my father and friends supported and it has stuck with me until now. Despite the struggles they are going through, they have remained true to their attacking philosophy and it’s something I admire,” he said. Wepo reckons he has taken in a lot of lessons every step of his football development. “I have no specific coach to thank for where I am now. Every coach I do come across usually shows me that I do deserve to be there. Coach Muyoti (Nicholas) signed me up for Nzoia and showed me I can play at the elite level. Coach Solo (KCB assistant coach) Godfrey Oduor also came and showed the same love. Now I am at KCB with Zico (Zedekiah Otieno) and I still feel appreciated. I thank all of them,” he said. Wepo advises young players to grasp every opportunity that comes their way and not to be choosy when it comes to the level or club they play for because at the end of the day, their dedication and talent will shine through. PLAYER BIO Name: Brian Wepo Wesa DOB: 12/12/2000 Nationality: Kenyan Education -St Peter’s Mumias (Primary), -Kakamega High School Secondary Position: Right-wing back Clubs:  KCB (Current), Nzoia United Honours: National secondary schools champions 2014 (Kakamega High) Cecafa: National Under-20 second runners up (2019).