The second phase of Kirinyaga’s Wezesha agricultural empowerment project will be bigger and better, Governor Anne Waiguru has said. The governor spoke on Wednesday during the launch and issuing of over Sh117 million cheques that will help facilitate 314 agricultural groups under the second phase of the agricultural empowerment project. Waiguru said the groups will receive the funds in the shortest time possible to enable them embark on the agricultural activities among them poultry farming, avocado, tomato, dairy, pig, bee and fish farming. The fund will also help in establishing nutritional-related project as well as finance agricultural activities to be carried out by vulnerable and marginalised  groups. Waiguru said under the second phase, 45 new groups set to embark on poultry farming will rear improved Kienyeji chicks to protect them from chicken  diseases. Already, there are 32 poultry groups rearing modern hatched layers under the phase one, a project that was implemented last year and that has been key in supplying around a million eggs per month into the Kenya market. “Under the second phase of the poultry farming, we intend to use Sh22.5 million to finance the project. Each of the 45 groups will receive 1,250 improved kienyeji chicks. The county will help jumpstart the project by building poultry coops and providing chicken feeds to the farmers for the first six months,” she said. The governor said the success of the chicken project will enable the county to supply up to 3 million eggs per month into the Kenyan market. This she says will help in dealing with the shortage of eggs in the country, a situation that has seen Kenya buy the produce from the neighbouring Uganda. She also announced that 20 incubation groups will be established to help incubate chicks that will be readily available to the poultry groups hence a smooth continuity of the project. Sixty groups in the county are also expected to start a tomato farming project with Sh30 million. The governor said the project's highlight will be the establishment of a mega Sh100 million tomato plant in Kangai ward. “There has been a delay in putting up the plant since we didn’t have land to start the project. We are finalising the process of gaining ownership of the land so that we can start building the factory,” she said. The county chief further announced that 30 avocados groups, 60 dairy farming groups  and 20 beekeeping groups will be initiated. In addition, she said under the second phase, a pig farming project will be piloted in each ward. Each group, the governor noted, will have a pig sow and 20 piglets. “This will be experimental. Once we register growth, we will expand it progressively up to  five to 10 groups per ward. We are optimistic that this will pick because pigs grow faster thus making the farming more lucrative,” said Wiaguru. The governor however, regretted a poor dietary habit that has been adopted by residents noting that it has immensely contributed to the rise of diabetes, hypertension and other lifestyle diseases in the county. “Our high consumption rate of red meat, rice, starchy and fatty foods has led to the rise of such diseases. It is important that we diversify our diet. For this sake we will establish 20 fish farming groups that will help in improving our diets,” she said. The governor said the project will be preceded by a training that will help and equip county residents with information on the importance of embracing a fish rearing and eating culture. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara