The Director of Public Prosecutions has written to the DCI requesting a police file in a criminal case relating to a disputed land valued at Sh100 million. In the case, city businessman Bhupesh Rana was charged alongside Bhogilal Ganatra about a commercial transaction that happened 13 years ago. This comes after Rana's lawyer George Wajackoyah wrote a letter to the DPP early this month seeking a review of the file, arguing that the criminal case was an abuse of the court process. In a letter dated March 16 addressed to the DCI, assistant DPP Renson Ingonga has asked for a duplication police file in the Kiambu case so they can peruse and advise on the way forward. This is the second letter being written to the DCI. Another letter was drafted on March 4 requesting the same file. They two were charged on February 19 this year before a Kiambu court with several courts related to the disputed land, including conspiracy to defraud, procuring the registration of land by false pretences and forgery of a title deed. In their letter to the DPP, Rana and Ganatra had requested the prosecution to review their file, arguing that the case is an arm-twisting game being orchestrated by complainant Rajendra Sanghani to frustrate and intimidate them. According to their letter, the case relates to a commercial transaction they undertook because they had the power of attorney on the disputed property. Wajackoyah told the DPP the complainant is harassing his clients to surrender the land. Rana has also made a report at the Central police station against the alleged complainant whom he accused of threatening him on the phone. He claims the complainant has no standing to bring the case to court and neither does the company that closed down before the civil case was commenced. Wajackoyah claims that the company H.P Youtan and Company, which is a complainant in the recent criminal case, was dissolved on March 23, 2007, following a notice dated November 24, 2006, indicating the intended dissolution. He says his clients were granted the power of attorney by the late Kantilal Maganbhai Patel dated February 28, 2008, which was allegedly notarised in the UK and later registered in Kenya on August 8 of the same year by a registrar called B.F. Atieno. “Patel swore an affidavit on May 4 2010 to confirm he granted Bhupesh Rana and Bhogilal Ganatra the power of attorney,” the letter reads. Patel is said to have endorsed the acts of the two to renew the lease and sale the said land to Fairmile Investments. According to the letter, Patel even denies selling the said land in dispute to late Ratilal Sanghani saying by the time he was leaving Kenya for the UK in 1977 he had only requested him to manage the property for him. However, after Ratilal’s death, Kantilal’s wife came to Kenya and found the land in a deplorable state, so she instructed Rana and Ganatra to dispose of the property. On October 24, 2008, they entered into a sale agreement with Fairmile Investment for the transfer of the land. However, on January 29, 2009, Rajendra Sanghani and Jayant Rach filed a civil suit seeking to block them from accessing the land. The civil case has never been determined to date and the judgment has been fixed for June. “The institution of the subject criminal proceedings against our client has a real risk of affecting our client’s liberty as a matter of consequence to the conclusion of the criminal proceedings,” Wajackoyah says. They have also accused Rajendra of abusing the court to frustrate and harass them without any basis. “We urge your office to exercise its constitutional powers and intervene to stop the further abuse of the criminal court procedure to frustrate and harass our clients by withdrawing the criminal charges preferred against our clients,” the letter reads  Edited by Kiilu Damaris