Kenyans have been urged to remain on high alert and observe Covid-19 containment measures. This comes following a consultative meeting between President Uhuru Kenyatta and leaders of various political parties. In the virtual meeting, the parties noted with concern that COVID-19 infections were increasing at an alarming rate. "The meeting considered the evolution of Covid-19 disease within our borders and noted that hospital beds especially ICU beds, were filling up in both public and private hospitals," read part of a statement from statehouse spokesperson Kanze Dena. Kanze said as a result of the meeting,  all political players have been urged to take the lead in the observation of COVID-19 protocols. "The meeting urged Kenyans to remain on high alert, to exercise extreme caution and be aware of the COVID-19 reality and to do their utmost to observe all COVID-19 protocols," Kanze said. The Meeting was convened as a follow-up to the one held on 25th February 2021 to review the surge of Covid-19 infections across our nation. The meeting was attended by the leadership of Jubilee Party, ODM, ANC, KANU, Ford-Kenya,  NARC and Wiper Democratic Movement. "The political parties have supported the ongoing national vaccination programme which is being undertaken in accordance with the guidelines of World Health Organisation (WHO) and Ministry of Health," she said. Kanze said in light of the above, all the players have been urged especially in Machakos, to find a peaceful, amicable and uniting way forward during the upcoming by-elections. This comes as the Covid-19 continues to wreak havoc across the country. The disease which is at its third wave has so far left 1,925 people dead since the first case was reported in March 2020. So far 115,031 people have been infected with 1,379,990 tests having been conducted. The latest statement from the Health Ministry indicates that 709 patients are currently admitted in various health facilities across the country with 2,223 other being on Home Based Isolation and Care. The statement further indicates that 104 patients are in the Intensive Care Unit-ICU, of whom 25 are on ventilatory support, 70 on supplemental oxygen and 9 under observation. Another 25 are separately on supplementary oxygen of whom 24 are in general wards while 1 is in the High Dependency Unit-HDU.