Jacinta spent cold nights in the casualty area of Kenyatta National Hospital where she had a weekly appointment for cancer treatment. “I came to KNH for my treatment and because I have been told to come every Wednesday and didn’t have money or people to help me, I decided to be sleeping at the causality area,” Jacinta told the Star. During her stay, she could not clean herself for lack of water. She didn’t have clothes to change into until a well-wisher offered to pay for her accommodation at a hostel in Ngumo. A social worker who deals with patients on treatment at the facility who spoke on anonymity told the Star that with most cases being referrals, the patients are either not familiar with the city or cannot afford accommodation. As a result, they opt to stay at the hospital’s casualty and emergency area, which operates 24 hours. “You find that most of the time treatment is already initiated and you have to present on a daily basis so that treatment is initiated. So, the only place where they feel safe is within the hospital grounds. You will find that most of them just lie on the benches as they wait for their clinical appointments,” he said. KNH has no accommodation for outpatients or basic essential services such as washrooms and changing rooms. "The patients understand the essence of adhering to the appointments. Most of the time after weighing all the options, they will find it is convenient for them to sacrifice and stay within so that they don’t miss the appointment,” the social worker said. “Most of them buy food from the streets as they wait for their turn to be seen.” The country's largest referral hospital in 2019 called for contribution through M-Pesa pay bill number 474444 to set up a three-storey facility with a capacity for 140 patients. It was projected to cost Sh230 million and services would be free. Another Sh200 million would be used to create an endowment fund to support its operations. The facility was to have a day respite area, a cancer resource centre, restaurant and other support services. So far, more than Sh200 million has been realised. The head of the Pain and Palliative Care Unit Esther Munyoro said the Covid-19 pandemic caused suspension of fundraising. “We still have the Sh200 million and we hope the government will allocate some money because we have everything else,” Munyoro said. Some of the stakeholders in the project include Friends of Hope Hostel led by senior counsel Fred Ngatia, Devki Group, Mt Kenya University Foundation and the American Cancer Society led by Kristen G Solt. But the hospital dismissed reports that cancer patients seeking treatment were suffering. The Hope Hostel project was a long-term project that was not going to be constructed overnight. “We don’t have any patient sleeping on the floor anywhere in Kenyatta, so the person saying so needs to check again. The Hope Hostel was just an idea that we came up with to cater for the dependents and to some extent the people who are being treated for cancer,” a senior official at the hospital told the Star. “It is still in the infancy stages, we have done some fundraisers on the same so it is just a matter of time before it begins. But you also have to realise that not so much was done last year because of Covid, so it would be unfair to say it has not been constructed so many years later because almost all resources were channeled towards that.” The idea to construct a hostel at the KNH was a relief for cancer patients who have been struggling not only to foot their hospital bills but also find a place to stay during the treatment period. Conceived in 2017, the idea was to provide decent accommodation for outpatient cancer patients. But more than three years later, patients seeking treatment at the facility still spend their nights on the cold hospital corridors after the project failed to start. Edited by Henry Makori