Conducting the BBI referendum without adequately addressing the flaws that marred the chaotic 2017 polls will leave the country deeply divided, the churches have warned. The clerics said the recent chaos that characterised by-elections in Kabuchai and Matungu coupled with bitter exchanges witnessed in BBI and early 2022 campaigns are indicators the country could plunge into chaos. Under the National Council of Churches of Kenya, the religious leaders regretted that the drums of war currently being beaten have not attracted much attention from stakeholders, including the political class. “Instead of these challenges being addressed, Kenyans are witnessing radical increase in toxic politics. The use of foul language is widespread and must be stopped,” Rev Edward Nzinga said. Nzinga represented NCCK chairman Timothy Ndambuki during a meeting with Senate’s National Cohesion, Equal Opportunity, and Regional Integration on Wednesday. The meeting discussed the on-going ethnic violence in various parts of the country, heightened political tensions and hate speech. Nzinga said the council is concerned that the challenges that affected the 2017 General Election and by extension the election before that, still remains unresolved. They want the government to undertake the necessary measures to ensure the country is ready for the referendum slated for June and the 2022 General Election. They want recruitment of the IEBC commissioners hastened to resolve the ‘decaying’ leadership crisis at the institution. They also cited audit of the electoral process to identify and resolve the gaps that led to concerns and disputes during the past elections. In addition to, reviewing and updating the voters register and passing and implementing of electoral related laws. “Politicians should not train our children that it is okay to insult one another, spew out lies, and malign the character of others,” he added. According Nzinga, this trend is contradictory to the provisions on national values and contained in the Constitution. “Kenyans have expressed concerns that the politicians are leading the people towards a dark path of hatred, conflict and violence. NCCK has called upon all actors to rise up and stop the country from sliding into anarchy,” he said. The church pointed an accusing finger at politicians for increasingly forming and supporting illegal gangs that engage in criminal activities against other Kenyans. Nzinga asked Kenyans of goodwill to reject any political actor who engages in foul language or violence. “NCCK is convinced that as citizens, we can teach our leaders to have decorum by denying any leaders who are not tolerant leadership positions,” he held. The church has also asked security agencies to immediately stop extra judicial executions, use of excessive force to contain the public, and enforced disappearances of suspects. “The National Police Service continues to be an authoritarian force that serves to crush dissent and control citizens. There is a great need for the security sector to be reformed so that its dignity, equality and human rights oriented in line with Article 28 of the Constitution,” he said. They are also pushing for financial independent of the Ministry of Interior with the Inspector General mandated to be the accounting officer. They have also called for establishment of a National Transitional Justice Authority to oversee the implementation of the recommendations of the Truth Justice and Reconciliation Commission and the Commission of Inquiry into the Illegal / Irregular Allocation of Public Land (Ndung’u Commission). “It should also address the grievances and violations against Kenyans since 2008 including the 2013 and 2017 election violence. This is necessary for the country to experience full healing, forgiveness and reconciliation,” they proposed. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara