Machakos county commissioner Fredrick Ndunga has told all security officers enforcing movement restriction and curfew directives to uphold professionalism. Ndunga warned the multi-agency that no officer will be spared if found bending the law to breach the directives meant to ensure that the county is locked down alongside Nairobi, Kajiado, Kiambu and Nakuru as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “I hope the roadblocks will be manned in a professional manner. In Machakos, we have erected 10 roadblocks on our borders with neighbouring counties from or to which movement is disallowed into or out of the locked down zone,” Ndunga said. He spoke on Sunday night during his supervision of the Katumani roadblock on the Nairobi–Mombasa highway. Ndunga arrived at the site a few minutes past 8pm and stayed there until 10.30pm. “We want them to work in a professional manner. The public should be told and should understand that curfew starts at 8pm and by that time they should be in their homes.” He warned the public against using ‘panya’ routes. Ndunga said they had posted police officers to all potential panya routes across the county, hence anyone who attempts to use them will be arrested and arraigned. “We have assigned police officers even on foot and motorcycles. There are a lot of patrols apart from the 10 roadblocks. We will conduct patrols in areas known to be notorious for panya routes. You will blame yourselves if arrested,” he said. “We call for professionalism on the part of security officers and cooperation on Kenyans. If you know you don’t offer essential services, transport food or necessary goods, please don’t tempt us at the roadblocks, you will meet the wrath of the law if you get there.” Ndunga said they were mapping out areas with panya routes to place their officers on foot and motorbikes. He said they will place spikes on the panya routes, warning boda boda operators to take care and avoid being misused to ferry people using the routes. The administrator said riders arrested while using the panya routes will have their driving licences revoked. “Boda boda operators should not be misused, we will conduct enforcements from Machakos bus station to ensure there is water for handwashing in all the vehicles operating in the county, sanitiser, thermo guns and 60 per cent passenger capacity. People must adhere to the government’s Covid-19 directives,” Ndunga said. Ndunga directed all police commanders across the county to supervise the enforcement. “Those charged with enforcement will be supervised. Any officer who will be found to have closed his eye to allow mischief will face the law.” Motorists were on Sunday allowed in and out of Nairobi and Machakos counties past 8pm following a road accident on the Nairobi–Mombasa highway. Shaban Mzungu who is in charge of police officers from the Rapid Deployment Unit manning the Katumani roadblock said the accident, which occurred at Kapiti plains, caused a traffic snarl-up, hence motorists could not beat the deadline. “We have been conducting this exercise since 8pm though there was a challenge after two vehicles got involved in a road accident in Kapiti plains area,” Mzungu said. The accident involved a bus that was headed for Mombasa and a saloon car that was moving towards the opposite direction. There was, however, no casualties. Mzungu said they will conduct the exercise professionally, saying only those permitted to operate through the roadblocks will be allowed passage. “Vehicles that are not allowed to get through the roadblocks include public service vehicles. Those involved in offering essential services such as ambulances, Kenya Power and vehicles ferrying goods like food and water are allowed to pass through the roadblocks,” Mzungu said. In Machakos, the roadblocks had been erected at Katumani–Machakos junction on the Nairobi-Mombasa highway, Katuaa on Machakos-Wote road, Kali on Machakos-Mbooni road and Kwa Mutisya on Kimutwa-Kwa Mutisya road. Others are at Kavumbu on Masii-Tawa road, Mbaikini-Muthetheni-Ikalaasa Road, Tiva Bridge on Machakos-Kitui road, Kambi la Mawe on Ndalani-Kambi, Kavingo on Kyua-Kanyangi road in Yatta and near Kaburu Dam on Embu-Kanyonyo road within, also in Yatta. The set of new measures said to avert a national health crisis, also involved suspension of nationwide physical learning in all institutions other than for students sitting the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exam and those in medical training institutions. Curfew hours were also revised from 8pm to 4am in the zoned areas, but shall remain 10pm-4am in the other parts of the country. The President also announced suspension of places of worship and bars. Restaurants were directed to offer take-away services only in the five counties. All gatherings were also suspended.