The Bible clearly states that it is God who gives spiritual gifts to men and women who are called into his service. He appointed some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, some pastors and some teachers for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the Ministry and for the edifying of the Church, Ephesians 4:11-16. However, nowadays the Church is deprived of the very benefits it was meant to receive. For instance, there are few teachers of the gospel who can effectively teach the Church the true fundamentals of Christianity. Instead, we have self-proclaimed apostles, prophets, evangelists and pastors whose motive is not to edify the Church but to achieve personal gains. Whether in mainstream churches or in personal makeshift structures as well as online fellowships, their effort to outshine each other results in terrible scandals. There are stories of men and women of the cloth seeking familiar spirits. Like Saul, who God rejected and he later died for his transgression, they are treading on dangerous ground. But now God is calling everyone to repent and seek his face before the door of grace closes. “And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent.” Acts 17:30. “Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.” James 4:17. It disheartens the flock to see gospel ministers using Christian expressions and words to hide their true identity. The most defective and notable area is gospel music. Here, it is either song composers, producers, singers and performers are captives of secularism, materialism, indulgence and self-worship or they have deliberately refused to acknowledge that theirs is a divine calling that should be carried out with utmost humility and dedication. Rather than bring people closer to the Saviour, the kind of music presented terribly drives them away from the truth. The music played and performed in fellowship centres is more worldly than the average secular ones. “For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world” – 1 John 2:16. Surprisingly religious leaders are seemingly doing nothing or little to stop this trend. This could be the reason why the rate at which secularism has penetrated the Church is worrying, hence, the calls for urgent intervention. Perhaps personal soul searching or collective rebuking of the skewed worship is the Church’s current need. The kind of musical accompaniment, choice of words, dance style and other expressions reveal more worldly passions than heavenly desire. While there are those who have remained true to their calling, some have normalised infidelity. Sincere and true worshippers motivated by how Christ whipped those who defiled the temple will strive to overcome compromise and other persuasive advances of the world. Whether singers or not, they will be committed to seeing that gospel music is not only a blessing, one that imparts courage and strength to worshippers, but will also give hope to those wading through the waves of despair. Like prayer, which should be given proper expression, singing can be a great blessing or a terrible curse depending on how it is done. Christians of goodwill should unite and demand the return of true worship in its entirety. Until this is done, secularism, materialism and indulgence, among other crippling compromises, will merge into a way of worship and be considered normal and acceptable. Communications and PR professional