Senators are reviewing laws and policies on sexual exploitation and abuse of children with a view to tightening them to arrest the vice. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has directed the House’s Labour and Social welfare committee to review the legal provisions and evaluate measures put to arrest the vice and file a report. The report will contain mechanisms put in place to identify victims and children at risk of abuse, status of all convictions of perpetrators and progress made in rehabilitating victims. The committee will also detail the programmes and activities aiding in sensitising members of the public on children abuse and exploitation. The order followed a statement by Nominated Senator Sylvia Kasanga on the rising cases of abuse and maltreatment of children across the country. “I wish to draw to the attention of the Senate to a deadly and continuously rising trend in Kenya, where a large number of children are being subjected to various forms of abuse and maltreatment,” she said. The senator said children are increasingly being exposed to physical abuse, neglect, emotional and psychological abuse, sexual abuse and child labour. While making a statement, Kasanga said in spite of the existence of several laws including the constitution to protect children’s rights, the abuses have remained undeterred. “Over this prolonged period of the Covid 19 pandemic, we have all witnessed the numerous social and economic pressures that intensified the number of cases of abuse and violence affecting the household including children,” she said. Citing a 2019 report on violence against children survey done by Unicef, Kasanga said sexual exploitation and abuse of children has worsened in the last two decades. According to the report, physical violence was the most common type of violence experienced by a child, and reported by 39 per cent of young women and 52 per cent of young men aged 18 to 24 years. The report showed that nearly one in six young women aged 18 to 24 years experienced sexual violence as a child, compared to 6.4 per cent of young men, with intimate partners the most common perpetrators . Worrisomely, 32.2 per cent of boys and 34.3 per cent of girls aged 13 and 17 years experienced emotional violence. “It is not common for children to report violence or seek assistance. Only 12.5 per cent of young women who had experienced sexual violence as a child sought help and only three per cent of young men sought help,” Kasanga said. She added: “Many children think violence is to be tolerated. More than half of girls and almost half of boys (47 per cent) aged between 13 and 17 indicated it was acceptable for a husband to beat his wife.” -Edited by Sarah Kanyara