The AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine is safe and none of the 4,000 healthcare workers vaccinated so far has reported any ill effect, the Health ministry has said. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi told lawmakers that some recipients of the vaccine have had mild fevers. “To date, we are roughly at about 4,000 across the country and we have not had adverse effects. The common side effect is a bit of fever and lethargy. All those can be controlled as normally expected side effects,” Mwangangi said. The CAS was before the National Assembly Health committee chaired by Muranga MP Sabina Chege to report the status of the rollout of the vaccine in the country. “The vaccines accredited by WHO have undergone different safety trials in different population across the world and has been accredited to be safe,” she said. “However, one of the key things, because vaccines were expedited because of the Covid-19 pandemic, is that through the Covax facility there is an indemnity agreement. The idea is that there is a mechanism through which WHO and Gavi would be able to provide any compensation required should there be an ill effect.” Mwangangi said because the vaccine has been released under an emergency authorisation, it is going to be given out on a voluntary basis. The government has prioritised frontline workers with the one million vaccine doses it received as a grant from Gavi through the Covax facility. It is also planning to secure another 11 million doses to be financed by the taxpayers at a cost of Sh10 billion. The second batch will vaccinate five million Kenyans. Mwangangi told the committee that the ministry has engaged the ICT ministry and have installed a tracking system of the vaccine from the depot to the facilities. The CAS also raised the alarm of a possible emergence of a third wave Covid-19 pandemic in the country. She told Chege that all ICU beds in Nairobi were full by 11pm on Tuesday, a situation she noted is worrying. "We are experiencing a third wave; as of now, we don't have an ICU bed in Nairobi county. We are seeing an increased number of infections and we still can't tell if this is a different strain," she said.  (edited by o. owino)