After getting their National Super League campaign back on track following 1-0 win over Nairobi Stima at Narok Stadium, former giants Shabana have beefed up the squad by signing four players. Ivorian forwards Coilibally Mohammed and Aboue Traore have returned to the Kisii-based from Silibwet Leons. Shabana have also raided Silibwet for left-back Hillary Mukanzi while defender Silas Abunanga has joined Sony Sugar. The Kisii-based club has also parted ways with long-serving goalkeeper Dennis Ayusa who has joined Sony Sugar and left-back Vincent Matete who joined Kenya Police Service last week. Timothy Luda and Sheif Puzzo were also released. Shabana coach Joseph Ongoro said he is still in the market for an experienced goalkeeper. Biroline Otieno is currently on trials and is likely to be signed this week if he impresses Ongoro, the goal-keeping coach. On Saturday, Shabana returned to winning ways after a 1-0 win over Nairobi Stima with Fred Nyakundi scoring the lone goal. Nyakundi scored in his second consecutive game for the Glamour Boys after going several games without a goal. APS Bomet host Shaban on Wednesday with coach Ongoro expected to unleash his new signings against the law enforcers. NSL enters 13th round today (Tuesday) with two matches on the card. Vihiga Bullets host Kisumu Hot Stars at Bukhungu Stadium while Coast Stima welcome Kisumu All Stars at Mbaraki playground in Mombasa. Sony and log leaders Kenya Police will clash at Green Stadium in Awendo while Silibwet and Mully Children’s Family will battle it out at Bomet Stadium. At Kianyaga Stadium, Fortune Sacco will host second placed Talanta as Murang’a Seal welcome Mt Kenya United at St Sebastian Park in Murang’a. Mt. Kenya United are bottom of the log and remain win-less. Nairobi Stima and Modern Coast Rangers who lost their respective weekend fixtures will seek to get back to winning ways when they collide at Camp Toyoyo grounds in Nairobi while Mwatate United face Kibera Black Stars at Wundanyi Stadium.