The mystery surrounding the identity of a man who snatched a gun from a police officer and shot dead two people before he was lynched in Kisumu town deepened after a search on his records returned negative. Detectives now want the public to help them identify the suspect. They published images that were captured while he was in action against innocent civilians on March 5. They believe he could be an extremist and he had received training on how to handle weapons. “DCI detectives from the Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau alongside their Anti Terror counterparts have reason to believe that the assailant was not just the ordinary criminal, but had prior to the attack received training in tactical maneuvers and weapon handling,” the detectives said in a statement. Preliminary forensic investigations, they added indicate that the assailant’s details cannot be traced in respective government records. “The three identity cards that were found in his possession belong to other individuals who have since been identified.” So far, nobody has come forward to claim his body or identify him as a relative, further complicating the investigations. Before making the conclusion, police had been asked to get more samples and retake fingerprints of the man who snatched a pistol from a traffic cop, injured the officer and killed two people. The incident happened on March 5 at the Kisumu bus park. The identification process hit a brick wall after the specimens collected earlier turned defective. Officials at the National Registration Bureau said samples were defective and not enough to help identify the man. Police had difficulties in picking samples because the suspect had been badly burnt when he was lynched by a mob. Anti-terrorism police officers who joined investigations into the incident said they managed to lift three fingerprints from the suspect after a rigorous process. They again went to the mortuary and lifted more samples on Wednesday after the NRB complained the earlier ones were not sufficient. Officials aware of the developments said they so far do not know him and no family has come forward to claim the body. A search on his pockets led to the recovery of three national identification documents bearing different names. One identified him as Glen Ochieng Ojwang, which some locals said believed to be his. Others were Joseph Otieno Masaka and Joseph Odeny Mutula. A team of detectives has so far been sent to Suna, Migori county to establish if the said Ochieng is the one who died in the attack. The Glen Ochieng Ojwang whose identity card was recovered comes from the area and is a former student at the Moi University, officials said. Police have since concluded the identification cards were stolen. The shooter was wearing a balaclava on his head, with only his eyes visible and gloves on both hands. Officials from National Counter Terrorism Centre said they do not know if the shooter was a lone wolf, locally radicalised, stressed and what motivated him. “It is unfortunate he died. We would have wanted to talk to him and understand why he did that. We don’t know if he acted alone or was with some accomplices and why,” Masisi Kiilu of NCTC said. Officials said they fear given that the shooter could be a returnee from Somalia or a terror group or radicalised. Cases of terrorism and violent extremism have been on the decline due to efforts by the government and other agencies to tame the trend. It is estimated that tens of al Shabaab returnees are in the country. Homegrown radicalisation in Kenya is on the rise given al Shabaab’s growth in neighbouring Somalia. Kenya has become a prime location for recruitment and radicalisation for Al-Shabaab. In 2012, it was reported that al Shabaab was attracting a large number of Kenyan converts to Islam. In December 2014, it was estimated that Kenyans comprised around 25 per cent of al Shabaab. Some of the al Shabaab returnees end up in prisons where they conduct more recruitment hence the measures to contain the trend. This comes as the prisons department has increased efforts to contain radicalism in the prisons. As part of efforts to contain radicalisation, Kenya Prisons Service has received a handbook that will help them manage the crisis among prisoners. This is because reports showed the penal institutions have become breeding grounds for violent extremists. The report was compiled by the prisons and Legal Resources Foundation Trust to offer a strategy for preventing and countering radicalization to violent extremism among prisoners. The report offers detailed risk assessment tools for prison managers and best approaches to housing violent extremist offenders and how to manage them without infringing on their human rights. It calls for demilitarisation of how violent extremist offenders are handled to ensure they remain a source of intelligence and reformed. It adds this should be initiated by a proper risk assessment of prisoners, in a bid to inform who poses what level of risk. “The proper risk assessment of prisoners is one of the fundamental components of good prison management policies. The management of prisoners cannot be successfully undertaken without assessments of the risks they pose,” reads the report. On the housing crisis, the report says prison managers will have to determine whether to separate violent extremisms offenders from the rest of the prisoners. It adds separating prisoners who are extremists from the general population could make it easier for authorities to manage and reduce the risk of them radicalising others to violence, but warns that it poses a threat. “Separation may elevate their status in the eyes of other prisoners or groups in the prison population, which plays into the narrative of radicalisers, who either feel special or persecuted,” the report reads. In the shooting spree, six people including a traffic police officer sustained serious injuries. The officer was shot in the pelvic and the bullet exited through the stomach. Two of the victims including a Ugandan national succumbed to injuries in the hospital. Police said the traffic police was controlling traffic at the roundabout near Kisumu Boys High School when he was accosted by the shooter. He disarmed the officer and the officer struggled with him but was overpowered. Police said the perpetrator entered the bus park and was shooting aimlessly before entering Yasmin hotel. One officer attached to the bus park pursued him up and grabbed him and with the help of the members of the public he was subdued and a Ceska pistol with no rounds of ammunition recovered from him as he had used them all. He was however subjected to mob lynching and died immediately.