Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and seven other co-accused persons were on Wednesday arraigned in a Kakamega court following the violence witnessed at Matungu on March 4. They were denied cash bail and released on Sh14.2 million bond or surety of a similar amount. According to charges read by senior principal magistrate Dolphime Alego, Senator Malala, Joel Wekesa Micha, Shakila Ambaye Wongwa, Marvin Kombo Omani, Ababu Shago Bourchard were charged with several counts ranging from robbery with violence, molestation, causing electoral violence and assault. Other persons included Hakim Juma Ambani, Joyce Kavere Obachi and Cecil Ambeyi Muyuka. “On the 4th of March 2021 at Munami primary school polling station in Matungu, the eight jointly with others not before the court robbed Maureen Naliaka Lusambu a power bank valued at Sh8,000 a property belonging to IEBC,”  read a part of the charge sheet. The eight were also accused of preparing to commit a felony contrary to section 308(1) of the penal code stating that they were found armed with weapons namely six hoe sticks with the intent to commit a felony namely breach of peace by causing election violence in the by-election. They were also accused of causing bodily harm contrary to section 251 of the penal code and molestation contrary to section 238(1 and 2) that which unlawfully assaulted Maureen Lusambu causing actual bodily harm to her and threatened to cause her injury. Joel Micha, Senator Malala’s bodyguard, was separately accused of the unlawful use of a firearm but pleaded not guilty to the offence. According to the charge sheet, Micha is accused of wounding Boniface Odunga at Munami village in Matungu sub-county using the firearm contrary to section 237 of the penal code. Other charges for the eight included malicious damage of property. They denied all the counts against them. The magistrate Alego granted Malala and his co-accused a bond of Sh500,000 each totalling Sh4 million with the same surety. On the other count the five of the accused including Senator Malala she slapped them with Sh2 million each totalling Sh10 million. The bodyguard attached to senator Malala was separately slapped with a bond of Sh200,000 with the same surety. The cases will be mentioned on March 24 with the hearing slated for June 23 this year. Edited by Kiilu Damaris