National Assembly Majority leader Amos Kimunya has dismissed claims of a plot to shortchange ODM leader Raila Odinga. The Kipipiri MP said the claims are being peddled by persons “unhappy with the overwhelming support BBI got in county assemblies.” At least 43 county assemblies voted to approve the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Three – Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, and Baringo rejected the bill. Kimunya told the Star that the voting pattern has sent shivers among people who have since panicked as the country hurtles towards a referendum. Raila allies at the weekend issued an ultimatum to President Uhuru Kenyatta to remove Interior PS Karanja Kibicho from the BBI campaign programmes, lifting the lid of the unease that has rocked the handshake team. Minority Whip Junet Mohamed, Siaya Senator James Orengo, and Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo – who are members of Raila’s inner sanctum – raised the concerns. They spoke of a plot by influential persons in the Office of the President to isolate Raila in favour of the camp bringing together Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi (Kanu), and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka. But Kimunya said the talk of Raila or his allies being frustrated is “machinations by people who have lost heavily in terms of the counties passing the BBI.” “There are people who got shocked, who thought BBI is not going anywhere. They are now planting insinuations to rub ODM the wrong way. Unfortunately, some people within ODM may have swallowed the bait,” Kimunya said. He said the effort by the detractors – whom he says are allied to the Tangatanga faction - is to frustrate the handshake so that BBI does not get traction going forward. Kimunya exuded the confidence that “President Uhuru Kenyatta and his brother the PM are very committed to the BBI process.” He told off those building momentum around the betrayal question saying the handshake will outlive the BBI process. “It is not an event. It is a process. It will not end with the BBI. It is supposed to be until all the policy issues have been implemented. It is a long-term thing and we are committed to it,” Kimunya said. “Handshake is bigger than politics. The President is not a candidate in the 2022 elections. But he would want to see the country united even after he is gone.”