Governors have extolled the late Kericho Deputy Governor Susan Kikwai as a visionary leader and a champion of political inclusion. Kikwai passed away on Saturday morning at Siloam Hospital where she was undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Through Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora, the county chiefs eulogised Kikwai as a leader who championed the rights and participation of women. “She was passionate about women's leadership and was a focal person in the Council of Governors Transformative Women Leadership Programme,” Wambora said in a condolence message sent out on Saturday. The Embu governor added that Kikwai was an inspiration to many women and mentored many young women to leadership roles. “Our thoughts and prayers go out to her family, her relatives and the people of Kericho county. We assure you that we stand with you and we share in your grief,” Wambora. Wambora said the fallen deputy governor served not only the people of Kericho county but the Republic of Kenya in various positions. Kikwai served as the managing director of the Kenya Investment Authority under the Ministry of Finance from 2005 to 2012. Earlier, Governor Paul Chepkwony led county leaders in mourning Kikwai. Chepkwony eulogised Kikwai as a dedicated and a true deputy who helped serve the people of Kericho. “She is the best deputy Kericho has ever had... she was a true assistant, meticulous, honest and cooperative," he said during a press briefing at CoG headquarters in Westlands. Chepkwony said the county is in contact with the family to make burial arrangements. The governor confirmed that his deputy succumbed to Covid-19. Chepkwony urged the public to be cautious, saying that the third wave of the virus has proved more lethal than the previous ones. Kikwai had been undergoing treatment at Siloam Hospital. President Uhuru Kenyatta also sent a message of condolence to the family, the governor and residents of Kericho County. The President described the departed county leader as a devoted public servant who was deeply committed to the wellbeing and progress of the Kenyan nation. Edited by Henry Makori