Chelsea’s Thomas Tuchel became the first coach to secure clean sheets in each of his first five home games in the Premier League when the Blues beat Everton 2-0 on Monday, something the German put down to his players’ “trust and courage”. The Londoners have only conceded two goals in an 11-game unbeaten run in all competitions that began when Tuchel replaced Frank Lampard at Stamford Bridge in January, and one of them was an own goal. “It’s about principles, it’s about being reliable, it’s about trust that your back is covered if you step out and attack up front,” Tuchel said. “It’s a high quality of defending right now in the group and of course they’re super hungry to fight to not give chances away because it’s a good feeling and it makes us self confident.” As well as snuffing out Everton on Monday, Chelsea have also recently stopped Liverpool and Manchester United from scoring in the league and Atletico Madrid failed to get past the Blues’ back line in the Champions League. That defensive consistency belies how Tuchel has chopped and changed who plays in front of goalkeeper Edouard Mendy, alternating Marcos Alonso and Ben Chilwell at left back and on Monday replacing Antonio Rudiger with Kurt Zouma in the back three. “It’s not about having clean sheets and parking the bus in front of a goal,” the German said. “It’s about a certain style of defending and we try to defend up as high as possible to have high ball recoveries...It’s about trust, it’s about courage.” Meanwhile, Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti acknowledged his team were some way short of Chelsea’s quality after losing 2-0 to Thomas Tuchel’s side. A Ben Godfrey own goal and a second-half penalty from Jorginho stretched Chelsea’s unbeaten run under Tuchel to 11 games while Everton slipped to sixth. “They played better than us and deserved to win,” Ancelotti told BT Sport. “We were good defensively for 30 minutes. When they scored, the game became difficult for us. “The game that we planned was what we got for 30 minutes. We didn’t have a lot of opportunities. But we have to be honest, we are not at the same level. We cannot play an open game against this kind of team.” Everton trail fourth-placed Chelsea by four points, having played a game less than the London club, and Ancelotti said they were still in the hunt for a berth in Europe next season. “We are looking to fight for Europe. This is good for us,” he added. “We are disappointed for this defeat but no tragedy. We look to the next game.” Everton next host Burnley in the league on Saturday.