The University of Nairobi has given the nod for readmission of 29 students expelled as far as six years back. The programme is one of UoN vice chancellor Stephen Kiama’s initiatives when he took over the mantle at the institution and seeks to give expelled students a second chance. “These are bright students, who regardless of the mistakes they committed have the potential to be useful and add value to the society. We do not intend to take that away from them,” Kiama said in an interview. Prof Horace Ochanda, the chairperson of the committee, in a phone interview with the Star said the mistakes that the students had committed will not form part of their history in the university. However, those considered for readmission are those whose offences are academic in nature. Those  with criminal cases or ongoing court cases are not eligible for pardon. Ochanda  said 95 per cent of cases heard involve cheating in examinations. However, he noted that upon the hearing process they established that some students are forced to academic malpractice by circumstances. In one such case, he narrated that one of those readmitted moved the committee after revealing why he cheated in the examination “The student was a parent and had been attending to the mother who had cancer. He as well, is cancer patient and thus had trouble studying,” Ochanda said. The oldest case dates back to six years ago. “Some of the students have started families and are even engaged in work, mostly informal,” Ochanda told the Star. The committee was first given a nod in September and had a lifeline of three months which expired on December 16. However, the university senate extended its period for another three months due to end on March 15. So far, only cases of four more students seeking readmission are pending. Ochanda says this will be considered next week. “Our goal is to ensure that we readmit as many students as possible before our time-lapses… remember that even in the broader societal, those convicted are supposed to be rehabilitated and not condemned,” he said. The process of readmission involves the student writing to the pardons committee and then a hearing date is set. During the hearing, the committee does not go back to unearth the specifics of the case. “One of the requirements of the committee is that a student must have exhausted all the appeal avenues,” said Ochanda. During the hearing, the student is also expected to provide referees that can vouch for their discipline during their stay out of campus. This could be a religious leader, chief, mentor among others around the community the student has been spending time during the expulsion. Upon hearing, the committee recommends to the VC for a student to be readmitted. The recommendation is fronted to the university board then to the senate and the university council, which is responsible for giving the green light on the recommendation. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara