Kitui leaders want two local subcounties established in 2017 given government codes to enable service delivery and development. The leaders who include MPs, MCAs and opinion shapers from both Thagicu and Mutitu North subcounties say residents have not enjoyed the benefits of the two administrative units. Kitu Senator Enoch Wambua recently sought the indulgence of the joint parliamentary Justice and Legal Affairs committee to have the codes to the subcounties, that were created by President Uhuru Kenyatta four years ago issued, as they remain largely useless. Making his presentation to the committee during a public hearing on Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020 on Tuesday, Wambua noted that although the government created the subcounties in 2017, the administrative units were never operationalised through award of codes. “This means that they have to rely on other subcounties for services and opportunities for development and employment. The youth in the subcounties continue to miss on opportunities for recruitment like for TSC, police and KDF,” said Wambua. He urged the joint parliamentary committee to fast-track the issuance of the all-important codes to the subcounties and in effect ease the suffering of the people of those two sub-counties. Tharaka MCA Fredrick Nthur claimed that young men and women from his  home subcounty for years been travelling to the neighbouring but distant Mumoni subcounty headquarters  to seek jobs where they are treated unfairly. Nthuri told the Star on Thursday he had unconfirmed reports that  Thagicu subcounty was recently awarded a code, adding that if  such a thing had happened it should be made public by the relevant authorities. Kitui county commissioner John Odengo on Thursday said the  issue of the award of codes to the two subcounties in Kitui county  could not be over -emphasised, adding that the matter had not been forgotten as the process was on course. He said it behoves the political leadership in Kitui to push for the fast-tracking of the award of the codes for residents to start enjoying the fruits of the new subcounties. “Because the subcounties were gazetted, that will soon be followed with the allocation of resources to fully operationalise the sub-counties for resident to benefits from services. It is an issue in the pipeline and not forgotten,” Odengo said on phone. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara