A lawmaker has petitioned the National Assembly to investigate the pricing parameters used by the Energy and Petroleum Authority to set fuel prices in the country. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir wants the committees on Energy chaired by Nakuru Town East MP David Gikaria and that of Delegated Legislation chaired by Tiaty’s William Kamket to conduct an inquiry on the parameters. He said it was of great concern that prices of petrol and petroleum products drastically increased in recent months to a nine-year high of Sh122 per litre. Nassir said such an increase was last witnessed in November 2011, adding that the high prices must not be allowed to continue as it would be counterproductive. “We all appreciate that a strong economy in any country is determined primarily by stable price levels emanating from interplay of laws of supply and demand and not through manipulation of market prices,” he said in a request for statement from the two committees. Speaker Justin Muturi directed that the request for statement be considered by the two committees and the House furnished with a report in 30 days. The two committees are expected to engage EPRA to explore avenues of revising the petroleum pricing parameters that are anchored in the Energy (Petroleum Pricing) Regulations, 2010 and the Energy (Petroleum Pricing) (Amendment) Regulations, 2012. Nassir argued that the increment, which he said was unwarranted, has had a multiplier effect on the cost of food, transport, manufacturing and the general price of goods. “The price levels are beyond the reach of ordinary Kenyans who feel that EPRA has failed in its critical mandate of protecting consumer interest in the country,” he said. “The crux of the skyrocketing prices has largely been attributed to the parameters used by EPRA in setting petrol prices,” the MP said. Nassir said the parameters have been deemed to be disproportionate and irregularly weighted such that the price of fuel in the country is mostly incompatible to the global prices. “For Kenyans to be cut the burden of the high prices, let the two committees investigate EPRA on how to change the parameters,” he said. In a recent presentation to the Energy committee, EPRA said all petroleum products for local consumption are imported in refined form. The authority said computation of petroleum pump prices takes into account; the landed cost which is the weighted average costs (per product) of imported Super Petrol, Diesel and Kerosene. Also considered is the storage and distribution costs, gross margins, and applicable taxes and levies. Among the taxes and levies charged are; the excise duty tax on all fuels, road maintenance levy on petrol and diesel at Sh18, petroleum development levy, petroleum regulatory levy, railway development levy, anti-adulteration levy, merchant shipping levy, import declaration fee levy and VAT. The energy committee is mulling a review of the taxes charged on fuel during the execution of the Finance Bill, 2021. EPRA’s acting managing director Daniel Kiptoo said for the period January to March 2021, the average landed cost of imported super petrol increased by 38.41 per cent from Sh36.01 per litre to Sh49.84 per litre. He said that of Diesel increased by 26.68 per cent from Sh36.96 per litre to Sh46.82 per litre while that of Kerosene increased by 27.97 per cent from Sh33.57 per litre to Sh42.96 per litre. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara