Leaders across the world continue to send their messages of condolences to the people of Tanzania following the death of their president John Pombe Magufuli. Magufuli was announced dead on Wednesday evening by the Tanzanian Vice President Samia Suluhu, who said that he succumbed to heart-related conditions. He late died at the age of 61 and was serving his second term as Tanzania's fifth president. Magufuli will be remembered for his style of leadership, which was being close to the people. Severally, the president was seen interacting with the people across the country, and the presence of the deadly coronavirus did not stop this. He was a man who ensured that the government's projects and developments meant to help the people were concluded on time. He was a no-nonsense man. At the same time, the people who saw another side of Magufuli said that he ruled with an iron fist. The laws governing the media were tightened after Magufuli took an oath of office in 2015. During his term, journalists had to do what the state dictated to them and not practice their freedom of speech without a go-ahead from the government. Some journalists were detained during the reign of Magufuli, and some were criminalised for sharing information. In July 2019, Tanzanian investigative journalist Erick Kabendera was arrested at his home after declining to honour a police sermon. According to the police, Kabendera’s arrest was related to his work and identity. The journalist was detained and his lawyer was not allowed to see him during the early stages of detention. The manner of his arrest and delays in his arraignment sparked tension in the country and raised concern over the freedom of media. In August, the journalist was charged with economic crimes, including leading a criminal gang between January 2015 to June 2019, failing to pay tax, and money laundering. During the detention, Kabendera’s health deteriorated but was not allowed to seek medical assistance. The US Embassy and British High Commission in Tanzania jointly raised concerns over the violation of human rights in Tanzania following his arrest. The journalist did not get to bid farewell to his mother Verdiana Mujwahuzi, who died while Kabendera was in custody. The court did not accept his lawyers’ plea to be allowed to give his last respects to his mother. Seven months after the arrest, Kabendera was released after entering into a plea bargain agreement with the prosecution. In August 2020, through the Ministry of Communication, Magufuli came up with new measures that were meant to prevent local media from sharing or using unapproved information. The local licensed media operations were barred from sharing local information or airing foreign information without the approval of the concerned ministry. Licensed media outlets were not allowed to meet and share information with a foreign journalist without the company of any government official or any official from the ministry.