Kenya will now be represented by four pugilists at the 2021 Tokyo Olympics set for July after the International Olympics Committee boxing task force handed Elly Ajowi and Elizabeth Akinyi automatic berths based on ranking. Ajowi (heavyweight) and Akinyi (middleweight) will now join Nick Okoth (featherweight) and Christine Ongare (featherweight) in the Kenyan Japan-bound contingent. Boxing Federation of Kenya (FKF)  communications director, Duncan Kuria confirmed the development, adding that there was still a possibility the country would still stumble upon more chances if other countries fail to confirm participation. "However, this is a very rare occurrence because everyone is eager to participate in the Olympics. I cannot rule out such a possibility though given that last time a Kenyan boxer benefitted after South Africa declined to confirm their slot, saying they did not recognise the African qualifiers that had been used to rank their boxer," said Kuria. At least sixteen Kenyan boxers had pitched camp at the national team's training base in Lavington, Nairobi to prepare for the final round of the world repechage qualifiers that had been scheduled for June in France, but their dreams were cut short after the event was called off. IOC boxing task force said it was pressed for time to host the event, adding they would now apportion Olympic slots based on rankings from previous tournaments. Members of the Kenyan Hit Squad have been unleashing furious power on their punching bags for close to three months now ahead of the forthcoming Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship slated for Congo later in the month. Although seemingly deflated by the sad news that the world repechage qualifiers in France had been shelved after the Tokyo Olympics Committee found itself pressed for time, the boxers now feel elated with the rare chance they have bumped into to showcase their mantle in the DRC. The cancellation of the qualifiers has however constrained the Kenyan space for a larger contingent in the Tokyo games slated for July and the news of the two slots is a welcome relief. 