The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has been lax in reporting and must be more accountable in spending funds allocated by MCAs. That's what MCAs said Monday when they said they will strengthen their oversight mandate for NMS, which runs four core capital functions. They also said NMS officers will now start appearing before select county assembly committees to answer queries on expenditure of funds. Legislators expressed concerns that the agency led by director general Mohammed Badi has not submitted quarterly reports for the past nine months as required by law. The Supplementary Budget passed by the assembly last week said nine months into the current financial year, NMS has not complied with  the Deed of Transfer of Functions and the County Allocation of Revenue Act. On Monday, chairman of the Budget committee Robert Mbatia said NMS submissions are vital, especially for budget-making by committees whose sectors were transferred. In February last year, four county functions were transferred to NMS—transport, health, public works, utilities and ancillary services; and planning and development In the current financial year, the assembly allocated Sh27.1 billion to NMS for the transferred functions. “For budget-making, the committees whose sectors were transferred face a difficult task. This is due to lack of submission of reports since they cannot discern how individual allocations for each transferred function have been affected,” Mbatia explained. In June last year, NMS was established as an offices under the Executive Office of the President by Executive Order of President Uhuru Kenyatta. That made NMS a public office and legal entity. “As NMS is under the Office of the President, we are following the law as per the Deed of transfer and CARA, 2020. NMS should therefore furnish the committee with a breakdown of the utilisation of funds allocated for the current financial year,” Mbatia said. The Deed of Transfer said that to ensure the effective running of the four departments, the Parliament and the county assembly shall form joint committees to keep operations of the four dockets in check. The national government will also be mandated to table an annual report before the county assembly and Parliament detailing the implementation of the agreement. “If one reads carefully through the Deed of Transfer, it means the assembly can summon NMS officers whenever we have queries. This is part of our mandate to oversight since we allocate funds to the office,” Mbatia said. According to Section 7 (4) of CARA, 2020, the CS for National Treasury shall prepare quarterly reports when a county has transferred functions to the national government. These reports shall cover expenditure of funds for the transferred functions. The reports shall be submitted to the Senate, the National Assembly and the county assembly. Last year, NMS officers appeared before Parliamentary committees to respond to queries. The county budget committee said entities such as the NMS must put the same effort into accounting for funds as they do in bidding for resources. “Maintaining this path would be useful in helping sectoral committees track implementation and absorption of the transferred resources,” Mbatia said. Going forward, the budget committee wants the county treasury and NMS to ensure budget estimates submitted for approval are classified by transferred sectors. By April 30, the county treasury will submit to the assembly, for the record, annual budget estimates for 2021-22 for each of the four sectors and pending bills for each sector. (Edited by V. Graham)