Counties in North Rift have recorded more than 500 new Covid-19 infections in the last week, forcing governors and the security administration to revive strict enforcement of control measures. Uasin Gsihu County is recording the highest infection rates in the region and governor Jackson Mandago, who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc (Noreb), said they would enforce control measures in all sectors in order to cut down the infections. “We are experiencing a serious upsurge in infections and the third wave seems to be more lethal in the way it’s spreading and causing loss of lives. We have to act by enforcing control measures to save lives,” said Mandago. He said an inspection team had been formed to ensure residents use masks, practice regular handwashing and adhere to social distancing. Mandago said social gatherings and other meetings had been banned indefinitely. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya directed that all bar operators must comply with the curfew orders and matatu operators, who had resumed normal business carrying excess passengers, will also be required to comply with control measures. Uasin Gishu County recorded more than 120 cases in the last two days with Trans Nzoia and Nandi also recording more than 70 cases each in the same period. Nandi recorded increases cases especially at the Kapsabet prison facilities. CEO of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital Dr Wilson Aruasa also urged residents to strictly adhere to control measures outlined by the government. “Let’s keep preaching and practising preventive measures both at person, institutional or community level,” said Dr Aruasa. He said so far the hospital had vaccinated 2,611 staff mostly front line health workers in the last two weeks. The hospital targets to vaccinate more than 7,000 staff in the first phase of administering the Covid-19 jabs.  The hospital is also one of the testing centers in the region. The hospital and others in the region have ICU facilities and Covod-19 wards full to capacity. Several people were arrested on the streets of Eldoret for not using masks as county police chiefs said they would intensify crackdowns on those defying the control measures. The eight counties in the region received 60,000 doses of the Covod-19 vaccine. “Even though we are now administering the vaccine, it is not a reason for residents to stop adhering to the control measures we have in place,” said Mandago.