Three officials including a police officer who were escorting national examination materials were shot and seriously wounded in an ambush in Mbukoi area, Marti, Samburu County. They were escorting the materials on a government vehicle to Baragoi when they came under fire by three gunmen who were waiting on the roadside on Sunday evening. The gunmen grabbed an AK47 magazine with 30 rounds belonging to one of the officers on board the vehicle. Police said one officer was shot in the right arm, while a Kenya National Examination Council was hit in the left arm. A driver in the convoy was shot and injured in the left arm. The victims were admitted to a local dispensary in fair condition. Police who responded to the scene said nothing was stolen from the vehicles carrying the examination materials. The area is prone to banditry attacks. At least 70,000 police officers will be deployed to safeguard this year’s national examinations. The officers will be drawn from the regular police, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, and the National Intelligence Service. They will be responsible for undercover operations, mobile phone tracking, manning school premises and emergency responses and escorting the materials. KCPE exams will commence on March 22 and end on March 24. KCSE candidates will rehearse on March 25 before sitting their exams from March 26 to April 21. Only head teachers will be allowed to carry their phones to schools as part of the measures to tame cheating. Traditionally, the tests are conducted between October and November but Covid-19 pandemic forced the 2020 one to be done this year. For KCPE, 1,191,411 candidates are registered to take the test in 28,451 centres, while there are 752,933 KCSE candidates, who will sit their tests in 10,437 centres compared to 10,287 approved in 2019. The examinations will be the fifth in a row to be administered under the strict measures adopted in 2016 to prevent cheating. Issues put into consideration include likely adverse weather, as the exams will be conducted during the long rains season. The council also points out insecurity and flooding of major lakes and rivers in various parts of the country. In this year's examinations, the council has secured 479 containers at the sub county headquarters where the examination papers will be stored. The containers will have a double locking system and the sub county director of education and the deputy county commissioners will be the only ones authorized to open and close them. Vast sub counties will get extra containers that will be located in the assistant county commissioner's office. Knec will also put in place the required mechanisms to be used to deliver and return the exam materials. Road and air transport will be used to avert any disruption that could occur.