Sub-Saharan Africa countries should brace themselves for a tougher social-economic period despite the availability of Covid-19 vaccines. Speaking at the ninth African Fiscal Forum, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) managing director Kristalina Georgieva said it will take long to recover from the pandemic that has jeopardised years of hard-won development gains. She said the inadequate and delayed supply of vaccines in SSA will undermine not only regional but global efforts to end the pandemic, with significant negative health, growth and trade spillovers to the rest of the world. In the first report on global economic prospects for 2021, issued on January 5, the World Bank forecast a slow recovery for sub-Saharan Africa putting the growth rate at 2.7 per cent for the year. The institution said the downward revision in growth for this part of Africa is due to the harsh effects that the coronavirus pandemic has had on many economies in the region. The figure is below the initial June 2020 forecast of 3.1 per cent for 2021. According to the report, Covid-19 is expected to drop per capita income by 0.2 per cent this year, making it even difficult for emerging countries to achieve sustainable development goals. The scenario would push 10 million people into extreme poverty. She added that unless addressed, extreme poverty and inequality will inevitably continue to rise, and education achievements will be held back, with critical implications for social stability and security, especially in more fragile environments. According to her, financing constraints, debt vulnerabilities and limited fiscal space have, prevented—and continue to prevent—many countries from implementing a more robust response. She called on policy leaders in the region to be bold in their objectives to build forward a greener, smarter (more digitally connected), and fairer world. Georgieva called on exchequers in SSA to come up with realistic fiscal policies to avoid over-reliance on expensive loans to fund budgets. ''They should make a point to anchor in medium-term frameworks to address debt vulnerabilities and resolve them in a sustainable way while making room for the recovery,'' Georgieva said. Even so, she praised the region for the swift policies to handle Covid-19. “The fiscal policy response has been swift, with many SSA countries—especially those entering the crisis with good fundamentals—adopting comprehensive measures to contain the pandemic and alleviate its impact on the most vulnerable,'' Georgieva said. Since the start of the pandemic, IMF assistance to SSA totaled over $17.5 billion.