Music is part of our life and during the time, we are relaxing we sometimes want to enjoy that music to calm us down or get us up and dancing. It is easy to access different genres of music through one single application than before where you had to through different applications to find your favourite music. Spotify is one of the best music services around and it will give you that space to search to get music that you are looking for from different genres. The platform has cool, collaborative playlists and group session options, an optional desktop app that lets you play locally stored audio files and has premium accounts that let you hear select albums before they are released. Its library boasts of more than 50 million songs, plus audiobooks, comedy, radio dramas, podcasts, poetry readings and speeches. This is a rich collection and it includes Martin Luther King’s I Have a Dream speech. Once you click on an artiste’s name, it pulls up additional songs by the artiste and the about tab that contains the artist’s biography, photos and hyperlinks to related Spotify pages. Its library will not let you down since it has a good mix of major and indie artists such as Taylor Swift. You can also build playlists with any track s or albums in Spotify’s deep catalog. This app also gives you the option to crossfade songs, and the ability to adjust the number of seconds to fade. By default, it streams tracks on your playlist with gapless playback. It has the collaborative playlist option if you want to build a playlist with a friend that will let your playlists be edited by others. The group session is also another feature that lets you and other Spotify premium subscribers listen to the same content at the same time on your own devices and controls the content playback. The audio quality of this app is satisfactory with its free 128kbps and premium 320kbps streams. You can also create an Artist Radio Station besides just listening to singles, albums and playlists. The app has partnered with Genius, one of the popular lyrics sites to offer Behind the lyrics. This feature displays key lyrics as they are sung or rapped. In addition, Behind The Lyrics delivers behind-the-scenes information such as song facts or inspirations. If you have it on your desktop or laptop, you have an advantage over the website or mobile application in that you can use the former to play M4P, MP3and MP4 audio files that are stored in your computer. This is a cool feature for people who want to play all of their music streams and audio files from one central location.