A woman and her daughter suspected of having stolen a three-month-old baby from Nairobi’s Majengo estate were on Tuesday arrested in Bungoma after being trailed from Nairobi by Busia detectives. The two were wanted in connection to a February 15 incident after a one-month-old infant was stolen from Marachi estate in Busia. The baby was later found in the house of the mother’s 21-year-old son in the area. According to police, in the latter incident, a 27-year-old woman had at 9am left her child sleeping at her Marachi house and went to fetch water from a nearby borehole. But on returning she found an empty bed. Attracted by the mother’s wails,  members of the public cornered the young man, rescuing the baby before raining him with kicks and blows as they escorted him to the police. Police searched the suspect’s house and found a blank birth notification certificate and a payment receipt from a fictitious health facility - Comcare County Hospital. Detectives handling the case later established the woman’s daughter who is a student at the Kenya Medical Training College in Bungoma, and who is married to a health worker at a Busia hospital, had months before terminated a four months pregnancy, but had led the husband to believe he would soon be a father. With the help of her mother and younger brother, the trio stole the baby boy in the first instance that tripped, before embarking on yet another child theft in Majengo, Nairobi. The suspects had successfully escaped with the child to Bungoma, stepping into the detectives' snare. Police say it has been established that the mother and daughter had been putting pressure on the young girl’s husband to send money to clear her 'hospital bill' after a safe delivery, thus requiring proof to convince him. The rescued child is currently under the care of the Child Protection Unit pending identification and collection by the parents. Detectives have launched investigations to establish whether a two-year-old baby girl living with her daughter and her husband was indeed born to them after her birth notification certificate from a Busia hospital also appeared suspicious. Police suspect the incident is part of a wider syndicate on child trafficking and sexual abuse and exploitation. The suspects will be grilled further for more information.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris