Candidates sitting the 2020 KCSE test will on Thursday conduct a rehearsal exercise in readiness of the exam that begins Friday. Some 751,150 candidates are eligible to sit this year’s test having registered earlier last year. On Friday, the candidates will sit English (Functional Skills) and English (Comprehension, Literary Appreciation & Grammar) at 10:30 in the morning. They will tackle Mathematics paper 1 on Monday next week and later on Chemistry paper 1. However, with the closure of learning institutions, it is anticipated that some students will not sit the exams, having failed to return back to school after reopening. However, the Kenya National Examination Council did not disclose the number of candidates yet to report back upon enquiry. KNEC chief executive said such data will become available once the examination has commenced. On Monday, Education CS George Magoha said Kisii County, HomaBay and parts of Isebania, were cheating hotspots that were being closely monitored. He, on Tuesday, ordered that all schools have two police officers each, to man the examination centres during the KCSE exams. With the long rains season approaching, KNEC chief executive Mercy Karogo says they anticipate bad weather that could cause havoc in the exam administration but necessary measures have been taken. Karogo, however, indicated that the government had sealed all loopholes for cheating in the ongoing KCSE examinations. Closely being monitored, Karogo said are private examination centres that have been flagged for possibly planning to engage in malpractice. Among the malpractices on the government watch include the usage of mobile phones, impersonation, leakage of exam papers, teachers writing answers on papers and passing them to candidates and centre managers compromising those involved in the process including security personnel. In this year's examinations, the council has secured 479 containers at the sub-county headquarters where the examination papers will be housed. KCPE On the other hand, KCPE candidates now await the results of their examination after writing their final paper on Wednesday. This will give way to the selection exercise to allot Form 1 places that are to be conducted ahead of them reporting to secondary school in July. In the past three years, the government has been running the 100 per cent transition pushing to ensure all candidates who sit KCPE join secondary school. So far no confirmation has been made on possibility of standardizing the examination score as rooted by a section of stakeholders.