Tributes poured in on Thursday from across the world as leaders mourned the passing on of Tanzanian President John Magufuli. Magufuli, a no-nonsense leader who was elected on his anti-corruption credentials, was accused by critics of evolving into a dictator who turned a blind eye to the devastation of the Covid-19 pandemic. British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was among the first Western leaders to mourn the Tanzanian head of state. Boris said he was sorry to hear of Magufuli's death. "My thoughts are with his loved ones and the people of Tanzania,"he said. The US State Department expressed condolences, saying "we hope that Tanzania can move forward on a democratic and prosperous path." “Know that the US stands with the Tanzanian people during this difficult time,” US Ambassador to Tanzania Donald J. Wright said. Regionally, President Uhuru Kenyatta, as the chairperson of the East African Community, directed that Kenya will observe a seven-day period of national mourning in honour of Magufuli. In an address from State House, Nairobi, Uhuru said Kenya's national flag will be flown at half-mast at home and in all diplomatic missions abroad until the sunset on the day of Magufuli's funeral. "Magufuli was a champion of Pan-Africanism. I have lost a friend and an ally. Africa and the world have lost a leader who steered the EAC and the continent," he said. Rwanda's Paul Kagame said he was saddened by the loss of a brother and friend. He said Magufuli's contribution to his country and to the East African region will not be forgotten. “My deepest condolences to his family and the people of Tanzania. The people of Rwanda stand with Tanzania during this difficult time,” he added. President Yoweri Museveni of Uganda said it was with great sadness that he learnt of the death of Magufuli. “He was a pragmatic leader who believed in and worked for the economic empowerment of East Africans. We join Tanzania in mourning the passing of a great son of Africa. May his soul rest in peace,” he stated. Retired President Mwai Kibaki said: “To his family, friends, Tanzania as a whole and East Africa at large, I convey my message of condolence and pray for the Almighty God’s comfort as we all come to terms with this irremediable bereavement.” ODM leader Raila Odinga remembered Magufuli as a close friend who was always there for him at the most difficult and painful moments. “It is with deep sadness that I have learned of the passing of my friend, President John Magufuli. He and his family have been close friends for a long time. He’s been by my side at my most difficult and painful moments. My condolences to his family and the people of Tanzania,” he said. ANC Party leader Musalia Mudavadi said: “It is with deep sorrow that I have learnt of the passing on of President John Pombe Magufuli of the Republic of Tanzania. I stand in solidarity with the people of Tanzania during this trying moment.” His Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka said,“President John Magufuli was an icon to the people of Tanzania and the region at large. He believed in hard work. I am shocked and saddened by the news of his death. My condolences to HE Janet Magufuli, family and the people of Tanzania. Africa has lost a great son.” Edited by Henry Makori