The government will acquire 59.95 extra acres for expansion of Thwake multipurpose dam in Makueni. Speaking to the Star at his office in Wote town on Tuesday, Makueni county commissioner Mohammed Maalim said the government will pay Sh44.97 million compensation to nine families with 28 project affected persons. He said the land acquired is for construction of the saddle dam, enlarged spillway, employer's camp and main road. "We had a meeting with the 28 project affected persons on the additional land of 59.95 acres covering nine land parcels and we are planning to have their land and structures compensated at a cost of Sh44,972,853 for the expansion of Thwake multipurpose water development project," Maalim said. All people to be affected by the project have already signed the awards, paving the way for construction of several facilities and infrastructure. "We are happy that the people affected by the project signed the awards and this will now pave way for the construction of the saddle dam, enlarged spillway, employer's camp and main road," Maalim added. He thanked the residents for allowing the continuity of the Vision 2030 flagship project, which is an enabler of the Big Four agenda. The government will fast-track their payments. The government had compensated all 1,792 people affected by the project in Kitui and Makueni counties at a cost of Sh3.5 billion and the remaining nine people who had disputes will still get their money once the matter is settled. Project coordinator David Onyango said Thwake is designed to have three phases: construction of a water reservoir, generation of power and installation of water and sewage systems. "The construction of phase one is almost 50 per cent complete," Onyango said. He said the Covid-19 pandemic has slowed down construction of the dam. "When coronavirus was declared pandemic in February last year some of our experts were outside country. They were unable to return in time due to travel restrictions, thus delaying the project. The project will be complete by November 2022," Onyango said. Edited by Henry Makori