The IEBC should audit its ICT infrastructure ahead of next year's general election, failing which the country will witness a crisis, experts warned on Monday. Election Observation Group, in a report signed by its chairperson Regina Opondo and national coordinator Mulle Musau, recommended Kenya Integrated Election Management System be subjected to a thorough assessment to avoid a late rush that could compromise the election. “This assessment will assist the commission in knowing which of the kits are fit for use and draft a maintenance plan,” Elog said. In June last year, the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission said the Sh3.8 billion Kiems procured months to the August 2017 polls risk becoming obsolete for lack of regular maintenance and servicing. The law requires that the IEBC use technology to transmit presidential results from the polling stations to its national tallying centre. Elog also wants the August 2022 election stakeholders to push for maximum reforms at the electoral agency, pointing out that it is the only way out to assure transparent elections. “The country is heading for a general election in the next 16 months. Cognisant of this fact, Elog once again calls upon all electoral actors, especially the IEBC and political parties, to take the realisation of a credible, peaceful, free and fair electoral process in Kenya,” it said. Some of the things that need to be fixed urgently at IEBC is the filling up of the posts left vacant following the resignation of four commissioners. The IEBC currently has only chairman Wafula Chebukati and commissioners Boya Molu and Abdi Guliye. It has seven posts for commissioners. The resignation of Roselyn Akombe, Paul Kurgat, Margaret Mwachanya and Connie Maina left the commission understaffed. Commissioner Akombe resigned days before the repeat October 26, 2017, presidential election, while vice-chairperson Maina, Mwachanya and Kurgat quit in April 2018. On the just-concluded Machakos by-election, Elog said while election procedure and laws were largely adhered to, there were still instances of voter bribery. It called on Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji to order for investigations and subsequent prosecution of individuals found to have committed electoral malpractices. “This will address the rising cases of electoral malpractices that continue to assault electoral integrity,” Elog officials said. They noted that while it is within the candidate’s right to withdraw midway from the race, they said it does not augur well with the tenets of democracy, hence a law should be put in place to provide timelines. “Considerations should be made so that timelines are provided within which one can withdraw. This will minimise wastage of public resources and voter apathy,” they said. 