Reigning champions Gor Mahia have a chance to bounce back from last Sunday's humiliating 2-0 loss to KCB when they tackle Posta Rangers in a rescheduled Football Kenya Federation Premier League fixture at Moi Stadium Kasarani today. K'Ogalo are rooted in the middle of the log in eighth position with 19 points—quite an unfamiliar position — and a win could take them to seventh, two points behind Wazito. The 18-time Kenyan Premier League champions have registered mixed results this season and even struggled to put up a decent show against the apparent competition minnows including returnees Vihiga United who pulled a surprise 1-0 win over them last month. K'Ogalo were in for another series of disappointing results in their subsequent matches, falling 2-1 to a resurgent Nzoia Sugar at Sudi before crashing 2-0 to KCB at Kasarani last Sunday. Posta Rangers won't be having it any easier either. The mailmen have literally struggled in their previous matches, the last one being a barren draw they played out against Kariobangi Sharks, this coming only days after falling 2-1 to Sofapaka. They are treading dangerously in 14th position on the log with 11 points. It will be a day that will also witness the bottom-of-the-table battle between tail-enders Zoo Kericho and Western Stima at Kericho Green Stadium. Zoo, who claimed the scalp of Vihiga United at home over the weekend to register their first win ever this season, remain stuck at the bottom of the log with six points. A win over Western Stima who are 15th on 11 points might not mark a huge difference, given the Kericho-based side will have drawn level with Mathare United who are second last on nine points but enjoy a better goal difference. Mathare have an arduous task ahead tomorrow when they come up against Kariobangi Sharks at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in the much touted slum derby. Sharks are fifth on 25 points and have a chance to dislodge AFC Leopards from third if they collect maximum points from the match. The William Muluya charges are firm favourites to see off a side that has registered four consecutive loses this season.