The low uptake of 30 per cent of government tenders reserved for disadvantaged groups which include the youth, women and people with disability is worrying. As a result, the National Construction Authority has embarked on sensitisation of the groups on Access to Government Procurement Opportunities (AGPO) to increase the uptake. NCA procurement manager Vincensia Apopa  said this is also meant to ensure that participants  will not fail on preliminary things such as stamping documents, submit valid tax compliance certificates and signing of documents among others. “Our aim is to ensure they get to a point where they will be failing only on technical matters which include availability of equipment, capacity and quality of staff or prices,” she said. The capacity building will increase competition in terms of the suppliers and the service providers, she added. She said it has been a challenge for most institutions to meet the 30 per cent threshold due to poor uptake despite the same being reserved. “So we asked ourselves, why are not able to achieve the 30 percent while people outside there are looking for these jobs. Where is the gap?” she posed. The sensitisation forums, she said, will capacity build the groups so that they can understand what is expected of them when they are responding to a tender. Apopa who is also a council member at Kenya Institute of Supplies Management (KISM) in charge of disciplinary matters spoke at Dedan Kimathi University of Technology on Saturday. She cited other problem by the suppliers as complaining about unfairness in the procurement process but they are unwilling to report the malpractices officially.This is despite the government putting in place systems and structures to enable them to report. “We tell them to take those cases to the review board and we have seen the board handling  cases and people getting their tenders if they were unfairly denied the same,” she said. Many however, develop cold feet thinking they will be blacklisted for reporting suspected malpractices in the awarding of tenders, she observed. Apopo said there is need for the potential suppliers to understand what is expected of them, what they are supposed to do, how to submit a preliminary documentation, submit the technical documentation and to do their financial documentation. The other includes how to lodge a complaint against wayward procurement professionals. The disciplinary department, she said, has came up with a policy where systems and structures have been put in place with disciplinary procedures guidelines, code of ethics and standards of operation of professional conduct. “As an institute, we are going to launch these documents soon, may be in the next one month and after launching them, we will expect the public to step up reporting those procurement professionals,” she said. NCA has been going around the country and they were recently in Kisumu and Kakamega before moving on to Nyeri, Mombasa and later Nairobi. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara