Kenyans should not expect much from the noise that accompanies the presentation of reports. Very soon, none of the members of the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee will remember that they ever recommended to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to probe and institute criminal proceedings against officers found culpable for flawed procurement and financial impropriety. No good will come of it as parliamentary committees are usually compromised. You have seen committees or Parliament as a whole connive with the very suspects that should be investigated, thereby keeping quiet about instances of corruption. The committees have become conduits for extorting money from the Executive. The other day there was outrage in Parliament about the appointment of Mwende Mwinzi, a Kenyan who also has American citizenship; nobody talks about it today. You would imagine that Parliament would throw tantrums until the decision is reversed or explanations are offered. Instead, that has been put on the back burner; I'm sure critical actors have been compromised. As Civil Society Reference Group, we petition the Committee on Implementation way back in 2018-19 to take the Executive to task for non-implementation of the Public Benefit Organisation Act. The committee went mute after some time, so all these reports you see about Kenya Medical Supplies Agency Covid billionaires are just used by Parliament or its committees to ask for favours from the Executive and once they are compromised, nobody talks about them. Even worse, names are expunged. We would wish that the agencies charged with the fight against corruption like the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission take up those roles seriously because they have the capacity to gather evidence that is admissible in court, instead of leaving it to parliamentarians who merely posture for purposes of attracting rewards after which they will make compromises and forget about the allegations. Of course, as an arm of government that oversees the Executive, Parliament, through its committees, is charged with the responsibility of conducting inquiries and can enforce by blacklisting organisations and recommending further action. Unfortunately, they find it very difficult to enforce any of their recommendations, hence the need to ensure the cases are taken over by the relevant agencies—the ones with the capacity to enforce. The presiding convener of the Civil Society Reference Group spoke to the Star