The state has completed a 10-year Master Plan for Science and Technology Parks (STPs). Principal Secretary State Department of University Education and Research Simon Nabukwesi on Monday said the ministry has developed designs for the pilot STPs at Konza Technopolis and Dedan Kimathi University of Science and Technology. Nabukwesi said the ministry is currently at the procurement stage for design consultants and construction supervisors for prioritised laboratories within the programme. The PS was speaking during the International Association of Science Parks and Areas of Innovation (IASP) Africa Division Forum Webinar hosted by Konza Technopolis virtually. “This plan which provides a framework for the implementation of STPs in the next 10 years is indeed a major boost in our efforts to strengthen the country’s knowledge economy," he said. "We are at a good place as a country as we now have a framework for the implementation of the STPs in the coming years." He said some of the developments that have so far been achieved towards the establishment of STPs especially at Konza include detailed architectural designs for the Konza science and technology park to BQ level, Konza STP site master plan, business plan for the Konza STP, preparation of a preliminary environmental impact assessment and a call for expression of interest for the architect and construction supervisor for the initial laboratories in the STPs. The forum brought together IASP leadership, global players in the technology space and key stakeholders in the Science and Technology Parks to discuss The Place of STPs in Africa’s Economic Recovery-Impact of the African Continental Free Trade Area Agreement. Speaking at the same event, Chief Executive Officer of NEPAD/APRM Kenya Secretariat Samori Okwiya said the African Union had adopted Agenda 2063 which articulates the Continent’s sustained growth, competitiveness and economic transformation. “In order to enhance opportunities, there is a need to focus on innovation and entrepreneurship through collaboration between public and private stakeholders at both national and regional levels to facilitate co-creation and commercialization of innovation,” he said. IASP has seven divisions namely Africa, Asia Pacific, Eurasia, European, Latin American, North American, West Asia and North Africa. In attendance were ICT PS Jerome Ochieng,  IASP CEO Ebba Lund, Hauwa Yabani CEO, Abuja Technology Village FZ Co, Nigeria and President of the IASP Africa Division, Nigeria, Adv. Pieter Holl, CEO, The Innovation Hub, South Africa, Alan Phemelo Boshwaen, CEO, Botswana Innovation Hub, Botswana, Eng. John Tanui, CEO, KoTDA, Kenya. PS Jerome in his remarks indicated that there are six STPs proposed within three technology corridors namely Nairobi, central and western to be implemented going forward. He said the proposed STPs are Konza STP Nairobi Technopolis Corridor, Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology (JKUAT) STP Nairobi Technology Corridor, University of Nairobi STP Nairobi Technology Corridor, the Dedan Kimathi University of Technology STP in central technology corridor, Moi University STP in western technology corridor and Maseno University STP in western technology corridor. The PS further stated that the ministry, in collaboration with the National Commission for Science Technology and Innovation (NACOSTI), has also embarked on a programme to develop national physical sciences and research laboratories in energy, material science, engineering, mineralogy and nanotechnology, nuclear science and technology, forensic science, chemical sciences, metrology laboratory, biotechnology, environmental science, theoretical and computational science as well as space science. "The Government has invested in the National Data Centre at Konza Technopolis which will support smart city facilities at the Technopolis while also providing investors and innovators with a platform to host and secure their data and applications at a one-of-a-kind data centre in the region," he said. "The data centre is also supporting innovators by providing access to connectivity and hosting services."