A gravedigger who was sentenced to 10 years in jail for killing a colleague has been set free by after winning his appeal. Caroly Owino was charged in 2016 with the manslaughter of Charles Okumu and pleaded guilty to the offence. The trial court after considering his mitigation and probation report sentenced him to serve 10 years in jail for the offence. Owino appealed the sentence. On March 19, Appeal Court judges Paul Kiage, Fatuma Sichale and Sankale Ole Kantai ruled that the sentence was heavy on vengeance or retribution with scant consideration for the rehabilitative or restorative aims, which may in fact be redemptive of punishment. “The immediate society within which the appellant lived, was of the general opinion that he did not deserve a custodial sentence and the judge ought to have seen that the appellant was no threat to it,” the appeal court said. The court also said Owino was a first time offender who swiftly and voluntarily surrendered himself to the police. “We find that the 10-year sentence was excessive and highly disproportionate to his crime and the circumstances of the case. We find this appeal has merit and set aside the 10-year sentence, reducing it to time already served. We order that he be set at liberty forthwith unless he is otherwise lawfully held,” the judges ruled. The case was an unfortunate tale of two young men who fought while under the influence of alcohol, leading to the death of one and the incarceration of the other. Owino and Okumu were among the young men hired as gravediggers at the funeral of Tobia Mugere. As is the custom in much of Western Kenya, the gravediggers usually attend to the responsibility in the dead of night while consuming alcohol. As they were digging the grave, Okumu approached Owino and questioned him on his shouting behaviour while drinking. An argument ensued and Owino picked a spade and hit Okumu twice on the head. Okumu had no apparent signs of serious injury and was later escorted to his home. He was taken to the hospital the next morning where he was later referred to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. He succumbed to his injuries on May 6, 2015, while undergoing treatment. Upon that turn of events, Owino surrendered himself to Ugunja police station where he was arrested and charged with murder. He denied the charges in June 2015. The prosecution later reduced the charge to manslaughter and Owino pleaded guilty to this lesser charge on July 25, 2015 and was thus convicted of the offence. In the judgement delivered on October 6, 2016, the trial court said the Okumu was the aggressor in the fight that led to his death. The probation report indicated that Owino’s family had taken measures to care for the family of Okumu. He was also remorseful after turning himself in. Owino had spent one and half year in custody before the sentencing.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris