@Yobramos4 Conmen and rogue education officials and teachers plan to abet cheating in the upcoming national exams, but the government will not let it happen, CS George Magoha has said. Magoha on Wednesday said in Mombasa that intelligence reports also indicate that some students plan to write material they will use in the exam room on their face masks. The Education CS said some people are trying to make a quick buck by selling fake exam papers to willing buyers. “The few crooked people, who may be my own staff or teachers or others who are casual to them, who are trying to confuse and tell the people that there are exams to be purchased, we are watching you,” Magoha said. The hotspots are in Isebania in Migori and parts of Kisii. “Don’t even attempt! We are not going to be merciful,” he said. KCSE candidates begin their national exams on Monday. He said masks are supposed to be used to protect one from Covid-19, but there are unscrupulous students who have devised other ulterior use of the masks. “It is not supposed to be a place where you can write things which you will use during the exam,” he cautioned. “We are already seeing certain people planning to do so.” All centre managers and invigilators have been instructed to ensure all learners show the inside of their masks before being allowed into the exam rooms. Any learner found with written material will be isolated. Only authorised people will access schools during the exam period. He said all learners will sit the exams where they were registered except in some special circumstances, including where private schools closed up shop because of Covid-9 fallout. “There are a few of my own staff who are trying to move children from one centre to another. Do not dare!” Magoha said. He explained that the exams are security documents. “When you move a child from one centre to another, you must tell us what you are trying to do and why you are trying to do so.” Appropriate authorisation will be given at the right time for students who were forced to move centres for one reason or another. The CS said candidates who deserve to take exams shall do so, including those who have given birth, those who are hospitalised or those with any other problem. “Any child who has the capacity to do an exam, the government will ensure that the examination is taken to the child.” He said the numbers are more this year because of the long stay at home occasioned by the pandemic. Speaking at Sparki Primary School, Magoha said most of the young learners were able to recover their studies and covered all that they were supposed to cover in the syllabus. He advised the candidates not to stress themselves saying nothing out of the normal will come in the exams. “The stress that they have is unfounded because as we administer the exam from Monday, all we need is what they have in the head.” He said the opening of schools on January 4, while there were doubting Thomases, was a commendable and bold move by President Uhuru Kenyatta and a win against Covid-19, which has troubled major economies in the world. “You can see that our children will go home on Friday. Nothing has happened to them.” Magoha commended teachers who ensured that all schoolchildren, especially the day scholars, remained safe by making sure they were masked at all times during their stay in school. He called on parents to assume the mantle from the teachers and provide proper care and time for them. “Give them things to do because if you leave an idle mind, then they’ll start thinking of other parts of the body. Engage your children in useful tasks at home and spend time with them,” Magoha urged. 