The journey to make Ruiru town the cleanest in Mt Kenya region has began with stakeholders pooling resources for the programme. Already, Ruiru-based Zetech University, Lions Club Pioneer and the Kiambu county government through Ruiru municipality have joined the noble course with other corporate entities within the subcounty expected to join them. The programme will entail weekly clean-up including garbage collection, unclogging of drainages, clearing of bushes and planting of grass, flowers and trees along the streets and recreational parks within the town. Street families will be rehabilitated and taken to safe abodes within the subcounty. Zetech University deputy vice chancellor in charge of Academics and Research Dr Alice Njuguna said the institution through its community outreach programme will engage students in the programme. Speaking on Saturday during the launch of the programme in Ruiru town, Njuguna said besides participating in the cleanup exercises, the university will train the community on better environment management and waste handling practices so as to incorporate residents in the activity. She noted that the programme will go a long way to reduce illnesses associated with waste including cholera, typhoid and bilharzia. “We will also ensure that all used face masks that have been littered everywhere in Ruiru are collected and disposed properly. Besides this we will enlighten residents on proper disposal of used face masks because they can as well contribute to spread of the Coronavirus. We cannot eradicate high infection rates by just washing hands when the environment is sullied,” Njuguna said. The don also noted that the varsity’s scholars will be engaged in research on waste management and environment management in Ruiru town and its environs saying that the findings will go a long way in influencing policies made by the Kiambu county government. “As a university our major role is to conduct research and provide solutions to the day-to-day problems that bedevil the community,” she noted. Ruiru municipal manager Fredrick Mwangi said that a World Bank-funded programme to rehabilitate Ruiru town is already in the pipeline noting that by the end of this year the town will have a new look with streamlined services. “We want to give Ruiru people a conducive environment to live and work in and at the same time train them to take environment conservation as a personal responsibility,” Mwangi said adding that an initiative dubbed My Environment My Responsibility has been rolled out. Mwangi called on other institutions and corporate entities within Ruiru to join the noble course saying that it’s for the greater good of the society. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara