Machakos Senator-elect Agnes Kavindu says Machakos residents have shown the nation they are politically mature. Kavindu urged Kenyans to emulate Machakos people by engaging in peaceful campaigns and elections next year. “Machakos politics have openly shown that people from Machakos are politically mature. They don’t follow money, gossip, but elect leaders. I want to send a message to the entire country, 2022 is near and we know we are continuing with 2022 politics. I am calling on Kenyans from the entire country to emulate Machakos county. They shouldn’t follow money, gossip or violence but instead vote leaders whether they have money or not,” Kavindu said. The Wiper senator addressed mourners during the burial of Matungulu MP Stephen Mule’s aunt Anna Mwethya Mawili at her home in Kalandini location in Matungulu, Machakos, on Saturday. Kavindu continued, “Residents of Matungulu, you have shown me great respect because I am your child, you gave me lots of votes. You rejected money and said you wanted a leader. I thank you because I was fought seriously by my opponents but as Machakos county you stood with me and showed maturity in politics.” The senator-elect said she had shown a good example since she was insulted but never did the same to anybody. “I will show a good example till the end. I will serve the electorate faithfully. I have began my job from today and will be sworn in on Tuesday as the Machakos Senator.” She said said she didn’t get into politics to intimidate her estranged husband former Senator Johnson Muthama. She added, “I said he should be respected by everybody. He shouldn’t be insulted or looked down upon. Even on social media, I beg you, don’t abuse him because I am in politics, just give him freedom to be who he is and he is a leader in this country.” Kavindu said Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka should also be respected not only in Ukambani but in the entire country. “Kalonzo is the incoming President in 2022. I am a prophet in office and not of doom. We need your total support for Kalonzo to win the presidency. I will personally traverse the whole country campaigning for him and I am sure he will win.” Kavindu urged Ukambani residents to pray for the Wiper leader and vote for him as a block. MP Mule said they had spoken with one voice as Machakos people. “We know where Kenya is coming from and where it is headed. We will not go back, but continue with the plan of uniting Kenyans all over the country,” Mule said. The Matungulu MP said leaders shouldn’t incite youth to violence during the electioneering period. He said Kenyans should emulate Machakos county on how it conducted the senatorial by-election peacefully. “We have an opportunity to have an election without violence. Kenyans should not accept any leader who propagates violence,” Mule said. Edited by Henry Makori