The director of Goldenscape Group who is alleged to have swindled Kenyans out of millions of shillings in fake greenhouse investment deals has been charged. Peter Wangai was arraigned on Thursday before Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku where he pleaded not guilty. He denied 21 counts of obtaining money by false pretences. The cash was related to the scam where he promised the investors that they will get a return on their money. In one of the counts, it is alleged that on diverse dates between April 17, 2018 and December 13, 2019 at Goldenscape Greenhouses Ltd offices at Kimathi House with intent to defraud, he obtained Sh3,790,000 for 12 greenhouses. The charge sheet says Wangai had promised his investors that they would each get Sh275,000 as return on investment after every six months upon purchasing a greenhouse from his company. Lawyers representing the victims said Wangai should deposit his passport in court because he is a flight risk. They told the court that two other directors have since fled to South Africa. Wangai's lawyer dismissed the allegations, saying his client was the only director of Goldenscape. Mutuku granted him a Sh5 million bond with a surety of the same amount or an alternative bail of Sh2 million. The magistrate ordered that the accused deposits his passport in court as a condition to secure his release on bond. She said the order will not affect Wangai in any way because whenever he needs to travel, he can make an application for the passport to be given to him. The case will be mentioned on April 1. Wangai was out on police bond after he was arrested last year by the DCI. Police records show Wangai, through his company, lured investors to pump money into greenhouses that were to be set up in Ol Kalou and Nyahururu among other places. Detectives said the investors who believed the Goldenscape narrative did not get any return two years after their investment despite taking heavy loans to pump in the cash. The deal backed by commercials on TVs made the firm look credible as it offered contractual obligations to investors, with an assurance of Sh550,000 return on investments of Sh320,000 after six months. One of the investors was expecting Sh7 million in returns. Detectives said Wangai had been playing hide-and-seek with the police since a local TV station carried an exposé on how the firm swindled Kenyans out of millions of shillings.  Edited by P.O