The Director of Public Prosecutions has ordered further investigations into allegations that Bungoma county irregularly spent Sh163 million to purchase land for construction of the governor's residence. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had forwarded a file to the DPP recommending prosecution of several county official involved in the purchase. However, the DPP on March 4 returned the file with instructions for further investigations. In a gazette notice, EACC said it received a complaint alleging irregular purchase of 32 acres by the county government to be used for construction of the official residence of the governor at a cost of Sh163,200,000. “Investigations established that the procurement process for this purchase was not in accordance with the law,” EACC said. The tender was awarded to New Nyanza Wholesalers at Sh163,200,000 without engaging a government valuer. “On December 7, 2020 a report was compiled and forwarded to the DPP with recommendations that the chief officer in charge of Lands, Urban and Physical Planning, interim head of Supply Chain Management, members of the County Tender Committee be charged jointly and severally with the offences of willful failure to comply with the law relating to procurement contrary to section 45 (2) (b) as read with section 48 of Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes Act,” EACC noted. County governments in Western Kenya have been in a rush to put up official governors’ residences. Most started the projects after the government said it would withdraw house allowances paid to the county chiefs. According to the SRC, county governments were expected to have built official residences for governors and county assembly speakers as the commission was to stop paying rent for the top officials by June 30, 2019. SRC ordered in 2015 that governors stop receiving house allowances effective July 2019. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Bungoma’s Wycliffe Wangamati and Sospeter Ojaamong of Busia operate from their rural homes. Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo shifted from his Bunyore home after the election and resides at Sosa Cottages in Vihiga subcounty. Bungoma’s Wangamati ordered the removal from the budget of Sh65 million earlier earmarked for his official residence, saying it was not a priority. In May 2019, Ottichilo said graft investigations by the EACC had delayed the project as detectives carried away files. Oparanya operates from his Emabole home in Butere. He also has a private residence in Likuyani and another in Nairobi. Edited by Henry Makori