A goalkeeping howler that would have destroyed lesser characters was the fuel that Benjamin Ochan needed to light up his football career. The unforgettable mistake committed in 2018 while on duty against Zambia made the giddy shot-stopper work even harder to reach the level of celebrated compatriot and Uganda Cranes number one, Dennis Onyango of Mamelodi Sundowns. Back then, Ochan mishandled Fackson Kapumbu’s ambitious free-kick from range and while stepping back, allowed the ball to bounce over the line as the Cranes lost 3-1 to Chipolopolo in an Africa Nations Championships (CHAN) match. “It was a terrible mistake from me, one that I vowed should never happen again,” recalls Ochan. Since then, Ochan has taken great strides in his career. He was part of the squad that ended Uganda Cranes 38-year wait to feature in the African Cup of Nations as well as becoming a first choice shot-stopper for one of Kenya’s most successful clubs, AFC Leopards. “With all due respect to Dennis (Onyango), my aim is to claim my place back in the Cranes side. I love Uganda and all I want is their success,” he said. The Entebbe-born keeper began playing football at an academy in his hometown known as Entebbe Mayors. “After playing for Mayors, I moved to Friends of Football and later to Kampala Kids League Academy where I learned the ropes of becoming a professional footballer,” says Ochan. The humble Ugandan, with a crazy and wild character on the pitch, was a self-confessed naughty kid growing up. He would spend hours on end on the football pitch much to the chagrin of his parents. “My mother was on my case whenever I came home from the playing ground. She would flog me for not wanting to bathe after training,” he chuckles. Ochan says he looked up to his late father, Dominic Elepu, while he was growing up and admitted it is him who shaped his character on and off the pitch. “He was my role model and even though he is not with us (may he rest in peace), I always try to live a life that would have made him happy and proud,” he says. In 2002, an opportunity that would open the doors to Ochan’s professional career came by when he was selected to represent Uganda in a tournament in Denmark and the Gothia World Youth Cup in Sweden. “After winning the Tivoli and Gothia U-13 youth tournaments with Kampala Kids League, I started being followed by one Danish coach (Jan Fray). He later linked me to AGF Academy in Denmark,” he remembers. It was a step that put Ochan firmly on the path to becoming a pro player. He considers the triumph in the Gothia World cup as one of the greatest moments in his career. “Winning the Gothia World Youth Cup in Sweden was the starting point of my journey as a footballer since I got to know what was required to succeed at the highest level,” says the shot-stopper, who was with Aarhus Youth team up to 2007. Ochan also led his club, Kampala City Council Authority (KCCA), to a first-ever appearance in the group stages of the CAF Confederations Cup in 2017. He would later help the Cranes to qualify for back to back AFCON tournaments after an astonishing three-decade hiatus. “As a nation, we are at a good football moment. All our national teams (U-17 and U-20) are playing at a very good level on the continent and the biggest beneficiary is the Cranes. We hope this can continue for a long time to help us qualify for the World Cup,” says the 31-year old. Ochan’s successes on the pitch have led to his recognition at home. The Ingwe custodian was nominated as an ambassador of the Lake Victoria Regional and Counties Authority Cooperation (LAVRAC) Uganda chapter. “It’s an honour to serve in that capacity and it is a responsibility I take seriously as part of my service to the greater good of our country,” says Ochan. While off the field of play, Ochan dabbles in farming. “I have always been close to my mum and I have learnt a lot from her. I am a terrible cook and my mum is always making fun of me. She also engages in farming and naturally, I follow her footsteps when not busy with football matters,” he reveals. Having played football in different continents especially as a young player in Europe, Ochan knows what is required for an African kid to realise his dream of making it big in Europe. “Discipline, hard work, strong mentality and being teachable are attributes that are necessary for one to succeed,” he observes. The goalkeeper considers former Zamalek captain Mahmoud Abdelrazek Hassan aka Shikabala as one of his fiercest opponents. “He was a handful when we met back in 2015. He is a big and strong guy, a nightmare for any goalkeeper,” he says. With Leopards enjoying some kind of renaissance domestically, it may not be long before Ochan helps end another long drought akin to the Uganda Cranes’ absence in the Cup of Nations, helping Leopards to a first league title since 1998. His compatriots Geoffrey Walusimbi, Khalid Aucho, Danny Sserenkuma are among those who have won the Kenyan Premier League title in the last decade and maybe Ochan’s turn is just around the corner. “It’s something that I would cherish, to be champion with AFC Leopards. It’s been a long time coming and I hope to win the league in my time here,” he concludes. Leopards are in the coattails of KPL leaders Tusker after a late goal by Hansel Ochieng saw them claim a battling win over Nairobi City Stars over the weekend.  Biography Name: Benjamin Ochan DoB: September 18, 1989 Nationality: Ugandan Position: Goalkeeper Current Club: AFC Leopards  Previous Clubs Youth Career 2007 AGF Aarhus  Senior Career 2008-2009 KCCA FC 2010 Bloemfontein Celtic 2011-2012 Villa SC 2013-2014 Victoria University SC 2015-2018 KCCA FC 2018-2019 Kabwe Warriors 2019 to date - AFC Leopards