Kabete residents on Tuesday woke up to the sad news of the demise of Muguga MCA Eliud Ngugi, who was popularly known as Thithia. Ngugi passed on at the Kenyatta University Teaching, Referral and Research Hospital where he had been for nine days. Family members, led by his step brother Peter Muroki, said they had started burial arrangements which they said would adhere to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Covid directive issued last Friday. Muroki said they took Ngugi to the hospital, two days after he attended a one-week meeting with other Kiambu MCAs in Mombasa. “When he came back from Mombasa, he started feeling unwell. We took him to KU hospital where he was for a week and two days. However, on Monday evening the administration told us he was no more,” he said. “We shall proceed with burial arrangements, but we stand to be guided by the government so that we do not bend or break the law.” He was speaking in Ngugi’s home in Muguga, where the family had started hosting MCAs, residents and national government officers. Kiambu assembly speaker Stephen Ndichu described Ngugi as a great leader and an active member of the House. Governor James Nyoro said Ngugi’s death was a loss to the county, as he fought for the rights of residents. “We have lost a gentleman who kept his ward in order, he was always active and gave other MCAs morale to continue serving their electorates with a lot of energy,” the governor said. Nyathuna MCA Edward Kinyanjui said Ngugi was loved by residents because he respected them and wondered whether they will get a successor who can fit in his shoes. Residents described Ngugi as a people's person who always helped whenever approached. One of his competitors during the last campaigns, Moses Gichau, eulogised him as a good leader who did not discriminate against those who did not vote for him. “He was friendly and served all residents without discrimination and that is how I found myself supporting him after the election,” Gichau said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara