Baringo residents are facing an economic crisis due to floods, hunger, disease and joblessness as security officers relentlessly hunt down criminal gangs. Lake Baringo beach operator Elijah Limo, who used to be a full-time tour guide, says they no longer receive local and international tourists because of insecurity. “Tourist have stopped visiting Baringo thinking that Kapedo is here yet it is about 100km away," Limo told the Star on Wednesday. He blamed media reports that volatile Kapedo is nearby although it is on  the Baringo-Turkana border. Security officers are pursuing armed bandits in Kapedo who are behind the killing of two officers, including senior GSU superintendent Emadau Tamkol who was killed on January 18. Tamkol was ambushed and shot dead by gunmen while visiting the area to increase security and distribute foodstuff. Another security officer was shot dead and six civilians killed. Many people have been killed and injured and property destroyed. Roads have been closed off and residents say they are marooned. Asked on Wednesday about the security operation, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya said, "We are making progress in pacifying te region for the prosperity of locals and visitors. We shall be there as long as it takes to ensure peace and stability." He said the operation was getting considerable support from stakeholders. Sources familiar with the operation said told the Star there are plans to set up a police training camp in the Kapedo area to help restore peace and security. The camp will ensure the border town grows and the camp will act as a buffer zone between the two warring communities. "If and when one community wants to cross to the other side, they must inform authorities and vie versa," an official aware of the plans said. "This is among our plans to stabilise the region." That doesn't help the Baringo people much. Limo says in his 10 years as a tour guide, he has not experienced such a loss of visitors and income, also due to Covid-19 and the overflowing lake.. Apart from insecurity, floods also swamped  major tourist hotels like Lake Baringo Club, Roberts’s Camp and Soi Safari lodge. “Joblessness and idleness are now part of our lives, most of us go the whole day without food and our children have been forced to drop out of school," Limo said. Seventy tour guides used to be busy, but half have left, looking for menial jobs. “Government had promised to give us stipends for corona but we haven’t received any,” Limo said. Lake Baringo Divers association chairman Alphonse Rono said they have been forced to withdraw their boats. They used to take tourists on nature rides, visits to traditional villages,  bird watching and sport fishing They also used to rescue people who fell overboard and retrieve drowning victims. Rono said there is no more public beach or space around flooded Lake Baringo where visitors can relax and use toilets. The government has not helped, he said. Thousands of residents in Baringo North and Baringo South have fled their homes due to banditry and face a humanitarian crisis. They want government compensation. Resident Isaac Chelalwain Baringo North’s Ng’aratuko village has a gunshot injury to his leg and can no longer work to feed his family. He is among 800 attack victims. “I am pleading to the government or well-wishers to help, especially with food and shelter,” Chelalwa said. Governor Stanley Kiptis said he wishes his administration could help, but there is no budget or emergency assistance. He urged Kapedo security officers to act humanely and not to harm innocent people, especially children, women and the elderly. Additional reporting by Cyrus Ombati Edited by Kiilu Damaris