Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has banned all physical meetings, field trips and county visits by senators in a bid to contain the spread of the Covid 19 pandemic. In his communication to the House on Tuesday, Lusaka said the suspension took place immediate until further notice. “I direct that all meetings of Select Committees of the Senate will only take place virtually pursuant to Standing Order 252 A of the Senate,” Lusaka’s statement read in part. “There will be no exception to this directive and any requests to hold in-person meetings will not be approved by the speaker,” he added. This means the senators will not set foot in Parliament for committee meetings but will hold such sessions virtually. He divulged that the new measures will complement a raft of containment measures instituted by President Uhuru Kenyatta last Friday. The tough measures, includes among others, cessation of movement in five counties, namely, Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Kajiado and Nakuru. Lusaka told the House on Tuesday that during an extraordinary meeting at State House on Friday, the three arms of government received reports on the status of the COVID-19 pandemic situation in the country from the National Emergency Response Committee on Covid-19. At the meeting, Lusaka observed Parliament was one of the institutions identified that had recorded a high infection rate as per the data availed to authorities. “As a mitigation measure, Parliament, both National Assembly and the Senate were urged to suspend their sittings until such a time that the rate of infection is brought under control,” the speaker told the House. “I urge all Committees to fast track any business using the mechanism provided under Standing Order 252 A, particularly Bills and Petitions,” he held. From the figures given at the meeting, Lusaka said, the country was facing a grave situation that should be taken very seriously by everyone. “For instance, as at yesterday, Monday, March 29th, 2021, the positivity rate hit a shocking 26.6 per cent,” he said. “What this means is that for every 100 people tested, over a quarter or more than 26 were found to be infected by the virus,” he added. He opined that the Cabinet Secretary for Health has raised the alarm that the health care system is at risk of being overwhelmed by the pandemic leading to lack of basic supplies such as oxygen. “Enough has been said about the dire situation of ICU beds. The decision to put sittings on hold is not unique or isolated to our country. Since the virus was declared a pandemic in March, 2020 parliaments in all regions of the globe have been affected and their sittings disrupted in one way or the other," he said. For instance, he said, as recent as February, 2021 the Parliament of Ghana was suspended for weeks after several members and staff tested positive for the virus.