Teachers have been urged to voluntarily go for the Covid-19 vaccine as they have been designed as frontline workers. Speaking in Mombasa during the supervision of opening of the examination containers at the county commissioners office, Teachers Service Commission chief executive officer Nancy Macaharia said 92,850 teachers over 50 years are eligible. 227,000 teachers have been vetted and certified as suitable staff to oversee the 2020 KCSE national examinations. “I received my jab last week and I believe that all of you will present yourself to the designated health centre to get the same,” Macharia said. She urged the 16,500 in both private and international schools to make time and go get vaccinated. “Teachers have been classified as a priority group in the Covid-19 vaccination rollout. Report from the Ministry of Health indicates that there is an upward trend in the number of teachers presenting themselves for the jab,”  Macharia said. She said the Ministry of Health has made available a list of some 622 Covid-19 vaccination centres, some of which are accredited providers for teacher’s medical scheme. All examiners who shall be travelling to Nairobi for marking of examinations have been asked to ensure that they are vaccinated against Covid-19 before they travel as caution is required. Nationally, 752,437 candidates are sitting for the examination. Mombasa registered 9,042 candidates for the examination out of which 4038 are girls and 5004 are boys. “We know our teachers are some of the best and we expect you to show and maintain the highest level of professionalism as you discharge your duties over these national examinations. I urge all the centre managers to be extra vigilant and ensure that the examination is guarded,” she said. Macharia said that each examination centre has been assigned two security personnel to ensure that the examination being administered to candidates remains secure and are not tampered with in any way. However, county director of education Moses Bosire said all the 142 centres which will be used as exam centres were inspected and that the candidates are safe and ready to sit for their examination. When schools closed last year, a high number of pregnant cases among school-going girls were reported in the country where Mombasa was among the areas. “We have put in place measures to trace all the candidates who were victims of early pregnancy to ensure that they all sit for their exam, wherever they are still pregnant or they have delivered,” Bosire said. He said the department does not anticipate any case of candidates missing exams because of their condition and therefore they ensure that even those who are in hospitals sit for their final examination. This is the first national examination to be done under the Ministry of Health guidelines in combating Covid-19. “In places that we feel they need more help in terms of space like Likoni special school, we are working to ensure that we get the space,” Bosire said. Coast regional coordinator John Elungata who was also present said that they have made all necessary measures like security and logistic provisions to make it easier for candidates to sit for their examinations. “All the necessary arrangements have been finalised and we do not expect anything out of the ordinary,” Elungata said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris