Uasin Gishu county has missed its revenue collections target by more than Sh600 million in the current financial year due to Covid-19. The county department of Finance and Economic Planning had projected to collect at least Sh1.2 billion local revenue this financial year but has only about Sh600 million two month to end of the financial year in June. Governor Jackson Mandago thanked residents of Eldoret especially the business community for braving the hard times to pay their fees and charges to the county. Mandago asked those who have not yet paid up to do so for the county to have sufficient resources that will facilitate quality services and implementation of projects. He spoke when he presided over the launch of a rapid results revenue collection programme through a team that will be moving around the county to sensitise residents to pay revenue due to the county. “We are launching the rapid results collection programme because we must finance our operations. Thank you to those who have already paid but we want those yet to pay to ensure that they do so and in return we will be able to offer better services,” Mandago said. He warned county employees against colluding with traders and landowners to manipulate levies, saying harsh penalties will be meted on culprits. He said, if found, action will be taken against not only the employee but also the citizen involved. Under the rapid results initiative, the county is projecting to collect Sh250  million from single business permits, Sh140 million from parking fees, Sh90 million from the bus park tax, Sh50 million from building plans and Sh102 million from signages. From cess collection the county targets to collect Sh80 million, from markets and stalls another sh 72 million and Sh70 million from health services. “As we go out, we have to collect the revenue , but we also have to be customer friendly. We must use acceptable customer language. Except where people want to resist, use acceptable language,” Mandago told the revenue collectors. The county boss warned residents against attacking county staff sent out to collet the revenues. “We cannot serve the people of Uasin Gishu without money. We need to see our revenue on the rising trajectory as we know businesses are picking up considering the county offered some grace period for permits," said Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno. According to Finance and Economic Planning executive Julius Ruto, the revenue collection will be guided by the current Finance Act which was subjected to public participation. He noted that the revenue collection process will involve all departments so as to guarantee its effectiveness. “We came up with a strategy that was developed with involvement of all departments. We established a joint approach so that we have a strong team in place to ensure maximum success,” Ruto said. Edited by Henry Makori