Chama Cha Uzalendo has written to IEBC demanding an explanation on how Wiper Party candidate Agnes Kavindu was cleared to run for the Machakos Senate seat. CCM says Kavindu lacks the required academic credentials to contest the seat. Lawyers Allan Mzungu, Felicia Tunje, Violet Mosiara and Gathoni Kiriba of MMS Advocates wrote to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati on behalf of CCM. The letter was copied to Kavindu. CCM wants IEBC to provide evidence of Kavindu's academic certificates alongside her self-declaration submission at the time of vetting. The letter seen by the Star was also addressed to Machakos county IEBC returning officer Joyce Wamalwa and was marked as received. CCM said it was requesting for information under article 35 of the Constitution. The lawyers said they were acting under instructions from CCM secretary general Sadjah Phillipe and voter Wilfred Manthi Musyoka. Section 8 (b) (1A) of the Elections Laws (Amendment) Act, 2017 requires an aspirant vying as a Member of Parliament to hold a degree from a recognised university. However, that clause was suspended to 2022. It did not apply in the 2017 General Election. “Section 22 of the Election Law (deleted and substituted) initially provided that any aspirant for MP must possess a minimum of post-secondary school qualification. We are alive to the fact that this requirement for a post-secondary school qualification has been litigated upon ... and was constitutional at the time of this amendment.” The lawyers said the amendment to Section 22 of the Election’s Act was made to raise the bar for any aspirant wishing to vie as an MP or MCA to have a university degree. They argued that it would appear as if there is a lacuna in law in a scenario where an Act of Parliament is repealed, amended, or substituted and the operation of the repealing statute or section is suspended. They argued that the provisions of Section 22 of the Interpretation and General Provisions Act, are meant to cover such lacuna. The section states, “Where a written law repeals wholly or partially a former written law and substitutes provisions for the written law repealed, the repealed written law shall remain in force until the substituted provisions come into operation.” As such, they said the requirement of a post-secondary qualification ought to apply to candidates contesting the Machakos senatorial seat. “It has however come to our attention that Agnes Kavindu Muthama who was cleared by the commission may not possess this minimum qualification. If indeed this is factual, it is the considered view of our client that the clearance of such candidate was unprocedural and unlawful,” the lawyers said. They want the commission to show the self-declaration form that Kavindu submitted and her educational qualifications. "The said information is very necessary to enable us to make a determination on whether to pursue an appropriate redress.” “Our instructions are therefore to demand, which we hereby do, that the commission provides the information requested hereinabove within a maximum of 48 hours to enable our clients to determine the next cause of action." "Kindly take note that unless the said information is availed within the stipulated timelines, our client shall have no option but to proceed to initiate the appropriate legal proceedings to compel the production of the said documents at your peril of incurring costs and other incidental damages.” The lawyers asked the commission to withdraw the clearance of any candidate who does not have the required qualifications. Kavindu says she holds a degree from an international Bible college. “They have tried to persuade you not to vote for me but they have been defeated. That’s why they have brought the issue of education. I am qualified. I have a degree and if they want to confirm let them go to World Outreach International Bible College. I am in their record,” Kavindu said during a rally in Athi River on Tuesday.  Edited by P.O