Malkia Strikers will pitch camp at the Kenyatta University next week in  preparation for the Tokyo Olympic Games in July. Making the announcement yesterday, Olympic Kenya acting secretary-general,  Francis Mutuku, said the team will start camp on Monday. "We have managed to get Kenyatta University as a facility for our girls and this is all about getting ideal preparation for the team and to acclimatise to the surroundings and be competitive,” added Mutuku. Mutuku added that they are working with Kenya Volleyball Federation to secure a training camp outside the country for the side ahead of the global extravaganza. "We and KVF are talking to various countries to see if we can have a training camp for the team and play build-up matches and give the girls the best possible preparation for the Olympics,” said Mutuku. He said they are looking at European or Asian nations as part of the build-up matches for the national team despite the various Covid-19 protocols and restrictions in most countries worldwide. Mutuku also announced that the taekwondo team will be based at Moi Stadium,  Kasarani for a fortnight, alongside Shujaa and Kenya Lionesses as teams step up preparations for the games. “We have managed to get the taekwondo side to Kasarani alongside the Lionesses, Shujaa and sprinters and everything is going well,” he added. He said preparations were right on track for the Olympi- bound team despite the challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. "It's been challenging but I am glad our teams are able to get preparations and play build-up tournaments like Shujaa and Lionesses. This will aid their push for medals in the Olympics in July," he noted. Mutuku said the teams at Kasarani and Kenyatta University break off after two weeks training to spend time with their families. He lauded government support for the Olympic team. “I want to thank the government for facilitating the various teams to train at Kasarani and other government facilities and we hope it will continue,” added Mutuku.