All stalls erected along sidewalks and on drainage systems in Kisii town will be down in efforts to decongest the county capital, the municipal leadership has said. Municipal chief Nahashon Ongeri said talks with the traders had  broken down after they became stubborn and refused to move to the sites designated for them. He defended the demolitions, saying the county government had already secured alternative places where the traders are to operate from. Only about 70 had by Wednesday evening moved to the new designated site at Kagwanchi pavement. "Only those who decided to stand their ground were affected by the demolitions. Those who obeyed are still doing their business, " he said. The government,  Ongeri stated, was not ready to back down on plans to bring sanity to the town's congested streets. Ongeri vowed more demolitions of the remaining stalls. "We are engaged in more than just the effort of bringing  sanity. Currently, the drainages are clogged up because of the garbage carelessly disposed of, causing unnecessary blockages," said Ongeri. On Saturday, a section of the traders vowed a tax boycott to put a halt on the exercise. They said they would chase away any revenue officer seeking to collect cess from them. Kisii Central Ward rep Kepha Mrefu led the  protests to demand cessation of the demolitions. He cited poor timing and coronavirus, saying many small scale businesses were not fairing well in the face of the pandemic. The country continues to register a spike in infections and deaths. Kisii has had more than 35 deaths and 1,300 infections since March 2020. Mrefu said this, coupled with a struggling economy, was already hurting the street traders. But speaking exclusively to the Star, Ongeri said the traders were given ample time to relocate to alternative places. "There would always be no right timing to bring order to a town. This is an exercise that should be supported by all leaders, including MCA Mrefu, and not politicised," he stated. Ongeri said they had no option after the notice to the traders elapsed. "We had early met and impressed upon them on the need to reorganise the town. Those who bought the idea are still happily doing their trade in their new sites we had designated for them, so let's stop crying wolf all the time," said Ongeri.