@ppcheti The national government has increased the number of police escort vehicles on the Lamu-Garsen road from one to four. The move is meant to address the issue of delays on the road following a public outcry. Currently, all vehicles plying the road have to be accompanied by one armed police escort vehicle. This means vehicles coming into and those leaving Lamu have to wait for the same escort vehicle, leading to constant delays on the road. The decision to increase escort vehicles was arrived at during a meeting between security committees from Lamu and Tana River counties at Minjila area on Thursday. Owners of public transport vehicles plying the route were also present at the meeting. The security committees have been at loggerheads with PSV owners who have been pushing for increased escort vehicles on the road. Following a spike in al Shabaab terror attacks in the region between 2014 and 2017 that left scores of civilians and security officers dead, the national government directed that all vehicles plying the road, whether PSVs or private, travel in a single convoy under the protection of an armed police escort vehicle. Initially, the number of the escort vehicles was three but later got reduced to only one with the diminishing threat of the militants on the road. The reduction of police escort vehicles has however met fierce resistance from PSV owners and travelers on the road who complained of uncomfortable delays. Speaking at the meeting, Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia, who chairs the county security committee, said the decision had been taken to ensure smooth, safe and fast travel on the road. “We hope that will resolve the major complaint which has been delays as the one escort vehicle was barely enough compared to the demand," Macharia said. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia urged vehicle owners to adhere to the travel plan by ensuring they travel in a convoy under police escort. Tana River county commissioner Mbogai Rioba, who also chairs his county security committee, urged stakeholders to work together to eliminate any terror threats on the road. He said patrols have been intensified on the Lamu-Garsen-Mombasa routes with a view to safeguarding travellers and their property. A week ago, there was outrage after a convoy of over 10 vehicles en route to Lamu from Mombasa with over 300 passengers was stuck for over seven hours at the police escort pick-up point at Gamba roadblock as they waited for the available escort vehicle to clear with the other convoy.