Kenyans  have been urged to take full advantage of the forthcoming long rains season and grow trees. Julius Kamau, chief conservator of forests, Kenya Forest Service said forests, particularly during the Covid-19 pandemic period have provided healthy spaces for Kenyans to connect with nature for self-reflection, recreation and healing. “Indeed, forests/trees will play a critical role in the recovery from Covid-19 pandemic through but not limited to; provision of clean air, safe water, food security, green job, and livelihoods especially to the most vulnerable communities,” he said. He spoke on Sunday as KFS joined the World in marking the International Day of Forests. In 2012, the United Nations General Assembly proclaimed 21st March of every year, the International Day of Forests. The day seeks to celebrate and raise awareness on the importance of forests globally, and countries are encouraged to undertake local, national and international efforts to organize activities involving forests and trees. Kamua said this year’s theme is, ‘‘Forest Restoration: a path to recovery and well-being’’, and focusses on highlighting the centrality of forests to human life. “This theme is timely and resonates well with the current Covid-19 pandemic situation that nations globally find themselves in. KFS seeks to create awareness and reawaken the consciousness of the Kenyan people on the connection between forests/ trees and their lives and livelihoods,” he said. Kamau urged Kenyans to support forest restoration efforts through individual and collective actions of tree growing, and profiling the importance of forests/trees in their sphere of control and networks. “This is in recognition, that Kenyans have the power and capacity to grow more trees on their landscapes and restore degraded forests back to life. This is while acknowledging, that healthy forests mean healthy people, forests shield us against future pandemics, and that every tree counts,” he said. KFS called upon all Kenyans to take full advantage of the forthcoming longrains season by growing trees. “Where trees grow, there is life! While doing so, please strictly adhere to the Government guidelines on the prevention of the spread of Covid-19 pandemic,” said KFS.