Abdikadir Mohamed Yussuf, a son of the late Garissa Senator Yussuf Haji, was on Tueaday cleared by the IEBC to vie for the senatorial seat. The seat fell vacant following the death of  Yusuf Haji at the Aga Khan University Hospital, Nairobi, on February 15. Early last month, the family of the late senator picked him to complete the remaining two years. He was endorsed by Haji’s Abdallah clan. The two major Garissa clans of Abduwak and Aulian have agreed to back Abdikadir in honour of the late senator. The by-election is slated for May 18. Garissa Governor Ali Korane  was among top politicians who gave the nod for Abdikadir to vie for the seat. Abdikadir, who is commonly known as Abdul Haji, was cleared and awarded the IEBC nomination certificate by Garissa county returning officer Hussein Gure at the North Eastern National Polytechnic. He is likely to go unopposed if other parties will not have presented candidates by tomorrow. Speaking to the press after being cleared, Abdikadir thanked residents of Garissa and leaders for their overwhelming support, promising to serve them equally if elected. "This is another step that we are making today. Let us walk this journey together until the end. I promise to be your servant," he said. Korane said the role played by the late senator both at the national and county level in uniting the country and the community cannot be over emphasised. He said there was a need to reward Haji's son with the seat to continue with the work left behind by his late father. “The only way we can honour this great man that we were very close to is to allow his son complete the remaining part of his term. I also want to thank the aspirants who were interested in this seat for heeding to our calls to step down,” said Korane. The governor said that following the issuance of the nomination certificate, the next move is to ensure he clinches the seat by being elected unopposed. “I want to send a passionate appeal to  the voters of this great county that we give a chance to Abdul and elect him unopposed in the senatorial by-election. Let us campaign together and deliver the seat,” said Korane. Also present during the brief ceremony was Deputy Governor Abdi Dagane, Ijara MP Sophia Abdi Noor and Garissa county assembly speaker Ibrahim Abbas. Edited by Henry Makori