Ford Kenya’s Majimbo Kalasinga bagged the Kabuchai parliamentary seat, polling 19,274 votes against his closet rival Evans Kakai of UDA who had 6445 votes. Billed as a test run for Deputy President William Ruto in Western, his UDA party found the combined force of Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang’ula, ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi and Kanu’s Gideon Moi too strong. Amos Wekesa (Federal Party) came third with 1,454 votes while Gasper Wafubwa (Independent) garnered 1,236 votes; Peter Kapanga (Independent) had 802; David Kibiti (Green Movement party) got 233 votes, Jeremiah Marakkia (UDP) 203 and while Stephen Barasa (MDP) had 141 votes. Kalasinga had 65 per cent of the total votes with cast while Kakai had 22 per cent. The voter turnout was 51 per cent. Violence marred the election, with four MPs arrested for malpractices. They were Didimus Barasa of Kimilili, Nandi Senator Samson Cheraregei, Wilson Kogo (Chesumei) and Nelson Koech of Belgut. For Wetang’ula, a loss would have dealt a blow to his aspirations in national politics ahead of 2022 elections. “Do not embarrass me among my peers by voting in a person who is not from my party in my home turf,” Wetang’ula told voters on the campaign trail. Political analyst Isaac Wanjekeche said the victory means Wetang’ula still has a grip on Bungoma politics. “It is plus for Wetang’ula because he can now go out to bargain with other partners at the national front with Bungoma as his stronghold,” he said. He said it was also an endorsement by the people of Wetang’ula’s party leadership. “Now that the coup plotters kept off supporting a Wetang’ula candidate and secretly funded other candidates, the Kalasinga victory is a message to them that Ford Kenya is still intact,” Wanjekeche said. Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi, his Tongaren counterpart Eseli Simiyu, Bungoma Governor Wyclife Wangamati have been fighting to remove Wetang’ula as party leader. They kept off the Kabuchai campaigns, leaving Wetang’ula to use only MCAs. Another political analyst said Ruto’s numerous visits to the region and perceived gains over the years did not reflect in the outcome. “I think it is a high time Ruto starts evaluating his friends in the region after the performance and see if there is need to seek or strengthen other alliances,” political scientist Maurice Nyaranga said. 