Cindy Gathoni sat pensively during the burial proceedings of her 33-year-old husband Arthur Kinyanjui. Kinyanjui was the son of Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri. Widowed at a very tender age, Gathoni has been left with a huge responsibility of taking care of the young family – a daughter who is hardly seven years old and an unborn child. During the ceremony at the Nakuru Agricultural Society of Kenya show-ground in Nakuru, Gathoni's daughter clung to her as she read her tribute. Throughout the ceremony, the little girl seemed lost, probably still trying to sum up what was happening. Gathoni eulogised her husband of 10 years, popularly known as AK47, as a smart, hard-working and ambitious man with an impeccable work ethic. Kinyanjui got his nickname from his initials and his favourite racing-car number, which was 47. Gathoni said she was saddened that her unborn child would not meet the father. “For you, my love, I will nurture and support her, the same way you did,” Gathoni said. Paul Kimani eulogised his brother saying, “With your departure, our family chain has been broken and nothing seems the same but my dear brother, you will never be forgotten.” MP Ngunjiri said the loss was too much to bear as Kinyanjui was his closest child. “Your enthusiasm for politics was admirable, and I often saw you as the perfect candidate to fit in my shoes,” Ngunjiri said. Kinyanjui was buried in a private interment at the MP’s farm in Maili Kumi, Bahati subcounty. Deputy President William Ruto, Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and several MPs were present. Kinyanjui was taken ill in December last year and was admitted to hospital on January 6, 2021 where he spent three months. The last born son of MP Ngunjiri died on March 1 at Premier Hospital in Mombasa where he was admitted with a severe case of pneumonia that resulted in acute respiratory distress syndrome. “He was responsive to treatment and was almost discharged when he suffered a cardiac arrest that led to his death,” a family member said. He left a medical bill of more than Sh6 million and the family was in the process of organising a fundraiser to clear it when passed on.   