The Lamu Port, South Sudan and Ethiopia Transport project will not only promote inter-connectivity between Garissa and the neighbouring country but also spur economic growth, Garissa Governor Ali Korane has said. Speaking at his residence on Tuesday, Korane said the county will fully support the implementation of the Lapsset project which has the longest stretch in Garissa. He hosted the chairpersons of the Lapsset Implementation Agencies who paid him a courtesy call and briefed him on the progress made in the implementation of the mega infrastructural project. The Lapsset Corridor Programme is Eastern Africa’s largest and most ambitious infrastructure project bringing together Kenya, Ethiopia and South Sudan. The project consists of seven key infrastructure projects. They include a new 32 Berth port at Lamu (Kenya), Interregional highways from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba (South Sudan), Isiolo to Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), and Lamu to Garsen (Kenya). Crude Oil Pipeline from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba; Product Oil Pipeline from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Addis Ababa; Interregional Standard Gauge Railway lines from Lamu to Isiolo, Isiolo to Juba, Isiolo to Addis Ababa and Nairobi to Isiolo; three international Aarports: one each at Lamu, Isiolo, and Lake Turkana; three resort cities: one each at Lamu, Isiolo and Lake Turkana; and the multipurpose High Grand Falls Dam along the Tana River. Korane said the residents cannot wait to reap the fruits of the project once it is fully complete and operational. “I want to assure the multi-agency teams who were tasked with the fast delivery of the Lapsset projects of the full support from the county towards the projects,” Korane said. The project covers a 400 km stretch within Garissa, which is the longest and involves planning of towns and creation of resorts at various points that will potentially attract private sector investment. He said security will be a top priority for the smooth implementation of the project that was visioned to turn underdeveloped regions to major economic hubs. Among the things discussed was the land acquisition for the projects, the prospects of physical and spatial planning, security, trade and investment opportunities for the residents, and proposed infrastructural projects including the main Lamu-Garissa-Isiolo road (537 km). The officials led by Lapsset chairman Titus Ibui later inspected the road and said  Sh17 billion was allocated to repair the road for effective transportation of cargo within and to neighbouring Ethiopia. “I want to give an assurance that by June 15 this year the Lamu Port will be operationalised and the Lamu - Garsen-Garissa road will be an option route until the completion of the railway, pipeline and road project,” Ibui said. Other officials were Kenya Ports Authority chairman Joseph Kibwana, Kenha chairman Wangai Ndirangu, Kenya Railways chairman Francis Awiti, Kenya Revenue Authority commissioner for Customs and Border Control Pamela Ahago among others. The county secretary Abdi Ali, county executive for roads and transport Issa Yarrow and his finance and economic planning counterpart Issa Dubow also attended the briefing.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris