Mombasa business mogul and philanthropist Abdulhakim Zubedi who died on Wednesday was buried on Thursday at 2pm. His body was taken to Masjid Noor for prayers before burial at Kikowani cemetery. The family chartered a Skyward Express flight to bring the body which landed at the Moi International Airport in Mombasa at 8.15pm on Wednesday. The philanthropist died at the MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi at around 6pm after a long illness. Speaker of the Mombasa county assembly Aharub Khatri, Governor Hassan Joho's elder brother, Abu, and former Mombasa mayor Ahmed Mohdhar led a contingent of powerful businesspeople in Mombasa in receiving the body. The convoy snaked its way to and from the airport with county inspectorate officers clearing the way. The fleet attracted curious onlookers who thronged the roadside, late as it was, wondering which dignitary had been picked from the airport. Zubedi's eldest son Twaha Mbarak supervised the logistical arrangements. Zubedi had interests in real estate, land, transport and import business. He is the proprietor of the famous Nawal Centre at the heart of Mombasa. Nawal Centre has employed thousands of youth in what is seen as Zubedi's way of giving back to society. Employees, both former and current, said they have lost a mentor and a father figure. “He employed me without a single paper. I explained to him my situation at home and after asking what skills I had, which was almost none, he told me to start working the next day on condition that I will be ready to learn quickly and help my family,” Muhsin Mohammed, a former employee at Nawal Centre, said. He told the Star many of the youth employed at Nawal Centre was to help them remain on a straight path. Governor Joho, said to be in Zanzibar, described Zubedi as a humble, kind, philanthropic and wise elder who gave youth many chances to succeed in life. “The late Zubedi was one of our elders and also an established and prominent business magnate,” Joho in his tribute message said. Businessman-cum-politician Suleiman Shahbal said Zubedi gave opportunities even to those who did not deserve it. “Such was his big heart,” Shahbal said. His son Twaha, who has been handling most of his father's businesses, is expected to take over as head of the businesses.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris