Legislators on Monday demanded an explanation for the increase in fuel prices announced by the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority on Sunday. But as MPs issued the ultimatum to government, Kenyans bitterly criticised them for 'pretending' to be sad and to sympathise with the ordinary wananchi without really caring about them. The Institute of Economic Affairs said MPs had failed in their mandate to supervise regulatory institutions. “The prices are determined by a formula passed in a law. The Energy and Regulatory Agency (EPRA) cannot change those prices and has no power to do so,” IEA CEO Kwame Owino said in a statement. Taxes constitute almost half of the price of petroleum products and have increased by almost a third since April 2020. The demands by the MPs were also greeted by an uproar from Kenyans on social media who accused legislators of failing in their mandate. The prices of fuel products have a direct impact on the cost transport, manufacturing, power production and all kinds of products, from farm produce to textiles. Eldas MP Adan Keynan said the upward adjustment of prices was not justifiable since global crude oil market costs have been on a downward trend. “The frequent fuel prices increases without sufficient explanation is unacceptable. This organisation [EPRA] owes Kenyans an explanation,” he stated. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang said it was immoral for EPRA to increase fuel prices, knowing Kenyans were facing harsh economic times. “It makes the government appear insensitive to the needs of the people,” he said. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and his Narok counterpart Ledama Olekina said Kenyans deserve an explanation for the rise of fuel prices by the energy regulator. On Sunday, EPRA announced an upward review on fuel prices. Motorists now have to pay more than Sh120 per litre for petrol. Diesel and kerosene prices have also surged by Sh5.75 and Sh5.41 a litre, respectively. The authority said the price changes, which include an eight per cent VAT, had taken into account the average cost of imported refined petroleum products. Soy MP Caleb Kositany said the increase was caused by the government's lack of planning. “Of the Sh122 that goes to fuel, the government takes about between Sh40 and Sh50 in taxes. The best thing is for the government to reduce the taxes it takes,” he said. Activist Boniface Mwangi said the government should know the cost of living is going up every day. “Is President Uhuru aware that the cost of living is going higher everyday? Does he really know that Kenyans are barely surviving?” he asked. Hours after the prices were announced, the Orange Democratic Movement criticised EPRA, accusing the agency of insensitivity. The government moved to enforce price controls by effecting maximum pump prices through the Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) in 2011. The enforcement of the price ceilings on fuel products was at the time aimed at cushioning Kenyans from high fuel prices as international crude prices averaged north of Sh10,700 ($100) at the time. By working out a formula which cushioned Kenyans while at the same time guaranteeing profit margins for oil marketers, the price fixing regime was seen as a cure for runaway pump prices. The price controls worked as intended in subsequent years until 2014 when global oil prices fell. (Edited by V. Graham) 