Just hours after ODM party picked its Bonchari candidate for the upcoming by-election, one of the aspirants announced he was heading to court to challenge the verdict. On Wednesday evening, the party’s Secretary General Edwin Sifuna and National Election Board Chairperson Catherine Mumma unveiled ex Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority director general Pavel Oimeke as its candidate for the Bonchari Parliamentary by-election. At a press conference in Kisumu, the top officials said they had settled on Oimeke as the party’s choice candidate after efforts to have a mediated consensus failed. Deputy Party leader Wycliffe Oparanaya in a last minute attempt to arrive at a candidate met Oimeke and ex-Kisii Environment and Water executive John Bill Momanyi who had satisfied the election’s board vetting committee. “We had four options of pick our candidate in line with relevant party rules and we settled on mediated consensus which we felt was the most ideal given the circumstances. However, when consultation by top party officials failed to bear fruits the central committee had to make a decision,” Sifuna said. The SG further noted that Oimeke’s candidature was backed by a pollster expert. “The renowned expert hired by ODM went round the constituency and the verdict was Oimeke was more popular than the rest,” Sifuna said. He said only three applicants showed interests in vying for the seat on ODM ticket however businessman David Ogega was disqualified as he was not properly registers as party member. According to Mumma, Ogega had not regularised his membership registration after contesting in last general election as an independent candidate. A disgruntled Momanyi who spoke to the Star on phone moments after the ODM declared Oimeke as their candidate said he was not satisfied with the decision. “I am considering challenging the decision in court. My second option will be to go directly to the people of Bonchari for direction,” he said. Momanyi said, “I have been a member of ODM since 2006, longer than Oimeke who joined the party two weeks ago. Why would the party settled on a newcomer who has going to start from zero experience." He further alleged that the finding of the pollster favoured him as the most popular on the ground. The party asked IEBC to ensure it conducts a free and fair election in the May 18 by-election that was caused by the death of John Oyioka. Sifuna warned that the party will not entertain a bungled election. “We will use the machinery at the disposal of the party to ensure we retain the seat,” he added. Describing Matungu by-election as a sham, Sifuna warned those he termed as regional kingpins to keep off the Bonchari by-election. “Bonchari will offer us the occasion to draw the line between regional kingpins who were only good in bungled elections and popular party,” he said. Oimeke resigned from EPRA last week. The board had closed the submissions for nomination papers last week with only Oimeke, Momanyi and Ogega having applied. It interviewed the candidates and settled on Oimeke who is said to have scored highly. The decision will be submitted to the National Executive Council for ratification. Already, a group of activists and youths from Bonchari warned ODM against imposing a candidate, saying democracy should prevail. On Tuesday at a press conference in Kisii they said any effort by the party to bungle the process and hand-pick a candidate would lead to a backlash. Led by activist Duke Nyabaro and youth leader Alfred Ayieko they looked forward to the party fronting the best candidate. “We want the party to choose the best from the three who have applied for the ticket so that we support him on account of the love of the party ideologies and position on national issues that affect the party,” said Nyabaro. Ayieko said: “In the past, we have seen ODM bungling nominations. This time, we are warning the NEB that the nominations should be free, fair, and credible. Undemocratic ways of choosing a party candidate cost us in Kisii in the last general elections.” They also expressed their disappointment at the withdrawal of Kisii Agriculture chief officer Geoffrey Mogire from the race. Mogire, a former trade unionist and human defender and staunch ally of ODM Raila Odinga and Kisii Governor James Ongwae, failed to return nomination papers on Thursday last week citing limited time. “Mogire espouses the vision and mission of both the young and the old. He is a forthright leader who has for many years fought for what is right and voice of many on issues affecting the people,” Nyabaro added. They also appealed to political parties that will field candidates in Bonchari to adhere to the electoral code of conduct during the campaigns and carry out peaceful campaigns. Those seeking the seat include Oyioka's widow Teresia Bitutu who will contest on a UDA ticket, Party of Economic Democracy has nominated Lake Victoria South Water Works Agency director Victor Omanwa, former MP Zebedeo Opore of Jubilee Party, former Kisii Woman Representative Mary Otaraa of United Green Party and youthful new entrant Jonah Ondieki of ANC, among other hopefuls.