Tharaka Nithi farmers have praised Water CS Sicily Kariuki forSh2 billion projects that have transformed their lives. They, however, want the CS to help them with export markets and value addition to curb brokers and middlemen exploiting their sweat and hindering youths from venturing into agri-business due to poor returns. Farmer Mbaabu Kirigia who had a chance to speak with Sicily at his one-acre banana farm expressed gratitude and dissatisfaction at the same time. The CS visited the Sh1 billion Chogoria water and sanitation project that will serve about 155,000 people, the Sh220 million Gakurungu water project benefiting about 3,200 farmers and Sh1.3 billion Muringa banana water project serving around 6,000 people in Tharaka Nithi county on Friday. She said the projects have reduced crime among youths, enhanced self-reliance and improved the economic well-being of farmers. The CS urged the farmers to take up irrigated agriculture by utilising the installed infrastructure for enhanced food production and sustainable economic growth. She noted farmers are now creating wealth from tomatoes, bananas, pawpaws, French beans and other vegetables. Mbaabu who is one of about 6,000 beneficiaries of Muringa banana water project  told the CS he was disheartened by brokers who have invaded the subsector to the detriment of the farmers. “I thank the CS and area MP Kareke Mbiuki because the water project has made me think out of seeking a white collar job as a youth. I planted 391 bananas in 2019 with several challenges including frequent water shortage, lack of fertiliser, disease infestation and soil degradation. My first harvest was in December 2020. Then I got Sh64, 000 last month and today, I have sold four tonnes at Sh14 per kilo. The government should search export markets and provide farmers with fertiliser,” Mbaabu said. Mbiuki hailed President Kenyatta, saying the mega project is a game-changer. He said there is a need for establishment of industries for value addition. Sicily formed a committee led by Thraka Nithi county commissioner Beverly Opwora and technical officers from her ministry to look for a transition plan of handing over the project to the community. Edited by Henry Makori