A new report has painted a picture of a government struggling to finance its operations as the Covid-19 pandemic and debt continue to take a heavy toll on the economy. The 2020-21 half-year budget implementation review report by the Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakango shows both the national and county governments and their agencies are facing a cash crisis. The Treasury has only released an average of 42 per cent of the annual allocations to Ministries, Departments and Agencies and the devolved units between July 1 and December 30, 2020. This is a decrease compared to 44.2 per cent recorded in a similar period of the 2019-20 financial year. “It would be expected that by the end of the first half, the exchequer releases should be at a minimum of 50 per cent of the annual net estimates,” reads the report. The report released on Saturday shows that Ministries, Departments and Agencies received Sh139.35 billion for development, Sh917.4 billion for recurrent expenditures. This represents 35.6 and 43.8 per cent releases respectively. The situation is worse in the county governments with the report showing they had received only Sh123.96 billion or 39.2 per cent of the Sh369 billion they were allocated in the current financial year. It shows that total exchequer issues to the MDAs, Consolidated Funds Service and County Governments amounted to Sh1.8 trillion representing 42.7 per cent of the net estimates, a decline compared to 44.2 per cent recorded in a similar period in 2019-2020. The report comes at a time when state agencies and counties have trained their guns on the Treasury for delayed release of their cash. Last week, MPs protested the delayed release of CDF cash and threatened to shoot down a supplementary budget if the money was not released. Higher Education Loans Board also complained about the inordinate release of student loans that subjected students in Moi University and elsewhere to hunger. In the counties, governors have been up in arms with the Treasury for sitting on their cash. “Delay in the disbursement of exchequers affects the implementation of planned programmes by MDAs and affects the timely delivery of services,” Nyakango noted in the report. The report recommended that National Treasury releases funds to the MDAs based on their annual work plans and cash flow projections. CS Yatani has often cited the underperforming revenue collection by Kenya Revenue Authority owing to the Covid-19 pandemic for cash flow challenges. This has been worsened by the huge debt the government is struggling to settle. According to data from the Treasury’s statement of actual revenues and net exchequer issue as of December 31, KRA reported a 13.6 per cent slump in tax collected through the first six months of the 2020-21 financial year to December 2020. The tax revenues stood at Ksh.673.6 billion in contrast to Sh779.3 billion in December 2019. During the same period, tax relief measures including a lowered pay as you earn rate and a lower rate of value-added tax at 14 per cent also contributed to the revenue slide.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris