Human rights activist Chris Owala has asked the Ethics and Anti-corruption commission to investigate the Siaya county assembly for awarding MCAs car loans unprocedurally. According to Owala awarding the MCAs the Sh2 million car loans without  statutory deductions was irregular. He said the assembly never bothered to wait for the Controller of Budget circular about the funds. Owala said the unprocedural way of doing things in the assembly has become the order of the day under the stewardship of Siaya Speaker George Okode. When contacted for a comment acting Siaya county clerk Eric Ogenga did not deny or accept the allegations but said he is not answerable to human rights activists. Ogenga who was unreceptive about the issue only demanded to know how Owala knew about it. Owala said procedurally the assembly ought to have waited for the Controller of Budget circular before awarding the MCAs the loan especially now that they already have a running car loan. The activist said for the assembly to rush for the loan to an extent of not deducting the taxes shows a high level of impunity. “I have evidence on how MCAs were given Sh2 million instead of Sh1.4 million that was to be given after 30 per cent tax deduction,” Owala said. He said he will continue highlighting the illegalities in the county assembly and the county government promising not to fear any form of intimidation. “I am shocked that immediately you called the acting clerk to confirm the allegations he called to intimidate me asking why I gave out the story to the media,” Owala said. The activist at the same time wondered why the assembly has not advertised for a substantial assembly clerk. “It is not in order for one to be in an acting capacity for one and half year unless something is wrong with our assembly that needs to be fixed,” Owala said. He said he is soon going to unravel the scandal at the executive where the acting assembly clerk was varsity mentioned as the beneficiary after summing up his facts in order.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris