Auditor General Nancy Gathungu wants the Migori health chief officer and supply chain head investigated for breach of laws in buying Covid-19 items. Migori county officials allegedly altered documents and received supplies before signing contracts contrary to guidelines. Under probe include a Sh2.47 million contract awarded to Bochema Enterprises for supply and delivery of laboratory commodities. “The special audit observed that the notification to supplier is dated July 2, 2020 earlier than the professional opinion and award of contract done on July 3, 2020.” The county also awarded a Sh1.94 million tender to Lepton Systems for supply and delivery of coveralls. The special audit noted that two Ifmis evaluation reports attached in the file availed were dated June 23, 2020 and July 14, 2020. “The letter date being after signing of the contract. It was not clear how an evaluation report was dated after contract signing,” it reads. Further, the report shows that the officials awarded another tender worth Sh2.29 million to Beaty Pride for delivery of non-pharmaceuticals. Dates of duplicate copied presented to auditors shows that that goods were received before initiation of procurement process. There was no evidence of approval for retrospective procurement. “Though the counter receipt voucher attached to the payment voucher was altered and not countersigned, the payment was processed contrary to section 16 (3) of the PFM County Government Regulations 2015,” "It is recommended that the officers responsible for the alteration, procurement processes and payments be held accountable,” the report adds. The special audit revealed several other procurement irregularities where public money may have been lost by Governor Okoth Obado's administration. For instance, the health chief officer, who is the sector's accounting officer, appointed one team for tender opening and evaluation contrary to requirements of section 78(1) (b) of the PPAD Act 2020. It was also noted that some evaluation committee appointments had only three members including the secretary contrary to section 46 (4) (b) and (c) of the PPAD Act 2015. In addition, the audit reveals that the officers irregularly diverted Sh9.54 million meant for accommodation and travel expenses to payment of per diem for 114 health workers. This was contrary to section 53 (1) of the Public Finance Management Act (County Government) Regulation, 2015 that provides that an accounting officer of an entity may not authorise payment to be made outside for specific activities for purposes other than those activities. “The above amount was paid before approvals being obtained. The payments of quarter per diem was approved,” reads the report in part. In addition, the audit could not confirm if all the workers that allegedly received the cash were working in isolation and quarantine centres. The payment voucher was only supported with a list of staff with their details and instructions to the bank. “A review of the bank statements only reflects debits of the lump sum amount. The special audit team could therefore not confirm the actual recipients of the funds,” it states.  