Harambee Stars head coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee has vowed to skin the Egyptians alive when the two teams lock horns in a tricky Group 'G' Afcon qualifier at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Thursday. Speaking on Tuesday during a media briefing, a visibly rejuvenated Mulee, apparently buoyed by two consecutive wins against South Sudan and Tanzania in their international friendlies a week ago, has warned the Pharaohs to prepare for a bruising battle given the lives of his charges depend on their remaining two matches. "We all know what is at stake. If Kenya beat Egypt we shall be back in contention. "It's a difficult time for us. We can't afford to let the country down. We can't afford to disappoint our sponsors who have stuck with us through thick and thin. We don't have a way out. After being given a conducive atmosphere for preparations, the world expects good results from us. "It's just like expecting the best from your child in the exams because you've provided the best as a parent," said Mulee. And his right-hand man Michael Olunga too is sounding the war drums ahead of the battle. The mercurial clinical finisher, who scooped last season's Most Valuable Player and the 'Golden Boot' accolades while plying trade for Kashiwa Reysol in the J-1 League, has been tasked with donning the armband after former skipper Victor Wanyama got the sack. Olunga has urged his teammates to fire up for the match and live their dreams to the fullest. "We are all aware of the important job ahead of us. I believe everyone here is ready. All the players are to do their best and fight for this nation. "Let me take this opportunity to thank Football Kenya Federation and our sponsors for all the support they have given us this far," said Olunga. Kaiser Chiefs midfielder Teddy Akumu is not resting on his laurels either. Akumu said he sees no reason why the team should fail to hit the bull's eye on Thursday. "We haven't had concrete sponsors for a while. Odibets have now come on board and provided us with the right platform to succeed. "At least, even the local-based players are now assured of taking something back home to their families after battling for the nation. "This is certainly a big plus for us and a huge motivation as well," he said. A win over Egypt will revive Kenya's slim chances of making it to the finals in Cameroon. They meet Togo on March 30 for the final qualifying rounds of the 2020 Africa Cup of Nations. Kenya are third in Group 'G' with three points, five adrift of leaders Comoros who tie at the summit with Egypt with a similar goal difference. Togo are last having collected a solitary point from their three matches.