Police officers deployed during the administration of  KCSE and KCPE examinations have been banned from handling exam papers. Speaking on Wednesday Nyanza regional commissioner Magu Mutindika said only centre managers will be allowed to pick the papers from the collection centres at the subcounty headquarters. He spoke during a sensitisation meeting for the subcounty education directors, deputy county commissioners and subcounty police commanders at Lions High School in Kisumu. “No officer will be allowed to carry the papers because that is not their work. Only centre managers who are the principals and headteachers are allowed to handle the papers,” Mutindika said. The regional commissioner warned the centre managers that they will be held responsible for the exam papers and will not be expected to delegate such responsibility to any other person throughout the exercise. The police officers will only be there to provide security during the exercise. He asked supervisors and invigilators who have been picked for the exercise which kicks off on March 19 for KCPE and March 26 for KCSE to protect the integrity of the exams. “We do not want any exams irregularities within this region. We have put in place, necessary measures to ensure malpractices are detected early and firmly dealt with,” he said. Mutindika who was accompanied by the regional director of education Willie Machocho said the government was committed to ensuring that the candidates get the results they deserve. “Last year, a few cases of exam cheating were reported. We do not want the same to happen this time, ” he said. Mutindika asked deputy county commissioners, county and subcounty directors of education, together with subcounty police commanders to be extra vigilant during the exercise. “We do not want laxity that might compromise the integrity of this important exercise, ”he said. He observed that exams leakage happen mainly at the containers when they are being opened or closed. The regional boss said the container keys which are kept by the deputy county commissioners and subcounty education directors must be secured. “Any officers who misplace the container keys will be arrested and charged because this will amount to a serious offence,” he said. Mutindika said officials deployed for the exercise have made a commitment to serve the country and the government and must do so diligently. “The teachers and parents have done their part, it is now the time for education managers and security officers to do their part to ensure the examination process runs smoothly,” he said. He directed subcounty police commanders to visit the containers and monitor if officers deployed to man the containers are doing what is expected of them. “You will also be required to move around the subcounties to monitor the exercise in your respective areas,” Mutindika said. He further directed that subcounty police commander, deputy county commissioners and subcounty directors of education must be present at the containers each morning when the papers are being collected. To deal with impersonation, he said all candidates will have to remove their face masks for proper identification before being allowed into the exam room. “Supervisors and invigilators will be expected to certify and confirm that the candidates sitting the exam are the ones who were registered for the same in any given centre,” he said No deputy county commissioner or subcounty police commander will be allowed to take part in the exercise without being in official uniform. Each centre will have two armed police officers deployed to secure the exam materials. NYS personnel and prison warders will also be deployed. “We have prepared the operation orders. Principals and headteachers will be given contacts of officers deployed in their schools,” he said The centre managers will be required to report any unbecoming behaviour of the officers or challenge that may be identified. Police officers must be at the collection centres before 6 am. Principals will not be allowed to pick exam papers minus the security agents. Centre managers reporting to the collection centres without the officers will also not be given the papers until alternative arrangements are made. Security officers will also escort the papers back to the collection centres in the evening. Nyanza has a total of 177,486 KCPE candidates and 132, 091 KCSE candidates sitting for the national examination. According to Nyanza regional director of education Willie Machocho, there will be 4,728 KCPE centres and 1,702 centres for KCSE and 78 collection centres. The regional education boss said that all expectant candidates will be allowed to write the exams. He however declined to provide the exact number of expectant candidates. “We have made necessary arrangements to have them sit the exams without any disruption. Being pregnant is not an offence,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris