It appears the Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on people’s pockets including the who is who of our political society. A stalwart of a not-so-huge but influential party recently bemused fans after failing to deliver on a simple promise he made. The man, after big talk of a heavy lunch following a meeting at his office, found that he had only Sh1,000 in his wallet. He called his aides to check if there was more in the car but they didn’t find any, having exhausted what they carried for the day at an earlier activity. The man, who boasts as the only honest politician around, told the fans to understand the times. There's always a next time. *** A senior government official who was seconded to work in a diplomatic mission abroad has reportedly been rejected by the host country. The official is said to have worked as a secretary to an influential politician who had served as a minister and used his connections to get the big job. However, the host country is said to have looked at the credentials and said no. If you thought that qualifications for envoys should only matter to the appointing country, think again.  ** Just what is cooking between a party leader and a former governor? The ex-governor has been accompanying the influential party leader to important activities and meetings across the country. Keen observers say that it is not in vain that the two are moving around together, with the possibility that the cordial ties are hinged on a symbiotic relationship that may spill into the 2022 general elections, or beyond the election year. Corridors will keep you posted on the machinations that may send shockwaves to fellows who appeared comfortable that the two couldn’t work together, hence were poised for smooth sailing in a race against the ex-governor. *** Operations at a critical government agency could soon run to a halt following an excruciating cash crisis. The entity, with an oversight mandate, has run out of supplies and money for simple tasks such as printing reports, some of which must be done within very strict deadlines. Highly-placed sources at the government agency whispered to Corridors that it would only be a matter of time before they ask staffers to either work from home or find ways of meeting some of their small-time needs at the office, just to save a little cent.  