In line with of its ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative named “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities”, leading gaming company Mozzart continued with its philanthropy by donating medical equipment worth sh 1.5 million to the Burnt Forest Sub County Hospital on Wednesday 10th March. The donations included hospital beds, bed side lockers, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, surgical masks, infant phototherapy machine and an infant incubator. Dr. Sonde Teddy, the Medical Superintendent at the Burnt Forest Sub county hospital thanked Mozzart for the donation. “We thank Mozzart for the donation. We were in dire need and you have given us just what we wanted. The donated items will be put in use immediately and they are really going to assist the people of Burnt Forest and Uasin Gishu County.” He said. Mozzart CSR representative Cyprian Aluda reiterated the organization commitment to supporting hospitals around the country. “On behalf of Mozzart, our Country Manager Sasa Krneta and the Marketing Manager Frank Ochieng who really wanted to be here today but couldn't make it, we want to thank you for accepting our donations. This is not the first hospital we are supporting - we have been supporting health care facilities and we will continue to do so,” he said. Other donations Between November 2020 and now, 20 different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center, Dandora 2 Health Center, Kakamega Referral Hospital, Waithaka Health Center, Vihiga County Referral Hospital, Yala Sub County Hospital, Molo Sub County Hospital, Kombewa Sub County Hospital and now the Burnt Forest Sub County Hospital.  More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.