Former Majority Whip Benjamin Washiali has accused NCIC of being partisan in the handling of the poll chaos witnessed in last week's by-elections. The Mumias East MP said the commission is selective in its summonses and left out the "real masterminds" of the chaos that rocked the polls in Kabuchai and Matungu constituencies. "They have decided to act on the wrong people. Senator Malala (Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala) took away the Presiding Officer and ballot box. He even harassed the officer in the full glare of the camera," he said. "I don't know if this is what I was told is the deep state; then it must be very shallow." Msambweni MP Feisal Bader who also appeared before the cohesion commission termed the summons a political witch-hunt. Feisal claimed that he was summoned because of his political inclination. "The Commission is established in the Constitution and should not be used to harass and intimidate. I will continue supporting a political side which I believe means well for Kenyans," Feisal said. Washiali did not write statement and will again appear before NCIC on Tuesday to record statement. Meanwhile, Homa Bay women representative Gladys Wanga  declined to meet NCIC  over electoral offences, saying she was celebrating International Women's Day. "At face value, these invitations appear choreographed to cover up for those who committed electoral offenses including physical assault of IEBC officials including women - for which I bitterly protested," she said. In a statement on Monday, Wanga said she's willing to appear any time but not on Monday. "To assist me prepare and understand myself, I request for the charges against me or issues you need my indulgence on," she said. Kasipul MP Ong'ondo Were on Monday appeared before the National Cohesion and Integration Commission but declined to record a statement. The lawmaker said his summons were too general and had nothing specific on his alleged conduct during the just concluded Matungu by-elections. He said apart from the general invite he received from the commission, he was not served with any allegations as required by law. "I just received a general letter with no content. The letter was only quoting the powers of the commission," Were said. "They (NCIC investigators) said they have summoned me based on the reports from the media and social media sites, so I did not make any presentation and insisted that they summon me a fresh with the details of the accusations." The lawmaker also denied involvement in the Matungu chaos as was being alleged. The MP who was filmed being arrested last Friday claimed he was being evacuated from danger. "I was not arrested, the police were evacuating me because I was in danger. Why is it that I was not in court?" he posed.