First Avenue lane in Nairobi’s Eastleigh estate will in two weeks be renamed after the late Garissa  Senator Yusuf Haji who passed away last month at the age of 80. This comes after the County Assembly of Nairobi on Tuesday passed a motion to have the road renamed to honour and recognize Haji’s efforts in public service during his 55 years of service to the nation. “Aware that the naming of roads and other public places after heroes and heroines bestows honour and shows our collective gratitude as a Nation, this assembly resolves that the NMS names or renames a road in recognition of the late Senator Yusuf Haji for his immeasurable contribution to the prosperity and well being of Kenyans during his 55-year record of public service,” read the motion. Majority Leader Abdi Hassan alias Guyo who moved the motion described the late Senator  as a symbol of peace, an efficient, knowledgeable, humble but firm leader who dedicated his life to public service and his name should be engraved in the annals of Kenyan history “Haji’s exceptional negotiations and strategic mediation skills cannot go unrecognized as the whole country saw his efforts to promote peace and stability in Somalia and beyond was seen under the operation Linda Nchi in 2011,” he noted. The Nairobi legislator also said the senator’s remarkable attribute saw him be chosen by President Uhuru Kenyatta to stweard the BBI, a task that Guyo said Haji took on with earnest zeal and delivered a noteworthy constitutional Bill. Supporting the motion, Finance and Budget committee chairperson Robert Mbatia said honouring leaders such as Haji will make the future generation pick their positive attributes. He noted that Haji was also a strict timekeeper, a trait that any firm leader should have. “Having worked with the late Senator in the year 2011, I was able to experience first hand the knowledge and wisdom of Haji. Having been chosen to steward the BBI initiative shows that he was trusted,” Mbatia said Minority Chief Whip Peter Imwatok  highlighted that the county ought to strive to make sure that Haji is recognized in Nairobi where he lived for half of his life while undertaking public service “Many times we do not blend in with the current roads renamed in the city, not knowing whether they were named after a ghost, event or imagination. But renaming one after a Hjai will be an additional plus for his well know traits,' he said. Nominated MCA Mary Arivitsa recommended that a hall of fame or museum should be set up where great leaders can be honoured. A number of Nairobi roads and streets have been named after prominent Kenyans. Last week, the assembly also passed a motion that saw Kapiti Crescent road in South B be renamed in honour of the late football legend Joe Kadenge. Muindi Mbingu Street was formerly known as Stewart Street but was renamed in honour of Ukambani freedom fighter Samuel Muindi Mbingu. Mbingu led a protest from Machakos to Nairobi with residents unhappy with a colonial policy requiring that Africans de-stock cattle, taking away their wealth. Wabera Street was named after the first African Isiolo District Commissioner, Daudi Dabasso Wabera. He was gunned down protecting Kenyan territory against Somalis who wanted to take over Northern Kenya from Isiolo upwards. Mama Ngina Street was known as Queens Way during the colonial era but named after Kenya's first First Lady, the mother of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Sadler Street was renamed Koinange Street, Lord Delamare Avenue renamed Kenyatta Avenue, Government Avenue to Moi Avenue and Forest Road changed to Prof Wangari Maathai Road. Kimathi street was known as Harding Street but renamed after Field Marshall Dedan Kimathi, as a way of honouring his role in the Mau Mau war. Ronald Ngala Street was previously known as Duke Street after the British noblemen of the highest hereditary rank. After Kenya attained Independence, the road was renamed after Ronald Ngala, a member of the Kenya African Democratic Union (Kadu) during first President  Jomo Kenyatta’s government. Mfangano Street, originally known as Jivanjee Avenue, was named after Alibhai Mula Jivanjee, an Asian- born citizen.