For 30 years, Meshak Kobul laboured to look for a solution to the frequent and at times deadly lightning strikes that have been troubling Gem residents in Siaya. The 70-year-old says he was bothered by the constant thunderstorms and lightning strikes that are a common occurrence along the shores of Lake Victoria and most parts of the Western region. They often leave behind a trail of destruction. Kobul says this triggered a desire to invent a gadget that would not only be affordable for his Ligoma village residents, but for other Kenyans beyond Siaya county. Over the years, the American-trained electrical engineer has been conducting intense research, using simple and locally available materials to achieve his objective. His efforts recently paid off after he invented a magnetic thunderstorm and lightning arrester. His invention, known as Komli magnetism thunderstorms and interceptors, is made out of aluminium waste. The gadget has the capability to protect buildings from frequent life-threatening strikes. The arrester comprises a spark plug and has an ignition cylinder which is connected to a sparks spine. When erected on the rooftop of a building, the gadget attracts and absorbs lightning surges thus protecting residents. "Once the current is absorbed, the spark plug ignites the cylinder and the power surge is discharged through the system to the ground without causing any damage," Kobul explains. Schools, churches, homes and shopping malls in the area are already installing the arrestor. Kobul says that for many years, he wanted to help his people, most of whom could not afford the arresters in the market. "I was worried that despite the frequent and life-threatening lightning experienced in this area, most homes still had no arresters or rods to protect their buildings because of cost implications," he says. He says the conventional copper arresters in the market are expensive and unreliable. Besides, the former technician at the now Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital, says copper metal is highly prized on the black market, making it attractive to vandals. His invention sells at Sh15,000, inclusive of installation fees, while the copper one goes for Sh45,000. The gadget has since been approved by the Meteorological Department as a viable tool to deal with thunderstorms and lightning strikes. Mzee Kobul says it took a team of technicians from the department two years to test the viability and workability of the technology before he could be allowed to use it. Kenya Industrial Property Institute has also granted him property rights for the invention. At his home village, the Holy Trinity Church in Maliera parish is amongst the beneficiaries of his invention. The church and other buildings within the church compound have been fitted with Kobul's magnetic arrester. Richard Ogola, a resident of the village and an elder in the church, says the installation has also helped protect schools and neighbouring homes. "We used to have a lot of problems with thunderstorms and lightning strikes in this area. This technology has given us a reason to smile, and we are very proud of his work," he says. During the last Mashujaa Day celebrations, Kobul was among heroes feted by President Uhuru Kenyatta for their contribution to the country. He received an invitation to the State House in Nairobi alongside the other heroes for a luncheon hosted by the President. The father of seven children attended Sawagongo primary and secondary schools in Siaya county. He later joined the National Technical School in Los Angeles, California, where he was awarded a diploma in electrical engineering, appropriate technology and air conditioning refrigeration. Last year, he was awarded a certificate of recognition by the Sports CS Amina Mohamed. He also received a state award in science and was nominated as a hero for pioneering innovation initiatives used for mentoring future scientists and innovators in Kenya and the world over. He is currently working on another invention called dehumidifier ventilator. The gadget will be a cooler used to lower the moisture content of the air passing through it. The ventilator can be used in hospitals and homes as well. "This unit, designed by me, has two different models. The first is a magnetism dehumidifier ventilator while the second is a solar dehumidifier ventilator," he says. The ventilator he has invented can help to condition the atmosphere in a room for comfort. "This technology controls temperature, humidity, cleanliness and distribution to meet the requirements of conditioned space and can be used in hospital wards," he said. 