Kabras Sugar Racing will be seeking a repeat clean sweep during Sunday's Machakos Rally after their unprecedented 1-2-3 finish in Nakuru last month. The three-car Kabras outfit, led by series champion and leader  Baldev Chager and Rai siblings Tejveer and Onkar, racked up their podium sweep as a team for the first time in 10 years. The trio occupies the top three spots on the Kenya National Rally Championship log with Chager on the summit with 33 points followed by Tejveer (25) and Onkar (23). “It’s the first time in 10 years that we have taken a clean-sweep as a team. We are really proud of it. I mean, it’s quite a good feeling. We are looking forward to improving on our performance in the next event in Machakos County,” Chager said. Driving a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10-R4 and navigated by Ravi Soni, Chager also racked up three bonus Championship points in Nakuru after winning the power stage, which was a repeat run of Soysambu (CS7). He clocked 1:29.36 to beat stablemate Tejveer by a 1.38 minutes margin. In winning the Rift Valley Motor Sport Club (RVMSC)-organised round, Chager completed back-to-back Nakuru Rally titles after his victory in Nyahururu last year. However, it will not be a walk in the park for the trio as Eric Bengi, who will be the first one off the ramp has vowed to give them a run for their money. "Nakuru was a good season-opener and we are looking forward to this weekend's action in Machakos where we will not be doing just the 'road sweeping' duties but will try and take our chances," said Bengi. "I particularly love the open Savannah grassland at the expansive Lisa Farm. It is an ideal location to hold a rally. Of course, there are many lessons we have learned from Nakuru and I can promise you that Machakos will not be your ordinary Sunday drive." Meanwhile, Kenya Motor Sport Federation (KMSF) has announced that events on their circuit will from now on be held without spectators, starting with the Machakos edition. A statement from KMSF Director Jim Kahumbura said only team mechanics, sponsors, officials and the media will be allowed into the venue ‘on condition that they observe Covid-19 protocols like wearing of masks at all times, hand hygiene as well as being socially distanced’. “In line with the government’s directive on social gathering and in adherence to its Covid-19 protocols as well as those of FIA, events will remain closed to spectators. We continue to play the role of Citizen Social Responsibility by ensuring that these rules are adhered to at all times during our events,” Kahumbura said. The move is aimed at containing the spread of the coronavirus pandemic which has over the past few weeks surged to worrying levels in the country and  across the globe. Kahumbura who is also the Chairman of Machakos Rally organisers — Kenya Motor Sports Club — said fans can follow rally proceedings in real time through online tracking of rally cars on the sections.  KNRC STANDINGS AFTER ROUND 1-NAKURU RALLY DRIVERS: 1. Baldev Chager (Kabras Sugar Racing) 33 2. Tejveer Rai (Kabras Sugar Racing) 25 3. Onkar Rai (Kabras Sugar Racing) 23 4. Ian Duncan  (Ian Duncan Rallying)19 5. Eric Bengi (Menengai Lemon) 17 6. Paras Pandya (Synergy Gases) 15 7. Nikhil Sachania  (Filmico Racing) 13 8. Jasmeet Chana (CRS/Jaguar Petroleum)  11 9. Ghalib Hajee 9 10. Evans Kavisi  7 11. Daren Miranda  5 12. Edward Maina  4 13. Rajiv Ruparelia NAVIGATORS 1. Ravi Soni  33 2. Gareth Dawe  25 3. Drew Sturrock  23 4. Anthony Nielsen  19 5. Peter Mutuma  17 6. Falgun Bhojak  15 7. Deep Patel 13 8. Ravi Chana  11 9. Sinder Suddle  9 10. Absolom Aswani 7 11. Wayne Fernandes  5 12. John Ngugi  4 13. Enoch Olinga 3