As you take a walk down the streets of Kutus town during the day all seems normal and one cannot help but notice how fast the town is growing. The streets are bustling with life as people go about their businesses. From ox carts and donkeys carrying bunches of bananas to the ever-busy Kutus market, boda boda riders criss-crossing the streets to hawkers selling their wares, everyone is busy doing one thing or the other. However, the narrative changes as the day ripens and the sun sets. As darkness creeps in, the busy town located along the Kerugoya–Kutus road now changes into a ghost town ruled by gangs of young people who emerge from their hideouts. Residents say the gangs attack without mercy as most of them abuse hard drugs. So dire is the state of insecurity that businesses, especially in Mjini area, close as early as 7pm for fear of being attacked. The most recent victim of the cruel act was an assistant chief, residents say. Antony Maina, a cobbler in the growing town, says he is forced to close his business by 8pm to save himself from the agony of bumping into the gangs. “They have caused untold suffering here. Those who have experienced their wrath say they are usually armed with knives which they use to stab their victims," he says. "If you do not have cash with you, they beat you up severely and leave you for dead.” Like Maina, David Muriuki, a boda boda rider, says ever since schools were reopened, crime has risen to uncontrollable levels. “Students and especially those from Kirinyaga University are their main targets. Most of them are robbed of money, phones, laptops and other expensive gadgets.” He says this happens in the glaring presence of police who are stationed within town. “The officers here need to be transferred because they have not been cooperating with us. Whenever arrests are made, culprits get away with it since they are released after a few hours,” Muriuki says. His colleague Julius Waweru regrets that their business risks facing hardship in the coming days if action is not taken fast enough. He says they hardly make enough money each day as they are forced to cut short their operations and head home early. Waweru Gacu, a welder, recounts how his workshop was broken into during the night. He says the thieves stole some items he had made for his customers. “They stole some window and door flames. I had to compensate my clients. They are driving us into making more losses by the day.” His neighbour, who sells meat in the town, tells the Star that a few days ago he was attacked on his way home from work. He lost a phone and his day’s earnings. He says he had to cooperate and surrender what he had as he feared for his life. “They rule this small town during the night. You would think you are mingling with other town passers-by until you find yourself caught in the web. Women and young girls are the most vulnerable as they also risk being sexually abused.” Residents say they are tired of the lawlessness and want the government to beef up security in the town. MCA Sammy Maina terms as unfortunate the deteriorating state of security in the area. He says the culprits have become so bold that they even attack local administrators. “I’m aware of the subchief’s attack and I have made several attempts to present the insecurity concerns to the area security officers.” When the Star contacted area police boss Daniel Kitavi and county police commander Leah Kithei, they promised to follow up on the matter. Kitavi also urged the boda boda operators to be on the lookout and know their colleagues as some of them could possibly have been initiated into criminal related activities.