An MP from Western region has made a report to cybercrime officers alleging a former MCA hacked his phone and retrieved personal information. The lawmaker (Parliament pictured) is angry  the information he had sought from a government department leaked and found its way into the wrong hands. The man believes the ex-county assembly member had a role in leaking the sensitive information. Corridors is told the data could expose a lot of dealings in the affected government department. The man, much as he wants detectives to take action against the former ward representative for intrusion into his personal life, fears the move could end up being counterproductive. *** The Covid-19 restrictions are a godsend for some bribe-thirsty police officers who have made them a cash cow. Well, the officers could be meaning well in their efforts to enforce the rules but the excesses of their operation have become brazen. The men in blue, especially those who patrol Nairobi City Centre at night, have formed a habit of arresting persons who don’t wear masks properly. The story ends in dark back alleys where culprits simply need Sh200 to 'earn' their freedom. Observers say it was time IG Hillary Mutyambai revealed data of people who have been taken to court lately for not wearing masks properly. *** A senior politician eyeing a big office could have bitten off more than he can chew. Even his allies think so. The angry politician has been moving around saying he does not need another politician's backing for the big job. However, MPs allied to him were heard conversing in low tones in a city hotel that the politico should not burn bridges behind him so recklessly. They said their man cannot make any impact without the help of the politician he has been dismissing. They vowed to reach out and "properly" advise their friend  to swallow his pride and realise that politics is but a game of numbers. *** A politician from Western Kenya who is eyeing a gubernatorial seat in 2022 has goofed once again. The politician hosted a meeting in one of the Nairobi hotels but it turned into a disaster. The 60 professionals present from a constituency trashed his candidature, citing distrust in his bid. The man failed to justify the reason behind his interest in the seat. Given a chance to explain his vision and policies, the audience was shocked that the man could not enumerate real issues. His purported running mate, who invited the professionals, also was at a loss to explain why they wanted to run for elective office. Corridors also asks why they desperately want to be servant leaders.