Efforts to save the northern white rhino from going extinct have gained momentum with the selection of a bull that will detect when the females are on heat. The Ol Pejeta Conservancy over the weekend announced that a southern white rhino bull has been relocated to an enclosure at the facility. "The bull, named Owuan, is to play a key role in the northern white rhino bio-rescue effort as he has been selected to detect when the female white rhino surrogates come on heat," the conservancy said. It said the move is an accurate and practical method that will allow them to know the best possible moment to implant the northern white rhino embryos to give them the greatest chance of success. It said Owuan has been released into the surrogate rhino enclosure and acclimatized to his new surroundings. "He is very healthy and has proven to be quite a character although surprisingly cooperative at all stages of the mission. Further updates coming soon!" With the help of KWS, the southern white rhino bull was relocated to a boma enclosure at Ol Pejeta Conservancy in November 2020. Owuan is crucial to trigger oestrus and create an ideal hormonal environment in the potential surrogates. An international consortium of scientists and conservationists is working towards preventing the extinction of the northern white rhino through advanced assisted reproduction technologies. In December last year, two new northern white rhino embryos were produced by the team. The team includes scientists from Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Safari Park Dvůr Králové, Kenya Wildlife Service, and Ol Pejeta Conservancy. They were cryopreserved on Christmas eve when they reached the blastocyst stage suitable for freezing and increase the total number of viable embryos produced so far to five. The animals were placed under general anesthesia and 10 immature egg cells – two from Najin and eight from Fatu – were harvested from the animals’ ovaries. Scientists used a probe with a movable needle guided by ultrasound. A total of 10 eggs were harvested from Najin and Fatu, the last two northern white rhinos on the planet. Neither of them is able to carry a pregnancy. After immediate transportation of the recovered oocytes, the embryos were created at Avantea laboratory in Cremona (Italy) following maturation and fertilisation of the oocytes with the semen of Suni. The offspring born in Kenya will be housed on Ol Pejeta Conservancy in a 700-acre secure enclosure. Ol Pejeta Conservancy says there are five southern white rhinos in the protected enclosure, which has been kept empty for the purpose of the project. The northern white rhinos, surrogates and their offspring will be under 24-hour armed surveillance.