Nandi county has completed a headcount and staff audit as sources indicate it has more than 1,000 ghost workers on its payroll. They consume more than half the Sh8 billion annual budget, the sources said. The headcount ended on Thursday. The results have not been officially announced. “All staff are required to avail all relevant documents," said the notice  by Governor Stephen San said. They included appointment letters, copies of deployment letters, national ID or passport and latest payslip, among others. The county is smaller in all operations compared to neighbouring Uasin Gishu but it has more employees. Nandi employs more than 4,234 workers excluding those on contracts and casuals, while Uasin Gishu has 3,164. MCAs have raised concern over irregular hiring leading to a bloated workforce that consumes development funds. Last year the county sacked more than 400 contract workers due to the unsustainable wage bill. A 2019-20 staff review by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu revealed out of a staff of 4,234, more than 94 per cent, or  3, 994, were from the dominant community. That left only six per cent off  jobs for other communities. “This is contrary to the Constitution which provides that public service entities should represent the diversity of the people of Kenya," the Auditor General said. Examination of the county payroll also indicated the net monthly pay for many Executive employees was less than one third of their salaries. The sampled staff earned about Sh3,994 monthly instead of a minimum of two-thirds of their net pay, amounting to Sh13,423, resulting in excessive deductions of Sh9,478. “No plausible explanation was provided by the management for allowing excessive deductions that put the staff at risk of pecuniary embarrassment," Gathungu said. She cited Uasin Gishu and Nandi counties for irregular staff establishment by hiring employees from predominantly one community and excessive expenditure on salaries. Gathungu said the two counties violated laws on national cohesion and provisions in the Constitution through irregular hiring. She said a review of personnel records in Uasin Gishu county headed by Governor Jackson Mandago indicates that the county had 3,164 employees, of whom 2,464 or 79 per cent are from the dominant community. The county Public Service Board recruited 354 new staff, of whom 331 or 94 per cent were also from the dominant community. The auditor said management violated the County Government Act 2012 requiring that counties shall try to ensure at least 30 per cent of vacant posts at entry level are filled by candidates not from the dominant ethnic community “Consequently staffing at the county executive does not comply with the law on national cohesion," she said Uasin Gishu County was also cited for an excessive wage bill. Records indicate the county spent Sh3.02 billion, or 38 per cent of Sh8 billion  revenue during the year under review. The 38 per cent is above the 35 per cent ratio stipulated in the Finance Management regulations. Examination of the county payroll also disclosed instances of net salaries received by employees less than a third of their basic salaries after taxes. This was after the management allowed excessive non-statutory deductions to be made on their gross salaries. “This was contrary to Section 3 of the Employment Act, which prohibits payment of wages that are less than one third of those earned," the Auditor General said.  (Edited by V. Graham) 