Social media sites are now working on ways to have more people joining them by making the sites more user-friendly and adding new features. Twitter has added new features and the most notable one being a new tool known as follows subscriptions. It will allow creators and publishers monetise through Twitter for exclusive tweets and content. The followers who will pay for the Super Follows subscription will gain access to exclusive content, deals and discounts. Twitter is also looking to introduce a new community feature that will allow users to create, discover and join micro-communities based on their interests. Super Follows and all other features are intended to help Twitter reach its revenue and users' goals. It is exploring the options to allow creators and publishers to offer Super Follows subscriptions to its fans enabling them to be directly supported by their audience. The Super Follows subscription will unlock a series of perks for followers like supporter badge, subscriber-only newsletter, exclusive content and community access. The creators can use this service to exclusively tweet content for subscribed users only and monetize through the platform. This subscription will allow also Twitter to tap into a broader range of revenue sources in a world where online advertising is dominated by Facebook – Google duopoly. They have a new feature out called Safety mode. This feature when it is turned on, will automatically detect accounts that are acting spammy or abusive with the user and limit their interaction for seven days. Twitter is also working on a new feature called Birdwatch to help deal with the problem of misinformation on social media. This feature looks to allow users to add context to tweets that seem to offer misleading information in the form of notes at the bottom of the tweet. This Birdwatch feature is a more scalable, Wikipedia-like model where an open community of contributors can collectively determine when the context should be added to a tweet and what that context should say. It is also going to roll out soon the Communities feature that will let users create groups around specific interests such as cats, plants and social justice. It is similar to what Facebook has for its Facebook Groups, which is a thriving tool for micro-communities to engage with one another. Twitter has also recently acquired Revue that allows users to publish and monetize email newsletters. Their monthly user base grew 40 million in quarter 4 2020 up from 26 million in their fourth quarter in 2019. Twitter is looking to double its development velocity by the end of 2023, which means doubling the number of features shipped per employee that directly drives either monetisable daily active users or revenue.