@robertomollo3 The Homa Bay government has bought more than 20 motorbikes for its agricultural extension officers to boost farming and field services. The motorcycles will be used for swift responses to calls by farmers. Governor Cyprian Awiti and Agriculture executive Aguko Juma handed them out at the county headquarters on Tuesday evening. The county bought the motorbikes at Sh3.4 million through a partnership with the National Agriculture and Rural Inclusive Growth Project. Governor Awiti said they plan to buy more motorbikes and six tractors to boost farming at Kimira Oluch Irrigation Scheme in Karachuonyo and Rangwe constituencies. Narigp is supporting farming in six of the eight constituencies in Homa Bay. Awiti said the motorcycles will help in facilitating the movement of extension officers who will be advising farmers on best practice. “We must show commitment that Kimira-Oluch Irrigation Scheme is not here by mistake. Through the bikes, our extension officers will easily reach and advise farmers appropriately,” Awiti said. The national government has spent more than Sh5 billion on the scheme as it seeks to food security – one of the pillars of the Big 4 Agenda. Some 2,000 smallholder farmers are using the Kimira Oluch water for cropping, but Awiti wants more residents to join them. “The Kimira Oluch Project aims to address weather change, which constitutes drought and unpredictable rains that reduce yields and kill livestock,” Awiti said. According to the Ministry of East African Community, construction of Kimira Oluch Irrigation Scheme project is 90 per cent complete. The project has the potential to be Nyanza’s food basket using water from Kosfip that runs through canals to homes and farms. Harvests can be sold in Kisii, Migori, Kisumu, Siaya and Nyamira. On Tuesday, Awiti urged more residents to take advantage of the free water from the canals to boost incomes. He warned residents against washing clothes in the canals. “The project is an investment that should be used properly because it has the potential to supply food to a lot of counties. Let our people get serious and maximally utilise the project for agricultural products,” he said. He directed the extension officers who will be using the motorcycles to ensure farmers around the irrigation project put the canals to good use. “Field extension officers are very useful people. They advise farmers on the best farming techniques. There should be more concentration on Kosfip, so farmers become more serious,” the governor said. Juma said Narigp committed Sh5.1 million to supporting extension officers in carrying out agricultural programmes. “Narigp bought the department two four-wheel drive vehicles to support agriculture in Homa Bay,” he said.