The County Government of Nairobi has affirmed that the Dandora Stadium contractor will only be paid according to the agreed terms of the contract. Executive member for Education Janet Ouko on Tuesday said any deviation by the contractor from the contract has not and will not be paid. “The contractor was given a contract to do a concrete structure but instead he went to do a steel structure. In professional terms nobody can be able to pay for the steel structure until such a time we will be guided by procurement authority and EACC,” she said According to Ouko, after consultation with the contractor, the remaining work will take at least one and a half months. However, If the contractor fails to go back on site, the county government noted it would have no choice but to take action, evict him from the field and give someone else the work to finish the stadium. Last year in October, concerns had been raised over the stalled Sh350 million Dandora Stadium despite the contractor having been paid. The stadium should have been completed in July last year, but work stopped when it was 80 per cent done. The contractor, M/s Scanjet Construction Limited, left the site in September 2019. Since then, about 10 Nairobi County Executive Committee members and other officials have been investigated on recommendations of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority. The PPRA questioned the tendering process and the standard of the work. Scanjet Construction had won the tender to build four stadia at Sh1.03 billion. The job was to be completed in 18 months The PPRA flagged irregularities in the awarding of the tender, alteration of contract specifications, suspected irregular payments and forgery of documents. The authority had on June 13, 2019, received a complaint that Scanjet Construction was using steel structures in clear contravention of the contract specifications for the Dandora stadium. Last month President Uhuru Kenyatta called upon the completion of the Sh350 million Dandora Stadium project as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission continues its investigations on the project. This comes as a section of Dandora residents pleaded with the President to open the stadium whose works has stalled. Uhuru said that the investigations should not hinder people's right to access and enjoy Stadium facilities. "As EACC continues with investigations, the contractor should come back on site and finish the remaining works," Uhuru added. However, the President emphasized that the culprits found guilty by EACC will face charges. "I won't say EACC to stop investigations on the Stadium and those who broke the law should be charged. They know what they were doing and if found guilty, action must be taken," Uhuru said. In addition, CEC Ouko revealed that at least 32 teams are currently writing letters to schools to give them permission to allow them to play in schools fields due to the lack of enough stadiums. She said it’s a  challenge to the county whereas the government they have tried  to negotiate between teams and schools “It's a tough situation as trust issues arise between the young men playing and the schoolgirls so the teachers at times feel that this is a lot of intrusion as some schools have reported pregnancy cases arising in the school as some people take advantage of the environment they've been given and become cheeky,” Ouko explained. However, she noted that the county government was however looking for more sustainable ways to have the teams play especially on the weekend.