Kenya is looking at a possible crisis in the fight against HIV after several counties reported stockouts of testing kits and reagents. The Kenya Medical Research Institute Alupe HIV Laboratory has halted sample collection until further notice. Reports indicate that a similar crisis has been reported in Migori and Nyamira counties. The centre has experienced a stock out of testing kits, reagents and Dried Blood Spots (DBS) bundles. In an email to partners, the centre said all the samples that had already been collected and those that had been scheduled for the next day could be delivered at the lab. “We would like to bring to your attention that the Kemri Alupe HIV laboratory is out of stock for viral load and IED testing kits. It is unknown to us when the testing kits and reagents as well as DBS bundles will be supplied,” the email reads. “Seeing as this will lead to an accumulation of untested samples at the testing lab, which may bring about issues to do with storage and sample integrity, we would advise that facilities should pause sample collection until further notice.” Speaking to the Star on Thursday, National Empowerment Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Kenya (NEPHAK) director Nelson Otuoma expressed concern that the crisis could reverse the gains made in reducing mother-to-child transmission in the country. “There is a commitment to ensure that we end HIV and it starts with testing, now we have reached at a level where we can’t even test. If we say that we want to prevent mother-to-child transmission and we can’t test these women it means they can surely transfer the virus to their children,” Otuoma said. The current stockouts have been attributed to a tax tussle between the Kenyan government and the US Agency for International Development (USAID). As a result, a consignment of medication has been lying at the port since January 18 after being handed a Sh90 million tax bill. Some of the commodities being held include HIV testing, treatment and prevention commodities such as ARVs, laboratory reagents as well as TB diagnostic and prevention medications. “The testing laboratories get testing kits from a central supply chain. We get kits from one place so it is due to clearance,” National HIV Reference Laboratory head Nancy Bowen told the Star. This comes barely a week after persons living with HIV raised concern over rationing and repackaging of antiretrovirals. Many people living with HIV are given less than the expected dosages in small polythene papers when they go for their refills. Similarly, the initial commitment by the government was that PLHIV to be given refills of ARVs enough to last them up to three or four months, but the recent turn of events has seen them get drugs enough to last for just one month, and to some just two weeks. “We need money from Kenya to fight HIV we can’t leave it to external partners so that is going to be very unfortunate and we know that we can follow up with NASCOP in the near future it will be the whole country,” Otuoma said. “There are but counties that have come up to say they can’t even test adolescent girls who go there pregnant and that is really unfortunate.” The civil society wrote a letter to Health CS Mutahi Kagwe copied to the representatives of the US government requesting for a joint meeting bringing together the Kenya Ministry of Health and US government officials to resolve the matter. “Kagwe sent the head of NASCOP to tell us that they are still discussing with America and a solution will be found soon so we are hopeful,” Otuoma said. The Sh1.1 billion consignment is part of a Sh7.6 billion worth of antiretroviral donation by the USAID to the Health ministry.