Development agencies in Garissa should work with the county to deliver services to the people, Governor Ali Korane has said. Several agencies in the county work in water and sanitation, livestock, agriculture and health sectors but there is a lack of coordination. Korane said sharing of ideas on development projects will prevent duplication of roles and reduce the number of stalled projects. He called for the creation of a platform to promote joint solutions to common problems. The county chief urged development partners and donors to align their roles and priorities with those of his government. “Lack of coordination between the partners and the county government poses a risk to the development agenda,” he said. He spoke during a meeting with officials from Kenya Red Cross, Millennium Water Alliance and Islamic Relief among other agencies. Korane cited the Jarajara Irrigation Scheme as a noble project which collapsed due to a lack of coordination and understanding of the community's needs. "If the county government and its partners work together, the County Integrated Development Plan will be fully implemented because we will avoid the duplication of projects and focus resources on the prioritised ones," the governor said. Korane said residents best understand their problems hence the need for consultations, communication and coordination. Finance and Donor Coordination executive Issa Oyow said the forum was meant to analyse the county’s position on donor relations. Oyow said the county was keen on strengthening its links with its development partners and plan for future collaborations. He emphasised on the need for communication and sharing of experiences if development programmes are to be successful. Oyow said coordination would strengthen donor connection and improve livelihoods. He added that the county had created a department of partnerships and donor coordination to guide their relations and work. Resilience Learning Activity deputy chief of party Ibrahim Somo asked the county government to hold development partners accountable. Accountability would ensure that donor funds were utilised efficiently, he said.  (edited by o. owino)