President Uhuru Kenyatta has banned all public gatherings for 30 days from midnight on Friday. “Cognisant that the propagation of coronavirus within our borders has been fueled by political gatherings and large social gatherings, I hereby direct that all forms of political gatherings be and hereby prohibited for a period of thirty days effective midnight on this March 12, 2021,” Uhuru said. The president said this will be extended if infections don't go down. "This should be followed regardless of the political or social standing," he said. To ensure that the orders have been adhered to, the president has directed the National Government Administration Officers and the National Police to strictly enforce the public order regardless of political or social status. At the same time in his address to the public on Friday from State House Nairobi, the president extended the curfew by 60 days. He announced that the burials in the country should be conducted within 72 hours of the confirmation of death and gatherings will be limited to family members, capped at 100 persons. The number also applies to weddings. "As much as our nation was wounded, it remains unbowed," Uhuru said. "Instead of giving in to the shock of lockdowns, businesses have reengineered their business models, responding to shocks." Also, the president said that in the guidelines that had earlier been issued by the Inter-Faith Council, one-third of the capacity of the places of worship would be allowed at the places of worship. Border health security will also be enhanced following the risk of importation of the new variants of the virus. Further, the president directed that all bars and restaurants as well other establishments open to the public must be closed at 9pm. To ensure business continuity amid the virus, Uhuru said that the essential service providers' privilege will be extended to include factories working on two shifts, and construction sites are allowed to operate their night shifts. Uhuru said the country's approach has been a mixed bag of fortunes. He cited the cessation of movement which had heavy costs on the economy but saved lives. "We chose life over the economy," he said. "You can always revive an economy, but you can't revive a lost life."