There is something special about a brand-new car. From that new car smell to an upgrade in technology, nothing beats a new set of wheels. One definite perk would be all the new gadgets and gizmos you’ll have in your new ride. Long gone are the days of paper maps and unclear radio stations, these days new cars have built in navigation systems, Bluetooth connections, cameras to help with parking and so much more. Additionally, newer cars just run easier. Because you’re the only owner, you don’t have to worry about previous accidents or issues it may have had in the past as its in tip top condition. This will definitely save some money down the road constantly fixing things that break. It’s peace of mind and great for your wallet. Newer cars can even be better for the environment with their systems made to increase fuel economy and vehicle emissions. We are supposed to be looking after the environment and choosing a car with that in mind will help with that. Getting on the roads is always a risk, so you want the vehicle you are in to keep you as safe as possible. Another great perk of new cars is that they are usually equipped with new safety features to keep the driver and passengers from harm. And when it comes to value, a new car would definitely be higher so that when you are ready to sell it, you’ll get a better value for it. The last perk, and while it may be a more emotional one rather than practical, it’s new! You’ll be the first person to own it, and it will smell great and look great, and who doesn’t love getting new stuff! There's a brand new car up for grabs and you can get it for FREE courtesy of Kiss 100's exciting promo, Kiss My Ride. It's time you deserved a brand new showroom car, isn't it? Here's how to win one. How to win the brand new car and #KissMyRide First, simply register on the Kiss 100 website (https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmyride/ ) and leave your correct details. Sit back and make sure you're tuned in to Kiss 100 every day to listen if your name will be called out on air. Everyday 9am, 2pm and 5pm, there will be a draw. If you have successfully registered and your name is called out on air, you have exactly 15 minutes to call and claim your entry. That entry will be a key which gives you a chance to win the car. On the day of the grand draw, you will be invited to try whether your key opens the car. If your key opens the car, you'll be the lucky winner who walks away with a brand new, zero mileage car. Remember, register now and tune in to Kiss 100 every day to listen if your name will be called. You don't want your name mentioned and you didn't hear it. Click on the link below to register https://kiss100.co.ke/kissmyride/