Universities are now moving to negotiate to have their staff vaccinated in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccine drive. The University of Nairobi and Kenyatta University are among the first to begin administering the Covid-19 vaccines to certain faculty and staff who are not in the health care system. Both institutions will have their staffers vaccinated next week, where individuals aged 65 or older are eligible for the vaccine. JKUAT was until press time on Wednesday awaiting feedback on the proposal to get inclusion to begin vaccinations for those aged 65 or over. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday announced new measures as part of the government’s push to stem the third wave of the coronavirus. They included cessation of movement into and out of five zoned counties and closure of learning institutions. The government did not prioritise higher education workers for vaccination same as primary and secondary school teachers. Centres for Disease Control recommends higher education workers be considered in the second phase of vaccination. However, individual universities are setting their own priorities for distributing the limited quantities of vaccine currently available, although Vice-Chancellors and University bosses are pushing that the vaccine is unconditionally available to all teaching staff. Geoffrey Muluvi, the Vice Chancellors Committee chairman, said on Wednesday they have initiated talks to have lecturers lined up as a priority group. The negotiations are being done with the National Covid-19 Task Force for Vaccine Deployment. In line with the National Covid-19 Task Force for Vaccine Deployment guidance, the first phase of vaccination prioritised health-care workers including academic medical staff, teachers and police officers. George Omondi, the University and Academic Staff Union secretary at the University of Nairobi, on Wednesday said some lecturers had sought the vaccine independently after the government failed to include them in the priority list. Willis Akhwale, National Covid-19 Task Force for Vaccine Deployment chairman on Wednesday told the Star that they will decide which groups will receive the vaccine in phase two. The country expects to receive the second consignment of the AstraZeneca vaccine in May. Mumo Kisau, chair of the Kenya Association of Private Universities, on Wednesday said the institutions will also push to be considered for the jab once dons are approved to get it. University and Academic Staff Union secretary general Constantine Wasonga said the dons, just like their teaching counterparts ought to be in the priority as most of the staff are among the most susceptible to infection. Wasonga said this has exposed the staffers to the virus, with those testing positive being in the hundreds. He said anyone who is 57 years and above can provide a doctor’s note proving they need the vaccine.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris