All he wanted was a child. The Dutchman was willing to pay any money. He was overwhelmed with emotion when lady luck smiled on him. Or so he thought. Dion William Van Aardt, a farmer based in Nanyuki, moved a Nairobi court with his testimony of how he was duped over Sh2.9 million by a surrogacy agency. Aardt told senior principal magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot that he was so excited to finally have a child through surrogacy only for the plan to turn out to be a scam. He contacted Winnie Maina's agency that he saw online and they assured him that they would help him through the process. Aardt gave his samples at Aga Khan Hospital and waited. After some time Maina told him that the surrogate mother had conceived. She even advised him to name the baby as a way to bond with it before birth, the court heard. The farmer took the alleged surrogate for several scans and he was informed that the child was a girl. Maina went as far as giving him a blanket that had the name of the child, which he saw as so thoughtful. Aardt got emotional when he narrated that he had named the unborn child after his mother. His mother and other family members who were also in court broke down in tears as he narrated his ordeal. The court heard that the family even held a baby shower in anticipation of the girl. According to Aardt, it was Maina who had suggested it. He did all the shopping needed for a newborn and was even looking for house helps who would help him in raising his child. However, the due date passed with no communication from Maina. He contacted her and she said the surrogate was still not in labour. Weeks later after a lot of follow up, Maina told him the surrogate was in the hospital. Aardt was told that the surrogate had refused Caesarian Section, which was the only option. Aardt packed his bags ready to travel to Nairobi to be with his child. However, as he was preparing to leave the house, Maina called him and informed him that both the surrogate mother and the baby had died. Maina said she wanted money to take them to a befitting mortuary. She later said both bodies had been moved to Umash Funeral Home. When he insisted on seeing them for closure she refused, giving different excuses. Aardt contacted Umash who told him there was no female or child corpse at their facility on that alleged day. He then contacted Aga Khan Hospital to inquire. To his shock, he was informed that his semen was still intact. There was no way the alleged child was his. Edited by Henry Makori