Football Kenya Federation Premier League side Western Stima will lay claim to any proceeds emanating from Benson Omalla's transfer deal, club chairman Laban Jobita has said. Speaking exactly a day after revelations came to the fore that the 19-year-old Kisumu Day High School student had penned a deal in Europe with Swedish side FC Linkoping City, Jobita was emphatic that he would keep tabs on every development revolving around the deal just to ensure the club will get its rightful share. “I am aware of the development and will keep close tabs on the proceedings to lay claim to our share should there be a sale,” said Jobita. Jobita added that reaping from such fruitful deals could salvage the club from its dwindling financial fortunes that have occasioned their rapid fall down the top tier ranks, especially after their shirt sponsor pulled out. “Western Stima have been nurturing players who pen deals involving colossal sums of money yet we have not been keen enough to demand our share. Given we lack a solid sponsorship at the moment, we deserve to receive our fair share," said Jobita. Had Stima put appropriate measures in place early enough, they would have benefited from Simba SC coiffures after Kenyan international centre back Joash Onyango made a giant leap to the Tanzanian premiership side. Jobita further insists that even community clubs and youth development sides should be included in such deals in future as a way of appreciating their contributions towards player growth and development. "The money should also trickle down to Manyatta United because that's where we got him from,” Jobita told Stima are currently 15th on the top flight log with 12 points, just a spot shy of the relegation zone. The enterprising Gor Mahia striker agreed to a year-long loan deal with Swedish Division One side. However, Omalla will first have to wait until he completes his high school education in April before he can finally link up with the club. Omalla confirmed the new development on Wednesday, saying he has been on the radar of the Swedes for a while now. “The club has been hot on my heels for quite sometime now but currently, I am concentrating on preparing for my KCSE exams,” said Omalla. The deal has been brokered by Sweden-based Kenyan agent Ken Ring. He is set to join the club on April 1 for a loan deal that will run until December 1, 2021.