St. Peter's Mumias principal Cosmas Nabongolo has tipped the Center of Excellence set up by Football Kenya Federation in his school to supply quality talent to the national team. Nabongolo extolled the whole concept, terming the partnership as historic and good for the school and the entire national football fraternity that has been struggling. “I want to thank the federation for settling on our school in this region and I feel we will give our best in terms of returns going by the quality we have at our technical bench as we strive to restore the lost glory in local football. “We have several players in national Under-17 years cadre and with this partnership, we are sure of increasing the numbers since the players are highly motivated,” said Nabongolo. Football Kenya Federation chief executive officer, Barry Otieno, said the centre were part of a wider plan to ensure Harambee Stars qualifies for the 2026 World Cup which is their main target as they continue putting good structures in place. Otieno spoke at the school on Wednesday as he led other national and regional officials in launching a talent soccer academy at St. Peter's secondary school Mumias which will see the school partner with the federation in the development of talent. “At the moment, we need to support the initiative and give time. I believe after ten years,  this country will be a powerhouse not only at the regional level but also  in Africa and the world, hence need to begin from the scratch. “We have identified about ten schools that we want to partner with so that we can achieve this noble ambition and I believe we are on the right course. I believe this is the solution for our local football that has suffered a lot through poor management." “If you want to succeed in any career, you must remain focused and maintain discipline. "Countries like German and Russia are dominant at the international level doing these programs close to twenty years ago,” observed Otieno. The federation sealed similar pact with reigning Kenya secondary school games national soccer champions St. Anthony from Kitale.