The Centre for Multiparty Democracy has condemned the violence and electoral malpractice that marred by-elections held on Thursday and demanded swift action against the perpetrators. Chaos and violence rocked the parliamentary polls in Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies; and London and Kiamokama wards in Nakuru and Kisii respectively. Several people, including leaders were injured, teargassed and other arrested for allegedly planning to cause chaos or bribe voters. “Acts of intimidation and political violence are unacceptable in a democracy and those responsible for instigating such violence should be brought to book,” CMD Executive director Frankline Mukwanja said. Mukwanja said the acts of violence and hooliganism witnessed during the by-elections were a violation of rights and freedoms of the electorate and a threat to peace and national security. He called on all parties to respect the democratic principles that are set out in the Constitution and which will contribute to a peaceful, just and democratic society. Mukwanja said it was time the IEBC, the Registrar of Political Parties, NCIC, the National Police Service and the DPP take decisive action to protect the rights of Kenyans by holding to account those responsible for perpetrating violence. “Political parties are supposed to be vehicles that ensure good governance of a country. It is therefore a paradox that the parties have serious challenges as they showcased yesterday,” the official said. CMD regretted that although many politicians who are party members engage in unlawful acts such as assault, libel and hate speech, their parties have never reprimanded them. “To that extent, the informality or lack of professionalism in political parties is a cause of public concern and not consistent to peace building within and between political parties,” he said. “We hereby challenge all the concerned political parties to bring to book their members who were involved in the violent and criminal acts, take strong and decisive action to ensure no further attacks on the democracy of our nation as no cause can justify such brutality and violence witnessed,” Mukwanja said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara