President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked Kenya's development partners to support government programmes that directly benefit Kenyans such as the 'Kazi Mtaani' youth employment initiative. The President said 'Kazi Mtaani' had not only created gainful employment for thousands of youth but also helped develop their entrepreneurial and financial skills through training. He spoke on Wednesday during separate meetings with four heads of international organizations who paid him courtesy visits at State House, Nairobi. This comes barely a week after the national government extended the National Hygiene Programme following countless pleas by the youths. More than 280,000 youths heaved a sigh of relief after the extension of the project which would otherwise have ended last week. Uhuru held meetings with UNON Director General Zainabu Bangura, UN Resident Coordinator in Kenya Stephen Jackson, World Bank Country Director for Kenya Keith Hansen and the UN Under-Secretary General for Operations Atul Khare. The visitors were recently posted to Kenya and were meeting the Head of State as part of their induction. In the meeting with Bangura, Uhuru said Kenya will continue to raise Africa's voice in global affairs and thanked the UN for the support the country continues to receive in various sectors. He said the Government supports UNON's ambition to transform Kenya into the UN's regional logistics hub for development, humanitarian and emergency activities. On her part, the new UNON boss thanked the President for Government's support in the construction of the Sh846 million UN hospital in Nairobi, the first of its kind in the developing world. She said the 150-bed capacity hospital has in recent months grown to become one of the busiest such facility in the UN system catering for patients from across the world. The new UN Resident Coordinator Stephen Jackson told the President that Kenya had distinguished itself as a progressive and open society in a "difficult region. Jackson, an Irish national who first came to Kenya in 1986 as a development worker, said his office will continue partnering with the Government in the implementation of projects that support the Big 4 Agenda and the President's legacy.