President Samia Suluhu has assured Tanzanians that nothing will go wrong under her watch. Suluhu on Monday said the late president John Pombe Magufiuli had prepared her for any task in the event that he was not able. She was speaking during the funeral mass of Magufuli at Uhuru grounds in Dodoma. "Nataka kusema haya kwa wale wanamashaka kwamba mwanamke huyu ataweza. Mimi ni mwanamke ndio na mimi ni rais wenu. Tumempoteza shujaa na hayo majukumu aliniwachai. Kwa hivyo mimi nipo hapa kama rais," she said. (I want to say these to those doubting if as a woman I will be able to lead. I am your president. We have lost a hero and a patriot but he left me in charge. Therefore I ma here as your president). "President Magufuli had empowered me for the task.  I want to confirm to all Tanzanians that I am your president and this country is in safe hands," she said. She added, "All former heads of State and my neighbors, you are my fathers and brothers and I want to assure you that nothing will go wrong". Suluhu said she will be a good neighbor not only to EAC and SADC but to the rest of the world. "President Magufuli was my teacher and a mentor. He did not love to travel because he wanted to be here to solve problems his people faced. As a result he sent me on most of the international assignments so I know I have built and established that relationship which I will seek to establish," she said. "We shall repay the goodness you have shown us and we shall be good neighbours," she added. The president said Magufuli was a darling to many because he carried his responsibilities will diligence. "He was not afraid of speaking what he thought was right for the country. The crowds we have witnessed since his death is a testimony of how he was loved. For the last six years we have been so close and although he was known as a no nonsense person, he was jovial and could crack jokes," Suluhu said. "He would work day and night, he would call anytime of the day or night and he never wanted excuses. He would remind us that our lives were a sacrifice to the people," she added. According to her, Magufuli has left a legacy that will live on for generations to come. "We are ready to continue his legacy and we shall ensure that we propel this country to where he wanted it to be," Suluhu said.