Boda boda operators in Lamu island are flouting new regulations requiring them to stay clear of Old Town, a world heritage site. In February, the riders were banned from hooting and installing music systems on their bikes. A speed limit of 20 kilometres per hour was enforced. They were also required to join Saccos, provide proof of age by carrying their IDs and wear licensed badges depicting their full names, passport size photo and ID number. They were to also stay away from Lamu Old Town and only operate from two designated pick-up and drop-off points at the Milano area and at the Donkey sanctuary area in Mkomani. The riders are not adhering to the regulations, one month later. They hoot and play loud music on their bikes, much to the frustration of residents and visitors to the town. County askaris that had been directed to arrest those flouting the new rules have yet to make a single arrest. The riders say they are not aware of any new rules as no one had formally issued them. Rider Yassir Ali said they are aware of the meeting to form new regulations, but no one had explained how exactly the rules are to be implemented. “We know there was a meeting and there are new rules. We just don’t know the specifics about the said rules. If they tell us what to do, we shall definitely toe the line,” said Ali. The riders want the county government to publish all the rules and pin on public notice boards and other areas in the town to enable them acquaint themselves and comply. “You can’t obey what you don’t know or have no understanding of. Let them ensure whatever they agreed upon reaches us in a manner we can comprehend,” said Said Omar, a boda boda operator. Lamu old town is a UNESCO World Heritage Site having been listed in 2011 owing to its well-preserved culture and heritage spanning decades. The town’s heritage has however been under threat from immense westernisation including introduction of the boda boda and other means of modern transport including tuk tuk. There are currently over 300 bikes on the island. Requirements for heritage sites demand that they maintain their originality and resist any form of western influence especially to the architecture, culture and heritage.  -Edited by Sarah Kanyara