 @robertomollo3 Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang has asked third parties to stop meddling in the handshake deal between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kajwang argued that politicians and civil servants were not involved when Uhuru and Raila discussed the pact. He said conflicting statements from politicians from both sides and some state officers were giving the wrong impression that the handshake deal is on its deathbed. The legislator wants politicians from both Jubilee and ODM parties to stop discussing the deal, arguing they were creating confusion. The March 9, 2018 handshake birthed the Building Bridges Initiative that now seeks for a constitutional amendment. Last week, Siaya Senator James Orengo and Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo accused some civil servants of planning to sabotage the handshake. The two lawmakers claimed senior government officials were using the BBI to scheme for the 2022 succession. They said the handshake risked collapse with such meddling. Suna East MP Junet, a co-chairman of the BBI secretariat alongside former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, accused Interior PS Karanja Kibicho of meddling. Junet claimed the PS was derailing the handshake because of 2022 succession politics. But speaking on Friday during the burial of former councilor Obong’o Owich in Lambwe ward, Suba North constituency, Kajwang said the three ODM leaders and the accused civil servants are third parties who should not speak about the handshake. “The handshake is still intact because Uhuru and Raila have not said it is crumbling. Let’s not listen to the third parties who like to meddle in things that don’t involve them,” Kajwang said. Kajwang was in company of MCAs Nicholas Owaka (Kanyamwa Kosewe), Paul Adika (Lambwe) and Sophie Koweje (nominated). Politicians Martin Opere, Jim Akali and Maurice Olunja were present. Kajwang said he was aware of people from both sides of the handshake that were opposed to the truce and BBI from the beginning. “We know those people would make several attempts to sabotage the handshake. But they should know that there are many Kenyans who support BBI because of peace,” Kajwang said. The senator called on politicians and people who have interest in 2022 politics to put Kenya first. He said many Kenyans enjoy peace and tranquility and they are able to undertake their businesses without fear. “There is a reason why the two principals came together and agreed on the nine points agenda. Let’s keep off the truce because they knew saboteurs are on both sides,” Kajwang said.  Edited by P.O