Groundbreaking will soon start for the Sh35 million OlympAfrica Sports Centre in Ruai. This comes as the County Government of Nairobi on Wednesday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) on the project. The County Government is expected to provide land for the construction of the sports complex while NOCK shall undertake to source funds. President of the National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) Paul Tergat said they will move with speed to ensure the groundbreaking takes place. “Nairobi has set the pace to other counties with this project and our reason behind having it first in Nairobi is because the city is World-class and a communication and business hub of East Africa,” he said. While noting sports had changed many lives across the world, he pledged to reach out to more sponsors to bring change in the sports industry in Kenya. Nairobi Deputy Governor Anne Kananu vowed to give unwavering support in her capacity in order to ensure that NOCK receives all the necessary support from the county as well as the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. “Apart from support from the county, our collaborative partner the Nairobi Metropolitan Services will work around improving the road network leading to the facility to ensure there is easy access,” she said. The Deputy Governor also donated sports kits and equipment to 32 teams from the 17 sub-counties in Nairobi. The Sports Centre will comprise of a 400m running track, indoor gymnasium, volleyball, basketball handball, tennis courts and swimming pool, hostels among other facilities. A health centre will also be featured to provide medical services Once complete, the centre will serve residents from Ruai, Mihang’o, Mwiki, Utawala, Kasarani and even beyond. According to Kananu, the services offered at the centre will keep the youth engaged in activities thus keeping them away from crime and drug abuse. “This facility will not only refine their respective sporting skills but will keep them away from idleness, crime and hard drugs. It is my hope that one day, one of the youths from these areas will emulate our past and present Olympic heroes like; Paul Tergat, Paul Ereng, Tecla Lorupe, Robert Wangila, Prisca Jeptoo and Pamela Jelimo among others,” she said.