KCB's dream for a maiden top flight title was dealt a huge blow after the bankers suffered their second straight and heaviest defeat of the season at the hands of an impressive Kariobangi Sharks side at Kasarani Annex on Sunday. An infuriated KCB coach Zedekiah Otieno has put the blame squarely at the feet of Football Kenya Federation for forcing them to honour congested fixture. "We lost the match because of fatigue. My players were exhausted both physically and mentally. You can imagine after playing against Nzoia at Sudi we travelled straight to Wundanyi to face Sofapaka and today we are here facing a team that have rested for a while after their last match," said Otieno. Kariobangi Sharks head coach William Muluya cautioned his charges against complacency in their next matches despite registering an emphatic 3-0 win. "We are aware of the stiff competition among the five top teams in the league and as such we have to put in more effort in our next fixtures. It won't be easy winning the league," said Muluya. Eric Kapaito stunned the bankers with a second-minute goal—his 14th of the season— after a splendid interchange of crisp passes with teammates in the penalty area. Bonface Onyango doubled the lead for Kariobangi Sharks in the 25th minute before James Mazembe piled more misery on the bankers with a 69th minute goal. KCB looked withdrawn and worn out throughout the match, hardly stringing any purposeful passes and their attacking force seemingly blunt and timid in front of goal. The loss has left KCB second on the log with 26 points, squandering their chance to close in on runaway leaders Tusker who despite falling 2-1 to Bidco at the same venue on Saturday still sit comfortably at the apex of the standings with 32 points. The bankers though have two more matches in hand to wrap up round 14. Sharks' Geoffrey Lemu received a yellow card from centre referee Peter Kamaku for misconduct only seconds before the sides proceeded to the dressing room for the break. At Bukhungu, AFC Leopards maintained an impressive run with a 2-1 win over hosts Kakamega Homeboyz. Clyde Senaji clinched the opener for Ingwe in the 9th minute before Elvis Rupia doubled the proceedings in the 28th minute. Allan Wanga drew a consolation for Homeboyz in the 58th minute. Titus Achesa found the back of the net in the 19th minute to put Sofapaka in the driver's seat before Lawrence Juma extended their lead in the 33rd minute. New signing Benard Ondiek proved his worth at Rangers by reducing the deficit in the 59th minute. Elsewhere, Bandari collected maximum points after beating Ulinzi Stars 2-0 at Kericho Green Stadium.