The health task force chaired by Dr Eva Njenga has been asked to identify isolation facilities that can be quickly turned into intensive care units as the Covid-19 cases soar. ICU beds are almost running out and counties have also been tasked with ensuring isolation facilities are ready, complete with piped oxygen to prepare for a possible surge in numbers. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe maintained that all patients will have to be attended to in their respective counties rather than being flown to Nairobi that is already stretched due to its large population. The country on Wednesday recorded 1,279 new cases from a sample size of 7,450, representing a positivity rate of 17 per cent. “When you look at the first two waves, the necessity for ICU facilities did not rise up as high as this third wave is exhibiting and therefore we need to to prepare more ICU facilities in the country and we need to do so at each county,” Kagwe said. According to data from the ministry, the number of patients in the ICU as of Wednesday was 114, a rise from just 20 in January. Twelve more patients succumbed to the virus, pushing the total fatalities to 1,937. The ministry has now revised its vaccination plan to include the clergy and people aged above 60 years and those with comorbid conditions after it emerged that most of the deaths recorded in the country were within this population. “We have noticed that most of the deaths are in persons aged 60 years and above and with underlying medical conditions. This being the case, we will prioritise them as well to be part of phase one rollout plan once the second consignment of vaccines is delivered next month,” Kagwe said. So far, at least 20,000 frontline workers have been vaccinated with all counties having launched the process in the respective areas in 45 public health facilities. The ministry has listed another 622 facilities including private and faith-based organisations that will also act as vaccination points. Similarly, the task force has been tasked with ensuring that home-based care and isolation programme is enhanced as Covid-19 cases continue to rise. Kagwe said 754 patients were admitted in various health facilities with 2,167 being on home-based care and isolation. Another 280 recovered from the disease after successfully undergoing treatment. “What the government is demanding is cooperation and responsible behaviour. It is seeking your partnership in this fight because as we have maintained from the onset in this cycle of life, our actions  and agility shall determine  how fast we sink or swim,” the CS said. He added: “As we can do it, as we have done it, I urge Kenyans to quickly revamp our resolve to quickly determine to fight this new wave just like we did the last two. I must ask you that this is not the time to tire. The disease does not know that we are tired, the virus does not understand that we are tired, the virus is just ready to demolish us. Let us not allow it to do so.” Counties have also been asked to ensure the existing containment measures are enforced to the latter. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara