Buxton estate residents should have been given more time to relocate before Saturday's demolition of their houses, Umoja Summit Party of Kenya has said. The bulldozing of the 502 units began after the Environment Court on Wednesday dismissed a petition by Buxton residents seeking to halt the estate's upgrade. The tenants had on Friday received Sh240,000 cheques from the Mombasa county government to help them relocate so 1,860 new flats can be built. USPK chairman Matano Chengo faulted the speed with which the county government began bringing down the houses. He told the Star on Monday that the leaders responsible for the project should have approached the tenants and asked them to vacate after the ruling. “Shame on the county government of Mombasa and whoever is investing in that project,” Chengo said. He said that leaders should have devised a humane way of evicting the tenants. “After the court ruling, a new notice should have been issued so as to give the remaining tenants ample time to vacate,” Chengo said. He proposed a minimum of 21 days. Muslims for Human Rights, led by chairman Khelef Khalifa, said although sad and painful, most tenants knew the demolitions was coming. “They were hoping to stay there longer and that there would be court cases dragging the project. But at the back of their minds, they knew the houses would be demolished,” the Muhuri chair said. Khalifa said Mombasa has a demand of 25,000 units against a supply of 4,000 units every year. It means the annual housing deficit in the county is 21,000 units. “With 60 per cent of Mombasa’s 1.2 million population living in 72 informal settlements in the county, the Buxton housing project promises to cover the deficit,” Muhuri wrote in its assessment report. Khalifa said he was encouraged that the demolition was not done at night like in many other cases. “I feel sorry for them. It is not a good thing for some of them, not all,” he noted, adding that some of the tenants were well-off people who only took advantage of the low prices. One and two-bedroom units at the estate were going for Sh2,800 and Sh3,662 monthly respectively. “I know a woman who paid Sh500,000 to get a one-bedroom apartment. The woman is working somewhere where she gets a good salary,” Khalifa said. A member of the business community welcomed the upgrade of the Buxton estate. Mohamed Hersi, a hotelier and feted digital leader, said the Buxton houses were dilapidated and condemned and thus a facelift was needed. He said painful decisions have to be made to ensure that development is achieved. He cited the demolition of buildings, including the Nakumatt Thika Road, to pave way for the Thika Superhighway. “We all cried and cursed but today no one remembers that. We now have a five-lane highway which has inspired the rest of Kenya and the region. “In my opinion this could be the beginning of ways and means of fixing old dilapidated council houses across Kenya. As a Mombasa resident I render my full support to this project,” Hersi said on Saturday. “May Buxton Point be the Thika superhighway project to inspire others in urban public housing upgrade,” he noted.  (edited by o. owino)