Travelers from Kisii initially affected by the lock-downs imposed by the President on Friday have breathed easy after the government allowed them to travel back. Many of the travelers, especially those who had planned to get back to Nairobi on Friday had to return to their homes following lockdown. At least five Counties were locked down and movement restricted to stem further Corona Virus infections by the president. They are Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Kajiado and Nakuru. Travelers who spoke to the Star in Kisii said they can finally breathe a sigh of relief after the government clarified on the travel directive. Sara Kemunto, an Mpesa Agent in Nairobi, and who had traveled for burial in Bobasi, Kisii Wednesday, was due to return to the Capital when the lockdown was announced by President Uhuru. She heard the news as she traveled to Kisii town from Nyamache to take a bus to Nairobi. She said she had left little food to her children and the nanny when she traveled home on Wednesday. " I was beginning to getting mad because they could have died of hunger, it is good I have been allowed to travel back," she told the Star on Saturday morning as she boarded a van out. Dorca Nyandoro, a student at Maasai Mara University in Narok, told the Star said the temporary relaxation on rules on mobility by the government gave great relief to the students at the campus. The university management ordered them out of the premises on Saturday morning. "We had been told that the university stands closed as per the directive issued by the president. The students especially those traveling to Nairobi were told to give their admission numbers and contacts before leaving the campus," she told the Star by phone. On Saturday, Government spokesman Cyrus Oguna said Kenyans caught unaware by the lockdown can get back by the start of curfew hours on Sunday. In Kisii, the travelers praised the move calling it a mark of wisdom on the side of the government. "Although I have suffered some loss especially in lodging for lack of a vehicle on Friday, this latest announcement by the government is definitely welcome," said Rose Nyabuto, a civil servant working in Nairobi.