The Government has issued a notice on countries whose residents should under mandatory quarantine upon arrival in Kenya. The notice issued by Kenya Civil Aviation Authority -KCAA stated that the requirement is effective from Monday March 8. Director General Captain Gilbert Kibe while confirming the directory said the 14 days quarantine is mandatory for people coming from Brunei, Czech Republic, Kuwait, Spain, Switzerland and Thailand. "Travellers from the listed states and territories shall be required to undergo mandatory quarantine upon arrival into Kenya at their own cost. This is effective from Monday 8th March 2021," the notice read. The notice further stated that travelers shall be required to be in possession of a negative PCR-based Covid-19 test result conducted within 72 hours before travel and not display any flu-like symptoms upon arrival. "Travelers must provide evidence of their booking for the quarantine locations 24hrs before boarding," said KCAA. Kibe said the list of facilities available for quarantine can be availed from info@kmpdc.go.ke. Travelers from over 200 countries will be exempted from quarantine among them Tanzania. This comes as the World Health Organisation and the Center for Disease Control-CDC raised a red flag over the Covid-19 situation in Tanzania. Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called on the Magufuli administration to take "robust action" to combat the Covid-19 situation. Tedros said it was a matter of great concern that a number of Tanzanians traveling to neighboring countries and beyond had tested positive for the coronavirus. "This underscores the need for Tanzania to take robust action, both to safeguard their own people and protect the population beyond," Tedros said. Kenya on Sunday reported 465 new cases of Coronavirus bringing the total number of confirmed cases to 108,827. The new cases are from a sample size of 5,691 that was tested in the last 24 hours. A statement by Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said of the new cases 422 are Kenyans while 43 are foreigners with 279 being males and 186 being females. Cumulative tests done so far stand at 1,333,690 since the first case was reported in March last year. According to Kagwe, Kenya has unfortunately lost two more patients bringing the total number of deaths to 1,876. "A total of 488 patients are currently admitted in various health facilities while 1,394 are on Home Based Isolation and Care," Kagwe said. He added, "69 patients are in the Intensive Care Unit-ICU, of whom 23 are on ventilatory support and 36 on supplemental oxygen while 10 are under observation". Kagwe said although there is no patient in the HDU, another 16 patients are separately on supplementary oxygen all of whom are in the general wards.