Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga is plotting a comeback as an MP in 2022. He is hoping that BBI will pass in a referendum, and he will be picked as a member of the Cabinet. Although he has been playing his cards close to his chest, keeping everyone guessing as to what his next move will be after the expiry of his tenure, the Star has established that he is eyeing the Alego-Usonga parliamentary seat. Should the constituency be split as anticipated and the BBI proposals passed, then Rasanga will contest in one of the new constituencies. In the proposals, Siaya was to get a constituency, and it is believed Alego-Usonga will be the one to be split given it has the highest number of registered voters and is densely populated. It is also vast. In the event it is divided, a constituency to be named Usonga will be created.  However, if it remains as it is, then the governor will face MP Samuel Atandi, who is expected to defend the seat. Close associates of the governor told the Star that he had initially toyed with the idea of running for the Senate seat. He is said to have shelved the idea after it became clear that ODM party leader's elder brother, Oburu Odinga, is also interested in the Senate seat. Oburu, who is currently serving in the East Africa Legislative Assembly, is traversing the county in what is believed to be a strategy to endear himself to the electorate. With the Senate seat being out of consideration, the governor's handlers say his focus now is on the Alego-Usonga parliamentary seat. A ward representative from the constituency who is in the inner circle of the governor told the Star, on condition of anonymity, that Rasanga was considering the Alego-Usonga seat as one of his options. "He has a team of friends, professionals and elected leaders from the constituency who are already doing the groundwork for him ahead of the next polls," he said. It is this ambition by Rasanga that is believed to be the reason that has led to an acrimonious political relationship between him and the Alego-Usonga MP. The two elected leaders have had public spats in the past. In March last year, Atandi accused the governor of holding night clan meetings to discredit him. The governor dismissed the MP, saying he had no time for cheap talk. If he chooses to run for the parliamentary seat, the governor is also likely to face off with William Oduol, who gave him a run for his money in the 2013 gubernatorial election. While attending a funeral in the constituency last December, Oduol hinted that he would be vying for the Alego-Usonga seat.  “I will vie within ODM, where I am a life member and I am weighing my options,” he said. The decision to drop his bid for the Siaya gubernatorial seat, this time round, is based on the fact that the incumbent comes from Alego. Oduol also comes from the same subcounty. “The peculiar voting patterns in the county may not work for me as the other remaining five subcounties lay claim to the same position,” he said. Siaya is made up of six subcounties – Ugunja,  Alego-Usonga, Ugenya, Bondo, Rarieda and Gem. Besides Atandi, Oduol and Rasanga, others in the race for the MP seat are former MP Omondi Mulwan and Dr Kut Ochogo. Delimitation of the administrative boundaries of Alego-Usonga subcounty has started. The administrative delimitation of the subcounty was aimed at bringing services closer to the people. Alego-Usonga constituency boasts of 103,334 registered voters. It has six wards – Usonga (7,849 voters), West Alego (16,911), Central Alego (16,097), Siaya Township (22,112), North Alego (16,299) and South East Alego (24,066). It is expected that there will be a review of the constituency boundary of Alego-Usonga once the delimitation of the subcounty boundaries is completed. The delimitation of the administrative boundaries will lead to some locations and clans being moved to a new constituency. This is bound to affect voting patterns in the next election. Alego-Usonga consists of three divisions–Boro, Uranga and Karemo. The subdivision process started with public participation meetings late last year. Edited by A.N