Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga faction in Western Kenya could be on a shaky ground amid signals of new alignments in Bungoma County. Just a day after Sirisia MP John Walukhe backed Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi to run for the Bungoma governor's seat, Kimilili lawmaker Didmas Barasa has announced a break from Tangatanga. Walukhe and Barasa are some of the DP's key pointsmen from Bungoma. Their moves have lifted the lid on the ongoing political realignments in the county that could consume the DP's fortunes in the region ahead of 2022. “Bungoma is being run very badly with wanton corruption and slow development, only a person with foresight like Wanyonyi can rescue our home county,” said Waluke in his Sirisia Constituency on Saturday. The Ruto ally said Wanyonyi had shown exemplary leadership while serving his two terms as the Member of Parliament for Westlands and he should now be elevated to a more senior position. “He has proved that he can serve in the capacity of governor very well. We are going to mobilise all leaders in this region to ensure that they support him,” he said. Wanyonyi, who is a staunch supporter of ODM leader Raila Odinga, is the younger brother of Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula. Tellingly, yesterday Barasa announced he will be taking a 'four-month sabbatical' from national politics including the hustler nation's. His reference to working with other leaders to unite the Luyha community triggered speculations he could ditch Ruto. "As they say, charity begins at home, together with other like-minded leaders who will join me, we will try and reconcile all the factions in Bungoma with the view of having Baungoma speak in one voice," he said. The MP claimed that he decided to step back from Tangatanga so that he could wear the cap of a neutral arbiter to spearhead the elusive Luhya unity. However, it is doubtful how a one-term MP could play in a higher political league to broker a truce among heavyweights from the region. “I have appointed myself as an arbiter to be able to bring together the Wangamati (Wycliffe) axis, the Wetang'ula axis and the Mukhisa axis on a common table so that we can be able to identify the interests of our and try to see who is to advance the interests of our region as a president or as a partner with others,” he said. He went on: “Don't begin to ask me questions when you see me tomorrow having a meeting with Wetang'ula, when you see me having a meeting with Wangamati, when you see me engaging Mukhisa Kituyi, or speaking with Musalia Mudavadi. It is my desire to see them come together,” Barasa said. While maintaining he was still a member of Deputy President William Ruto's tangatanga team, the lawmaker said he was taking the break to unify the Western region as the 2022 polls approach. “I will be taking a sabbatical leave of four months from high-octane national politics including the tangatanga faction,” he said. Former Kakamega Senator Boni Khalwale, who is a tangatanga adherent, welcomed Barasa's move. “I see nothing wrong with what Barasa has said. He support him in his bid to unite the Mulembe nation,” Khalwale said. But Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu linked Barasa's statements to what he termed as local realignments within Bungoma county. “I am seeing these move as part of Ruto's elaborate plan to approach Bungoma differently,” he said adding that Barasa's moved was strategic.