Kwale parents have been cautioned against marrying off their children who completed their Kenya Certificate of Primary Exams on Wednesday. The class eight candidates are expected to transit to high school by late June. About 22, 483 pupils sat for KCPE exams in the county. County police commander Amrose Oloo said some parents might be tempted to marry off their girls and allow the children to engage in early employment activities to help sustain families. The region, especially in rural areas of Kinango, Lunga-Lunga and some parts of Matuga which have a high poverty rate, has had a trend of families sending off girls for early marriage. The girls would then be used as a source of wealth generation through dowry, promised land, livestock or financial assistances but end up being housewives living in squalid conditions. In February Labor CS John Chelegui termed Kwale as one of the hot spots for child abuse when he launched Sh11 million child protection facility at Diani police station in Msambweni. He said the practice of teen pregnancies and early marriages were still a worrying trend. Oloo said the holiday could give a spike to the vice because children would be vulnerable. “The break could be about two and a half months, that is a lot of time before they join form one and many of these children could be lost if we are not keen,” he said. Last year when schools were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, cases of teen marriages and early pregnancies were on the rise. Kwale county reported over 2821 cases of teen pregnancies, while in January and February this year more than 10 cases were in police files in Matuga sub-county. Oloo said every child must report to form one when schools reopen. “We are expecting 100 per cent transitions from class eight to secondary, let no child be left behind because of early marriages,” he said. The county security boss cautioned that parents should marry the girls at their own risk saying the law will be unforgiving to them once found. He said every child has a right to education and entitled to protection against any form of exploitation. Oloo asked parents to take full responsibilities to ensure that children are safe during the holidays and transit successfully to the next level. He said education is free insisting that no schoolboy should quit learning and go for boda boda work. The officer warned that they will keep a record of the students who would have reported and take legal action against those who would not have. He said access to better education at both primary and secondary level among children is one way of fighting poverty, curbing indiscipline and forced early marriages.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris