The Global Compact Network Kenya in partnership with theNSE, UN Women Kenya and IFC Africa yesterday  joined over 100 stock exchanges globally to Ring the Bell for Gender Equality in commemoration of the International Women’s Day. The event aims to encourage the private sector to scale-up efforts to achieve gender equality in their markets, industries and organizations by adopting and implementing the Women's Empowerment Principles (WEPs). “In spite of the visible challenges at home and plausible ceilings at work, the government seeks to create opportunities for both women and men to develop to their full potential,” CS, Ministry of Public Service, and Gender Affairs Margaret Kobia said. Speaking during the event, Geoffrey Odundo, NSE Chief Executive noted that of the listed companies in the NSE, 26 per cent of them have women on the board with 43 per cent of them in top management, some as CEOs. The event was in line with the UN Women’s theme for International Women’s Day 2021 — “Women in leadership: Achieving an equal future in a Covid-19 world” — which celebrates the tremendous efforts by women and girls around the world in shaping a more equal future and recovery from the pandemic. Reiterating the importance of gender parity, Judy Njino, Executive Director, Global Compact Network Kenya highlighted that backlash and prejudices against gender equality should be addressed through collective action with the government, civil society and the private sector. “In this decade of action, we need businesses to be more intentional and ambitious for the realization of the economic value gender equality brings,” said Njiono During the event United Bank of Africa (UBA) Kenya, signed its commitment to the WEPs through a CEO statement cementing their pledge to further promote women career development and gender equality and inclusion in its operations. Women leaders and women’s organizations in private sector have demonstrated their skills, knowledge and networks to effectively lead in Covid-19 response and recovery efforts. The Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA) is playing a leading role in advancing gender equality. “We have 9 men and 6 lady directors, as well as 3 men and 6 ladies in management.” said Carole Karuga, CEO, KEPSA.