The pathetic scenes that portray the lives led by ex-Kenyan footballers who once basked in fame and glory are quite disturbing. While their colleagues abroad enjoy unbridled financial success after amassing wealth over the years while plying their trade in overseas leagues, ex-Kenyan footballers continue to wallow in utter misery and abject poverty. The latest case in a series of disappointing stories of dejected ex-players we’ve come across is former Gor Mahia fullback Joseph Owino who lit up the stands during his hey days. Owino has been reduced to a street urchin in Kaloleni Nairobi, where he is literally forced to rummage through garbage in order to survive. His is not an isolated case though. A group of ex-players had to pull their resources together recently to meet hospital expenses and purchase food items for former Kenyan international and Ulinzi Stars custodian Washington Muhanji who found himself caught between a rock and a hard place. Another ex-Kenyan international Henry Motego was highlighted in the media struggling to make ends meet by resorting to menial jobs before he was offered a job by the Kisii county. Their situation could be attributed to a wide spectrum of factors but allow me to focus on a few. Football in this country is mostly viewed as a pastime activity. Few corporate firms are willing to invest any meaningful resources in the sport. Unfortunately, those that have committed themselves end up shedding tears of disappointment due to blatant embezzlement of funds by those entrusted with the players’ welfare. There have also been widespread talks of players who allegedly squander their meagre income on women and alcohol instead of channelling them towards sustainable initiatives. If this is true, then the trend needs to change at once. Players should appreciate the simple fact that they can always last on the pitch during their youth and ask themselves the hard question as to what the future holds for them after retirement. I’m made aware there exists a body specifically established to address the welfare of local footballers. The sad bit is that the Kenya Footballers Welfare Association has been accused on numerous occasions of failing to live up to expectations. As we speak, no single ex-player has benefited from the toothless bulldog. In fact, a number of ex-footballers have been burning the midnight oil to discuss ways of forming their own body that can effectively massage their pressing needs. There are also concerns raised by ex-internationals that the local football governing body owes them some cash from matches in yesteryears. The joke on the streets is that national team players play for the badge, which leaves one wondering how those running football in the country expect them to survive. All in all, the tragedies that have befallen ex-footballers are partly due to some people somewhere failing to do their jobs properly. But they can also be placed right at the feet of the victims themselves who continue to be the architects of their own downfall.