Interior CS Fred Matiang'i on Sunday hit at BBI critics saying they should rather present an alternative. Matiang'i said instead of propagating too much negativity about the BBI referendum, those opposed to it should declare what they want to support. "Sometimes I wonder what these leaders want.They waste a lot of time singing negative songs about BBI as if they don't know what it is about," Matiang'i said. He called on all the leaders in Gusii to support the forthcoming referendum for the goodies that shall come as a result of the BBI. "We know we will have additional constituencies in our counties, our MCA's will have resources to run the wards among many other issues, why should we then go round opposing something that will change the face of our region?" Matiang'i posed. On tea reforms, Matiang'i said the government will ensure the tea sector is streamlined. While telling off a section of leaders in the tea sector who are rushing to court to stop the process of streamlining the sector, the CS said the government will stop any plans by cartels in the tea sector to keep on 'pocketing' the farmers sweat and ensure farmers get what is due to them. "Go to court, ask for a room and a blanket, go to hell and come back, use your entire life in the corridors of court but we must change this tea sector so that it benefits the intended farmers who have suffered for so long," he said. He added, "Why should we suffer as farmers while our product is sold at a very good price abroad. This is what we will not bow to, let the truth be said. We must change this tea sector once and for all". Matiang'i spoke in Nyamira during a fundraiser aimed at constructing Nyamira west field conference. He was accompanied by Health PS Susan Mochache, Agriculture CS Peter Munya EALA MP Mpuri Aburi, Nyamira governor Amos Nyaribo, Nyamira woman representative Jerusha Momanyi and her Homa Bay counterpart Gladys Wanga. Others include Nyamira senator Okong'o Omogeni, infrastructure CAS Chris Obure, Nyamira speaker Moffat Teya, former speaker David Kombo and a number of MCA's. MPs Shadrack Mose and Jerusha Momanyi were also present. Matiang'i said politically a time has come for the Gusii community to come together. While thanking the church for remaining consistent in praying for Nyamira county, Matiang'i requested church leadership to partner with local leaders to shape opinions. Governor Nyaribo in his sentiments asked members of the church to support the county government. Nyaribo vowed to work with the national government, saying that through the building bridges initiative, more funds will be devolved to counties and this will improve services.