Local pharmaceutical manufacturers are still unable to produce heart and immune system drugs, a new report has shown. The report shows that despite local manufacturers doing well in the production of anti-infective products such as antiseptics, antibiotics, cough and cold preparations, antiprotozoals and anti-asthmatics, the production of pharmacy products for cardiovascular and immunological therapies remains uncovered. The Kenya Pharmaceutical Industry Diagnostic Report 2020 by the Health ministry, Trade and Industrialisation ministry and the International Finance Corporation was released on Wednesday. The comparative survey was conducted by nine pharmaceutical manufacturing companies – four from Kenya and five from Bangladesh, Egypt, Ethiopia, and South Africa. The main aim was to inform policy interventions and to identify and map challenges and opportunities in the sector and highlight key attributes for attracting investment to Kenya’s pharmaceutical industry. Supporting data was collected through desk research, interviews with regulatory stakeholders and industry experts, surveys with investors, and a market pricing survey of 30 pharmacies in Kisumu, Mombasa and Nairobi. The gap in manufacturing of the products, which are on high demand in the country due to the growing burden of non-communicable diseases, is attributed to lack of availability of raw materials which have to be imported. Similarly, the equipment and spare parts required in the manufacturing process are not locally available. Lack of collaboration between industry, academia, and regulator while access to land in the country has also been highlighted as another challenge. “The survey found that although workforce costs in Kenya are lower, local firms (due to lack of capacity) rely on expatriates, which results in increased workforce expenses,” the report says. “The average revenue per local manufacturing company in Kenya is low compared to other countries. This is largely due to the high cost of utilities and transport of goods and the country’s dependence on imported inputs.” According to the report, the cost of utilities such as water, electricity and packaging materials is higher in Kenya compared to other countries. Kenyan manufacturers also sell less of their products locally and export more than companies in other countries. The data was analysed to assess the current state of the industry and examine key challenges. Policy-level interventions were proposed to enable the government to address these challenges, promote the local pharmaceutical manufacturing industry, and attract a greater share of investment. The survey, however, found that Kenya has competitive incentives for the pharmaceutical sector and a very good rating on the Ease of Doing Business index. From the report, it emerged that students in the country lack interest due to scarcity of manufacturing jobs. Health CAS Rashid Aman, speaking during the launch of the report, acknowledged the need to strengthen local pharmaceutical manufacturing. He said the development and growth of the pharmaceutical subsector has the potential to improve access to essential medicines by both the local and regional markets. “The prospects for public-private partnerships are favourable in supply of hospital equipment, training and education, health insurance and establishment of new private hospitals,” the CAS said. “The government also seeks to reduce the proportion of imported medical products to support local manufacturing. We are anticipating that the demand for medical products is expected to rise in the coming years due to increased purchasing power by citizens, and the roll-out of the universal healthcare coverage by the government.” The report recommends the elimination of unregistered retail pharmacies in the country to minimise the risk of substandard products entering the supply chain. It also calls on policymakers and education specialists to adjust education curricula to ensure that skills in the workforce meet industry needs.