A new treatment for multi-drug resistant TB has successfully reduced treatment period from nine-20 months, down to six months. The trial regime, consisting of four pills, is also more superior to the current standard of care, researchers suggest. The current treatment is long, only cures three out of every five MDR-TB patients, and often includes painful injections and drugs which cause toxic side effects including deafness. Kenya has already moved to eliminate injectables for the treatment of many of its 3,000 patients with multi-drug resistant TB. Researchers say they were last week forced to terminate their trial of the new treatment regimen early as data showed it is superior, and more patient data was extremely unlikely to change the trial’s outcome. The trial in three countries was sponsored by health lobby Médecins Sans Frontières and supported by London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine; Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative; and University of Liverpool among other institutions. “MSF is now preparing a dataset to share with the World Health Organization (WHO) as soon as possible, and full results will be submitted to a peer reviewed journal in the coming months. MSF believes these findings will have the potential to change clinical practice,” the sponsor said. In the phase II/III clinical trial, researchers tested a six-month regimen of bedaquiline, pretomanid, linezolid and moxifloxacin, against the locally accepted standard of care. At the time of the interim analysis, 242 patients had been enrolled in seven trial sites across Belarus, South Africa and Uzbekistan. “I am grateful to the people suffering from TB who took a chance on us so future TB patients might be able to have access to better care,” said Dr Bern-Thomas Nyang’wa, chief investigator of the trial. Kenya’s Ministry of Health in June last year launched the Kenya Injectable Free Regimens and Latent TB Infection Treatment policies to guide the efforts in ending TB in the country. Health CAS Rashid Aman said the two policies are key to the ministry’s goal of ridding the country of TB by 2030. However, less than half of the approximately 3,000 Kenyans with drug-resistant TB have been put on Bedaquiline pills, largely because of their exorbitant cost. Giant pharmaceutical Johnson and Johnson sells Bedaquiline tablets to low- and middle-income countries at $340 (Sh35,000) for a six-month treatment course. TB is the fifth leading cause of death in Kenya. “In 2019, we reported and treated 86,504 cases of TB, of which approximately 10 per cent are children," Dr Aman said. Edited by A.N