Business conditions in Kenya's private sector economy continued to improve in February despite the expansion rate slowing to the weakest for eight months. The monthly  Stanbic Performing Managers Index (PMI) dropped to 50.9 down from 53.2 in January, the weakest rate of improvement since Covid-19 hit the country. Readings above 50 signal an improvement in business conditions on the previous month, while readings below 50 show a deterioration. Panellists linked the slowdown to a weaker rise in new order inflows and a drop in household spending. According to Kuria Kamau, fixed income and currency strategist at Stanbic Bank, the pace of the post-pandemic recovery slowed down in February on account of a marginal increase in demand. ''The improvement in demand was negatively impacted by subdued cash flows in some sectors of the economy which resulted in limited household and client spending,'' Kamu said. The PMI hit 59.1 points in October last year; the highest since the survey began in January 2014. Output rose only marginally amid a modest increase in new order volumes as businesses reported that weak cash flow limited household and client spending. Purchase prices rose steeply, led by a hike in VAT at the start of the year. Input cost inflation eased though, partly due to firms lowering wages to support overall workforce numbers. The headline figure derived from the survey is the Purchasing Managers’ Index. New orders received by Kenyan firms increased only modestly half-way through the opening quarter of the year. The upturn slowed from January but was still quicker than those seen in the final two months of 2020. Demand trends often reflected the amount of cash flow in different parts of the economy, with some firms citing higher client demand but others reporting that a lack of cash led to a reduction in travel and spending. Slower sales growth was often related by panellists to a lack of cash flow in some parts of the economy, leading to reduced customer spending and travel. New orders from foreign clients grew only modestly, and to the least extent since last June. Consequently, firms raised purchasing activity at the slowest rate for six months, leading to a more modest uptick in inventory levels. High competition among vendors drove an improvement in delivery times, although some panellists reported delays on imported goods due to global supply shortages. Employment numbers increased only marginally in February, with firms also seeing a softer rise in outstanding work. Moreover, to maintain current staff levels, some businesses cut workers' salaries, leading to the fastest drop in average wage costs for seven months. Nevertheless, cost burdens were driven higher by another sharp increase in purchase prices. Respondents largely blamed the uptick on a recent hike in VAT, exacerbated by material shortages and higher fuel prices. Output charges rose for the second straight month in order to maintain firms’ margins. Business expectations for the year ahead dipped slightly in February, but remained above the level seen through the second half of 2020. About a third of surveyed firms expect output to rise, linked to plans for expansion and increased marketing activity. Backlogs of work increased further in February, extending the current run of accumulation to three months. According to anecdotal evidence, higher new order inflows, shortages of materials and strikes all contributed to a rise in outstanding business.