ODM leader Raila Odinga differed sharply with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi over the push by some leaders from the Coast for an alliance of the region's parties. The two faced off in Ganze, Kilifi, during a rally to popularise the Building Bridges Initiative after the six coastal assemblies passed the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Raila said he played a key role in Kingi's political success but the Kilifi governor now wants to abandon him when he needs his help. The ODM leader said he helped Kingi win the 2007 parliamentary election after which he made him a Cabinet minister in the Grand Coalition government. “I was with him in 2007. I supported him for governor and now that his term is ending, I wanted him to come to national politics. He now wants to run away and is talk about Kadu Asili. ODM was good for him all along but with 2022 approaching, he is now saying another party is better,” he stated. A section of ODM lawmakers led by Kingi are pushing for formation of a regional political party. Parties that have roots in the region include Kadu Asili, Shirikisho, Republican Congress and Umoja Summit. Kingi was elected to represent Magarini constituency in the National Assembly during the 2007 elections. He served as Cabinet minister for East African Community and also headed Fisheries Development ministry. Kingi said there were no plans of forming a new party but consolidating the existing ones in the region to come up with a coalition that will drive the political and economic agenda of the region. “Do not give us a bad name. As Coast leaders, we do not want to isolate the region. People should be allowed to form alliances. That is how we will respect each other,” the governor said. He added: “There is nothing wrong with coming together as a region. People are soaring high but when it comes to us, they tell us we are a threat to national unity” On Tuesday, Raila told off coastal leaders agitating for the region to chart its own path with a regional party terming it a threat to national unity. He said the leaders should instead concentrate on revamping the regional economic bloc that will benefit all residents and not a regional pact. On Wednesday, the ODM leader wondered why Kingi did not support other parties until now. “All these parties, Kadu Asili, Shirikisho and others were there before but now you think you do not need ODM,” he stated. Raila added that he wanted Kingi and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho to remain his point men at the Coast. “ODM is a national party. It has legislators from Kilifi, Wajir, Taita Taveta, Mombasa and so many other parts of the country,” he said. Raila added that it was wrong to say ODM is a party from Nyanza since its leader is from the region. “If Kingi becomes the party leader in ODM, will we say that the party's backyard is Kilifi? Let us not play politics that discriminate,” he posed. Kingi said the Registrar of Political Parties would not register a party if it did not have a national face. “All registered parties are national, that is why they have certificates. Nonetheless, all these parties have strongholds. Bandari FC is a team that plays national football but its base is at the Coast,” he explained. The Kilifi governor further pointed out that ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula are working on an alliance but nobody is criticising them. “When Kadu Asili and Shirikisho want to come together, then it becomes a problem. We are not forming a new party. It is existing parties coming together. Is that a sin?” he posed. Kingi said they should not be seen as tribal since Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka are also coming together. “We are not a threat to the country's peace. That is doublespeak and application of double standards,” he stated. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said there were no plans by the region to form a new party. “We cannot form a regional party. We are only talking about unity of the Coast. Do not be worried about it,” he told Raila. Other leaders who were at the event included Suna East MP Junet Mohammed, Kwale Senator Issa Boy and his Kilifi counterpart Stewart Madzayo. Edited by Henry Makori