President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto on Tuesday led Kenyans in condoling with the family of Royal Media Services journalist Robin Njogu. In their condolence messages, the two termed Njogu as a progressive journalist whose contribution to radio and online journalism has gone a long way in transforming the country’s media and communication sector. “Robin was an excellent journalist who mentored many young people in the Fourth Estate. We will forever cherish his skills and expertise in mass media, especially in radio where he has left a huge mark of excellence,"  Uhuru said. The head of state remembered Njogu as an innovative, resourceful and open-minded journalist whose contribution as a past member of State House press corp will be cherished forever. "Robin always had a Midas touch in transforming media stations into great communication and entertainment outlets. My interactions with Robin during his time in the press corp were always enriching. He was a trusted and very effective member of the team,” he said. Njogu, who was the Managing Editor, Radio at the Royal Media Services (RMS) succumbed to Covid-19 after battling the disease for three weeks. He was being treated at the Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. Days before his passing,  Njogu lost his mother and the President wished God's comfort and fortitude to the family as they mourn the two departed souls. Njogu's career stretches decades where he rose to the position of news editor at Capital FM, Managing Editor, Radio at Nation Media Group and later Managing Editor, Radio News at Royal Media Services. Among leaders who mourned his death included Deputy President (DP) William Ruto, Lands Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney, ICT CS Joe Mucheru, and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua. Royal Media Services (RMS) Managing Director Wachira Waruru said Njogu's death is a big loss not only to the Royal media family but also to the entire media fraternity in Kenya. Waruru said his legacy and contribution to the media industry, and radio journalism, in particular, will continue to impact many generations after him. “I received the news of Robin’s passing with shock and disbelief. Robin was a talented journalist and editor whose firm leadership ensured high-quality editorial products across all the RMS radio stations. Known for his gentle demeanour, Robin excelled at developing and keeping great talent within the stations and was always a step ahead of the competition,” he said. Waruru said Njogu exhibited a great understanding of the local news environment and the events that shape it. "I enjoyed our regular interactions as I sought his insights into various developments in the country. At the weekly editorial meeting which I chair, Robin’s well-thought-out perspectives always enriched our news agenda. He was a team player who never tired to reach across departments to meet the company’s goals,” he said. DP Ruto described him as a friendly, humble, and good man, traits many of the journalists who passed through his hands would attest to and affirm as true. “As the media fraternity can attest, Robin Njogu was friendly, humble, and a good man. He was a skilled, dedicated, and professional radio journalist who edited and reported on issues openly, independently, and honestly,” Ruto said. ICT CS Joe Mucheru said  Njogu was a consummate journalist and contributed heavily to the development of radio news in the country.