Kanbis stand-in skipper Vinod Rabadia has attributed their qualification to the final of Nairobi Invitational Cricket League Twenty20 tournament to clinical bowling efforts. Bowling first, the defending champions restricted their arch-rivals Swamibapa to 144 for five in the Qualifier 2 match at Nairobi Gymkhana before chasing down the target with three wickets in hand to set up a clash against Sir Ali Muslim Club. “The crucial part was to keep bowling in the right areas and not allowing them to settle. The credit needs to go to the bowlers. As a captain, I need to agree with them on the targets and allow them to execute,” Rabadia said after the match. Kanbis’ bowlers proved hard nuts to crack and only Irfan Karim (91) braved the heat with the rest of the Swamibapa batsmen struggling. The opener hit three sixes and seven boundaries in his 72-ball knock. After setting up an opening stand of 80 in 12.5 overs, Swamibapa could not keep up with the scoring tempo, managing only 60 in the remaining overs. “Thanks to the bowling department for finally getting us where we are this season. Swamibapa openers gave them a good start and looked like they would post a huge total but once we got Rushab out, everything started to flow and the bowlers did exactly what was expected of them,” Rabadia added. He also lauded the entire Kanbis team for producing a clinical performance when it mattered most. “The kind of response from the boys was brilliant. The way we batted to get over the line was very nice,” he said. Kanbis required 13 runs off two overs to book a date with Sir Ali for a third time in three weeks and veteran Ramesh Mepani hit Emmanuel Bundi for a six in penultimate over to inch closer to victory before Sachin Bhudia also hit a six off Nehemiah Odhiambo to seal the victory. Karim blamed his batting department for the loss. “We had a good start but after our stand was broken, we failed to recover. Their bowlers bowled amazingly thereafter,” he said. “None of the batsmen took the initiative to take the team through and there wasn’t a partnership building. Disappointing for us but a good learning experience.” Dhiren Gondaria, who was dismissed off the second ball of the chase, said Kanbis’ experience of winning big games did the trick. 