The closure of wildlife corridors and the rising Lake Naivasha waters have been identified as the major cause of human-wildlife conflict in the area. Animals in search of pasture after the grazing land around lake Victoria flooded, have been killed while crossing the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. A suspected wild cat invaded one of the homes on Kabati estate and killed 10 goats and sheep. During the incident, six other sheep were injured by the wild animal, sparking protests from residents who called on the Kenya Wildlife Service to control the animals. James Kimani, an elder, on Tuesday said the animal attacked the livestock when the owner was asleep. He said that in the last one month, they had spotted hyenas and wild cats along the highway, terming the situation dangerous to schoolchildren. “We suspect that the wild animals are escaping from KWS animal farm located off the highway and its time that this was addressed,” he said. Residents of Unity Farm in Naivasha are up in arms over the number of wild animals that are straying into their homes from the nearby KWS Training Institute. The number of buffaloes and zebras roaming in the village and the nearby Kayole estate has risen in the last month, raising fears of fatal attacks on residents. Lakeview MCA Simon Wanyoike said the problem started after a section of the fence around the institute was brought down by Ketraco staff working on a power line. He said this left wild animals roaming onto the two estates which are home to hundreds of residents. “We are concerned by the high number of wildlife roaming around Unity farm and Kayole estate and we have raised the issue with KWS personnel but no action has been taken,” he said. A senior KWS officer who declined to be named admitted that the cases were on the rise but blamed the attacks on human activity. “Traders have blocked nearly all corridors along the lake, the highway and wild animals have been pushed to the residential areas leading to the attacks, ” the officer said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris