Soy MP Caleb Kositany has changed his earlier decision of not challenging the move taken by the Jubilee Party to remove him as the deputy secretary-general. On Monday after the communication from the party secretary-general Raphael Tuju that Kositany ceased to be his deputy, the MP accepted the decision and vowed to concentrate on strengthening the United Democratic Alliance. "Jubilee is just a forgotten story. It will not be there in 2022. It will shrink to a very small party like its friend KANU," Kositany said in an interview with Citizen TV on Monday. But on Tuesday morning while appearing for an interview in KTN News virtually, the MP said that the laid down procedure for removal of a party official was not followed. “According to the Jubilee Party constitution, the National Management Committee does not have the authority to kick me out. I can only be removed if the NEC meets and form a disciplinary committee which will summon me before taking any action,” Kositany said. He continued that; “In that, I will petition, not because I want to remain in Jubilee but to demand the right procedure.” The MP added that until the right way is followed, he is still the member of the party and the deputy to Tuju. “They cannot remove me. I am an elected MP and not nominated. If they failed to kick away those who were nominated, how could they eject me?" he posed. Kositany faulted the party officials for being bias when it comes to party loyalty. The MP said that the party should have taken action against the leaders who were seen campaigning for the party opponents during the Kibra and Msambweni by-elections. "If it is following the law, let them take action against those who campaigned for an ODM aspirant during the Kibra by-election...let them take action against President Uhuru Kenyatta who campaigned for ODM candidate in Msambweni by-election and even took a photo with him," he said. Kositany has however said that he does not regret being involved in UDA politics. His position in Jubilee was on Monday taken by his Cherangany counterpart Joshua Kutuny. Kositany was the only ally to Deputy President William Ruto holding the key position in Jubilee Party. The removal of Kositany comes days after the Jubilee party chairman David Murathe who appeared with him in a tv interview predicted his ouster. Murathe had also said that the DP will be kicked out of his Karen residence home any time.