David Wakhu was the star attraction after wrapping up the Day One of Kenya Savannah Classic in joint 12th place. An eagle on the par 5, 11th saw the Golf Park pro close the day on 5 under par 66. Such was the excitement that characterised Wakhu’s fairy tale run at the at the Par 71 Karen Country Club course. “It’s such a good feeling after failing to make the cut in the Kenya Open. I hit the ball with precision and I’m glad this went as planned,” said Wakhu. Kenya Open champion Justin Harding led a four-player tie at the summit, setting the mood for some great days ahead. Harding carded -7 on the opening day of the European Tour event for the top spot with three other pros namely—Joost Luiten (Netherlands), Clément Sordet (Frenchman) and Alejandro Cañizares (Spain). Apart from Wakhu, was another bad day in the office for Kenyans with most carding bad scores. Dismas Indiza and Mohit Mediratta carded a 72 while Greg Snow shot -1.Kenyan sensation Samuel Njoroge played level par 71. Joint leader Joost was all smiles. “Seven under is a really good score around here. No bogeys on the card is always a good thing and seven birdies. I had a couple more chances but I’m very happy with seven under and it’s a good position for the rest of the week.” Another joint leader Sordet 64 (-7) said: “It was really good fun. Last week was not great. I didn’t play my best but I practiced well yesterday and my game feels really good now. I just didn’t score well last week so it’s nice to score seven under today.” Njoroge said: “It was a good score for me because the course is playing tough today. The wind and the greens are rolling very fast so a level par score is a good one for me to start the Savannah Classic. Today I’ve minimised my mistakes. I had three bogeys and three birdies which I am very happy about. The strategy today is to make the cut first, maybe minus three or four to make the cut.” DAY ONE LEADER BOARD Joost Luiten (Ned)-7 Clément Sordet (FRA)-7 Alejandro Cañizares (Esp)-7 Justin Harding (RSA)-7 T5. Mathiam Keyser (RSA)-6 Marcus Armitage-6 Ross Mcgowan (Eng) -6 Daniel Van Tonder, (RSA) -6 David Drysdale (Sco) -6  