Mombasa has recorded a low uptake of the Covid-19 vaccine, according to data from the Health department. The county received 9,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine on Tuesday last week. The Kenya Naval base in Mtongwe also received 3,000 doses. County officials say there is a lot of misconception about the vaccine. By the end of the first week, only 307 health workers and frontline workers had been vaccinated. Speaking to the Star, county director of communications Richard Chacha said they had targeted about 4,500 health workers. “There has been very slow uptake of the vaccine, we had targeted all the 4,500 health workers who include nurses, doctors, nurses, clinical officers, mortuary attendants and every other person who works at the front line, but they have not been coming out,” Chacha said. He said on the first day of the vaccination exercise, only 39 people came out, the second day, 63 people, 105 people were tested on the third day and another 100 people were vaccinated on the fourth day. Chacha said the national government needs to enlighten the frontline workers on the importance of the vaccine because there has been a lot of propaganda surrounding the vaccine. “The frontline workers need to be enlightened so that they can embrace this vaccination programme,” Chacha said. Last week, Mombasa public health chief officer Pauline Oginga was the first senior county official to be vaccinated. In the Coast region, Mombasa, Taita Taveta, Lamu, Kilifi and Kwale have already received the vaccines. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi on Monday said they had received 4,500 jabs of AstraZeneca vaccines from the Ministry of Health. “We are targeting to vaccinate our frontline health workers, teachers and security officers who are the main players in fighting this common enemy,” Kingi said. He urged the frontline health workers to voluntarily take part in the exercise. “I would like to assure them of its safety as the vaccines have been tested and approved by the World Health Organization, as well as our very own Kenya Medical Research Institute,” Kingi said. In Taita Taveta, to assure the health workers of the safety of the vaccine, Governor Samboja went for the jab on Saturday. “Today, I have received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. I urge our people and the rest of Kenyans to embrace the vaccine because it will help us strengthen immunity, protect our loved ones and the community from the virus,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris