One of the ideologies that govern the corporate world is that: success cures all. Whoever you are or whatever you are going through, just succeed, and everything will be fine. So that now, like addicts with Crystal Meth, success is the common drug – and like meth, the effects are the same. Many professionals are crushed under the pressure of this ideology, and it’s getting bad. But why won’t success addicts stop? One reason is: the drive. Generally, this ideology blinds professionals to the nature of what drives them. Therefore, they only celebrate their successes, but seldom question their drive. I know that you are successful, but what drives you? Is your drive hurting or healing you? Is it making or breaking you? Also, is your drive healthy or unhealthy? Many professionals are driven to success by past unhealed trauma, money, shame, inferiority complex, poverty trauma, unhealthy ego, abuse, betrayal, fear, rejection, anger, insecurities, etc., and they believe that success would cure these deep inner wounds. Success is the drug that they choose to manage or end the pain from these challenging experiences. Eventually, they discover that it is unhealthy and does not work because they are trying to use outward success to heal inward wounds. Here, their drive breaks them. You know that your drive is breaking you when you succeed at the expense of your well-being. You make plenty of money, but your body is falling apart because you have ignored your health. You’re rich but have bad relationships with your children, family, and friends; people cannot stand you. You’re on top of your game and well-respected in the corporate world, but you are suicidal, lonely, miserable inside, and have a toxic personal life – you think of ending your life all day long. These are all signs that your drive is breaking you. When you are driven by purpose and a deep sense of wholeness, then your drive is healthy. This means that you don’t sacrifice your well-being on the altar of success. You have the wisdom to excel at work while enjoying growth in your soul. No, you’re not perfect, but you are intentional about your wholeness. You don’t live for success alone; you’re not a slave to success. You can enjoy success as a healthy soul from a healthy, wholesome place. If your drive is breaking you, seek help. There is no shame in admitting that your success is suffocating you. Fear not; you can heal. Now, go for it. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com