Governor Jackson Mandago has hinted that he will run for another seat when his term ends next year. Mandago said on Tuesday he was still young and energetic and residents of the county will determine which seat he will go for. On December 14 last year, Mandago claimed he wanted to become a full-time peacemaker. Sources close to the governor indicate, however,  he may vie for the Senate seat occupied  by Professor Margaret Kamar. “I am still very energetic and can be stubbornly around. When I finish my term next year, you people of Uasin Gishu will decide on where to place me," Mandago said. He was speaking at Jakaiya with Soy MP Caleb Kositany and politician Jonathan Bii, a leading candidate to succeed Mandago. Analysts say the race will be between Bii and businessman Bundotich Kiprop, also known as Buzeki. Kostany has also indicated that he run but he is yet to decide. Mandago warned political aspirants to avoid propagating tribalism or hatred ahead of next year's elections. He said violence and hate speech were unacceptable because the country must remain peaceful and united during and after elections to develop. The governor said  aspirants in Uasin Gishu will not be allowed to hold meetings aimed inciting residents. “We will not compromise on peace issues," Mandago said. A week ago the governor had cautioned residents not to elect  a “fake successor" “to take over from him in 2022. Mandago said many people were lining up to succeed him but residents  should be careful not elect someone who will take back the county backward. Mandago jokingly said if residents elect a 'fake person', he may even refuse to hand over to ensure the county remains stable. “Even all those jumping here and there saying they want to be governor must know I am still the governor until at midnight August 22 next year. And if you joke around as residents and elect a fake person, I may even refuse to hand over," Mandago said. He said Eldoret was aiming to be a city like Nairobi and his administration  had laid the  ground for quick and modern growth, hence, the need for a serious leader to take over from him. “This is a development county and we don’t want people who will come around with incitement or jokes," Mandago said. More than 10 people have declared interest in succeeding Mandago and will be seeking the UDA ticket in the county that is home to DP William Ruto who will be vying for presidency. The governor has frequently cautioned residents not to harbour deep feelings in politics which is bound to change with disappointments all the time. “The best thing is to keep the peace and concentrate on your life because  politics will come and go. I am among those who used to harshly oppose Raila Odinga but I was shocked to find him in the corridors of State House and there is nothing I could do about it," Mandago said. (Edited by V. Graham) 