The Centre for Multiparty Democracy (CMD-Kenya) now says political parties are to blame for misconduct witnessed in various by-elections. Executive Director Frankline  Mukwanja said political parties are supposed to be vehicles that ensure good governance of a country. In a statement to the newsroom, Mukwanja said it is therefore a paradox that the parties have serious challenges as they showcased in the Thursday by-elections. "As such, although many politicians who are party members have engaged in acts prohibited in Kenya law such as assault, libel, and hate speech and some have been arrested by the police for the crimes, there has not been a case of apolitical party reprimanding its members," he said. Mukwanja argued that to that extent, the informality or lack of professionalism in political parties is the cause of public concern and not consistent to peacebuilding within and between political parties. "We hereby challenge all the concerned political parties to bring to book their members who were involved in the violent and criminal acts, take strong and decisive action to ensure no further attacks on the democracy of our nation as no cause can justify such brutality and violence witnessed," he said. He said CMD-Kenya registers grave concern and displeasure over the incidents of violence during the by-elections in Matungu and Kabuchai Constituencies, London and Kiamokama wards in Kakamega, Bungoma, Nakuru and Kisii Counties respectively. Mukwanja said acts of intimidation and political violence are unacceptable in a democracy, and those responsible for instigating such violence should be brought to justice. "We call on all parties to respect the democratic principles that are set out in Kenya’s constitution and which will contribute to a peaceful, just and democratic society," he said. "What we witnessed yesterday was a total violation of the rights and freedoms of the electorate, and a threat to the peace and security of the citizens at large, who are at the core of a country’s democracy," he added. Mukwanja said it is high time for the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC), the Registrar of Political Parties, the National Cohesion and Integrity Commission, the National Police Service and the Director of Public Prosecutions to take decisive action to protect the rights of Kenyans by holding to account those responsible for perpetrating violence. His sentiments come after IG Hillary Mutyambai directed that the four MPs who were arrested in the chaos be charged and arraigned in court. The four close allies of Deputy President William Ruto were presented in court but released on  Sh50,000 cash bail. They are Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, Kimilili's Didimus Barasa, Chesumei's Wilson Kogo and  Belgut's Nelson Koech. Mutyambai said the National Police Service notes with a lot of concern the continued increasing levels of misconduct by politicians during elections. "The IG warns the leaders that we shall not tolerate such misconduct and that stern action will be taken against them. The IG has instructed police commanders of jurisdictions where by-elections were carried out to arraign and charge the four leaders who were arrested," the statement said.