  More than 250,000 livestock have been vaccinated in Hulugho, Daadab, Lagdera and Balambala subcounties of Garissa after a week's drive, CEC Mohamed Shale has said. The vaccination is targeting one million livestock with half of the number set to be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive. County director of veterinary services Haret Hambe said the teams dispatched to four subcounties were making good progress. Addressing the press in Bananey on Tuesday, Haret said the animals are being vaccinated against four trans-border livestock diseases. He said the exercise entails deworming, spraying against ectoparasites, treatment of clinical cases and animal health extension services for the pastoralists. Haret appreciated the positive response from pastoralists. "It is an international requirement for the county/country to vaccinate annually at least 80 per cent of its livestock population against the trans-border livestock diseases in a bid to promote safe trade in livestock and livestock product," Haret said during a supervision of the exercise at Boranis in Dertu. “We are impressed by the willingness of the herders to bring their animals for vaccination. Those tasked with mobilising and creating the awareness prior to the exercise did a commendable job,” he said. He said the department of veterinary services surpassed the one million target of vaccination of livestock last year. He said livestock farming is the main economic lifeline for the pastoralist’s communities and that the vaccination drive was part of a wider effort to support the sector. Haret said the county government would be reaching out to the neighbouring counties to develop an annual synchronised vaccination programme to eradicate the trans-border livestock diseases. He thanked the World Bank-supported Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture programme and the regional pastoral livelihood resilience project for their support in the vaccination exercise. Local leaders and herders appreciated the county government support. Hadun assistant chief Abdullahi Orre said the exercise was timely especially during the dry season where large herds of livestock were converging at Banane springs, shallow wells and boreholes in search of water. Orre said 80 per cent of the livestock within Bananey have been vaccinated.  Edited by P.O