The Vihiga has released Sh138 million to Vocational Education and Training centers as capitation fee. The money is to sponsor learners in acquiring valuable skills at a fair cost. Governor Wilber Ottichilo said the county had disbursed the first tranche of Sh69 million to the institutions in January and that the second disbursement of the other Sh69 million will be made this week. "Vihiga became the first county to implement the capitation fee policy where we match funds shilling for shilling with the Subsidized Vocational Training Grant from the National Government," Ottichilo said. The governor spoke during a meeting with the institutions' boards of governors in Mbale town on Thursday. He said his administration is keen on taking skills training to the next level. Ottichilo said his government's priority is to scale up training in Vocational Training Centres in order to produce skilled manpower that will help in wealth creation. He gave the example of the Netherlands where Vocational Training is at the heart of learning in every discipline. "I lived in the Netherlands for six years and I discovered the enrolment in Vocational Training Centers is higher than in universities," he said. "This shows the Dutch Government is Keen on producing a skilled workforce that can drive the country's technological goals to the next level." He challenged the boards to be innovative and initiate income-generating activities at their respective institutions for sustainability. TVET chief officer Abisai Amatalo said the department will endeavour to give the necessary attention to Vocational Training Centres to achieve the goals set in the governor's manifesto. “We have made the environment favourable for all learners. We cater for uniforms, fees and so parents only need to provide food and exam fee,” Amatalo said. County TVET director Charles Avedi said Ottichilo's administration has redefined Vocational Education and Training. Enrolment at Vocational Training Centres is at 4,500 up from 1,300 in 2017. Vihiga has 30 Vocational Training Centres.  Edited by P.O