A local company is set to process hyacinth and other harmful weeds and produce organic manure. Hyaquip Company has signed an agreement with the Climate Bonds Initiative, an international organisation working to promote investment in projects and assets necessary for a rapid transition to a low carbon and climate resilient economy globally. Through the agreement signed in October last year, the company will help clear over 150,000 acres of land of hyacinth, the poisonous Prosopis Juliflora also known as Mathenge, cactus and euphobias in Baringo and counties bordering Lake Victoria. It will work with over 10,000 youth, women and community-based organisations that will harvest and sell the weeds to the firm at Sh12 per kilogram. Through the bond, the company will import and set up weeds processing equipment at a cost of Sh112 million in each location that will have the capacity to process over 8,000 metric tonnes of weeds per annum. The equipment will enable the groups to generate over Sh96 million per year while paying for the equipment at Sh185,000 per month. Simon Mwaura, the company’s director, said the firm that has established itself in water and waste management, will help transfer the foreign technology which will go a long way in boosting the economies of the affected areas while benefiting local cottage industries. Mwaura however noted that due to the high amount of the bond involved, many local financial institutions declined to be involved in the project hindering its take-off. In August 2013, the company wrote to the Central Bank and Capital Markets Authority declaring its intention to raise $364 billion (Sh39.9 trillion) from global investors, mainly to fight hyacinth, and its intended proceeds. While seeking CMA’s approval, the company said the water hyacinth invention will greatly boost the economy and improve local standards of living. “The water hyacinth technology copyright bond will have a 10-year tenure and an interest rate pegged on the current international rates. The funds raised will be used to finance the proposed production and processing facilities in any of the affected locations in the world,” the letter read in part. Early this year, CMA confirmed its support for the project saying the amount involved was not too huge to be handled by the local economy. Hyaquip has since acquired the services of an investment bank and an agreement is set to be signed for the project to take off. In 1996, Mwaura successfully extracted nitrogen, phosphorous, potassium, macro and micro nutrients from 100 per cent organic biomass, mainly hyacinth and other plants with soft tissues, to make liquid and granular organic fertiliser. The fertiliser was tested and approved in the US and in Kenya, and met the United Nations standards of less than two per cent carbon levels. It is on this basis that the Climate Bond initiative has entered into an agreement with his company. Mwaura has urged the government to consider commercialising hyacinth to provide avenues for scientists to come up with permanent solutions for its eradication. He said commercialising the aquatic weed will provide a forum for researchers to deduce various products from it and provide a lasting solution that will curb its spread. In 2015, Mwaura invented a way to grind maize cobs that are normally discarded into flour saying it contained potassium, phosphorous, magnesium and vitamins, and that it was ideal for diabetic people as it increased metabolism and reduced inflammation. He said the technology had the ability to save many from starvation in drought stricken areas as the flour swells to a bigger volume when cooked and makes one feel full for longer. But it is in 2013 that Mwaura’s inventions put him in conflict with the law when he produced food supplements made from bhang and asked the government to legalise the outlawed crop. He said he had been able to isolate the addictive part of the plant, making the supplements consumable. The supplements, he said, also acted as an alcohol neutraliser and addiction suppressor, and that legalising it would help the government control its production as Kenyans benefited from its products. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara