Athletics Kenya plan to use the final leg of the AK track and field weekend meet on April 2-3 as pre-trials for the World Athletics Under-20 Championships. AK's youth development committee director, Barnaba Korir, said the plans have been necessitated by the packed athletics calendar, which includes the Tokyo Olympics for which many athletes are yet to qualify. "We are going to have a separate category for the juniors to compete at the final track and field weekend meet. "For example, juniors in the 5,000m final will have a separate race rather than compete alongside the seniors. We are currently working on the programme and as such, the final meet may take three days unlike the previous ones," Korir said. He added that the pre-trials will be a build-up on the Under-20 trials held in November last year to whip the athletes into shape after a long period of inactivity due to the coronavirus pandemic. "We had a meeting as the youth development committee and decided that the juniors will enter residential camp on April 15. First, however, they will have to compete at these pre-trials on April 2-3 after which we will select the best ones to go into the camp," he said. The residential camps will be situated in different regions in the country rather than in one place as has been the case, Korir added. Furthermore, he said Form four candidates who may miss out on the pre-trials due to KCSE examinations will still get a chance to battle for a place in the team. "Those doing exams will still have a chance during the final trials in July. So it is no problem," he said. The World Athletics Under-20 Championships — initially slated for July 7-12 last year — were postponed to August 17-22 this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. The event will be held at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani, bringing together approximately 2,000 athletes from 214 countries. Korir exuded confidence that the juniors would successfully defend the title won at the last edition in Tampere, Finland in 2018. "From the November pre-trials, we selected around 80 athletes who we have been following closely ever since to see how they are progressing with their training. Most of them made it to the Kenyan team to the Africa Cross Country Championships, which was unfortunately postponed at the last minute," he said. 