Parents of one of the oldest primary schools in Lari constituency have appealed to the government to supply water to the institution. Pupils of Kamae Primary School in Kinale have to go deep into a forest every morning to fetch water for class cleaning. They also refill hand washing tanks outside their classrooms. After arriving in the morning, they pick up jerrycans, cross Gatundu North road and enter Kamae forest to fetch water from the Kia S River. Parents have raised concerns that it is a risky venture. They want water piped to the school. Joseph Muturi said their children have to cross the busy road every day. He said children find it easy to fetch water from the river, instead of carrying from home every day. "A few pupils carry water, but many fetch water. We need assistance to avoid this disturbance every morning," he said. Njoroge Mureithi said the pupils enjoy cleaning their new classrooms following an upgrade initiated by area MP Jonah Mburu, through the CDF office, during the long closure due to the coronavirus. "When the schools were closed by the government as it fought to lower the spread of the coronavirus, the MP visited some schools and facelifted so many. Kamae was one of them and pupils enjoy washing the classrooms and verandahs, let alone refilling handwashing tanks," Mureithi said. "Surprisingly, the MP was a pupil in this school. He started at the Forest Nursery but he was transferred when he was in Standard 3." Mburu said he was shocked to learn that the school, which was started by white settlers who occupied Kinale forest in 1958, had never been facelifted. "We facelift schools to ensure hygiene, motivate pupils, teachers and parents" the legislator said. Headteacher Francis Muraga told education officer Fidelis Mburu, who was inspecting the school on Wednesday, that the forest neighbours the Aberbare forest that has wild animals such as elephants and monkeys, hence the children could be in danger. He said he had written to the CDF office again requesting it to connect the school with a nearby piped water supply. "We are not happy at all when our pupils fetch water. The supply is about 800 metres from the school. I have written a proposal to the CDF, requesting for assistance," he said. MP Mburu acknowledged receipt of the proposal and said it was being discussed so help can be accorded as quickly as possible. He said that before the end of this year, all primary and secondary schools will be facelifted, so they do not appeared neglected, a situation he said can demoralise hardworking learners and teachers. The education officer praised the legislator for refurbishing schools, adding that eight out of nine primary schools in Kinale ward were improved. "The classrooms appeared pathetic, but now they appear modern and teachers and learners are enjoying it. This motivates a lot," the officer said.  Edited by F'Orieny 