Acts of violence and voter bribery marred the Matungu by-election on Thursday. ODM MCA Libinus Oduori was arrested outside Mwira polling station for allegedly dishing out money and face masks to voters. A vehicle belonging to businessman Cleophas Shimanyula was damaged by angry youths. IT was taken to Indangalasia police station. Earlier, former sports CS Rashid Echesa slapped a presiding officer at Ebilonga polling station. Accompanied by the UDA candidate Alex Lanya, they had confronted an electoral official Peter Okuro on claims he had blocked their party agents from the polling station. He queried the official on why they had barred their agent and before he could reply, he slapped him and warned him of dire consequences. "Utaona (you will see)", he shouted as captured on video. An ODM agent was beaten and injured by UDA supporters after he was discovered campaigning inside a polling station. The man was an agent at Namamba polling station where he was spotted talking to voters. "I escorted him to bite and then out where he was beaten up by angry people who accused him of voter bribery. My mandate ends within the demarcated polling station, " said Namamba returning officer Patrick Kisiangani. There was also a confrontation between UDA and ANC agents who demanded that Homa Bay Woman MP Gladys Wanga leave the tallying center at Bulinbo Primary School as they accused her of planning to bribe voters. Wanga and Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala argued before the situation was calmed by electoral officials and police. Wanga insisted that she was an agent for the ODM candidate David Were. Incidents of voter bribery were also reported at Namulungu and Indangalasia polling stations. There was heavy security presence in some polling stations. However, little attention was given social distancing and anti-Covid-19 safety protocols. Candidates had on Wednesday protested that the requirement was unconstitutional. Police mounted road blocks on major roads in the constituency where they searched all vehicles. The IEBC deployed 600 poll officials to man all the 116 polling stations across the  wards in the constituency. The by-election attracted 15 candidates, among them 9 Independents who include the late MP Justus Murunga's widow Christabel Amunga and son Eugene Ambwere. Other candidates are ANC's Peter Nabulindo, Charles Kasamani(UDP), Paul Achato(MDG) and Raids Auma of Maendeleo Chap Chap and independents Bernard Wakoli, Wilberforce Outta, Kevin Nectus, Anzelimo Kongoti and Gregory Atoko. The seat fell vacant following Murunga's death on November 14.