Money transfer platform Chipper Cash has partnered with Atoto Sports Management to provide local coaches from disadvantaged backgrounds with opportunities to improve their knowledge and skills. The partnership will enable beneficiaries access the latest, world class coaching tactics via the Supa Coach app — a European standard digital training platform operated by Atoto. "Not only are we assisting coaches from disadvantaged backgrounds access world class training but also helping the many youth training under these coaches with proper soccer skills. One coach can reach between 100 to 500 children and we would like to benefit more than ten thousand youth in Kenya with this initiative,” Leon Kiptum, Chipper Cash's country manager said. Kiptum also announced that Chipper Cash will empower the coaches on prudent financial management as part of the partnership. "We shall also use this initiative to enhance financial literacy amongst coaches in Kenya. We want to make sure success on the field of play has to be matched by success off the field of play," he said. The financial literacy training will be the second in Africa after another one with young footballers in Nigeria. Speaking at the same event to unveil the partnership on Thursday at Radisson Hotel, Nairobi, Atoto Sports Management CEO  Nick Kimanthi expressed confidence the new partnership is the start of brighter times for many coaches and young, talented footballers who are still raw. “As a Sports Agency, one of the challenges we face when trying to get our players to sign professional contracts in Europe is that the market is very competitive and our players lack basic soccer skills. We are happy that our partnership with Chipper Cash, will see grass root coaches obtain skills on how to develop players in all age categories, and change the lives of thousands of youths in the process,” Kimanthi said. Also in attendance at the event were Football Kenya Federation CEO Barry Otieno and Harambee Stars assistant coach Musa Otieno.