Dear Sports CS Amina Mohamed, it doesn’t make sense locking fans out of matches when politicians are roaming the country drumming support for every goal they have. It pains every sport stakeholder to see thousands of people at political rallies yet stadiums remain a no-go zone for sports enthusiasts. Sports teams, especially football and rugby, badly need fans back in the stadiums. Most of these teams depend on the small amount they get from match-day tickets, without which they wouldn’t survive for long. Allowing a section of fans — say 50 or 75 per cent — into stadiums will go a long way in supporting and giving sports fans around the country a chance to watch their favourite teams once again. Madam, I do feel you should do more to convince the Ministry of Health and State House that a controlled number of fans can be allowed back into the stadiums while adhering to all health protocols. After all, the same has been done in other places, such as Tanzania and in Europe. If we can watch football in pubs, go to Amapiano concerts and attend political rallies, why can’t we be at Moi Stadium, Kasarani or RFUEA Grounds? Please, tell me how political rallies, Amapiano concerts and night clubs in Kenya are geared for social distancing and safety than a more bio-secure environment of Kasarani and Nyayo stadiums? These stadiums have the highest safety and sanitisation standards as we saw when Kabras Sugar took on Kenya Harlequin in the Sisimka Charity Cup. Stadiums and match venues can be modified and carefully managed to accommodate a limited number of fans. The 60,000-capacity Kasarani and Nyayo Stadium are open-air venues and are suited to implementing the Covid-19 prevention guidelines, such as social distancing and temperature checks at the entrance. Fans would also be required to wear face masks at all times as part of a code of conduct for all stakeholders. Fans need sports and they’ll do all they can adhere to these protocols. Eric Njiru is a Football Presenter on 103.5 Homeboyz Radio’s Football Fanzone every Saturday 12-4 pm and Sunday afternoon. 