Most cattle meat for sale in much of Western Kenya is from animals smuggled from a neighbouring country, Kenya Revenue Authority has warned. The authority said most of the cattle being slaughtered and sold in Nyanza and Western are smuggled from Uganda and Tanzania. KRA says apart from liquor and sugar, cattle is now among the commonly smuggled items from the two neighbouring countries. Speaking in Kisumu on Saturday after witnessing the launch of a surveillance boat at Kisumu pier, KRA acting Western region coordinator Jonah Ogaro said a lot of smugglers have been intercepted by the taxman in Lake Victoria and arraigned. Ogaro said the animals are smuggled into the two regions through  Lake Victoria which is shared by the two EAC states. “From Uganda, the smugglers bring in mainly sugar, an assortment of manufactured goods and cattle,” he said. The smugglers cross over through Muhuru Bay and Riemba Island which serves as the main entry points for the uncustomed goods, the KRA official said at the weekend. Ogaro said Uganda Waragi was not safe for consumption because it is not certified by the Kenya Bureau of Standards and warned locals against consuming it. The authority also impounded commodities that were destined to the local market. “Most of the culprits were arraigned to face relevant charges while the illegal goods impounded had fines imposed,” he said. He said smuggling was a serious challenge in the region which has repeatedly been a topic of discussion by the regional security committee where KRA is a member. “We are keen to secure the borders as a multi-agency team and facilitate legal trade. We had a recent meeting with governors in the lake region and they also raised this matter,” he said. They said KRA and other agencies charged with the mandate of securing the nation’s borders were concerned about the rampant smuggling of the cheap illicit liquor that endangers the lives of many local youths. To secure the lake, KRA in partnership with the Japan International Cooperation Agency and United Nations Office of Project Services at the weekend launched a new surveillance boat which will be based in Muhuru Bay. The vessel MV KRA 007 will be part of the KRA fleet and will be deployed to patrol and engage in surveillance of Kenyan territorial waters along the notorious Muhuru Bay. Ogaro said that between July and December last year, KRA's  maritime unit intercepted illegal goods worth Sh15 million. The authority facilitated trade worth Sh500 million in the same period within Western Kenya.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris