Public transport vehicle operators have demanded they be allowed to carry full capacity and the revocation of an order requiring monthly fumigation certificates. This was when he delivered the 14th address on the coronavirus pandemic at State House, Nairobi. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai and the Association of Bus Operators of Kenya chairman Edwins Mukabanah made the appeal on Sunday. They said earnings have dwindled since social distancing measures were imposed last year to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Covid-19 protocols require PSVs to carry not more than 60 per cent of their capacities. In his address to the nation on Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Transport CS James Macharia and his Health counterpart Mutahi Kagwe to revise the Covid-19 guidelines for the public transport sector. On Sunday, Kimutai said the sector was suffering. "We need to be allowed to carry full capacity with other protocols such as hand sanitisation and the wearing of face masks enforced," Kimutai said. There are over 60,000 matatus and buses operating countrywide according to the Matatu Owners Association. It puts the industry’s gross earnings at more than Sh1 billion a day. Currently, a 14-seater matatu carries 9 passengers. Boda boda riders can only carry one passenger. Mukabanah said the matatu sector did not get a stimulus package and should therefore be allowed to fully operate. He said it would make no difference with Standard Gauge Railway where the trains carry full capacity. "We also want the certificate obtained from Health ministry every month after fumigation of vehicles and putting sanitizers done away with," Mukabanah said. He said the certificate had been turned into a cash cow by some officials. Mukabanah said long-distance buses should be allowed to complete their journeys even after the onset of curfew hours. He said county governments were to provide handwashing points at bus parks but have failed to do so. "Sensitisation needs to be carried out among the operators using Covid-19 funds. None has however been done." On Friday, Uhuru said the virus has developed mutations that have been reported in Britain, Brazil and South Africa. "We do not know how it will spread and the havoc it will wreak on our population," he said. Some 1,879 people have died from Covid-related complications since last year.  Edited by P.O