Heavyweight pugilist Elly Ajowi capped off his glittering career with a coveted gold as Kenya's Hit Squad plundered a whopping 13 medals on the final day of Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship in Kinshasa, DRC. The Tokyo Olympics Games-bound boxer is part of a strong contingent of sixteen Hit Squad members who return to the country chins up after the eventful swoop that saw them bag a gold, five silver, and seven bronze medals. Ajowi,  a National Police Service officer, exhibited exceptional form against Cameroonian Yegnong Maxime whom he schooled and pulverized in equal measure during their fiercely contested bout on Friday night. And as the judges returned their final verdict, an overwhelmed Ajowi punched triumphantly into the air before jumping up and down in ecstatic celebration as a bewildered Maxime increasingly grew green with envy in the full flash of the dazzling floodlights. While Maxime rued a missed opportunity to fly his country's flag high, his compatriot Tchouta Mbianda bounced back emphatically with a major upset on Hit Squad captain Nick Okoth whom he dispatched on a unanimous points decision in the 57kgs category. The Hit Squad's medal overhaul marked a new milestone in history with four female boxers successfully claiming their clout in the male-dominated sport. Commonwealth bronze medallist Christine Ongare (flyweight) had a perfect opportunity to lay claim to gold but she eventually settled for silver after her doctors advised her to throw in the towel without stepping into the ring. The decision followed a serious injury she had previously sustained when Burundian Havyarimana Ornella elbowed her in the eye during their opening bout. Stacy Ayoma (lightweight), Elizabeth Akinyi (welterweight) and Elizabeth Andiego (middleweight) got a bronze medal each. Joshua Wasike's dream for a gold medal turned into ashes after he crashed out to Dimuntu Chipateau of DRC on a unanimous points decision in the 91kgs category. Welterweight Boniface Mugunde lost narrowly to Kayla Engulu of DRC in the 69kgs category to walk away with a silver medal. Flyweight David Karanja also won a silver after falling to Mungu Biakulolowa of DRC in the 52kgs bout. Both Edwin Okong'o and Cosby Ouma won bronze in the middleweight category as light heavyweight Hezron Maganga too settled for bronze. As a way of appreciating their milestone, the Hit Squad were hosted for dinner at the residence of Kenyan Ambassador to the Democratic Republic of Congo His Excellency Dr George Masafu. 