Ten Kenyan pugilists will be breaking sweat in the ring as the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship enters its fourth day in Kinshasa DRC this evening (Wednesday). The Hit Squad have registered mixed results since the first day of the competition with four of them using the stage to gauge their preparedness for the Olympic games later in July. Tokyo-bound Christine Ongare will look to redeem herself from her daunting loss to Modestine Zalia of Congo on Wednesday when she takes on Ndongala Rosette of DRC in the women's 51kg category. It will be her third successive bout in the tournament, having initially taken off on a high note with a convincing unanimous points decision win over Burundian Ornella. Martin Oluoch has a match against Kitangila Kitangika of DRC in the 57kgs category. Oluoch hasn't quite had a real chance to test his mantle in the games this far. He had a walk in the park on Wednesday after his opponent failed to show up. His compatriot Nicholas Okong'o will be trading blows with Anbeeah of Libya in the same category. Bonface Mogunde has a date with Bilrashid of Libya in the 69kgs category. The fleet-footed and fiery Kenyan saw off Mpiana Kalumbu on a unanimous points decision yesterday. Veteran boxer Hezron Maganga will flex muscles with Ifraydhah in the 81kgs. Maganga lost to Congolese Pogba Mkulu yesterday. Elizabeth Akinyi who is also using the competition to gauge her preparedness for the Tokyo Olympics will be strutting her stuff against Brigitte Mbabi of Congo in the 69kgs category. The Kenyan lost to Panguana in her Wednesday bout. Her namesake Elizabeth Andiego will be up against Tshibala Bala of DRC in the 75kgs category. Andiego lost to Rudy Gramane of Burundi in her first bout. Edwin Okong'o has a task ahead against David Tshama of Congo in the 75kgs category. He'll be riding on the back of an emphatic victory against another Congolese Mouanda Styven on Wednesday. Another Kenyan George Cosby will hope to draw first blood when he takes on Kalala Bulaba of Congo. Joshua Wasike steps in the ring against Chapiteau Dimintu of DRC in the 91kgs category. Wasike had a good performance against Ibrahim of Algeria on Wednesday. 