The Garissa senatorial by-election slated for May 18 might be uncontested following the clans' endorsement of the late Senator Yusuf Haji’s son Abdul Haji. Garissa County is made up of three major clans, namely, Abduwak, Aulihan and Abdallah. Clans play an integral role in the endorsement of candidates who, in most cases, end up winning. On Saturday, the family said in a statement after deliberations they have fronted the second born son to finish his late father's second –term in the senate. His Abdalla clan has also endorsed him. On Saturday during a fundsdrive at Garissa hotel, politicians led by Garissa Governor Ali Korane Korane and Eldas MP Aden Keynan said the best honour they can give to the late senator was electing his son to complete the remaining term. Governor Korane said that negotiations and meetings bringing together local leaders and clan elders were ongoing to ensure Abdul, whose real name is Abdikadir Mohamed, is not only the clans choice but is also elected unopposed. “The late Haji was embodiment of peace and true leadership not only in our county but in the entire country. The best way to honor him is having his son succeed him,” said Korane. Keynan, who echoed Korane’s sentiment noting that now that the family and clan have already given the nod, said "it should be all system go". “What we are doing as leaders together with our elders in fronting Haji’s son and urging the residents to support is not new. It happen before and will happen again. After all he capable sons to take over the mantle,” Keynan. Keynan insisted that splitting Ijara constituency and Wajir south remained top in the late Haji’s priority and the only way to honor him was actualising the dream. On his part, Baringo Senator Gedion Moi, who is also Kanu national chair, said Garissa should support Haji’s son to deliver the seat. So far no other candidate has declared interest in the senator’s seat. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has already scheduled the by-election for May 18. The election will be held together with those of Bonchari and Juja constituencies as well as Rurii Ward in Nyandarua. Abdul, a renowned businessman, is featured among private arm holders who played a key role in the rescue mission during the Westgate Mall attack. Abdul was among a small group of plain-clothes policemen who helped to rescue dozens of people from the Westgate mall. He had gone in search of his brother, armed only with a pistol that his late father had taught him to hunt with as a child.