Since the pandemic started, so many people looked for things to keep them occupied when they were at home. Gaming was one of the activities some people went for. Some wanted to learn how to play so they were watching videos of how people play or they upload videos on how they are playing which led to apps like Twitch being popular and used for streaming games. It has many user-friendly options for both viewers and streamers, desktop, mobile and set-top box apps, varied content, and free with premium options. You will also get free games and other bonus items for subscribers offers own software for broadcasting from PC and mobile broadcasting. It has become the de facto streaming service for gamers. Its home screen now has a wider variety of games and genres. It also features Fortnite, Overwatch, PUBG and Valorant games. Additionally, you can view a list of all live shows, explore games by genre, key a term into a search box or check out clipped highlights of users cool gaming moments. Twitch streams are quite reliable and it helps that it auto-adjusts the stream to match your internet connection speed but you can manually adjust the bit rate. It is ripe with features for viewing, interacting, and streaming. It has the Squad Stream that lets up to four Twitch streamers go live and broadcast together on one window. The viewer will get more angles on the action, a way to discover new streams, and the ability to chat with multiple Twitch communities at once. There is also the Clip feature, which is designed to let you record hype moments by grabbing the video from about 25 seconds before, and five seconds after you click the Clip button. There will be a trimming tool available to help you edit the captured video a bit. It also has the Theater Mode and the Full-Screen Mode, if you want to avoid distractions. Theater Mode darkens the interface so that your focus is the video content and it also increases the video player’s on-screen real estate while keeping the chat feed. The Full Screen Mode gives the video player even more space by ditching the chat feed. Twitch gives you plenty of presentation tools for enhancing your stream. You can title your broadcast, set up privacy settings so that only certain people can tune in to your feed, and generate a stream key that lets others who have streaming software broadcast to your channels. For those gaming on personal computers and plan to broadcast from their computers, then you can visit the dashboard. From the dashboard, you can see stats, test your stream and download the appropriate software that enables you to stream.