Blogger Edgar Obare is being held by the DCI  over fraud and extortion claims. The DCI said Obare and his co-accused Desy Oduor Achieng had been coached how to stalk a prominent governor with the hope of extorting Sh10 million from him. DCI boss George Kinoti said Obare had shared the governor’s number with Desy and instructed her to tell him that she was pregnant with his child and that she would tell the whole world about their little secret. "When the governor did not respond, she was instructed to threaten him that she would share photos that they had allegedly taken in compromising situations but the governor did not respond," Kinoti said. "In the case of outright blackmail by fraudsters who intend to benefit financially from prominent personalities, by tainting their images online and demanding money not to post ‘scandalous’ information about them, detectives have once again arrested serial fraudster Edgar Obare," he said. Feeling dejected that their plan wasn’t working, Obare took to his social media pages accusing the governor of impregnating a lady and failing to take responsibility. The blogger has had previous run-ins with the law for publishing false and malicious information regarding individuals and their families is once again a guest of the state. "The supposedly pregnant lady wasn’t aware that all along, Obare was taking screenshots of their conversations and her photos which he posted alongside his claims," the DCI boss said. He said fearing the repercussions of Obare's actions, the said lady reported the matter to DCI offices in Nyali. "Detectives have since established that the lady isn’t pregnant as she had claimed. Further, the lady has said that she has never met the governor, adding that she had only been recruited by Obare to extort money from the governor," Kinoti. He said the lady alongside Obare will face Publishing false information charges, contrary to sec.23 of the computer misuse and cybercrime act, 2018. "Young ladies are cautioned to be wary of such fraudsters out to exploit them for their selfish gains and are advised to find alternative sources of income," he said. Kinoti said detectives from the Cybercrime unit have uncovered an underworld network of criminals involving young ladies recruited by Obare, to stalk prominent personalities in political, business and religious circles for monetary exploitation. The ladies are then coached by Obare, on how to ensnare the victims into their traps then extort unimaginable sums of money from them.