The Kisumu government will officially upgrade Katito to a town status on Wednesday to unlock its economic potential. Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o will preside over the event in Nyakach Elders Development Group grounds. The move will help increase funding to the urban centre and regulate the development and provision of utilities. Nyong’o said Katito has established itself as one of the fastest-growing urban centres in the Nyakach subcounty. The upgrade will enable it to have access to international donor funding, have an independent development budget from the county and spur infrastructural development. Governor Nyong’o had earlier said the growth of satellite towns will not only bring services closer to the people but also create jobs. This will also reduce pressure on Kisumu city. The Constitution says an area shall be eligible for the grant of the status of a town if it has a population of at least 10,000 people and can demonstrate economic, functional and financial viability. The area must have an integrated development plan, the capacity to effectively deliver essential services to residents and have sufficient space for expansion. After the upgrade, the county will set aside annual allocation to cater for water, sewerage, road, lighting infrastructure, solid waste management and tourism development of the towns. The administration had earmarked five urban centres for the upgrade. Muhoroni and Kombewa are in the queue. Maseno and Ahero have also been upgraded to towns. Early last month, Nyong’o ’s administration postponed the official elevation of Muhoroni as a town after residents were affected by Kenya Railway's demolitions. John Oywa, the Kisumu chief of staff and acting public communications chief officer, said they put the event off to concentrate on humanitarian assistance to affected families. Governor Nyong’o has protested to the Kenya Railways management over the demolitions and is due to meet the corporation’s managing director. More than 3,000 families affected in the Kibos area are in a humanitarian crisis following downpours on Tuesday night. Many were forced to sleep with their children on wet mattresses in their muddy tents. The families currently reside on an 18-acre plot given by the county government. In Muhoroni and Koru, the county is still looking to resettle displaced people. Oywa said a new date for the Muhoroni event will be announced later.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris