Jeniffer Itumbi Wambua who was the deputy director of the corporate communications at the National Land Commission was on Wednesday laid to rest. Wambua's body was found in Kerarapon, Ngong, Kajiado county on March 13 after she went missing a day earlier. NLC chairman Gershom Otachi said the commission was committed to unearth the killers and ensure that justice is delivered. Otachi said he knew Wambua for more than a year and was an obedient soul who would never hurt a fly. According to Otachi, the 51 one-year-old was involved in conducting publicity and communication activities for the commission's strategic plan before she disappeared. “We are collaborating with the DCI and the family and we will do whatever that needs to be done,” Otachi said. It was established that the murdered veteran journalist was a state witness in a multi-million corruption case. Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo who attended the funeral wondered why the government failed to protect her as a state witness. “Jeniffer was murdered because of greed and corruption. We know very well she was a state witness and so many court cases are pending‚” Kilonzo said. He urged the investigative agencies to probe her death and bring the perpetrators to book. The MP condemned the killers arguing they took an innocent soul whose fault was protecting the country as a patriotic citizen. “As a government, we have to make sure that they will never do this to another person. And even if the law does not catch them, God will punish the killers and their entire generation not only them but also those who financed it,” he said. Machakos Town MP Victor Munyaka had suggested that a petition on Wambua's death be brought to Parliament but his colleague Kilonzo appealed as they waited for investigations to be completed. Munyaka while addressing mourners, had suggested that Parliament jumps in and investigate similar deaths which are being related to land issues. “I think this was an assassination and the Parliament should come in and investigate because so many people have been killed due to land-related issues‚” Munyaka said. Former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile who was at the event faulted the DPP and DCI for not protecting Wambua. “I am blaming two institutions, the DPP and the DCI because they knew Wambua was a state witness and they did not protect her. They should have told the nation how she ended up in Ngong Forest‚” Kalembe said. He said the case should be handled with much weight as it deserves. She was buried at her home in Katelembo. Wambua left behind two children and a widower.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris