The widow of slain businessman Tob Cohen has lost a bid to stop her prosecution for his murder after the court dismissed her application. Sarah Wairimu who was charged in 2019 alongside Peter Karanja had claimed that the murder case was lodged in bad faith and to disinherit her of Cohen's property. On Thursday, Justice James Makau ruled that his court had no jurisdiction to hear Wairimu’s application. He allowed the objections by the DPP and DCI challenging the case by Wairimu, terming it as an abuse of the court process. Judge Makau ruled that Wairimu filed her case before the wrong court because it has the same status as the other two High Courts where her cases are. Wairimu has a murder case before the criminal section of the High Court and a succession matter before the family division. The murder trial has never commenced and the defence says the state has yet to supply them with evidence. The court said she should have raised the issues before any of those two courts instead of coming to the constitutional court. "If she was dissatisfied with the ruling of either the family or criminal court, she should have appealed but not pursue her case before this court,” the judge said. Justice Makau further said it was clear that his court only has jurisdiction over subordinate courts but not superior courts or those of the same status. The court said issues raised by Wairimu in her application can be litigated in any of the other two courts, not the constitutional court. Wairimu's lawyer Phillip Murgor told judge Makau that they are going to appeal the ruling. The state had opposed the bid by Wairimu to stop her prosecution, arguing that the issues she raised were sub judicial to the murder case. The state also said the constitutional court has no jurisdiction to grant an order in a matter that is pending before the criminal division of the High Court, which is of concurrent jurisdiction. In her application, Wairimu had argued that the investigative agencies and the police violated the Constitution in mounting the case against her and arresting her without a warrant. She claimed that the police confiscated her phones, accessed her private conversations, including privileged communication with her lawyers, breaching her right to privacy. Murgor told the court that they had not been supplied with evidence to enable them to prepare a substantive defence of Wairimu. Wairimu wanted the constitutional court to order for the release of her vehicles, the house and its furnishings, as well as her two dogs Major and Snow. 