The Njuri Ncheke Supreme Council of elders has distanced itself from the reported coronation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi. Secretary general Josphat Murangiri said on Monday that while there maybe different interpretations of what happened, Muturi, who is from Mbeere, was only visiting Meru elders and no coronation happened. “I don’t want to engage in witch hunt and rumours. Some don’t even understand what really happened. There was no coronation done to Muturi. He was brought by 200 Mbeere elders and when a son is presented to the elders, there is a way we receive them. The same way if our son has interests similar to Muturi’s,” Murangiri explained. Muturi was reportedly coronated at an event loaded with political symbolism but Murangiri insisted was cultural affair. “The Njuri Ncheke, Kiama Kia Ma from Mt Kenya West, Ngome  and Nyangindiri are not political formations. What we did here was a traditional [event],” Murangiri said. Some allies of Agriculture CS Peter Munya have denied claims he attended the  event at Nchiru Shrine on Saturday as an endorsement of Muturi's coronation. EALA legislator Mpuru Aburi, Meru Minority leader Ayub Bundi, Munya’s political adviser and a former chief Julius Kang’ote termed the coronation as "pure lies and mud splashed on the face that does not last long". Former Nkuene councillor and veteran journalist Jamleck Mwongera said envy and jealousy against the rise of Munya were at the centre of the coronation confusion. “The elders have implored a curse on me because of telling the truth. Many elders came out in my defence. I questioned the intent behind going for someone from Mbeere to be their spokesperson. I won’t fear or be threatened to cow down for castigating their move even before alleged coronation happened." Do you think we lack leaders of integrity and character from Thuci to Ntonyiri? In Tharaka Nithi alone, we have Senator Professor Kithure Kindiki, Professor Erastus Njoka, former Governor Samuel  Ragwa and close home, we have CS Munya, Governor Kiraitu Murungi, Senator Mithika Linturi, and South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi, among many others,” Mwongera said. He alleged that some elders were after handouts because there was no consultation prior to the event. "We are after protecting the Ameru heritage,” Mwongera said on the phone. When contacted, Njuri Ncheke chairman Linus Kathera said he would call back once done with what he was doing, which he didn't. Bundi also said there were no consultations and the elders told Munya at the shrine that Muturi was just visiting. “If there is anybody to take the mantle from Uhuru Kenyatta, it is Munya, who has made a mark in people’s lives by bringing more money to their pockets through coffee, tea, milk and other agriculture sector. No one else can match Munya’s development within Mt Kenya.  If there is an agreement and consultations and not board room meetings, then there is no problem,” Bundi said. Kang’ote also accused the media of giving Munya’s attendance the wrong impression. "Munya heard of the meeting on Saturday morning and wondered if President Uhuru had blessed Muturi to take the mantle and this is why he stormed the coronation to get the facts and the elders said Muturi was on a visit,” Kang’ote said. He added that Munya told the elders that Uhuru remains the kingpin until he declares whoever is to be his heir, and they are waiting for the President to give directions.