A lobby promoting health rights has sued Health CS Mutahi Kagwe for failing to provide it with documents on how funds sent by Gavi and other donors have been used. Kenya Legal and Ethical Issues Network on HIV and Aids had written to the Health ministry seeking access to information and document showing intergovernmental agreement on the retention of county functions—immunisation—by the national government. Their request came after an audit report by Global Alliance for Vaccines Immunisation on use of funds meant for immunisation raised some questions. Gavi provided significant financial support towards the Kenya's expanded programme of immunisation. As of September 30, 2015, Kenya had received $391.8 million of support, of which cash grants amounted to $26.2 million. Of this, $11,5 million was paid through partners and the Ministry of Health received $14.7 million. Gavi and the ministry agreed that $26.2 million was to cover operational costs for a measles-rubella campaign and support the introduction of new vaccines—pentavalent, yellow fever, pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, rotavirus and injectable polio vaccine—and the human papilloma virus demonstration project. At the end of the project, Gavi did an audit of KEPI between September 2015 and March 2016 to ensure that the funds released to the ministry were utilised in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions. The audit covered incomes, expenditures, procurement and supply management at national, provincial and district level. The key findings of the report included questioned expenditures of $1.6 million and 730,000 million doses of pneumococcal vaccines that were not accounted for. Thereafter the ministry reimbursed Gavi $1.6 million in September and October 2016, which cost Kenyan tax payer a loss of Sh160 million. Consequently, KELIN and other organisations asked for copies of documents showing transfer of payment of the money in question from the Health ministry to Gavi. Also sought is a report on the action taken against individuals adversely mentioned in the audit report and information on whether the minister referred the case to relevant authorities for investigations and possible prosecution. But the ministry has not provided the documents sought, forcing the lobby group to move to court. KELIN now wants the court to make declarations that the denial on the part of the ministry to provide the documents sought amounts to infringement of Constitution and right to access to information. It also wants the ministry compelled to provide the information sought.