MCAs, contractors and suppliers are the biggest winners in the supplementary budget approved by the Nairobi county assembly . Lawmakers on Thursday approved the transfer of Sh500 million from the County Assembly Service Board to pay for car grants for themselves, totalling Sh246 million, or Sh2 million per MCA. The assembly also approved Sh745.7 million to pay contractors and suppliers in the Roads, Transport and Public Works sector. The supplementary budget adjusts the Sh37.7 billion budget for 2020-21. The car grants for 122 MCAs have attracted the most attention and controversy. Before counties voted on the BBI Bill, President Uhuru Kenyatta agreed to requests for car grants instead of loans for 2,237 county lawmakers. The SRC approved it, saying converting loans to grants would not affect the expenditure ceiling. The budget committee said Nairobi had to sacrifice planned construction of offices for MCAs so they could have free cars instead of buying them with low-interest loans. “We have forgone the luxury of offices for the car grant," committee chairman Robert Mbatia sai. Under Nairobi's annual development plan, the county was to spend Sh400 million on new offices for MCAs and another Sh100 million on furnishings and computers. The offices were to ease pressure for space with county employees. The Annual Development Plan says most MCAs — 53 of 85 elected lawmakers — operate from rented offices. Thirty-two offices are too dilapidated to use and urgently need repair. "Upon conversion, the existing car loan shall cease and the speakers and MCAs who already benefited from the car loan shall convert loans to transport facilitation in form of a car grant," the SRC said. PENDING BILLS The pending bills will be paid to contractors and suppliers owed by the county before the advent of Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The amounts are part of the Sh2 billion reallocated to cater for pending bills related to the functions transferred but not earlier factored into the approved NMS budget.  The assembly finance, budget and appropriations committee recommended payment to contractors who have completed their works and have evidence of their contracts. The county government had handed over files of Sh1.3 billion pending bills to the NMS in January this year. Approval of the Sh745.7million clears the way for the NMS to make the payments on hold for a long time. Mbatia said that they only adopted a list of contractors and suppliers who have performed and been identified and certified. Mbatia said, however, there could be issues with some pending bills not assigned to specific sectors. “The committee noted the pending bills have once again not been stratified per sector, hence, it's not possible to determine which of them will be paid,” Mbatia said. (Edited by V. Graham) 