Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM party has announced it is in the process of crafting a new political alliance that will shake the nation. ODM Secretary General Edwin Sifuna on Thursday said details of the alliance will be made public after the BBI referendum. “The post-BBI alliance ODM is working on will be fresh, strong, vibrant and packed with men and women who can stand on their own and give birth to a new nation post- BBI,” he said. He was responding to a move by Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Gideon Moi (Kanu) who announced the formation of Kenya One Alliance on Thursday morning ahead of the 2022 elections. The party’s Secretary-General – without giving details – said talks are at an advanced stage for a bigger alliance that will shape the politics of the country. “Knowing that partnerships are an essential part of our politics, the Orange Democratic Movement is also working on a broader, better and bolder alliance that will shake the country and shape the politics of the land for years to come,” Sifuna said. “The new alliance will have younger and fresh blood with clear ideological positions on the issues of the day.” He dismissed the Nasa partners as a grouping of tribal politicians who have nothing to offer but are only focused on others' sweat. “As a party, we are done with the fading breed of tribal politicians whose singular focus over the years has been on what they can extract from our sweat, and from the country.” “We are focused on an Alliance that adds to the national discourse not what it gets, a coalition that adds not takes away from us.” The ODM announcement came hours after Deputy President William Ruto said he cannot rule out reuniting with Raila ahead of the 2022 General Elections. Ruto, in an interview with Radio Citizen on Thursday, said he is ready and willing to work with all like-minded politicians who share his dream for the country. He added that if Raila agrees with his manifesto and his belief that poverty should be fought from the bottom to the top, they could work together.