The National Olympic Committee-Kenya has asked the government to prioritise Tokyo-bound athletes for the Covid-19 vaccine ahead of the summer Olympics on July 24-September 5. The committee noted it has been incurring extra expenses in testing the sportspersons for the virus even as they intensify their preparations for the rescheduled event. "The Chef-de-mission (Waithaka Kioni) requested the Committee to canvass the government to prioritise the Tokyo-bound athletes for the Covid-19 vaccines that arrived in the country this week, since they are travelling often for training and competitions," NOC-K's acting secretary general, Francis Mutuku said. Furthermore, NOC-K expects the budget for Team Kenya's preparations to increase as Covid-19 screening and testing becomes more regular in the days leading up to the Olympics. "Other than the constant testing as athletes honour the qualifiers, everyone will get tested 72 hours before travel to Japan, on arrival in the country, every 4 days during the Games and prior to their return home," Mutuku said. As part of the Tokyo 2020 Playbook, the International Olympic Committee has asked Olympians and Paralympians to vaccinate themselves against the virus should the vaccine be made available to the wider public. The two issues were part of the agenda of the first meeting of the Central Management Committee of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic & Paralympic Games on Thursday since its gazetting on February 12 this year. The committee is expected to ratify the new budget, which includes that of the Kenya National Paralympic Committee. "Olympics Kenya and KNPC have prepared the budgets which were submitted to the Ministry of Sports late last year. The budget was shared with the CMC, who are mandated to ratify the budget," Mutuku said. The Anti-Doping Agency of Kenya has also been sensitising the Tokyo-bound sportspersons on the various anti-doping laws, particularly the new anti-doping law enacted in December last year. "Anti-Doping C.E.O Japhter Rugut gave an update on anti-doping. The whereabouts and testing for anti-doping is on schedule. With the resources required, Kenya is expected to be fully compliant, considering the strict requirements put by the Athletics Integrity Unit in particular. ADAK is aggressively carrying out education sessions with various teams," Mutuku reported. The committee, charged with implementing the resolutions of the Tokyo Management Committee, will meet in the next fortnight to review the work plans, budget and the teams' preparations, among others. 