The third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic has proved to be more dangerous forcing senators to revise their calendar in a bid to contain the virus spread. The lawmaker’s on Wednesday unanimously endorsed a motion by Majority Leader Samuel Poghisio to revise the house's calendar and reduce the number of plenary sitting days. They will now be sitting on Tuesdays only morning and afternoon sessions from next Tuesday until June 15. “The Senate resolves to alter its calendar for the fifth Session, 2021 to hold two sittings every week on Tuesdays only beginning from 10 am and ending at 12.30 pm for the morning sitting and 2.30 pm to 6.30 pm for the afternoon sitting, beginning on Wednesday, March 24, 2021, until Tuesday, June 15, 2021,” reads the motion sponsored by Poghisio. While moving the motion on behalf of Poghisio, Deputy Majority leader Fatuma Dullo said the House leadership decided to change the calendar because of the pandemic that is spreading fast. “We felt that we need to take this third wave seriously because if we don’t do that, then it is going to cause a lot of problems,” she said. Dullo said infection rates are increasing with health facilities, both in Nairobi and upcountry, overstretched. The Isiolo senator submitted that it is the leaders' responsibility to ensure that they observe rules put in place by the Ministry of Health. “Already we are told that many of us are in hospitals as a result of the current happenings in the country,” she said. Deputy Minority whip Beatrice Kwamboka said the country and the world is caught up in a difficult situation because of the disease. “We have lost lives and seen many MPs and citizens admitted and we cannot take a risk coming here. Our lives are very important and everyone’s lives are very important,” she said. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen emphasised the need for extra caution and measures to tame the disease. He called for tightening of the rules and introductions of lockdowns of certain places to contain the spread of the contagion. “The situation we are in is very precarious and risky for all of us dealing with this issue of Covid. I know some colleagues who have gone through the ailment of Covid-19,” he said. Murkomen added, “It is even worse we are losing many people at this point. I would still ask the Executive to make Covid-19 rules more stringent particularly related social areas and facilities because we are needlessly losing so many people.” He called on the House health committee to embark on its responsibility and propose measures to the Executive to arrest the disease. Nyamira Senator Okong'o Omogeni said the situation in the country is dire, saying that getting admission in ICU facilities has become difficult. “We don’t want to send a message of fear to Kenyans, but we must be realistic. The situation is so bad, almost desperation,” he said. “If you speak to your friends who are doctors, they tell you and even warn you that whatever your status is in society, you are likely to miss admission into an ICU facility, not only in Nairobi but in many counties” Nyeri’s Ephraim Maina said the country is caught up between a very dangerous and difficult situation and urged the government to impose any measure, however severe, to protect lives.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris