Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga will keep off public engagements as he recovers fully from the Coronavirus. The ODM leader who was on Sunday discharged from Nairobi Hospital, where he spent six, days after testing positive for Covid-19 will be under home-based care at his Karen home. Sources told the Star the opposition chief will be out of the limelight for at least one month in line with doctors advise. Doctors recommended that Raila takes a long rest before embarking on his engaging political activities. Only family and close aides will access the opposition supremo according to our source. During the isolation period, he will undergo further tests to confirm that he is fully recovered from the disease. Yesterday, the ODM boss also alluded to his anticipated long leave from public space saying he will religiously follow doctor’s advice including self-isolation. “I will be strictly self isolating until further notice,” Raila tweeted. The ODM boss took to his twitter to announce his discharge from the health facility which has been his home since Tuesday last week. In a video clip shared by the opposition chief, a sprightly Raila is seen doing some light exercise at his Karen home. His daughter Winnie Odinga’s voice could also be heard asking the former Premier of his experience at the hospital. “You are back home? How do you feel for all those days? Let me keep my distance from you. It is good to have you back home Dad,” Winnie is heard saying in the background. In his response, Raila—wearing a tracksuit, black sports shoes and red cap— is heard saying that he is happy to be back home to breathe the fresh air. “It is wonderful; it really feels nice to be back home. I was like in prison back there. I like to be in fresh air, I am still in isolation,” Raila said. Yesterday, a number of Raila’s allies welcomed the discharge and wished him a full recovery. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino said the opposition leader will soon be back on his feet. “We thank God baba is as fit as a fiddle,” he said. Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga termed Raila’s discharge an answered prayer exuding confidence that the ODM boss will be back on his feet. “Kenyans will continue praying for him so that he recovers fully and gets back to dance the reggae tunes,” she said. Raila’s hospitalisation comes at the peak of 2022 succession and Building Bridges Initiative politics. It is feared that it will deal a big blow to the law change process as the opposition chief, known as a workhorse, is down. Tomorrow, joint Justice and Legal Affairs Committees  of the bicameral Parliament will be finalising the last leg of the public participation and will report back to the two Houses for debate on the BBI Bill. On Thursdays, the ODM leader tested positive for Covid-19 after a series of medical tests. Raila had initially complained of fatigue when he returned from a gruelling five-day tour of the Coast region where he had drummed up support for the BBI. In a statement on Thursday, Raila’s personal doctor David Oluoch-Olunya confirmed that the ODM leader was positive for the disease. “Following my letter of the 10th of March 2021 we have confirmed that Odinga has ARS-2 Covid 19,” Oluoch-Olunya said in a statement to newsrooms. “He is responding well to treatment he is receiving at the Nairobi Hospital and remains upbeat,” read the statement. Immediately it was established that the ODM leader suffered the disease, he issued a statement calling on Kenyans to observe all the measures being put out by the government, scientists, and health personnel. A number of Raila allies who accompanied him for the tour have taken the tests. About 30 staffers at Raila's Capitol Hill offices have also taken the tests and sent on self-quarantine. Some other 26 Chungwa House staff also took Covid-19 tests. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 