Thirty-five casual workers at one of the biggest hospitals in Kiambu county boycotted work on Monday over six-month salary arrears. Services were disrupted at Kiambu County Covid-19 Centre as doctors and nurses could not double as casuals. The casuals ensure general cleanliness and do clerical work. They serve at the registry, kitchen, mortuary, stores, NHIF offices and the oxygen department. Most of them receive Sh11,000 monthly pay. They were last paid in October when they received half-pay of Sh6,000. “Can you imagine how we have survived working in such a facility?” one casual asked, requesting not to be named for fear of victimisation. The workers—employed by the Tigoni Hospital board—have been serving on three-month contracts. They wanted Governor James Nyoro to address their concerns soonest. They also want to be absorbed and employed by the county government on a permanent basis. Or the board should extend their contracts to at least one year, they said. They accused the hospital's administration of high-handedness, saying it always acts in flagrant disregard for their plight. Those who raise concerns are threatened with dismissal, the worker said. “Given that we don't want to be sacked because we hope one day things will be better, we initially opted to keep quiet.” Their supervisor, Joseph Kiambati, said they have been risking their lives working at the facility as it handles a highly contagious disease. He explained that they sacrifice a lot and prepare everything so that doctors and nurses can work on the patients in a better environment. “Our rights need to be addressed properly. We have families to feed, rent to pay, clothes to buy school fees to pay for our children, among other needs” he said. Tigoni OCS John Misoi spoke to them and they stopped the protest outside the gate. They went back to the facility but sat outside the compound. They were adamant that they would not return to work until their grievances were addressed. Efforts to speak to the hospital management were unsuccessful. An officer who did not want to be named referred journalists to Health executive Joseph Murega. He could not be reached. Last year, on Nyoro's directive, Tigoni Hospital was converted to a Covid facility. Patients with other illnesses were transferred or diverted to other facilities.  Edited by F'Orieny