Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital has administered the Covid-19 vaccine to 1,200 staff in the last one week. CEO Dr Wilson Aruasa says those vaccinated so far include front line health workers especially doctors and nurses. "As approved by Ministry of Health, the hospital has successfully commenced deployment of the Astra Zeneca/ University of Oxford Covid-19 vaccination of staff from Tuesday March 9, 2021," Aruasa said. He said the number so far vaccinated was well within the hospital targets as per the vaccine quotas allocated to the MTRH in the first phase of the exercise. The hospital targets to vaccinate 7,000 staff including those from Moi University College of Health Sciences, AMPATH, Kenya Medical Training College Eldoret and a few from Indiana University working at the hospital. The CEO said those vaccinated were doing well with no serious complications reported. "So far so good and those of us already vaccinated are doing pretty well. Immediately after receiving our jabs, we continued with our daily work routines and life", said Aruasa. He said majority had no adverse events following immunization. The few AEFIs reported by some included mild pain at injection site, headache, body chills and muscle pain (myalgia) . However the mild reactions were resolved fully with no further intervention or treatment. "A few individuals had to take paracetamol and that was it. We urge that after resting for about half an hour following  vaccination, you can go about your daily work and routine," Dr Aruasa in a  communication to the staff on the ongoing vaccination exercise. He said the hospital had put in place a steering committee and experts to monitor the entire vaccination exercise. The exercise will continue this week. Dr Aruasa said  whereas the vaccine is not compulsory as per Ministry of Health guidelines, it's important for staff to get the jab. "We urge you to ensure you get yours as that is one of the best strategic interventions of preventing severe forms of Covid-19 infection at the individual level and breaking the virus transmission chain at population level," Aruasa said. Despite the start of the vaccination Dr Aruasa urged all Kenyans to continue with other Covid-19 preventive measures like regular hand washing, wearing masks and social distancing. "Ensure work areas and homes are well aerated. Be active mentally and physically," he said. The North Rift region received 60, 0000 doses for six counties and most of the counties have already begun giving out the jabs to targeted groups including health workers, teachers and uniformed officers. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu who is also chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc counties says they have also stepped up enforcement measures to deal with the third wave of the disease.  Edited by Henry Makori