A Kibera court has sentenced an Ethiopian found with 2.1kg of cocaine to 15 years in jail and a fine of Sh25 million. The cocaine had a street value of Sh8 million. Ewe Abalo Folly was convicted on Tuesday by senior principal magistrate Phillip Mutua after the prosecution proved their case against him. The prosecution called nine witnesses. The charge sheet says Folly conveyanced cocaine concealed in the false bottom of a black suitcase with total weight of 2136.5 grams with a market value of Sh8,546,000 on December 24 last year at JKIA. A police officer attached to JKIA testified that he was on patrol alongside other officers at Lounge 6 Terminal 1C when they came across the accused person with a passport indicating he was from Ethiopia. “He had a black travelling suitcase which was subjected to a screening machine. It was during the screening process when an object was detected and when interrogated the accused person failed to explain. He had the passport that showed us that he was from Ethiopia and had just landed in Nairobi,” said the officer. The detective told the court that they then instructed him to open the suitcase and conducted a physical search. “We conducted a quick physical search and on opening the suitcase, we found some cloths that belonged to the passenger and the suitcase itself had an improvised bottom which had been carefully inserted into it. "Beneath the bottom there was a whitish substance which was suspected to contain some narcotics drugs and at the same time the accused person failed to convince the officer where the substance was and the investigations commenced immediately,” he told the court. The officer added that after they arrested the suspect, officers from the Scene of Crime Department joined them and took pictures. Some employees from the airport also testified in court. Folly defended himself that he was in Kenya for a business meeting alongside two others at the JKIA and they had agreed to hold the talks at the Hilton Hotel where they were to spend two nights. He said that before the meeting in Nairobi, he had had met another friend from Togo who introduced him to a Nigerian with the object of doing business. "We were to meet in Nairobi and he was to give some luggage but upon arrival in Nairobi I bought a visa to get my entry and it was in Kenya where I was arrested," he said. He maintained that he was not a drug trafficker. But Mutua ordered him to pay Sh25 million fine in addition to the 15 years in jail. He gave him 14 days to appeal. Edited by Henry Makori