Reigning champions Ulinzi Warriors Joseph Khaemba and Ancette Wafula will be available for their Premier League encounter against Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) on Sunday, coach William Balozi has confirmed. Balozi said the soldiers’ deadly duo has fully recovered from injuries that forced them out of their trip to Kisumu last weekend. “They have recovered and will be on duty for this crucial match against KPA,” said Balozi. “We missed them during our loss to Lakeside and I am happy they are back.” The tactician said the 61-59 defeat they suffered at the hands of their hosts at Manyatta Arab courts was a wake-up call for the soldiers. “We lost this game and we cannot moan about the referees or the courts. It is points lost so we look at our mistakes, rectify them and move forward,” Balozi said. “It is good that this defeat has come early in the season since we have enough time to recover.” Balozi said they are preparing adequately for KPA as they also welcome William Otieno, who came out unscathed despite playing through an injury last weekend. He warned that this year’s league is going to be very tight going by the results posted so far. KPA will open their city tour with a match against Strathmore University Blades on Saturday while the women side will meet Storms. Meanwhile, Kenya College of Accountancy (KCA-U) University coach Charles Goro warned his boys that unless they work hard, they face relegation. KCA-U lost their fourth game in a row, going down 81-63 to Kenyatta University ‘Pirates’ at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium last weekend. “It will be surprising if we avoid the axe going by the way we are playing. We need a response in our forthcoming matches,” warned Goro. Elsewhere, KU’s veteran tactician Gitau Waringo warned that despite losing three matches, they remain the team to watch. “I am a proud coach, blessed with the youngest but swiftest talent. The team is fast, deep, coachable and willing risk-takers,” he said. “They have made a big statement in the four games. They are the team to watch with eyes firmly on the playoffs.”