 Police have launched investigations into claims that a Siaya chief ordered a man out of his location for allegedly eloping with married women. Senior chief Christopher Muliro of South Ugenya location ordered Jared Odhiambo to leave the area after receiving several complaints from men. Muliro said Odhiambo was employed as a farmhand in one of the homes but has been wrecking marriages by engaging women in extramarital relationships. The letter has since gone viral on social media with many users demanding action against the administrator. Ugunja deputy county commissioner Alphis Kolum said Saturday that his office had begun probing the matter. "Should the investigations establish that indeed the chief was behind the letter then we will begin disciplinary proceedings against him. He has no power to expel anyone for whatever reason from his area of jurisdiction," Kolum said. South Ugenya is a location in Ugunja subcounty. Muliro on Saturday told the Star that several men from a village in his location had lodged complaints with his office about Odhiambo accusing him of wrecking their marriages. "Following the numerous complaints that were coming from the villagers, I decided to summon the man to my office on February 19. But even after the summon, the complaints kept coming," Muliro said. "On Thursday morning, I asked him to come to my office and after a lengthy discussion, he asked me to do a letter for him before he could leave the village and by extension, the location, " the chief said. He said his advice was aimed at protecting the man because some of the men had threatened to harm him. "Due to our meeting with you on February 19 and March 4, this office now directs you to move away from the location and find some work elsewhere," reads the chief letter to the man. The letter was dated March 4. The chief said his office will not be held responsible should the accused find himself in trouble. When reached for comment, Odhiambo dismissed the accusations, saying they were untrue. He claimed that some of the villagers were merely jealous about the development projects he was implementing at his employer's home as a caretaker. "I come from Central Gem and I have worked here since 2018 as a farmhand. They're not happy that I am taking good care of this home whose owners are living abroad," Odhiambo said. He said he had established a vegetable garden within the homestead from where he occasionally gifts neighbours, most of whom are women, kales on request to feed their families. "Some of the women they claim that have love affairs with me are those whom I have assisted before. They come to me with the request for help. Sometimes I lend them money," Odhiambo said. He confirmed having been summoned by the chief twice. "I have also been to Sidindi police patrol base but the officers there dismissed the case which had been against me by the same men," he said. He said he won't leave the village unless he is sacked by his employer.  Edited by P.O