Soy MP Caleb Kositany has told off ODM leaders over claims of a scheme to betray Raila Odinga and the handshake between him and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kositany said on Sunda ODM should be not complain more about betrayal than those in Jubilee who were betrayed after the handshake. “They should not cry more than the bereaved. They should not feel pain more than those of us who formed this government but were betrayed because of the handshake," Kositany said in Eldoret. He said the handshake was done secretly without involving all Kenyans and ODM leaders should not threaten to return the country to politics of violence. “They should not take us back to the days of street battles. Even if things have not gone the way they wanted, let them stick to dialogue and negotiations. If there is a  divorce, it should be done in the same way secretly and with dignity, Kositany said. He said Deputy President William Ruto and his allies had complained about betrayal but remained civilised and accepted the situation so the country remained united and peaceful. “If ODM leaders want lessons on betrayal, then let them seek out the DP because he will help and guide them," the MP said. Two weeks ago Kositany was removed as Jubilee Party deputy secretary general and replaced by Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny. Siaya Senator James Orengo led the ODM leaders in claiming that powerful civil servants were scheming to undermine the handshake and Raila ahead of the 2022 polls. Orengo claimed civil servants at Harambee House were working behind the scenes to undermine Raila and portray him as weak. Separately DP Ruto's allies have said they fully accept the performance by the UDF party during the recent Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections and have learnt lessons for improvement . MPs who campaigned for UDF in the two constituencies led by Kositany said the results of the by-elections indicated that UDF had a foothold in the region. It is considered the  tronghold of ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula. Kositany said UDF performed well despite the violence and malpractices in by-elections last Thursday. “We, however, ask our church leaders to pray for this country because we are seeing so many things not going right,” the MP said. (Edited by V. Graham)