"Kenya has lost a real legend; passionate, charismatic and genuine." Those are the words the Kenya Editors Guild's president Churchill Otieno has used to describe the late Robin Njogu. Njogu, who was the Managing Editor, Radio at the Royal Media Services (RMS) succumbed to Covid-19 after battling the disease for three weeks. Otieno said that Njogu will be remembered for his role in the transformation of radio news delivery in Kenya. And because of this, he was almost always the first to break news via his Twitter profile. "The radio in Kenya has lost a real legend; passionate, charismatic and genuine. His legacy and contribution to the growth and place of radio will remain forever. "Ever the prolific journalist, he had good contacts and sources locally and abroad. They say a man’s net worth is his network. Robin valued friendship," he said. Njogu served in the Kenya Editors’ Guild executive committee that stepped forward to help revive the organisation in 2018. He served with selflessness, deftly deploying his emotional smarts, digital-savvy and journalistic networks. "A number of journalists paying tribute to him have written that they would go to his Twitter account to double check a news item... if it was not there then it was not news just yet. Such was his authority and credibility, largely due to a strong network of sources and a strong nose for news," he described Njogu's professionalism. But as huge as his reputation and following were, he always was down to earth and full of humility. Otieno added that his death has brought to fore the reality of the Covid-19 right inside newsrooms and prompted everyone to urgently think about the exposure of journalists in the line of duty in the war against the pandemic. "It is a wake-up call for the profession, the industry and indeed the Government to urgently come up with mitigation measures to protect journalists as they serve on the frontline. Robin’s story shall live with us forever. May his family be comforted. May his soul Rest in Peace," he concluded.