Mount Kenya University on Wednesday held an oath-taking ceremony for its first cohort of 24 medical students. This is the first team since it was allowed by the Commission of University Education in 2014 to offer a Bachelor of Science in clinical medicine and community health. Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council chairperson Eva Njenga, CEO Daniel Yumbya, MKU founder Simon Gicharu, vice-chancellor Prof Deogratius Jaganyi and pro-chancellor Dr Vincent Gaitho presided over the oath-taking. The graduate doctors received six year-training, amid calls for institutions to maintain quality training of health practitioners. Njenga said the council was keen to ensure the level of training remains above board, as the demand for doctors in the country remains high leading to increased training facilities. “We have the national training and standard of medical school and teaching hospitals in Kenya. We want to make sure that doctors that are coming out of the medical schools are safe for the people we work for,” he said. Gicharu said to be allowed to start the program, the university had to put up Sh300 million well-equipped science laboratory including the anatomy laboratory dabbed General Kago Funeral Home through a public-private partnership with Thika Level 5 Hospital where all the medical doctors have undergone practical training. “We were the first university to roll out an accredited Bachelor of Science, Clinical Medicine and Community Health and the first private university to offer a pharmacy programme at a time when this seemed impossible,” Gicharu said. He said the process was not for the faint-hearted but the investments in putting up training facilities and hiring competent faculty ensured that they were successful. VC Jaganyi noted that graduating this first class from the School of Medicine was a major achievement for the university and the students. “Indeed, this is a milestone achievement for both the medical school as well as for the students,” he said. He however cautioned the students that they were going into a market that is apprehensive of science going by sentiments doing rounds on the coronavirus vaccines. Jaganyi said the varsity would use its medical faculty to support the government in actualising its Kenya Health Policy 2014 – 2030 by the Ministry of Health through the continued offering of quality training and research. “As stipulated in the Social Pillar of Kenya Vision 2030 as well as under the SDGs 2030, the private sector’s role cannot be over-emphasized. And this is where and how we come so that we can supplement the government’s support in health care and especially in capacity development,” the vice-chancellor said. Recently, Gicharu said the institution was ranked the best in Kenya with a score of 82 per cent in an inspection conducted by a joint team of technical health experts from the East African Community  Partner States and National Medical and Dental Practitioners Regulatory Councils. “It is worthwhile in some seven years we are capable of producing medical doctors that our nation deserves, this was foresightedness and very visionary leadership whose fruition is what we are witnessing today,” Mount Kenya University council chairman David Serem said. His deputy Vincent Gaitho said MKU had adopted a three-tier mandate of teaching, research, innovation and community service, noting that research remains a key socio-economic and political pillar to ensure meaningful and sustainable development in the modern world. “Commercialisation of research output is one of the priority areas that MKU has embarked on in the MKU 2020-2029 Strategic plan. MKU Research and postgraduate studies will be a platform that will mould researchers in Kenya and the region,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris