One evening in 2010, David Gituma, 42, ventured out to Kanyoni shopping centre to buy some goods. Little did he know that the short walk would end in an incident that transformed his life forever. Gituma, a resident of Kwa Huku in Gakawa ward within Kieni East subcounty, Nyeri, was accosted by thugs who beat him up leaving him for dead. He regained consciousness four days later at Nanyuki Teaching and Referral Hospital where he was rushed after spending the entire night at Kanyoni. “I was put on oxygen and stayed at the hospital for two weeks before being moved to Huruma Hospital where I spent a year,” he says. Though he was known as a hard-working man by neighbours, the incident left him with no choice but to depend on his elderly father, well-wishers, neighbours and passers-by. They do everything for him including getting drinking water from his house, taking him to the toilet and even taking him in and out of his house. The spinal cord injuries left parts of his body paralysed, and he has no control over calls of nature. This, he says, is one of the most painful part as he cannot leave home without diapers, which he cannot afford. “My mother died 14 years ago, four years before the accident, and I have to rely on my father who cooks for me and meets my other basic needs,” Gituma says. A family friend visits to wash his clothes and give him a bath. Though he was supposed to continue with medication and attend physiotherapy sessions, he has been unable to do so for lack of money. He was operated on in 2018 and said doctors gave him hope that with proper medication, he could recover to some extent and resume working. But lack of money bogs him down. He had a wife and two children, a son and a daughter, but they left him after the accident. Gituma receives some assistance from brothers and sisters who are also not well off. His father engages in subsistence farming to eke a living. The wheelchair he uses is worn out, making mobility difficult and has to keep it together by tying it with strings. “My hands are weak but I have to employ some energy to get this wheelchair moving. When it starts raining while I am out here, I have to wait for my father, a passer-by or a neighbour to assist me get in the house,” he says. He appeals to well-wishers to assist him acquire a new wheelchair, continue with medication and empower him start an income generating activity. This will enable him to move around, start interacting with people again as well as start working and earning, he asserts. “If empowered, I would like to venture into chicken and dairy goat farming as the two do not need a lot of labour,” he adds. Well-wishers can reach Gituma on 0714751769. Edited by Henry Makori