Kenyan pros failed to impress on the opening day of the European Tour Magical Kenya Open at the Karen Golf and Country Club on Thursday. However, Muthaiga junior amateur Taimur Malik (18) was an exception as he captivated the field of local players by finishing the day joint 48th. Frenchman Benjamin Hebert dictated the proceedings with an impressive 7 under par 64. Six players including Kalle Samooja of Finland tied for second on -6. Taimur, formerly of Windsor and winner of the 2019 Kenya Junior Strokeplay, shocked all and sundry with a  decent round of 2 under par 69. He made three birdies, dropped two shots and parred the rest. Taimur finished his day’s campaign tied with Golf Park’s Eric Ooko, who also played a 69 on the challenging course. He also savoured a shot advantage over former winner, Aaron Rai, who struggled with a round of 1 under par 71. Despite dropping four shots on holes 1, 3, 13 and 15, Ooko bounced back with an eagle on the par 4 9th which improved his prospects for the money bracket on Friday. Ooko also made four birdies on holes 10, 11, 16 and 17 and parted the rest. “I am really excited about today’s score because that is what God gave me. The course was a bit challenging. But as a pro, you should not complain. I did four bogeys which weren’t something to cheer about,” Ooko said. Friday’s round 2 will be used as a yardstick to separate the boys from men, meaning Malik and Ooko could easily make a cut should they play an under or par. David Wakhu, the Golf Park pro, had to contend with 4 over par 75 which means his prospects of making the cut are as good as gone, needing a 5 under to progress. Greg Snow, who was at one point on 2 under wrapped up the day on level par 71. Mathew Omondi of Vet Lab found the going really tough with a disappointing +9. Edwin Mudanyi and CJ Wangai also struggled through the opening day with 2 over par 73. Thursday’s play is a clear indication that most Kenyans will struggle to make the cut and will need excellent scores to remain in the mix for rounds 3 and 4 on Saturday and Sunday respectively.