South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro was on Monday arraigned where he was charged with incitement to violence. He was further charged for causing destruction to property when he appeared before Kisii Principal Magistrate Nathan Ashiundu. The MP was however released on a bond of Sh 100,000 or a cash bail of Sh50,000. He was charged that on March 4 at Kiomokama location within Masaba South Sub-County, in Kisii, he, jointly with others, not in court, willfully and unlawfully damaged motor vehicle registration, KCZw Toyota Sienta's, windscreen, doors and windows all valued at Sh 200,000, the property of Peter Karanja Njuguna. He denied the charges Lead defense counsel Wilkins Ochoki and Alice Wahome sought bail for the MP. They told the court the MP was not a flight risk and can return to the court to attend to the proceedings at scheduled dates. Osoro surrendered Monday to Kisii Central Police Monday morning after days on the run. Early, at Kisii Central Police Station, MPs Gladys Shollei and Kandara MP Alice Wahome protested the legislator's saying the country's leadership was slowly becoming authoritarian. "What we are seeing is the abuse of court by the State which is repressive," said Wahome. She said the state has taken to suppressing the rights of people supportive of Deputy President William Ruto. "We are decided on a course and we are not going back on it," said Wahome. The country, she said, has entered a dangerous political phase where police and courts are being used to target those who are nonconformist. Osoro had earlier told journalists security agents had been trailing him for days. His bodyguard is said to have shot in the air at Friends area in Kiamokama during the voting. Osoro however said he has no gun and is not aware if he would be grilled on the issue. "I don't have a gun, I have (not) been licensed to hold one and so I have heard it from you," he told journalists. Two of his staff who were arrested have since been released. The Tangatanga MP was accompanied by MPs Alice Wahome, and Gladys Shollei and Law Society of Kenya South Nyanza Region branch executive Wilkins Achoki.