 Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has told off IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati for saying the BBI distribution of the 70 new constituencies is unconstitutional. Osotsi who spoke to the Star on the phone Thursday said Chebukati was trying to derail the constitutional review process. He said there was nothing illegal about the BBI proposal to dish out the new constituencies to some 28 counties because the allocation is based on population quota as stipulated in the Constitution. He said the formula for the distribution of the new constituencies was adopted at a BBI consultative meeting at Naivasha that brought together lawmakers from both the Senate and the National Assembly. "That is where the formula for distributing those seats was agreed,” Osotsi said. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga were present. Osotsi said IEBC ought to have raised their queries earlier, so the commission is not seen as an impediment to 'the people's desire to amend the Constitution.' “In any case, they should have raised that concern earlier before they passed the document to the county assemblies. The belated comment is an attempt to throw a spanner into the works,” Osotsi said. On Wednesday, Chebukati said the delineation of the new constituencies in the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was unconstitutional. Chebukati says BBI promoters were right to create the constituencies, but allocating them to counties is the work of the commission. “Articles 84 (4) and 89 of the Constitution says the distribution of constituencies to counties is the work of the commission,” Chebukati said Wednesday when he appeared before the joint Justice and Legal Affairs Committees of the National Assembly. The BBI Bill has created 70 additional constituencies that will push the number of elected lawmakers in the National Assembly to 360 from the current 290. Nairobi county will get 12 additional constituencies followed by Kiambu and Nakuru which will get six and five respectively. Other counties that will benefit include Kilifi (4) and Machakos, Kwale, Mombasa, Uasin Gishu, Narok, Kajiado and Bungoma that will all get three more constituencies. Kisumu, Kakamega, Bomet, Trans Nzoia and Meru will all get two each while Mandera, Embu, Makueni, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kericho, Nandi, Laikipia, Turkana, West Pokot, Siaya and Nyamira will also get additional constituencies. Hamisi MP Charles Gimose said he will oppose the Bill because Vihiga did not get an additional constituency. An additional constituency in Vihiga would have meant that his Hamisi area is split because it is the biggest in the county. “In that proposal, the people of Hamisi should be considered so that service delivery is brought to their doorsteps,” Gimose said.  Edited by P.O