The body of a teacher suspected to have been killed by her ex-pastor husband in Kisii, three months ago, is yet to be buried. A tug of war between families and a court case hamper plans to bury the remains. The body of Hyline Nyakwara lies at Christmarriane Mission Hospital mortuary as the two sides battle it out at the Kisii law courts. On  Monday, a plot by the murder suspect and widower Joel Mogaka to quietly take the body for burial at their Bonchari home was stopped following a court injunction. The injunction was obtained by the woman's father Charles Bakora. In court papers, Bakora wants his daughter buried at Omosasa area in Bomachoge Chache, on the land the two had bought and not in Bonchari. Omosasa is where his daughter was allegedly killed on January 14 and the body taken to mortuary at night by the suspect. The suspect was arrested after mortuary attendants alerted the police. He had earlier told them that she had taken poison despite apparent injuries to the body prompting them to alert the police. In court, Mogaka wants to his dead wife's remains buried in Bonchari, their upcountry home. He is currently out on bail after months behind bars. But Bakora says Bonchari had not been the couple's matrimonial home. He further submits that the couple had two children together and any move to bury the body of his daughter away from Omosasa, would be depriving them of their future inheritance. The ex-pastor says the houses they had set up at Omosasa do not have doors and are incomplete to allow the burial to be conducted there. The court case has been going on before judge Steve Njoro in Kisii who on Tuesday quashed the plan by the Mogaka to take the body. He said the burial would only take place after the two sides reach an amicable solution on where they would hold a joint ceremony. The judge said Nyakwara's family does not recognise the Bonchari home as the couples matrimonial home and thus the need for further court deliberations. Hearing is set for April 12. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara