A sombre mood engulfed Kianguku village in Kirinyaga on Tuesday during the burial the departed  Mugithi maestro John Walker Mureithi alias Mureithi J Walker. Mourners led by area leaders eulogised Walker as a talented music guru who immensely contributed to the growth of the country's music industry. Area MP Gichimu Githinji eulogized the departed as a hard-working, dedicated and humble artist who interacted with all regardless of his fame. "When I got into Parliament after the 2017 election, the late Mureithi rang me because he had in mind  a music related project that he wanted implemented." "I'm glad I helped," he said. He said that he would continue helping the county's artists whenever called upon. Karumande MCA Antony Munene praised the deceased for his talent in strumming the guitar and his unmatched love for music. "My father taught the late in the neighbouring Nyanja Primary school. Though we were not friends I was acquainted to him and back then, I could not help but see his love for the guitar." "Whenever I saw him he always had his guitar and that's a true indication for his love for music." Kirinyaga nominated MCA Caroline Mureithi said the county was sadenned by the demise of the legend. "It's a big blow for our county. Mureithi helped to put Kirinyaga on the map." Musicians who flooded the burial event poured their moving tributes as most of them said they are yet to come to terms with the loss. Veteran Gikuyu artist Epha Maina who also hails from the county, urged the government to protect the rights of artists through proper allocation of royalties. He further hailed the fruitful deliberations that have  been ongoing between artists and the ICT ministry noting they are optimistic that musicians will start getting a fair share from their hard work. With the current digital trends of selling music, Maina emphasized the need for artists' affairs to continue being handled by the ministry ."Musicians have no any major source of income apart from royalties." "No artist should earn less than 50 percent ." Maina ,who is also the chairman for TAMCO Sacco, an artists' welfare group, warned those illegally using musicians' work for their selfish interest. He said the family of any deceased artist has a right to reap from their kin for a period of 50 years from the day of death. Renowned Mugithi artist Mike Rua eulogised the late as a long time friend and colleague. "I knew the late in 1996 in a music event in Nairobi." "We become instant friends and ever since, we have walked through this musical journey together. It's sad that we have lost a legend." Kirinyaga artists through their foundation Kirinyaga All Artists Forum said they had been dealt a big blow. "This is a day we never saw coming. You always encouraged us to remain united. You are gone but your memories live on." His family led by his wife Alice Mureithi praised him as a great companion and a supportive father to their three children. "No farewell words were spoken, no time to whisper goodbye. You were gone before  I knew and only God knows why." The departed Mugithi legend passed on last Friday morning after a short illness. Among the songs that catapulted him to fame are 'Wendo Wi Murio',Nyau iriaga mbia', Mrs number 1 among others.