The Sh800 million Maragua dam that the government is constructing to boost water supply in Murang’a county is 40 per cent complete. The dam is being constructed by the Ministry of Water along Irati and Maragua rivers and will have the capacity to provide 15,000 cubic metres of water daily. Water PS Joseph Wairagu who inspected the project on Saturday said 7,000 cubic metres will be channeled to the semi-arid Maragua Ridge area for domestic and irrigation purposes while the rest will be channeled to Maragua town, Kambiti and Saba Saba areas. The town lacks access to clean water leading to cases of  water borne diseases and  in turn burdening the local health systems. The project will be completed by the end of the year, Wairagu said, adding that the pipeline is also being laid. “We are fast tracking this project to ensure Maragua people benefit from it starting next year. The dam is 30 per cent done but its other components such as the pipeline and the treatment plant are 40 per cent complete,” he said. The project that was started three months ago will change the economy of Maragua sub-county that has been struggling with aridity and depending heavily on relief food. The high poverty levels are also blamed for increased criminal activities including consumption of bhang and illicit brews. With the provision of irrigation water, residents will be able to engage in sustainable agricultural activities that will help support their families financially. Wairagu said the project is being done in line with the President’s vision to provide water to all Kenyans by 2022 and provide food security. “This dam is a masterpiece. We are training our local engineers to supervise the dam once it is complete because we are transferring technology from the Chinese contractor,” he said. The PS also commissioned boreholes in Njiiris high school and Kiiria Ngoro areas. The school, with a population of about 2,000 students does not have an adequate supply of water which constrains its operations. The ministry is also laying 15km of pipes for the Makomboki Ichichi Kiruri water project to help in its last mile connection. Earlier, Wairagu had launched 500 toilets constructed in informal settlements in Maragua, Saba Saba and Kabati areas at a cost of Sh25 million. Murag’a South Water and Sanitation Company managing director Mary Nyaga said the project would increase water coverage in the area from 20 per cent to about 70 per cent. “Maragua people can now engage in horticulture farming and earn a living,” she said. Area MP Mary Waithera on her part said the Jubilee government is working the hardest as it nears the end of its second term with the President intent on ensuring his manifesto is delivered. She singled out the Sh1.2 billion Kenol sewerage project and the many power and roads projects being implemented that she said are changing the face of the county. “The government is converting the funds it is getting from loans and taxes into projects.  If you can imagine the projects the government is doing countrywide, you would not take seriously anybody who says it is not working,” she said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara