Farmers are piling pressure on the government to pay up more than Sh16 billion it owes the National Cereals and Produce Board, so that the board can resume maize purchase. NCPB has run out of funds and suspended maize purchase from farmers, putting the cereals sector in a crisis and leaving farmers stranded with their produce due to low market prices. “The government must urgently intervene to help the NCPB get cash to continue purchasing maize to save farmers," director of the Kenya Farmers Association (KFA) Kipkorir Menjo said. Another farmer, Thomas Korogoren, said the government should not abandon the NCPB yet it owes the board a lot of money that should be used to revive its operations. “Let the government give the board the money it owes, then it will be able to operate effectively and serve farmers in a better way,” said Korogoren. They spoke at a farmers meeting in Eldoret on Saturday. Imports have driven prices down and most farmers are stranded with their maize harvested in North Rift, where they are unable to sell to the NCPB, which is in a financial crisis. More than three million bags of maize have been imported from Uganda and Tanzania, causing prices to drop from Sh2,700 to Sh2,000 per 90kg bag. The NCPB suspended maize purchase from farmers due to lack of funds two weeks ago, but some farmers who were queuing with their produce are still waiting at the gates of the board’s depots mostly in Eldoret and Kitale. NCPB boss Joseph Kimote said the board ran out of funds after buying 250,000 bags from farmers in January and February. “We do not have any funding at the moment but we are willing to take in more maize once we get money,” Kimote told the Star on the phone. He said the board had been buying maize for commercial purposes with its resources because the government was no longer in the maize business. CEO Kimote said the board was negotiating with the government to pay the more than Sh16 billion it owes the NCPB so it can buy more maize. “So far we have goodwill from the government and we are pursuing the money so whatever we get buy more maize," the CEO said. The Sh16 billion is mostly agency fees charged by the board during the government purchase of maize for the Strategic Grain Reserves. Others are costs  for the importation and distribution of subsidised fertiliser. The money has accumulated for years and Kimote said they hope the government will pay soon so they can resume purchases. He said the government no longer funds the NCPB but can use its services at a fee. The CEO urged farmers to understand the board’s current position and role. “NCPB is not government. We are a commercial entity that is supposed to pay dividends to the government if we were operating as we should,” he said. The NCPB has so far used more than Sh700 million to pay farmers. It paid Sh2,700 per 90kg bag. Moiben MP Silas Tiren and Menjo urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to help the board continue with purchasing. “If the President does not intervene, then farmers will suffer and we will lose the gains we had made in ensuring adequate production,” Menjo said.