Two governors have called on the police to improve their relationship with the public to boost security in the country. Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) and Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega) said the insecurity being witnessed in some parts of the country is partly contributed by the poor working relationship between the police and the public. The public, the two county chiefs said, have information that could ease the work of police officers. The public, Ojaamong and Oparanya also said, hold crucial information about people who may be a threat to security. They said a better working connection between police and the public will ease access of crucial security information from ordinary Kenyans. The two former MPs said an improved working association between the public and security agencies will bring peace. The two spoke in Busia town during the farewell party of outgoing Busia Traffic Base Commander Gerald Gitau, who has been transferred to Naivasha. “To all the officers who are leaving Busia and those who are coming, let us have a human face as we deal with our people,” Ojaamong said. “Sometime you don’t need to be very hard on people. We can have some civic education because many of our people are ordinary folk who are not very enlightened. Let us treat our people humanly and teach them where they go wrong because some of the offences they commit are very petty.” Ojaamong said his past experience with the police is horrible. But he said professionalism in the police force has changed the way the public sees the cops. “Let us maintain this cordial relationship with residents for purposes of prosperity,” the former Amagoro MP said. Oparanya blamed some rouge officers for the bad working relationship between the public and cops. “Some of our policemen behave as if our people are not human beings and that is what has alienated the police from the people,” the former Council of Governors chairman said. “Unless you interact with the people, how will you get information and how will you do your work better? You will do your work better by interacting with the people. Even we politicians engage the people to gauge our performance.” Ojaamong commended the government for the reforms it undertook within the police force. He said professionalism has tremendously improved following the reforms. Gitau leaves Busia after serving at the border county for five years.