City Hall aims to double the enrolment of Early Childhood Development and Education learners from 25,000 to 50,000 by the end of next year. Nairobi Deputy Governor Ann Kananu pledged to build at least two ECDE centres in each of the 85 wards to increase space. "We have witnessed steady growth in enrolment, from a paltry 13,000 to over 25,000. The goal is to ultimately double the number of children enrolled in public ECDE in Nairobi county from 25,073 to 50,000 by the 2022,” she noted. Kananu was speaking on Tuesday at Charter Hall where she disbursed Sh116 million ECDE funds. In the current financial year, Sh80 million had been allocated for ECDE and an additional Sh36 million in the supplementary budget passed early this month. A 2019 education report showed Nairobi has 229 public ECDE centres where 205 are located in public primary schools with 24 others as stand-alone facilities. However, Minority Leader Michael Ogada raised concerns over the deplorable state of some ECDEs in the capital. He noted that some containers have been converted to ECDE centres and might be risky since they have to be children- friendly. The Education Department has also issued new Vote Head guidelines which will be adopted by all the pre-schools. These guidelines have laid emphasis on renovation of classrooms, toilets, repairs, fencing and general improvement of physical facilities. Education CAS Sarah Ruto who was also present at the event emphasised the need to increase the capitation fund, improve staffing of ECDE centres and more focus on digital literacy programmes at ECDE level. Education Executive Janet Ouko warned ECDE managers against asking parents for money for the feeding programme, noting that ECDE education in the county is free. She said the county will also work to scale terms and conditions for ECDE teachers in the county. In 2018, the county scrapped all ECDE levies and launched a free pre-school programme. The ECDEs were to get Sh3,815 in capitation for each learner. The move was meant to ensure all children enjoy access to good elementary education. In 2019, the county banned ECDE graduation ceremonies in all public centres saying such celebrations were being used to fleece parents of cash. Education executive Janet Ouko said the move was part of measures to ensure early childhood education was completely free. “We have noted with concern that schools are planning ECDE graduation ceremonies and charging parents between Sh1,000 and 1500. This is against the spirit of free ECDE which the county is implementing. We have therefore issued a ban on those ceremonies especially if they attract a charge to the parents,” Ouko said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara