Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga has urged the county assembly to be factual and unbiased when oversighting the executive. Rasanga said the assembly will only be considered a credible watchdog if it avoids witch-hunt. The county chief regretted that his administration has done "so many good things", but the assembly is only hell-bent on highlighting slight mistakes. “That is not an oversight but a witch-hunt expedition to taint the name of Rasanga,” he said. Rasanga said 80 per cent of the executive's functions and projects have been well executed but no one talks about them. The governor urged assembly speaker George Okode to recognise the county's achievements even as they take his team to task for its shortcomings. “Having gone to a local school around Siaya, you (Okode) are the right person to applaud my good performance as you were there before devolution and after devolution," he told the speaker. He was speaking at his office during performance-contracting of county employees. The speaker was present. Rasanga said it is not wrong for MCAs to highlight flaws but they must be fair in their assessment of the overall performance of the county government. "The assembly has never talked about our legacy projects. The county government has invested over 350 million shillings in the construction of Siaya County Stadium," he said. The stadium is 80 per cent complete. The project was initiated last year and handed over to Chinese contractor Jiangxi International. Rasanga said that the project is in line with the 2018-22 County Integrated Development Plan that intends to improve the wellbeing of the youth through sporting and other socio-economic events. MCAs had, however, questioned it after he proposed the scrapping of the Sh30 million Ward Development Fund in favour of flagship projects. He defended his decision. “I have in the last five years allocated close to Sh150 million to facilitate development in wards, but they have not achieved much. "That is why I have changed tack and resorted to key projects, including tarmacking Siaya-Sirembe and Bondo-Nango roads that support fish trade,” Rasanga said. 