The county assembly of Nyamira on Tuesday turned chaotic, after a section of the members of the assembly raised issues with the speaker for colluding with some members to kick them from key house committees. The morning session was dominated with blame game, where the leader of majority was faulted for failing to take proper position on guiding the house. On the order paper, presentation of the report for the CECMs was supposed to be presented before the plenary, but the process failed after a chaotic afternoon session. Speaker Moffat Teya, who all along struggled to contain the house, urged the MCAs to be calm as the whole process of dispensation of justice is focused upon. Just before the adjournment of the major discussion on the report, most MCAs who are perceived to have taken sides with 'some' political divide, criticised the speaker's position on the issue of the expulsion of some members from committees. Nyamaiya ward MCA Raban Masira and Ekerenyo ward MCA Thadeus Nyabaro, tried to convince their colleagues to calm down and created room for the debate on appointment of CEC's but were met with unending Paul and Silas chorus that was started by Magwagwa MCA Fred Omayio. "Paulo na Sila Waliomba, milango ya gereza ikafunguka," "We must be told why some are being left in crucial committees while others are shortchanged," a furious Omayio, who almost went physical with Nyabaro, said. Majority leader and township ward MCA Duke Masira defended the argument, saying that the assembly should/must not focus on the perceived differences, urging them to strictly observe decorum while having discussions. On Thursday, the report on the CEC members will be tabled before the house, and this will ultimately give way for other important issues within government. Jones Omwenga( Trade), CliveOgwora( Environment), Thomas Nyariki(Public service management) and Emily Ongaga( Finance and Economic Planning) will determine their fate on Thursday. The focus on the supplementary budged is one of the major focus areas, and this is expected to be staged before the assembly on Thursday this week. Lately, Governor Nyaribo has been consistent in urging the assembly leadership to closely work with the executive, for this will improve service delivery.