More than 230,000 people in Turkana county are in dire need of relief food as drought and hunger ravage the region. The National Drought Management Authority has ranked Turkana East, Turkana North and Kibish as the worst hit on food security, saying over 230,000 people need help. Its report was presented by Josephat Lotwel, assistant director for Drought Contingency Planning and Response. Governor Josphat Nanok has called on partners to support vulnerable communities and help the county prepare better for emergencies. "In different places there is an emerging drought crisis" Nanok said. "I witnessed this myself." "The water table has gone down, boreholes have either dried up or are overstretched and the health of livestock has deteriorated. We must leverage resources to end the crisis," he said. A new cycle of relief food distribution started late last week to help residents as drought and Covid-19 take a heavy economic toll. Through the Covid-19 fund, the county has bought 70,000 50kg bags of white maize, 6,500 bags of rice, 16,000 bags of beans and 15,000 cans (20 litres) of cooking oil. The supplies will help more than 11,000 households, a population of more than 640,000, Turkana Deputy Governor Peter Lotethiro said. Lotethiro said the county will continue to support residents.  He appealed to partners for help in getting animal feed, water and food for hard-hit areas of Turkana North and Turkana East  subcounties. He said the county is also working closely with World Food Programme and World Vision to transport 3,037 metric tonnes of food to all the seven subcounties. Chief officer for disaster management Esther Ikaru said food procurement is ongoing and criticised budgetary constraints. “For full cushioning of our residents, we had budgeted Sh451 million for relief food aid but we only have Sh211 million. We appeal to partners to cover the Sh240 million deficit," she said. Ikaru said the food dispatches will prioritise areas of Kibish, Turkana North and East subcounties, the worst-hit. (Edited by V. Graham)