The Judicial Service Commission has made public information about 10 candidates seeking the position of Chief Justice and invited Kenyans to fully participate in the process of appointment. The JSC has requested Kenyans to visit its website and view the handbook with simplified information on the selection process of the Chief Justice. It has further asked members of the public to continue presenting information or complaint on any of the 10 shortlisted candidates. The information provided on the JSC website includes the candidates' profiles, their sample writings and the written memoranda from stakeholder The 10 are Justice Said Chitembwe, Prof Patricia Mbote, Justice Martha Koome, Justice Marete Njagi, Philip Murgor, Justice Nduma Nderi, Fred Ngatia, Justice William Ouko, Dr Wekesa Moni and Alice Yano. All the current Supreme Court judges including acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu kept off the race to replace former Chief Justice David Maraga. Those shortlisted for the Supreme Court judge position include Justice Said Chitembwe, Justice Martha Koome, Justice M’inoti Kathurima, Justice Nduma Nderi, Lumumba Nyaberi, Justice William Ouko, Justice Joseph Sergon and Alice Yano. The public has been asked to give their views on the candidates by March 3 for consideration. The commission is seeking to fill the position of CJ left vacant by the former holder Maraga and that of the Supreme Court of Kenya left by Justice Jackton Ojwang. In a statement to newsrooms, the JSC said it has already met with representatives of Parliament, the Executive, county governments, the Law Society of Kenya, the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, various law schools and the Central Organization of Trade Unions. Civil society organizations that were engaged in this process include ICJ – Kenya, FIDA Kenya, Kituo Cha Sheria and Pamoja Trust. The Commission also held consultative sessions with the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, Kenya Council of Church Alliances and Ministries, Evangelical Alliance of Kenya, the Anglican Church of Kenya, the Catholic Church and the Seventh Day Adventist Church. Comments may be e-mailed to recruitment@jsc.go.ke. The commission will start interviewing the ten in April.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris