Nairobi City Stars owner and chairman Jonathan Jackson has expressed delight at after signing striker Nicholas Kipkirui who parted ways with Gor Mahia early this week. “It was a struggle getting a quality striker but we are glad that finally Kipkirui has joined us. His goal-scoring prowess is not in question and he will be a great boost to the City Stars frontline. I hereby welcome him to the Simba wa Nairobi family,” Jackson told the club’s official portal. Kipkirui, a former Matrix, Zoo and Gor Mahia hitman, arrives at Simba Wa Nairobi soon after being declared a free agent by the Football Kenya Federation (FKF). Club CEO Patrick Korir further explained Kipkirui’s arrival off the transfer window. “We were in search of a polished striker during the last transfer window. Having missed our targets locally, we went shopping in Uganda. Kipkirui then came to us at a time he had issued notice of termination of contract to his former club.” Korir added: “We then entered a pre-agreement on the premise that if his situation was not remedied within the term of the notice, we would then sign him at the point he became a free agent." We registered that pre-agreement with the Federation before the closure of the transfer window in accordance with FIFA regulations hence his eventual signing immediately he gained his free agent status.” On his part, Kipkirui said: “I’m so excited to join Nairobi City Stars. I had several offers from teams within and outside Kenya but it is Simba wa Nairobi that appealed to me most. I wish to thank the club owner Jonathan Jackson, management led by Korir and team coordinator Samson Otieno for offering me an opportunity to play for this ambitious club. I am ready to make the most of this chance.” He added: “I also want to sincerely extend my gratitude to the technical bench led by coach Sanjin Alagic for checking up and supporting me as I went through due process to join the club.” The former Gor Mahia striker thanked  FKF for assisting him to play football and put a smile on his face again. He said he is looking forward to helping the team by assisting and scoring goals. “This club is also part of the Jonathan Jackson Foundation and I am excited at the chance of assisting the needy in our society put a meal on the table, achieve their dreams and goals,” concluded the sharp shooter. Kipkirui becomes the latest arrival at Simba wa Nairobi after left back Bolton Omwenga from Tanzania’s Biashara United Mara and right back Kevin Chumsy Okumu who rejoined the club on loan from Wazito FC. Kipkirui will don jersey no. 17 at City Stars.