The High Court on Monday declined to stop the prosecution of Meru Senator Mithika Linturi over a loan he took two years ago from Family Bank. Linturi moved to court on Friday last week seeking orders to bar the DCI and DPP from arresting him and his business partner Emily Nkirote in relation to the loan. Justice Weldon Korir directed his lawyers to serve the other parties with the application and appear before him Monday next week for hearing of the application. In his application Linturi had told court that he may be arrested at any time because he was being trailed by unknown police officers. He claims that their intended prosecution is unlawful as it relates to a family and property dispute between the senator and his estranged wife Maryanne Kitany. Kitany lodged a complaint with the DCI two years ago accusing Linturi and Nkirote who were directors of Atticon Ltd, of fraud in taking a loan using fake papers. Linturi had asked the court to grant them anticipatory bail pending their arrest and prosecution. He also wanted the court to bar the DPP and DCI from prosecuting them with any criminal offences relating to credit facilities and securities and fraudulent changes on Atticon ownership pending the hearing and determination of family disputes between him and Kitany. There are currently eight cases still pending before court relating to property disputes, including the divorce case. “The DPP has maliciously recommended the arrest, charging and prosecution for alleged criminal offences revolving around loans, overdrafts and other facilities that Family Bank extended to Atticon Ltd where the complaint giving rise to the investigations had actually been lodged,” court papers read. He argues that the charges that he is being prosecuted for are the same issued in the ongoing civil, commercial and family disputes currently pending before various courts between him and Kitany. “The intended arrest, charging and prosecution for offences relating to the said loan as well as the dispute over ownership of Atticon is improper and an abuse of power,” Linturi claims. The legislator says that early this week someone dropped at his office a draft of a charge sheet containing 38 counts. The charges range from giving false information to a person employed in the public service, obtaining credits by false pretences, impersonation, abuse of office, fraudulently procuring the registration of charge of documents, forgery and intent to defraud, among others. “Soon after we began receiving anonymous calls with the callers merely telephoning but not communicating and this led us to believe that they are DCI officers who are tracking us with a view of arresting us,” he said. He has accused the DCI of being biased and selective in prosecution, claiming that he had also lodged a complaint against Kitany and the other directors but to date no action has been taken against them. Linturi accused Kitany of withdrawing over Sh20 million from the company accounts, which was fraud. He said he made several complaints to the Banking Fraud Unit about Kitany and other business partners but no action was taken against them. Edited by Henry Makori