CCM boss Isaac Rutto has for the first time opened up on his decision to support Deputy President William Ruto for president. The former Bomet governor said he was moved by the unwarranted "tribulations" Ruto was subjected to by the Jubilee administration and ODM leader Raila Odinga. The ex-governor who is also the party leader of Chama Cha Mashinani revealed that his move was informed by Ruto's suffering. Rutto said after supporting Raila in the 2017 elections, he was taken aback that his handshake with President Uhuru had become the source of Ruto's problems. “When I saw my brother (DP Ruto) had been left out and subjected to tribulations by the Jubilee administration including Odinga whom I had supported, we chose to unite to rival them,” Rutto stated. The CCM leader insisted that his handshake with Ruto-his hitherto arch-rival in the supremacy battle to control Rift Valley region - was meant to cushion the DP from political persecution. Uhuru has launched a political onslaught against Ruto following a bitter falling out in government and is coalescing around a new alliance that isolates his deputy and includes key opposition leaders. Raila, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula have given Uhuru the political insulation to take on Ruto. But Rutto, who worked with Raila, Kalonzo and Musalia under the moribund Nasa coalition in 2017 but last year inked a cooperation agreement with Jubilee Party, has decided to stand with the DP. This is even as his former buddies push Ruto to the periphery in Uhuru's government and frequently demand  that the second in command be axed from his position. Over the weekend, Rutto recounted how he fell out with his co-Nasa principals despite having worked together in 2017 and, in a surprise move, revealed he was not about to desert the DP. He said that  he abandoned Raila  due to his dismal performance in the 2017 general election. Rutto said he was keen on supporting Odinga to ascend to power against Uhuru who was seeking a second term. Joking about how the race was stiff between the Jubilee team and National Super Alliance brigade, Rutto  affirmed that the UhuRuto’s wave was too  strong that it swept them all. “When my brother (Ruto) went to the mountain (Mt Kenya), I decided to go to the lake…so when I tried to pull my candidate who was stuck in the swamp it became difficult because the force that came from the hill (Uhuru side) was immense and used gravity that it swept him and that is why I ditched him,” Rutto amid laughter from the crowd. He spoke during a function at Chesoen in Bomet Central. He said soon after the 2017 Jubilee victory, President Kenyatta went ahead and brought Odinga into his government leaving out Ruto whom he had worked together tirelessly to clinch the presidency. The CCM boss said as if that was not enough, the duo later ganged up against Ruto hence his decision to support him in his quest to succeed Kenyatta when he retires. Rutto parted ways with DP Ruto in the run up to the 2017 general, losing his seat to the late Governor Joyce Laboso in the hotly contested race. Their differences started when Uhuru and Ruto agreed to fold their parties-TNA and URP- and form Jubilee which was their train in the race for re-election back in 2017. He was among the founders of the defunct URP that entered into a coalition with TNA in the 2013 election. The former governor led an onslaught against the DP where he formed his CCM party, which he used to run for the gubernatorial seat that he lost. He will now be taking another stab in 2022 and has publicly announced that he will be running on the CCM ticket. Soon after the 2017 election, the former Council of Governors chairman warmed up to the DP camp but months down the line, their differences played out again. Rutto had at some point opted to team up with Baringo Senator Gideon Moi in campaigning for the Building Bridges Initiative. But when he realised BBI initiated by Uhuru and Raila was receiving resistance in the vast Rift Valley, he switched camps to the dismay of Kanu. The DP and the former governor buried their differences a month ago during function in Bomet. While drumming up support for the DP, Rutto further pointed out that they have agreed to work together since their aspirations for the electorate are similar. He said policies that the leaders should be making in the country were those that touch on the common man noting, “I have always strived to ensure the needs of the common man are factored in and achieved and that is we are now sharing similar ideas with Ruto.” Rutto also used the opportunity to prevail upon the residents not to look at the political parties but an individual when choosing leaders even as the country heads to the next general election. Seemingly urging the locals to elect him on his CCM party, Rutto said political affiliations were not important hence, “let us look at an individual’s performance and vision not their political party bases.” (Edited by V. Graham)