Kenya Football Coaches Association (Kefoca) has lauded Football Kenya Federation (FKF) president Nick Mwendwa’s assurance on the resumption of the Premier League. Kefoca chairman Robert Matano said Mwendwa’s assurance that he was engaging the Ministry of Sports to have the top flight football resume was good news to the entire soccer fraternity and sports as a whole. “Our members have continued to suffer due to the  suspension of the league and I urge the federation to move with speed and ensure action resumes immediately. Coaches and referees including soccer fans are suffering due to lack of activities where they earn their daily bread,” said Matano. He added: “There are fears that sponsors might withdraw their financial support to clubs but I call for sobriety and understanding. I urged members to adhere to the government’s directive by observing social distance and constantly wearing of masks so that when action resumes, they remain in perfect health condition,” he added. The Tusker FC coach said his association intends to roll out a comprehensive and health insurance cover for their members to contain the Corona-19 pandemic. He further asked his members to remain focused and avoid negative thoughts on the effects of the pandemic and forget their responsibilities. The legendary coach asked his members to begin registering as members with a fee of Sh1000, adding that the exercise will be carried transparently with no discrimination. He called upon interested coaches wishing to register as members to visit  their offices based in Ruiru or contact any of the four executive members, who include himself, treasurer James Saisi, John Njogu (secretary general) and Peter Kamau, who is the vice chairman. The association has a strong committee membership that include Harambee Stars’ coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee, Twahir Muhiddin, Francis Kimanzi, Hesborn Nyabinge, Starlets head coach David Ouma, George Ondula, Eunice Dola and Michael Amenga. Others members are Martha Karimi, Mike Kamure and Zoo FC coach-cum-lawyer Ken Ochieng among others.