United States International University USIU-A Spartans marauding right-back Lynn Mwangi believes the future is bright for the national women's hockey team following the performances put in by youngsters in their demolition of Uganda a week ago. The majority of the players in the team, which hammered the visitors 22-0 across three matches, was drawn from the under-21 side and Mwangi feels this is a step in the right direction. In addition to Mwangi, the team also had Fiona Makena, Jeriah Osare, Naomi Kemunto, Eleanor Chebet, Beverly Akoth, Grace Bwire, Lynn Kipsang and Maroline Wabomba. "The decision to give u-21 players a chance to impress was justified. The hunger was there and the guidance from the senior players was invaluable," said Mwangi. The right way for Kenya to return to the top is by promoting the young players to the senior team and giving them exposure to build their confidence as shown when we played against Uganda." "We can conquer the world if the current squad is maintained. The talent is there, it only needs harnessing but of course, consistency is key," said Mwangi who targets a regular spot after the faultless show. The Jacqueline Mwangi-tutored side is rebuilding as part of a long term strategy with an eye for the African Cup of Nations slated for January next year. Kenya has been criticised in the past for being reliant on experienced players, who have failed to deliver, but the juniors were in a class of their own against Uganda. Strathmore Scorpions' Gilly Okumu, captain at both club and national team added: "We are back on track and it won't be long before the team tastes success on the continental front." "Exciting times await and as senior players, our role is to mentor them (young players). They only need to work on their basics and positioning," said Okumu, who boasts of 29 caps. However, coach Mwangi warned the young players not to get carried away, adding that time is required to get the team rolling. She, however, hinted at maintaining the same squad. "We have to be careful about how we handle the juniors. Transition takes time but everybody is feeling as being a part of the process. We have to keep this team together because it is good enough to deliver at the grandest stage," said Mwangi.