The clergy and people with underlying health conditions will be targeted in the next phase of vaccination, the government has said. This is as the Ministry of Health finalizes the vaccination of healthcare workers, teachers and security personnel who were the priority in the first phase. Speaking during the Covid-19 briefing on Wednesday, Dr. Willies Akwale denied claims of side effects of the vaccine. There has been a flurry of suspensions of the coronavirus vaccine developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford after several European governments suspended the use of the vaccine as a precautionary measure following reports of blood clots. However, Dr. Akwale said the Ministry of Health is confident with the judgment of both the World Health Organization and Europe’s drug regulators. "In Africa, 850,000 doses of the vaccine have been distributed 1,110 cases have been reported and only 10 have warranted an investigation," he said. Symptoms registered were headache and pain in the arm. The vaccine was rolled out in the country on March 5, with data showing that around 20,000 people have so far been reached against the 1.25 million targets by June 30. A total of 47 facilities are currently being utilised with more than 600 others being prepared for the same to increase capacity. Health CAS Rashid Aman has said Kenya will not be halting the ongoing Covid-19 vaccination campaign despite the concerns. “We are continuing administering the vaccines. The information that is out there right now does not seem to indicate any link between vaccine administration and these particular clotting events that have been reported,” Aman  said on Wednesday. The CAS noted, however, the country remains vigilant and continues to monitor what is happening across the globe and within the country through a data monitoring and reporting system already in place. Denmark was the first country to halt the use of the AstraZeneca after reports of blood clots in some people. AstraZeneca, in its defence, has said it had carefully reviewed the data on 17 million people who received doses across Europe and found there were 37 cases of people who developed blood clots, adding, however, that there was “no evidence of an increased risk” of blood clots in any age group or gender in any country.