Davis & Shirtliff has announced it is re-defining its distribution strategy to capture the bigger African market, as the company moves to operationalise a new distribution centre at Tatu City. It said it is improving customer experience, and play an even bigger role in helping the continent address perennial water and energy challenges. Founded 75 years ago in Westlands, Nairobi, the company is a leading supplier of water and energy-related equipment in the East Africa region. It commissioned a new state-of-the-art distribution centre last week, at Tatu City, a mixed-use development project  25 kilometres outside Nairobi. “Distribution is the core competence that one needs in this digital age. This investment will greatly enhance distribution capacity to the Groups’ network of 70 branches in nine regional countries as well as facilitating the development of the growing e-business," Chairman, Alec Davis, said. The investment, the Company’s largest-ever, covers a 10,000 square meter area that includes offices and staff facilities as well as the warehouse and provides a central hub where stock can be stored and efficiently redistributed across different markets within the continent. Warehouse features include a single-roof open floor area with extensive racking, self-levelling vehicle docking bays, high specification material handling equipment and a new warehouse management IT system has also been installed. “We needed a completely different approach to distribution and a greenfield project like this was the only option,"said Davis. Previously, distribution was centralised at the Company’s Industrial Area head office and due to huge growth over the past few years, driven by the development of the branch network capacity, it had become overwhelmed, the firm said. "Facilities of a different scale had become vital and that was the genesis of this project,” said Davis. The company is currently selling over 200,000 pumps annually, from a low of 700 pumps, with the new distribution centre expected to further increase its stock holding, and faster delivery. “We believe we have a strong basis to grow within Africa and become an African brand. We certainly are leading our industry in terms of technology, distribution and product," Davis said. Davis & Shirtliff participates in seven product segments all focused on providing energy and water solutions. A particular focus is its growing presence in the solar energy business . Other activities include surface and borehole water pumping, water treatment, swimming pools, power generation and irrigation where it sells a number of products under the Dayliff own brand, as well as using international suppliers like Pedrollo and Grundfos.