Sofapaka's new signing Umaru Kasumba is oozing confidence days after making a grand return to the country's top tier. The Ugandan, who is vividly remembered for his exceptional exploits that propelled him to the Golden Boot bracket when he last featured for Sofapaka in the 2018 Football Kenya Federation Premier League season, says he has his eyes firmly trained on a top five finish this time round. "I can't dream of being the league's top scorer now because we only  have one match before the end of the first leg. So my aim this season is to finish among the top five scorers," said Kasumba. This definitely isn't a farfetched illusion for a lethal striker who wrapped up the competition with 17 goals to emerge joint top scorer alongside Ulinzi’s Enosh Ochieng and Kakamega Homeboyz’s Allan Wanga. So splendid was his performance that he caught the attention of a hawk-eyed Zesco United scout who handed him an opportunity to showcase his expertise in the Zambian Super League, where he plied trade for a couple of years before being rendered a free agent when his contract ran out. Umaru now makes a pompous return to the Kenyan top-flight, this time putting ink on paper to transact business in so cagy a deal whose length remains undisclosed to the public this far. That notwithstanding, coach Casa Mbungo handed the forward his first real task during their entertaining league match against Wazito at Utalii grounds over the weekend, where he sprang from the bench in the second half to help his teammates squeeze out a crucial away point. Umaru says he will now need some time to get accustomed once again to the Kenyan climate after being away for a while. He added that transitioning from one climatic condition to another had a toll on his performance against the moneybags. "Honestly, the weather had an adverse effect on my performance when I featured in my first match for Bandari against Wazito. You can imagine, having landed from Zambia only recently and before I could hardly settle down at the Coast, we had a match in Nairobi," he lamented. Having played both in Kenya and Zambia, no one could be better placed than Umaru to draw appropriate comparisons between the two leagues. "I will not lie to you. Zambian clubs are more advanced in terms of equipment and facilities compared to Kenyan clubs. A player in the Zambian Super League has less to worry about the gym, balls, training ground, uniform and all the essentials which are readily available for use," he pointed out. However, while at it Umaru is quick to point out that the two countries have almost a similar style of play. "Kenyans and Zambians play almost the same way and that's why Kenyan players find it more favourable playing in Zambia than in any other league in the continent," he concludes. At the dockers, Umaru will battle for first-team opportunities with Congolese Yema Mwana and John Mwita. 