Thirdway Alliance party leader Ekuru Aukot has revived his bid to amend the 2010 Constitution with radical changes aimed at putting mwananchi at the centre of governance. In a departure from the previous proposals in Punguza Mzigo Bill, Aukot has undertaken changes to several clauses which he says will see public resources well utilised, public and state officers held accountable. Aukot said the reason they have revived their quest to amend the supreme law is to offer alternative pro-Kenyans solution to the “expensive BBI that has proposed expansion of Parliament and Executive”. Speaking to the Star on Monday, Aukot who has already met his former colleagues at the  defunct Committee of Experts  including Bobby Mkangi, Atsango Chesoni, Abdirashid Abdullahi and Otiende Amolo, said there is a need to protect the gains made in the current Constitution while at the same time amending the costly sections. “Even as we deal with the pandemic and its effects, let us also think about our country and what ought to be its priorities. Its obvious that political leadership is obsessed with the BBI referendum,” he said. He added, “This is not a priority for Kenya right now or even in the near future. What is a priority for us now are two main things—how to defeat Covid-19, its effects and return back to normalcy and how to reduce the burden on Kenyans.” In the radical proposals in a new Bill that is seen to counter the Building Bridges Initiative, Aukot wants the national revenue divided equally between the national government and the devolved units. He wants 50 per cent of national revenues given to counties unlike in the 2019 bill where he had proposed that not less than 35 per cent be allocated to the counties. Aukot also said his new bill has introduced an article that will make governors the chief accounting officers putting them right on line in being held directly responsible for all the expenditure in the county executive. Currently, governors are not expressly responsible for accounting for every penny allocated to their respective counties, instead chief officers are the accounting officers in the current arrangement. “We want the governors to be like the chief executive officer, they should be held to account for every shilling given to the counties. The idea is to avoid the current situation where governors apportion blame on other county officers. This way we will ensure prudent management of public resources,” he told the Star on phone. Aukot has retreated from the initial proposal of a seven-year single term presidential limit reverting back to the current prevision of two  5 -year term. “When we went round the 29 counties doing public participation , Kenyans expressed their concerns on our initial proposal so we have retained it as it is,” he said. In a similar proposal like the one contained in the BBI Constitution (Amendment) Bill 2020 where MCAs will be given Ward Development Fund, Thirdway Alliance is proposing a similar fund. However Aukot says it will be given as a conditional grant with specific development projects to be funded which must be identified through public participation. “This model will cure cases where if an MCA is not in good terms with the governor or was elected on a different party from that of the governor, the residents of the area should not suffer. This will guarantee equal development regardless of the prevailing political circumstances,” he said. Aukot is also proposing a new clause that will see the county assemblies have financial autonomy, where they can control their own budgets. He is also proposing creation of a stand alone Youth Ministry unlike now which is a department in the ICT ministry. Aukot said they are finalising review on whether to retain Senate or there be an entire overhaul and restructuring of Parliament to have one lean national parliament with define roles. Initially the Punguza Mizigo Bill which could not get the support of the mandatory 24 county assemblies had sought to reduce the number of MPs, abolish Woman Representative and Deputy Governor positions.  The Bill also wanted to reduce the cost of running Parliament by cutting down the burden of the blotted legislative assemblies in the country. It proposed the reduction of lawmakers in the National Assembly from the current 349 to 147 to address the ballooning wage bill. BBI Bill has made proposals that could see the next Parliament have close to 650 legislators. To address gender inequality, it had proposed that Kenyans elect one man and woman from each of the 47 counties into the National Assembly. It also wanted to abolish nominations to the county assemblies and the Senate. Aukot said they will soon be launching collection of 1 million prerequisite signature to amend the constitution through popular initiative. “Together with a dedicated team of Thirdwayers, we have revived the Punguza Mizigo Kenya project as a way of undoing the BBI damage that includes the disunity it has since caused among Kenyans,” he said. “We have unveiled an online campaign that you can endorse at the comfort of your homes, phones, tablets, laptops and all other social media platforms. We count on your support to help undo the BBI damage to our country. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara