Kenya Commercial Bank budding setter Immaculate Nekesa has vowed to fight for a place in the national team after her first call up to Malkia strikers. The provisional squad of 20 players begin a 15-day residential first training session on Wednesday at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC),  Kasarani ahead of the Tokyo Olympic Games.  The players will, however, be allowed to go back to their clubs to prepare for African Club Championship after the 15-day period. The 18-year-old Nekesa was part of the U-16 and U-18 teams who featured in the national championships in 2018. The former Kwathanze alumnus faces competition from experienced duo of Jane Wacu and Joy Luseneka, who have been regulars in the team. Kenya Pipeline setter Esther Mutinda has also made the cut. Nekesa said training with accomplished players will push her to her limits and unlock the full potential in her. "There are no better setters in the country than Wacu and Luseneka. Training with them is a learning experience, which I cannot take for granted. They are proven winners who have fought for Malkia Strikers and put Kenya on the global map," she said. "I haven't scaled to their level but there's the probability I can become one of the best setters. I am looking up to the two for inspiration and I am ready for the challenge ahead." Despite lack of playing time at club level, Mutinda, 22, is looking to redeem herself after being dropped for the Olympic qualifiers duty in Cameroon. Mutinda has been reduced to the bench at Pipeline with Janet Wanja and Rose Magoi often preferred ahaed of her. "I have a point to prove that I am good enough both at club and national team levels. I need playing time but when you know you can do better but you are kept outside, you feel like your talent is being wasted," Mutinda said. "The only way to overcome this obstacle is working harder and becoming better. Everybody thinks I haven't progressed from the player I was at Kwanthanze but my best is yet to come." Squad—Setters: Jane Wacu, Joy Lusenaka,  Esther Mutinda and Emmaculate Nekesa; Middle blockers: Edith Wisa,Violet Makuto, Joan Jelagat, Gladys Ekaru, Carolyne Sirengo, Lorraine Chebet; Left attackers: Mercy Moim, Noel  Murambi , Leonida Kasaya, Jemmima Siangu, Pamela Masaisai and Pamela Odhiambo; Right attackers: Sharon Chepchumba and Emmaculate Chemutai:  Liberos: Elizabeth Wanyama ,Aggripina Kundu and  Josphine Makokha.