Aggrey Namisi, Knut National Executive Council member Western region, has announced his bid for the teachers' union chairmanship. This follows the retirement of national chairman Wycliffe Omuchei. "I will be going for the union national chairmanship to create room for other unionists to also grow. Bungoma needs a leader at the top of the union," Namisi said. Speaking during the Ng'arisha Sacco annual delegates meeting at Farm View Hotel in Busia town on Saturday, Namisi said that since 1957 the position has not been held by an official from Bungoma. "More people have tried before but failed to clinch the seat at the national level. If I am picked, I will continue fighting for their rights," he said. The Bungoma East Knut executive secretary said teachers are very influential and they have been pushing for other people's agendas but when it comes to them being fronted, they are sidelined. "Let teachers wake up and vie for different political seats," he said. "We need to have many elected leaders in our midst come 2022. When we meet as Ng'arisha Sacco in 2023, we must have many elected members here so that it adds weight to the Sacco operations," Namisi added. The unionist said the wrangles in Knut have been brought about by delocalisation. "It is alleged that when a teacher is delocalised, he or she cannot be elected, and they are the people who try hard to bring down the Sacco leadership so it can close down," he said. Bungoma South Knut executive secretary Kenneth Ngangah said people from the Western region should compete in national politics. "Bungoma teachers should wake up and be counted. Let's go for bigger seats in the national platform. We aren't lesser beings," he said Bungoma North executive secretary Chrispinus Sifuna said Knut is strong and will continue operating in the country. "Somebody is trying to kill Knut but he or she won't succeed. The 62-year-old union won't be killed just like that. There will be light at the end of the tunnel," he said. Sifuna said they will not allow anybody to destroy Knut as they will fight for its survival. "By the end of the year, all the 188 Knut members will be back in the union and strengthen it to accommodate other members," he said. Bungoma West executive secretary Moses Masika called on all unionists in the region to unite and elect one of them to the national platform. "We have the power to push for one of us to represent us in the national politics. This way, we will get a chance to take over other regional seats," said Masika. 