The National Cereals and Produce Board has suspended maize purchase from farmers due to lack of funds. NCPB boss Joseph Kimote said the board ran out of funds after buying 250,000 bags from farmers in January and February. “We do not have any funding at the moment but we are willing to take in more maize once we get money,” Kimote told the Star on the phone. He said the board had been buying maize for commercial purposes with its resources because the government was no longer in the business. The CEO said the board was negotiating with the government to pay more than Sh16 billion it owes the NCPB so it can buy more maize from farmers. “So far we have goodwill from the government and we are pursuing the money so that whatever we get can be used for further purchase of maize,” Kimote said. The Sh16 billion is mostly agency fees charged by the board during the government purchase of maize for the Strategic Grain Reserves. Others are costs accrued for the importation and distribution of subsidised fertiliser to farmers. The money has accumulated for years and Kimote said they hope the government will pay soon so they can resume buying maize. He said the government no longer funds the NCPB but can use its services at a fee. Kimote urged farmers to understand the board’s current position and role. “NCPB is not government. We are a commercial entity which is supposed to pay dividends to the government if we were operating as we should,” Kimote said. The board's decision came as hundreds of farmers were still lining up at various depots, including Eldoret and Kitale, to deliver their maize. Some of the farmers have been in the queues for a week. “It's not that we don’t want to take in their maize but we don’t have money to pay them,” Kimote said. The NCPB had used more than Sh700 million to pay farmers. It paid Sh2,700 per 90g bag. An influx of maize imports from Uganda and Tanzania brought down maize prices to about Sh2,000 per 90 kg bag in most areas in Western Kenya. Farmers were desperate to deliver their maize to NCPB due to better prices. Since January an estimated one million bags of maize have been imported into the country. The government has since banned maize imports from the two counties over high aflatoxin levels. With the suspension of the purchase, the farmers will now have to sell their commodity to middlemen or millers at lesser prices. Moiben MP Silas Tiren and Kipkorir Menjo, a director of the Kenya Farmers Association, have urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to help the board continue with the purchase. “If the President does not intervene then farmers will suffer and we will lose the gains we had made in ensuring adequate production,” Menjo said.   (edited by o. owino)