The widow of former Juja MP Francis Waititu and Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria’s PEP candidate Koimburi will face off in the by-election set for May 18. The seat fell vacant after Waititu, alias Wakapee, succumbed to brain cancer on February 22 in a Nairobi hospital. His remains were interred at his home in Juja on March 2. Wakapee's widow Susan Njeri seeks to succeed him on a Jubilee Party ticket, while businessman George Koimburi will be contesting on a People's Empowerment Party ticket linked to Kuria. The stage is set for a bruising battle between the two even though other candidates have also entered the fray through other parties and as independents. Njeri won the Jubilee Party nomination held on Saturday with 1,596 votes. Former Kiambu county Education executive Joseph Ng'ang'a and university don Muiga Rugara garnered 889 and 669 votes respectively, while businessmen Antony Kirori and Karanja Ngarachu got 189 and 48 votes respectively in a nomination marked by low voter turnout. Other candidates jostling for the seat include Eunice Wanjiru of The New Democrats and Kanu's Dorcas Wanjiru. Independents are businessman James Marungo Kariuki, commonly known as JM; Kenn Gachuma, who worked under Wakapee as CDF chairman between 2013 and 2015;  and Dr Joseph Gichui. However, political pundits maintain that the race will be between Njeri and Koimburi given that the ruling party will go full throttle to retain the seat, while Kuria's PEP will be seeking to stamp authority in an area considered a Jubilee stronghold. PEP has already promised to give Jubilee a run for its money. Also, politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto are expected to back Koimburi. Kuria is one of the DP's allies from the Mt Kenya region. United Democratic Alliance—a party linked to Ruto—rescinded its earlier announcement that invited applications from those who were willing to run on its ticket. The party gave no reason for the decision to pull out of the race. Koimburi contested for the Juja parliamentary seat against the former MP and emerged second with 10,165 votes. Wakapee garnered 66,190 votes. Njeri is upbeat that she will defeat her competitors given that she is riding on the Jubilee vehicle that's headed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Addressing journalists after winning the JP ticket, she said she is equal to the task. She said she will fit in her late husband's shoes and complete the projects and programmes he initiated. “I know the journey ahead is tough but I trust that with the support of Juja residents, we will emerge winners. All I want is to ensure that the dream that my late husband had of transforming the constituency is actualised,” she said. Njeri was accompanied by Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, his deputy Joyce Ngugi and Jubilee's Kiambu County Assembly Caucus chairman Elijah Njoroge (Biashara MCA in Ruiru). Governor Nyoro called on the candidates who lost to Njeri to join her camp and assist her in the campaigns. “They are my friends and I will talk to them so that they can support our candidate in the campaigns ahead,” Nyoro said. He expressed optimism that Jubilee will retain the seat just as it did in the Kahawa Wendani ward by-election. Kevin Ochieng won the seat that was left vacant after the death of his brother Cyrus Omondi. “Jubilee will win all the seats in Kiambu county even in Muguga ward that was left vacant after the death of MCA Eliud Ngugi,” Nyoro said. Njoroge said the nomination was free and fair and the most competitive candidate won. He urged Juja residents to get used to Njeri as their MP, saying with the Jubilee ticket she will automatically win the by-election. Edited by F'Orieny