Kenya has been recognized by Solar Cookers International for its progressive effort in promoting and expanding the use of clean cooking as an alternative to traditional sources of energy. The country was awarded the prestigious Solar Cookers International Order of Excellence for 2020 and was ranked 13th worldwide. Kenya was recognized for including solar cooking goals in its Voluntary National Review which is used to track progress towards achieving the Sustainable Development Goals, specifically number 7, which highlights the urgent need to take action on advancing access to clean cooking solutions. Energy CS Charles Keter said Kenya has been deliberate in making steady advancement in transforming the clean cooking sector. "The policies and national development plan we have put in place are in tandem with our Sustainable Energy for All," he said. Keter disclosed that the increased attraction by investors in the clean cooking sector has created market growth for the sector, resulting in the birth of local industrial cookstoves manufacturing, local assembly, and new market players. According to the National Cooking Sector Study 2019, many Kenyans still require interventions that will increase their access to improved and clean cooking solutions. Statistics from the study show that 93.2 per cent of the rural populations continue to rely on solid fuels as their primary fuel source. This means that there is a need to study the clean cooking sector and visualize a shift to alternatives for all populations, especially vulnerable populations, and those in underserved counties. Solar Cookers International Board President, Shishpal Rawat, said: “It is incredibly fitting that Kenya has included solar cooking in its VNR given SCI’s strong history of solar cooking success and collaboration in Kenya”. This includes one of only four globally recognized solar cooker Performance Evaluation Process (PEP) testing stations at the University of Nairobi and hundreds of families in Kakuma refugee camp empowered with solar cookers made in Kenya, by Kenyans, using Kenyan materials. Also commenting on the recognition, SCI Executive Director, Caitlyn Hughes said: “SCI looks forward to continuing to build a strong relationship with the Republic of Kenya with solar cooking and encouraging other countries to follow Kenya’s leading example.” The Solar Cooker International award recognizes the most outstanding individuals, organizations, and countries whose sustained efforts have contributed most to empowering people to use solar energy for cooking and pasteurizing water. Solar cooking is the cleanest and most sustainable form of cooking. It improves the health of women and children, prevents deforestation, preserves the soil, and reduces CO2 emissions.