An MP from Kiambu has raised concerns over the poor performance of students in national exams as the country moves to replace the 8-4-4 system of education. Lari MP Jonah Mburu urged managements of schools, teachers as well as parents to embark on strategies that will help students score better grades. "Let us have some strategies, even if it will be for a short time. We must join hands to better the foundation of our students in higher education," he said. Mburu said the students who will sit KCPE and KCSE for the last time should be taken care of well since they might experience competition with those who will graduate with the CBC in the job market. He spoke to teachers, parents, guardians and students of Gitithia Girls Secondary in his constituency. The MP praised President Uhuru Kenyatta for the steps the government is taking to phase out the 8-4-4 system and replace it with a system that equips students with skills. "Even as we phase out the 8-4-4 system, we are still performing poorly. We need to improve. Let us join hands and see our last candidates get better grades since those who will follow them will be the first products of CBC, and we do not know what the job market will be," he urged. "I also thank our President for realising that there are so many talented people whose talent can help this country, but they have gone untapped since they did not perform well in school and ended up losing hope," Mburu said. The lawmaker said his CDF committee was working on rehabilitating primary and secondary schools so as to change the attitude of learners that the school they are in once produced students who failed. "The aim here is to change the negative attitude of students towards their school. We have beautified them. We want to have strategies of motivating learners and see them improve the grades they earn. This is not a joke, we shall move deeper in this issue" he added. The MP raised concerns that some schools had continued having the best students scoring C, many of them D. A parent, Joseph Ndegwa, said many employers, including the government, might rush to hire CBC graduates to see their productivity and competency. He urged the government to come up strategies that will see all graduates considered for different opportunities. Edited by Henry Makori