ODM leader Raila Odinga has clashed with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi over the formation of a Coast-based political party. The Coast has voted for ODM for years, but leaders say it has benefitted little from their loyalty. Speaking in Ganze during a BBI promotion rally on Wednesday, Kingi warned Raila against commenting on the matter in his BBI Coast tour. Kingi said other regions are coming together, but when the Coast region comes together, it is accused of being a threat to national unity and told to concentrate on popularising the BBI. Kingi, who initially wanted a Coast party, said the region is not forming a regional party but an alliance of already-registered national parties dedicated to uplifting the Coast. “When I received an invitation to this rally, I was happy you were coming to popularise BBI," Kingi said. "I was perplexed, however, when you were in Taita Taveta and said the region is not ready for a political party. "If you start discussing the party issue, then BBI will come second. I know what the law says and we cannot fo rm a regional party." Kingi said there is no party without a base and asked why Raila has remained silent when other regions like Western and Eastern come together. “Every party must have a base, though it must be a national party. We have seen ANC and Ford Kenya come together and, Baba, you did not say a word. "We have seen Wiper and Ngilu’s party come together but this was not called a threat to national unity. What is wrong when Kadu Asili, Shirikisho and USPK coming together? They all are national parties with a base in the Coast region. They are already registered. We are not forming any new party,” Kingi said. Raila, however, asked Kingi why he wanted a Coast party after his term as governor ends. He asked what has changed in ODM that sponsored him as an MP and governor. He asked Kingi why he has never vied on any of the coastal parties, yet he speaks of forming a party after he leaves office. Raila said he has been with Kingi since 2002. He appointed him and when devolution came he supported him for two terms as Kilifi governor. "Because he is not vying he now wants to form another party. Stay in ODM and I will lift you up to the national level. ODM is a national party,” Raila said. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said the region is firmly in ODM but it’s time for the region to come together. He said he is a convener of all Coast meetings and what is discussed is not a new party but unity of the region. "The region has grown and we want to strategise so we can have a political voice. We know the Constitution and we cannot form a regional party,” Mwambire said. Though the region is supporting ODM, it must unite, he said. Rabai MP William Kamoti also said the region has been highly divided and the discussion now is how to bring it together. “We have judges and lawyers in Kilifi. We have very many professionals privy to the law on political parties. We want to come together so when the right time comes we can chart the way forward,” Kamoti said. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino urged leaders from the region to remain firmly in ODM. “I have heard some leaders here wanted to form their own political party. This is not good for the region. If you get a second wife you do not divorce the first wife,” Owino said. The leaders were responding to Raila’s remarks that the region should not have a regional party as it would threaten national unity. Other leaders at the rally included Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, Kwale Senator Issa Juma Boy, Kilifi Jubilee Party nominated Senator Christine Zawadi and Kilifi MP Getrude Mbeyu. Kilifi South MP Ken Chonga, Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and Likoni MP Mishi Mboko were also present. (Edited by V. Graham)