Development partners have been urged to tailor their programmes and policies to the constitutional provisions to avoid running into problems during implementation. Garissa county secretary Abdi Ali said on Tuesday donors and other partners should interrogate how the Constitution spells out devolvement functions and engage the necessary parties prior to the rollout of projects. He gave an example of the Sh10 billion Kenya Development Response to Displacement Impacts Project project, which, though well-intentioned, has run into headwinds during its implementation. Ali said the project originators failed to engage the local communities and other stakeholders. The Sh10 billion project is being implemented in three counties of Garissa (Sh4.2 billion), Wajir (Sh2 billion) and Turkana (Sh3.1 billion). Ali spoke when he opened a stakeholders visioning exercise and engagement workshop for Ifo 2 and Kambioos refugee camps. Last week, a section of Garissa residents raised concerns over what they termed  irregularities and poor coordination in the implementation of the KDRDIP in the county. Residents, under the Garissa Residents Association, allege that the project had been hijacked by elites instead of being implemented through the Community-Driven Development approach. In a petition addressed to Lisa Schmidt, KDRDIP project officer at World Bank Kenya, the residents say that whereas the project has good intentions of enhancing livelihoods, the process had been hijacked by some politicians. The project was meant to improve access to basic services, expansion of economic opportunities, and enhancement of environment management. “Our findings reveal that these good intentions are a risk of being watered down in the subcounties of Fafi, Lagdera, and Daadab by local elites who have hijacked the whole implementation process to further their interests at the expense of the community,” reads the petition dated February 25 and received by the World Bank. Last week, legislators whose constituencies host Somali refugees expressed optimism that the project will better the lives of their electorate.