The Auditor-General is on the spot over the late submission of the report of a special audit of the Eurobond. The National Assembly Public Accounts Committee has given an ultimatum to the auditor general to submit the said report. “The special audit on the Eurobond has not been formally tabled in the House to date, and therefore the matter remained unresolved,” the Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi-led committee said. “The Auditor-General should, within seven days of tabling and adoption of this report, submit to the National Assembly a copy the special audit report on Eurobond,” MPs said. Wandayi the PAC chairman, said the document is not formally before the committee, and that efforts to trace it have been futile. “My committee has not seen that report despite all attempts to look for it. We have looked for it and we haven’t been able to see it. We don’t know how the report looks like,” the lawmaker told the Star yesterday. An official at the auditor’s office told the Star in confidence, for lack of substantive authority, that the report had been submitted to Parliament. “It was submitted long ago. They can trace within their systems,” the official said. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration, at its infancy stages, went to the international markets to issue the country’s first sovereign bond of USD 2.75 (Sh301.68) billion. Its first issue raised Sh176 billion and the second Sh74 billion, monies the government said was to slow domestic borrowing. The Federal Reserve Bank reportedly transferred the monies to the Central Bank of Kenya after receipt from the JP Morgan Chase, New York. But the auditor’s report for the financial year 2014-2015 revealed that the receipt of net proceeds from the commercial financing could not be ascertained. The auditor, in a review of the expenditure on the national exchequer account for the year to June 2018, reported that Sh215 billion Eurobond cash, could not be accounted for. ODM leader Raila Odinga, while at the Cord coalition, alleged that the proceeds were embezzled; putting the government on its defense on how the money was utilized. The government has never accounted for the money, with instances pointed out, of attempts to fix the figures in the budget. The government once said part of it was used to pay pending bills to road contractors and to help fund budget deficits but the books are yet to add up. Treasury promised to give details of the projects which were funded by the Eurobond cash but later said the ministries could not differentiate the sources of the exchequer receipts. President Kenyatta in 2016 scoffed at plans by the auditor to investigate the Federal Reserve Bank regarding the alleged misuse of the Sh250 billion proceeds. Former Auditor General Edward Ouko once told Parliament that he had secured appointments with US and UK financial entities linked to the controversial borrowing. The auditor, in the 2018 report, said the investigation into the receipts, issues, accounting and utilization of the funds related to the Euro Bond had not been concluded as of 30 June 2018. Treasury Principal Secretary Julius Muia told PAC at a past meeting that the auditor reported that the special audit had been concluded. The report was to be shared with the committee but that was yet to be by the time the Wandayi-led team issued its latest report. MPs are expected to debate the report once normalcy resumes, as the report provides a crucial basis for sharing revenue among the 48 governments.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris