Budalang’i MP Raphael Wanjala has asked the National Cereals and Produce Board to buy tonnes of rice likely to go bad in farmers’ homes. Wanjala said there are over 2,000 farmers in Budalang'i who are stuck with rice for lack of access to the market. Traditional methods the farmers use in storing the rice, the lawmaker said, do not support its storage for long. “When the government issued a directive to NCPB to purchase rice from the farmers, it did not limit the buying to one area. Our farmers here are suffering with their produce in the houses. An urgent solution must be found,” Wanjala said. The MP spoke in Rwambwa during the groundbreaking for construction of the new Rwambwa Secondary School on Wednesday. He said if the government does not act with speed, farmers will face great losses because brokers have invaded the area. The lawmaker said unscrupulous traders are taking advantage of the farmers’ desperation to exploit them by buying the product at low prices. Budalang’i has approximately 2,500 farmers producing an estimated 11,000 metric tonnes of rice every year. The government has bought about one per cent of the total tonnage of rice from Budalang’i farmers, Wanjala said. He criticised NCPB for paying more attention to farmers in the Mwea rice-producing belt and ignoring those from Budalang’i. The MP further challenged the Budalang’i business community to embrace loan facilities among them Uwezo Fund and Youth Enterprise Fund to enable them to grow their businesses. He was concerned over the low rate at which residents are applying for loans from different financial institutions. He called on the national and county governments to support the development of social infrastructure in schools in his constituency as the need for such facilities is overwhelming. His office, he said, has set aside over Sh40 million in the 2020-2021 financial year to support school infrastructural development. Schools affected by floods in the area will be prioritised. Wanjala said due to the scarcity of land in Budalang’i for expansion, education stakeholders and his office have resolved to put up storey buildings in schools.  This move will address the congestion in schools.   (edited by o. owino)