The Kwale county government has dismissed claims that it wants to evict Shimba Hills residents to pave way for the construction of Sh600 million fruit processing plant at Kubo ward in Matuga subcounty. A section of the residents alleged that the county wanted to unlawfully evict them and without compensations. The disputed land legally belongs to the Kwale government which had set it aside for development. Environment and natural resources chief officer Nuru Mohammed said nobody was going to be evicted as the county will only use a portion of land for the project. She said seven out of the 25 acres of the land would be used to construct the company. “We have given residents enough land more than they can use it, so whatever allegations are made against us is not true,” she said. Mohammed termed the accusations propaganda mainly driven by political influences. She said the county has an obligation to protect the rights of its citizens. The chief officer said the county is at the forefront in fighting and ending historical land injustices. She said both the project and the locals are of great importance hence the need to ensure the law is followed. Mohammed said the county aims at fulfilling all the promised flagship projects to race up development and uplift livelihoods. The project is targeted to offer employment opportunities to thousands of residents. Most farmers would directly benefit from the fruit processing firm as demand for fruits shall be high. Its construction began in 2019 and it is projected to be operational before 2022. Mohammed said talks are underway between the community and the local administration for peace and unity to prosper. “Even if the land is for the government appropriate channels are used to reach a mutual agreement, ” she said. Mohammed said any locals who feel aggrieved should file complaints through proper channels for action to be taken. She, however, told the residents to maintain peace as the county government resolves some of the misunderstandings.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris