The impasse between MCAs and the Treasury over the supplementary budget has been ended. The Treasury gave in and provided Sh10 billion to offset arrears in NG-CDF allocations for the last financial year. The lawmakers had protested Treasury's lack of help with CDF arrears and had even threatened to scuttle the budget presented last month. Treasury then introduced allocations to the CDF Board, some for projects dating back to 2011. The National Treasury will now remit to the board Sh2 billion every week for members of the National Assembly Constituency Development Fund. In return, MPs will pass the supplementary estimates, which Treasury has amended by adding Sh62 billion. The truce follows weeks of back and forth between the Treasury and the National Assembly’s Budget committee. Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Kanini Kega said the CDF question now stands solved, citing "a firm commitment by the Treasury". He said weekly disbursement, which translates to about Sh8 billion per month, will meet the pressing demands on CDF committees. The Kieni MP said that should Treasury maintain the nonpayment trend, they will have exhausted the entire allocation for the year by the end of the financial year, which is three months away. “This is something that was hanging," Kega said. MPs have complained about the slow pace of disbursement of kitty funds. They entered the current financial years with a balance of Sh18 billion, of which Sh14 billion was the amount due in the last financial year. The remaining Sh4 billion was for arrears accrued over time, some dating back to 2011. Lawmakers said contractors were pestering them over late payments. This year, Treasury says it has disbursed Sh26 billion, leaving a balance of Sh15 billion, which the constituency entities should receive by June 30. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani said entities relying on the Exchequer must be realistic and understand the circumstances of the Treasury. He said the ministry has created a fiscal framework they believe is sound and reasonable in this financial situation. The CS hinted at further budget cuts for ministries, state departments, and agencies, instead of subjecting Kenyans to more taxation to meet competing cash demands. “We are curtailing a number of expenditures because we cannot talk about taxing our people. We have to now within that parameter to remain modest in our expenditure,” Yatani said. Last financial year’s disbursements were also delayed, in what Treasury attributed to reduced revenue caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. (Edited by V. Graham)