Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua on Sunday said no burial permits will be issued without a covid-19 test result. Mutua said the county had realised that there were more deaths in the villages and needed statistics of Coronavirus deaths. This comes few days after President Uhuru Kenyatta imposes cessation of movement in and out of five counties including Machakos. Others are Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado and Nakuru. Uhuru said the affected counties had been marked disease infected and containment measures had to be enhanced. "My government will also subject bodies of people who die in the villages to covid-19 tests before providing burial permits to their kin. This is to establish the actual causes of deaths and the need to protect relatives and others from the risk of covid-19 infection",  Mutua said. Mutua spoke during a press conference at his Machakos office flanked by the county security team. He said the wearing of masks and social distancing as well as sanitising will now be enforced in the entire county especially in public places and in Matatus to avoid further spread. The governor also appealed for masks and sanitisers from his supporters and well-wishers adding that the government will provide water tanks and sanitisers at every bus stop and market places. "We are going to enhance and make sure our water points have soap and water", he said. The governor called upon the transport industry to do what is required of them without being forced. "We will be very strict on transport system especially in Matatus because they are not obeying what we agreed with them that they should be able to do", He noted. In terms of lockdown, the county has identified various routes within neighbouring counties of Makueni, Kajiado, Nairobi, Embu and Kitui and placed roadblocks that will be manned by GSU officers. Mutua cautioned bodaboda operators not to transport people from other counties into Machakos using 'panya' routes arguing that they have identified all possible routes and will be monitored. The operators will be arrested and fined and their motorcycles impounded if caught. He also urged Hotel and restaurant owners to offer takeaway while bar owners were called upon to adhere to President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive not to operate for a period of one month. "For those who operate in wines and spirits, please not it is strictly takeaway. No one is allowed to drink in public. Buy and go drink at your home. Those who will be caught will be taken to Court," he said. Traders in Market places were also urged to exercise maximum hygiene and not to offer any services to any person without a mask on. Mutua said as a result, burial events will be attended by only 50 people while the number of those attending weddings will be cut to 30 people respectively. " If you want your wedding to have more than 30 people you can wait for a few months until this Covid 19 ends because now we have the vaccination and everything will move in,' he said. While cautioning carwash operators to exercise social distancing, Mutua said county hospitals are currently full with Covid 19 patients. He directed area chiefs to keep track of their people in matters of health and ensure curfew hours are strictly followed. So far the county has recorded 3, 707 Covid 19 cases with 1, 387 recoveries. The 3, 707 cases were from a total testing caseload of 34, 930 people. So far 2, 460 people have been vaccinated with a record of 169 infected Health care workers.