Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja has refuted claims that he has contracted Coronavirus. Samboja, who is currently in Nairobi, said in an interview that he had gone for surgery and a routine check-up. There have been reports doing rounds saying the governor had been taken ill. “Some people will always wish bad things to happen in your life. It is very sad to learn that some people are spreading baseless rumours that I am sick and admitted in hospital,” said the governor during a phone interview with a local radio station. Last week, Samboja became the first governor in the Coast region to take the coronavirus vaccination. He was reacting to a section of posts on Facebook hinting that he was admitted to a Nairobi hospital. Former Director of Digital and Diaspora Communications at the Presidential Strategic Communications Unit, Dennis Itumbi on Sunday took to his Facebook account to wish Samboja a quick recovery. The post was however widely shared in county WhatsApp groups, sparking rumours of the alleged sickness. “Ndugu Governor Granton Samboja I wish you quick recovery. We all get sick, it was actually refreshing to hear you speak on Radio and even sing. There is no need for leaders to deny what is factual, we are all humans. That is encouraging. Tremendous recovery over the last week. The World will defeat Covid-19 one day. We all will win,” Itumbi posted. However, Samboja termed the rumours baseless and ill intended to mislead the public. He said he was already recovering from a surgery he underwent on Tuesday last week. In the interview, he however did not disclose the kind nor the ailment that necessitated a surgery. He said his political nemeses who are eyeing the gubernatorial seat were behind the rumours. “I was not born a governor, it is only by God's grace. Those who are fighting to unseat me should find another tactic instead of telling the public that I am in ICU battling coronavirus,” he said. When contacted, county spokesperson Denis Onsarigo told the Star that the governor had undergone a major surgery. “I cannot disclose the kind of surgery, but it is a major surgery. The county boss is doing well here in Nairobi. He is actually doing a 1km walk every day,” he said on phone. Onsarigo further revealed that Samboja will undergo another preview of this week to ascertain the recovery process. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara