Comedian Eric Omondi and his 15 'Wife Material' show contestants were on Friday freed from Central Police cells in Nairobi. Omondi and the contestants were all freed on Sh50,000 police bond. They are set to appear in court on Thursday, March 18, to face charges over alleged participation in the production of “dirty content.” Nairobi Central Division police boss Mark Wanjala confirmed Omondi and others’ release from their custody on a Sh50,000 bond. “They will take plea later,” he said. Kenya Film Classification Board (KFCB) boss, Ezekiel Mutua, said he ordered their arrest for violating provisions of the Films and Stage Plays Act Cap 222 of the Laws of Kenya. He said Omondi, who runs the 'Wife Material' show on his YouTube, Facebook and Instagram pages, has not submitted the said-content for classification by the Board. “No film or class of film shall be distributed, exhibited, or broadcast, either publicly or privately, unless the Board has examined it and issued a certificate of approval in respect thereof,” says the Film Board’s Plays Act. On Friday morning, the KFCB boss took to his Facebook account to inform the public that his directive for the arrest and charging of Omondi is not meant to stifle creativity. “The war is not against artistes or the youth. It’s against dirty content. The intention is not to harass artistes or stifle creativity. The idea is to promote clean content and protect children against exposure to adult content!” said Dr Mutua. Authorities seized the comedian on Mombasa Road with a search within the Kilimani estate leading to the arrest of at least 15 of the show’s female participants. Police drove them to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations offices in Central Division, Nairobi for interrogation. Speaking to Word Is, Eric's younger brother Fred Omondi confirmed that the comedian is home. "This is the second season of the comedian's reality show. The first one started in December last year and ended in January. In a past interview, Eric said he aims at getting a woman to marry from the show 'Wife Material' as he is approaching 40 years. "It is going to be a competition between 15 girls from East Africa and I will marry the best." During his birthday on Wednesday night, a viral club brawl video saw him trending on social media for his antics .