The Senate Standing Committee on Land has ordered the National Land Commission  to write a report clarifying whether Kenya Airports Authority  encroached on private land in Ukunda. The committee issued the instructions after KAA denied that it had encroached on land neighbouring Diani airstrip, Kwale county, as claimed by a group of petitioners. Kwale Senator Issa Juma, who presented the petition to the House on behalf of the group, said he was not satisfied with the presentation by KAA managing director Alex Gitari. Gitari had told the committee that the airstrip land was delineated in 1970 off government land and as such there was no need for compulsory acquisition. “On the contrary, airport land has been encroached by 12 homesteads which raises serious safety and security concerns. Their presence continues to delay the ongoing construction of a boundary fence at Ukunda airstrip,” added Gitari. In his presentation, NLC chair Gershom Otachi told the committee the commission has not had time to compile a satisfactory report on the matter. Committee chair  Mwangi Githomi said they need to first prove that the petitioners have a case. “They (petitioners) will be part of the next meeting and it is then that we will know how to proceed,” said Githomi. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri said the petitioners need to be part of the next meeting to also hear from the NLC and explain their case. “At the moment, it is the word of KAA against the word of the community. We need the representation of the petitioners when the report will be submitted,” he stated. Taita Taveta Senator Johnes Mwarume said he believed the petitioners were not raising the matter in vain. “When setting up the airstrip, were people on the land? I know the NLC will be objective in its report. The petitioners also need to tell us why they believe the land is theirs,”he stated. Last month, KAA announced that it had embarked on expansion and rehabilitation of airstrips and airports to open up tourism and boost the movement of cargo. The expansion, especially at airstrips, is meant to increase the capacity of the facilities so that they can accommodate larger aircrafts. Ukunda airstrip has in recent past registered growth in passenger numbers, necessitating introduction of larger planes. On Thursday, Mwarume said any development is welcome but residents concerns  should not be ignored. “We welcome the expansion but what about the plight of the people who live there,” he stated. Otachi pledged to submit a throughly researched report to the committee. “We will give a through response. We will have to involve the Ministry of Lands in this matter,” he stated. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara