Members of Parliament will officially adjourn sittings on Tuesday in respect of the proclamation of President Uhuru Kenyatta suspending meetings. The President in his televised address on Friday asked the speakers of the Senate and National Assembly to suspend House sittings in measures to contain Covid-19 spread. Speaker Justin Muturi said the Tuesday sitting would be to conclude pending businesses and officially alter the calendar of sittings. The Standing Orders provide a procedure for adjourning Parliament, through a motion moved by the Majority Leaders of the respective Houses. "You are notified that the House will hold its next Sitting on Tuesday, 30th March 2021 at 2.30 pm as earlier scheduled to conclude any urgent business and consider a motion to alter its Calendar in accordance with the Standing Orders," Muturi said in a notice to members. He said arrangements will be made for MPs to have uninterrupted travel to Parliament. "Let us all play our part as national leaders to contain the spread of the virus and keep our beloved nation and its people safe," the speaker said. In the escalated containment measures, the president banned all forms of in-person meetings, affecting plenary and committee meetings. Parliament's business has been scuttled amid a busy calendar. MPs were due to begin debate on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 starting April 1. Critical budget processes are also supposed to be concluded by April 30. The Clerk of the National Assembly clarified Friday's announcement does not mean the President has suspended Parliament but has only asked the two Speakers to move the Houses to consider adjourning. This is in solidarity with the Government efforts to contain the upsurge of the Covid-19. "The National Assembly will meet next Tuesday to consider the motion of adjournment among other urgent Business," the Clerk said. "Members will travel to Parliament next week to transact the said business and despite the cessation of movement, will travel without hindrance. "