Members of the East Africa Legislative Assembly, Kenyan chapter, have launched a one week campaign to sensitize Kenyans on the need for integration in East Africa. Addressing journalists at Parliament buildings on Wednesday, the legislators said  their campaign will focus on general integration in the East African Community. “The objective of the sensitization is to promote liaison with EAC national assemblies and key stakeholders and creation of awareness among the EAC populace on the gains and challenges of integration,” the MPs said in a joint statement read by Abdikadir Aden. The campaigns come just days after President Uhuru Kenyatta was installed as the chairperson of the East Africa Community. The president was elected during the virtual 21st Ordinary Summit of the East African Community Heads of State. This was the first Summit of the Heads of State to be held virtually. Uhuru took over from his Rwandan outgoing counterpart Paul Kagame who took over the leadership in February 2019. During the summit, Dr Peter Mutuku Mathuki from Kenya was appointed as the new Secretary-General of the Community for a 5-year non-renewable term. Aden said their campaign also seeks to enhance mutual relationships and sustainable networking between EALA and EAC populace. While congratulating the President and exuding confidence that he will steer the community to realise the much-needed integration, Aden said they will traverse the country and market the integration to students, professionals, religious leaders among other key stakeholders. “The current EAC aims at widening and deepening cooperation of the partner states in among others political, economic and social fields for their mutual benefit,” the former Mbalambala MP said. Aden was flanked by MPs Oburu Oginga, Wanjiku Muhia, Musyioka Kalonzo, Florence Jematiah and Mohamed Noor. He said while the six East Africa nations that for the regional community was formed to better the lives of the residents, many factors have continued to hinder the realisation of the objective thus the need for the sensitization campaigns. “The main goal of EAC as economic and political entity stems from the desire by governments partners to improve the standards of living of the population,” he said.Click here to edit this text.