Lawmakers for the second time on Thursday deferred a vote on the Division of Revenue Bill, in a stalemate that is likely to disrupt government operations. The MPs put their political differences aside and issued an ultimatum to the Executive over the late disbursement of CDF cash. They said it would no longer be business as usual if the National Treasury does not release CDF cash to their accounts by Tuesday next week. The Bill has to be approved to pave way for the enactment of the Appropriations Bill which authorises government expenditure. Speaker Justin Muturi allowed a request by Igembe North MP Maoka Maore for deferment amid fears MPs would have shot down the Bill. The Division of Revenue Bill, if lost at any stage, can only be published after six months. Members deferred the Bill after failing to agree on the matter during an informal meeting they retreated to earlier in the day. Some MPs pointed an accusing finger at the House leadership for treating the Treasury with kids’ gloves and attempting to bulldoze members to take a vote on the Bill. Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire said: “It doesn’t help to use force to push an agenda; leaders who have used negotiations have succeeded more than those who have used threats.” “The only way is through persuasion. We have never seen members get to this level where you have to threaten to get money,” she said. MPs' grievance is not only the late disbursement but alleged instances where the money is provided, but no authority provided to incur expenditure. They want a Kamukunji with the National Treasury and CDF committee to iron out the issues. The Speaker adjourned the vote on the Bill to next week. “The consultations must be real and meaningful. The next sitting day is Tuesday, March 23, at 2.30 pm. You have the opportunity to consult,” Muturi said. Budget committee chairman Kanini Kega said the outstanding CDF funds are factored in the first supplementary estimates. Treasury, in the mini-budget, has provided Sh10 billion for the current financial year, and another Sh13 billion in arrears from previous financial years. The NG-CDF board is owed about Sh25 billion for onward transmission to constituencies. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said: “In the event, this Bill is defeated, operations of the Judiciary, Parliament, and CDF will be affected.” “This matter is so serious that we can’t play around. This House must make a decision that is beneficial to Kenyans.” Majority leader Amos Kimunya almost ran into trouble with his colleagues after he warned of the late approval of the DoRB. “There are timelines within which we have to finish the DoRB. We don’t know how long the Senate will take with the bill. The exercise should be finished before April 30,” he said. Minority Whip Junet Mohamed said there was no harm in taking more days to consult on the Bill since “CDF is very emotive and important to MPs.” “I know there is a lot of work that has gone into it in the past two days. We can take two more days and deliberate, return and pass all the laws that will help the country move forward,” he said. “The issue of DoRB is very important. History will judge us badly if we don’t tread with caution on it. Whatever day we will have agreed, we will vote on the bill,” the Suna East MP said. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo said: “CDF is not just about members. Contractors are pestering us over non-payment. The money that reaches ordinary Kenyans is CDF. When CDF stops, there is no pesa mashinani.” Endebess MP Robert Pukose said they want monies in their account by the time members meet next Tuesday. “Treasury started sending little amounts of Sh13m, Sh6.5m. All of us have put money for bursaries. Children want bursaries and we also need to put up classrooms. Whatever has been given cannot suffice,” he said. Budalangi MP Raphael Wanjala said: “We will reach nowhere when we don’t agree with the National Treasury. Let them bring money by Monday. We want our accounts stuffed with full CDF money by Monday. We cannot support the Executive when it doesn’t support us.” Mbarire said it was time the House exerted its authority. “I don’t know who will be elected for supporting what came to the floor when one cannot do something on the ground.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris