Deputy President William Ruto was in Busia on Friday in a tour that many described as a visit planned to neutralise ODM leader Raila Odinga’s popularity in the region. The visit comes weeks after the ODM leader’s tour of the county on February 28. The DP was in Budalang’i, Funyula and Busia town where he held fundraisers in aid of bodaboda riders. But his final fundraiser event in Busia town was characterized by drama. A man wearing a black marvin had to be wrestled down by the DP's security team as he ran towards the deputy president with a black chicken. It was not possible to immediately establish the intention of the man who appeared to be in his mid-twenties. His movement was obviously in breach of security protocol. The DP had just arrived in Busia town to a rousing welcome. He had landed in a helicopter in the afternoon accompanied by MPs Malulu Injendi (Malava) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula) as well as former Teso South MP Mary Emase. The DP had taken his seat at the pavilion as the crowd that had surged near him was being pushed back by security personnel. There were no curtain raiser speeches at the event. The man holding a black chicken swiftly emerged from the crowd and ran towards the DP as Ruto made his way to the podium to make his speech. Ruto had just been called to give his address. His security team did not leave anything to chance. Four of the officers manning the main pavilion ran past the DP as he walked to the podium, grabbed the chicken holder, pushing him down to create way for Ruto to ascend to the main stage. There was commotion as more youth ran to shake hand with the DP as he made his way to the dais. At the time, the man who was holding tight to his chicken was still on the ground. He was eventually overpowered by security personnel and the chicken taken away. He was freed as Ruto began to make his speech amid chants of 'wheelbarrow' and 'hustler'. Earlier in the day youth in Busia town had wanted to be given time to interact with Ruto. Those who had spoken to the Star had said, Ruto has identified himself with them and should thus be allowed to freely interact with the Deputy President. There were tens of wheelbarrow pushers at Ruto’s Busia town event. Some carried shoulder-high their wheelbarrows for the 23 minutes the DP spoke. Ruto toured Busia 12 days after ODM leader Raila Odinga visited the border town to popularize the BBI initiative an idea Ruto has consistently criticised. At the Busia fundraiser, Ruto said the BBI initiative has slowed down the government’s efforts to realize the Big Four Agenda. “When we constituted the government, we said we will roll out the housing and manufacturing agenda for the country, agro-processing and value addition,” the DP said. “Unfortunately that work has delayed because we got another emergency work; this thing called the BBI. BBI has disturbed us for the last three years and we are still struggling to look for ways of organising the issues therein.” He is expected to return to Busia to help fundraise for bodaboda riders in Teso North, Nambale and Butula subcounties.