Fiery Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga yesterday nearly exchanged blows with Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo as the county supremacy battles spilled into Parliament. The two MPs who have had long-standing differences, engaged in a nasty spat on the floor of the House in what almost degenerated into a physical fight. Gogo took on Wanga, claiming that the Woman Rep has developed a habit of traversing her constituency and launching development projects without her knowledge. The crux of the conflict is that while launching projects, Wanga has been taking credit for them, telling Gogo's constituents that she had lobbied for them from the national government. This has not gone down well with Gogo, who has claimed that the move by the county MP is meant to portray her as a failure who does not lobby for development projects from Nairobi. Gogo said this was a well-calculated political scheme by Wanga to undermine her development record and incite voters against her re-election bid in 2022. Yesterday, Gogo, fired the first salvo when she rose on a personal statement in the House and asked National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to stop Wanga from undermining her in the constituency. "I am saying that if you [Muturi] do not address the matter of Gladys Wanga spewing a lot of insults at me in my constituency that are political, then it is going to degrade into something else which is going to be very unpleasant for this House," Gogo fired. Gogo, protested to the Speaker that Wanga's conduct was rogue and non-parliamentary and would create a lot of conflict at the constituency if unabated. "It is important that it is brought to the Hansard that if you do not address and bring to conclusion matter of disrespect among colleagues then it is going to escalate to something nasty which is not good for this House,” Gogo said. Earlier Gogo and Wanga had lodged separate formal complaints in the office of the Speaker accusing each other of undermining their work. An agitated Wanga rose up and insisted that the Speaker give her a chance to respond to Gogo over the allegations as she charged towards her. However, Muturi said the matter would now be taken over by the House privileges committee where they will be required to defend themselves. The committee chaired by the Speaker has powers to sanction MPs found guilty of misconduct. Muturi also cautioned members against tarnishing their colleagues when they happen to visit their areas of jurisdiction. “I have always advised in the past, in fairness let’s respect one another. I am always hesitant — even when invited by other groups — to visit any part of this country without the knowledge of any Member of Parliament,” Muturi said. MPs are required to notify their host when touring their constituencies, even if it means holding fundraisers. In January, the two also clashed in Rangwe over a road and water projects being undertaken in Kochia ward in the constituency. The projects are the construction of the Olare–Mariwa road and Lwaho water projects. The Kenya Rural Roads Authority is repairing a 3.4km Olare- Mariwa road at a cost of Sh6.5million. Gogo and Wanga toured the road at different times and each claimed they lobbied for its construction. Wanga visited the road in the morning and addressed residents, saying the project is being done after she negotiated for it with the Ministry of Roads. But a few hours later in the afternoon, Gogo toured the road and launched construction work and said she had lobbied it from the national government. Wanga is the chairperson of the Finance committee and is seeking Homa Bay governor post while Gogo, a first-time MP, is defending her seat. Both come from Rangwe constituency but Gogo's alleged dalliance with Wanga's 2022 rival has irked the Woman Rep as the battle for Homa Bay shapes up. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara