In line with their sustained commitment to supporting Kenya's healthcare system and upgrading medical facilities, leading gaming company Mozzart has increased its frequency of donations to hospitals in the country. On Thursday 4th March, the company's social responsibility activities were taken to Nakuru county as it provided a worthwhile donation of medical equipment worth sh1.5 Million to the Molo Sub County Hospital. The equipment donated was inclusive of hospital beds, bed side lockers, maternity delivery beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, oxygen flow meters and infant incubators. Dr Bernard Warui, the Medical Superintendent at the hospital narrated how the hospital was struggling as they lacked basic items like beds and thanked Mozzart for the donation. “From deep inside my heart, I want to thank. They have proved to be a genuine company that cares for the plight of Kenyans,” he said, “We had an empty room with no beds and other necessary medical equipment because we lacked funds but through Mozzart, we now can afford a smile as the people of Molo and Nakuru are going to benefit.” He added. Mr. Kefa Omuyoma, the hospital’s board representative also expressed gratitude. “On behalf of the board, I would like to thank Mozzart, not just for the donation to our hospital but also for the good job they have been doing in different hospitals and communities around the country. We are very delighted to receive this equipment that will go a long way in improving healthcare in this region,” he said. Mozzart’s CSR Representative Cyprian Aluda emphasized on Mozzart’s commitment to empower Kenyans. “I would like to thank Molo for the warm welcome. As Mozzart, we are a listening organization and have always been willing to support community projects. We have focused on healthcare and water projects from last year as we believe these two are very important,” he said, “We hope our donations will make a change in the lives of the people of Molo and Nakuru at large,” he added. Between November 2020 and now, eighteen different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center, Dandora 2 Health Center, Kakamega Referral Hospital, Waithaka Health Center, Vihiga County Referral Hospital, Yala Sub County Hospital and now the Molo Sub County Hospital.  More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.