Early exposure of KCSE exam papers to candidates is the new headache facing the Education ministry in its efforts to curb cheating. Explaining the 'early exposure' concept, Education CS George Magoha said on Tuesday some officials open the papers minutes before the exam start time, give the questions to teachers who in turn share them with the candidates. “Unprofessional examination officials expose the exams a little earlier than the scheduled time. The questions are then shared to the targeted candidates just before the examinations start,”  Magoha said. The CS spoke at St George’s Girls Secondary where he monitored the KCSE exams. He said such a case had been flagged in Migori, where an invigilator was arrested for allegedly sharing some of exam materials before the scheduled time. “The invigilator is now in police custody and will be arraigned in court to face criminal charges,” Magoha said. He said a hunt is on to find those involved in the distribution chain. Since 2016, early exposure remains the single biggest threat to examination integrity in the country. This year’s test will be the fifth to be administered under stringent rules since the introduction of measures to weed out rampant cheating that had undermined the integrity of national exams. While only one person is under investigation this year, the Teachers Service Commission records indicate that more than 100 teachers have faced disciplinary action over early exposure since 2016. TSC also bars teachers implicated in examination malpractice from overseeing future tests. Despite the early exposure threat, CS Magoha said everything else is smooth and exam officials are keen to ensure fairness. “I wish to assure the country that all examination materials are safe and that no candidate will be allowed to have any unfair advantage in the ongoing exams,” he said. The Kenya National Examination Council termed the start of the tests on Friday a success. It will end on April 21. Students will take a maximum of two papers a day as has been the case since 2016. Some 752,933 candidates are sitting the exam in 10,437 centres. It is the 32nd examination in the history of the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education and comes amid the Covid-19 crisis. Edited by A.N