Tennis sensation Angela Okutoyi and Kenya Morans' Tylor Ongwae have been feted as the LG Sports Journalists Association of Kenya best sportspersons for January and February, respectively. Okutoyi earned the award after winning two back-to-back International Tennis Federation Junior J4 singles events in Nairobi. She won 6-3 6-2 against Celine Simunyu of Ireland and beat Hungary’s Luca Udvardy 6-1, 6-4 to move to a career high ranking of 127 globally.  Okutoyi also won one the doubles title and took second place in another partnering with Iran’s Meshkatolzahra Safi. Other nominees for the January award were Lovejyot Singh, Yvonne Wavinya, Jairus Chepkosgei, Hellen Obiri, Ferdinand Omanyala, Chrispin Odhiambo, Kirit Rajput, Pamela Adhiambo, Veronica Adhiambo and Jeremiah Mutai. Ongwae, on the other hand, was instrumental in Morans’ qualification for this year's Afro-Basket Championships in Kigali, Rwanda after a 28-year hiatus. His buzzer-beater, mid-range jumper stunned 11-time continental champions Angola 74-73 during the second leg of the FIBA Afro-basket qualifiers in Yaounde, Cameroon to secure Kenya's ticket to the continental showpiece. Ongwae left Yaounde with a team-high 14.8 points and 4.2 assists. He was also the team’s second leading rebounder with 7.2 boards. His exploits earned him a spot on the tournament's top 10 players. He beat reigning Safari Rally and Kenya champion Baldev Chager to the February award. Other February nominees were Felix Kipruto, Eric Sang, Beatrice Chepkoech, Kevin Odhiambo, Gideon Rono, Zablon Okwam and Pamela Odhiambo. Both Okutoyi and Ongwae received an LG Fridge for their feat during the launch of the event.  From January to December this year, the electronics firm will sponsor SJAK's monthly awards to a tune of Sh6.6million. The award will fete the most outstanding Kenyan sportsmen and women for their achievements across diverse disciplines each month. Speaking at the launch, LG managing director, Sa Nyoung Kim, said the partnership with SJAK will enhance development of sport in Kenya by recognizing local talent. “Recognising and rewarding performance is an important step in identifying and nurturing local sporting talent. Kenya is known globally for her sporting talent especially in athletics, and we are seeing promising talent in other disciplines, hence our decision to collaborate with SJAK to advance development of sports talent in Kenya,” Kim said. SJAK president Chris Mbaisi said the initiative will  motivate Kenyan sportsmen and women who have endured many challenges in the past one year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic.