A 50-year-old Siaya man on life sentence for defiling and impregnating his 13-year-old daughter will remain in jail for life after losing an appeal. John (not his real name) was convicted of incest in 2018 after the court found him guilty of the offence. He took advantage of his mentally ill wife. He appealed the sentence. According to the prosecution, the complainant  gave very graphic details on how she was defiled by a person whose primary duty was to protect her. He used violence as he defiled her, threatening that he would chop off her head if she cried. But she could not bear the pain and screamed. The court also noted that upon being arraigned, John took the court and the complainant through an unnecessary trial as he never defended his "not guilty" plea. He instead mitigated asking for assistance of the court and forgiveness. He said some extraordinary forces led him to commit the crime. The court questioned whether such a person, who is not in control of his actions and who has an insatiable violent appetite for his own blood and flesh, deserves leniency, describing him as a danger to society. "The children he claimed were alone are the same children that he preyed on.  Can he be trusted with their custody and care even if he is their father?" The court considered that not only did the appellant commit the offence of incest against his daughter, he also impregnated her and the DNA results as per the Government Chemist report dated March 8, 2019, show that he was 99.99+% the biological father of the infant. John had sole custody of the complainant and her two siblings. His wife was said to be deranged and had been roaming in market centres, meaning the children had no other person to turn to for care and protection but him. Placed on his defence, John prayed for the court’s assistance, saying he was an orphan. He added that his brother left his children under his care and that he had never committed any other offence and that at times he became absent minded and took herbs for treatment. Upon being convicted, he prayed for forgiveness, that he lived alone, his parents died, his children are alone and that he did not know how they were fairing on at home. However, in a judgment delivered on March 24, Justice Roselyne Aburili, noted that John was the biological father of the minor and as a child, she is carrying the burden of raising another child whose father is also her father and who is in jail for life for the offence. "The complainant is his first born child.  He had the opportunity and choice of either marrying another wife to help him raise his children or raise them in the best way possible since the children’s mother has a medical condition, not turning them into his wives or sex toys. The complainant is traumatised permanently,” the judge said. She also noted the manner in which the appellant violated the child by placing a weapon on her and threatening to kill her if she cried or informed anyone and even repeatedly defiling her on that material night in his matrimonial bed and house where his other two children slept. "That they could hear him assault the complainant tells it all, that he is  worse than a wild animal, who was tearing into the body part of his daughter, a minor without any mercy." She added that the offence was no doubt a gender-based violence offence where the offender used his power to control the feeble innocent child. "There is, however no guarantee that he will not repeat the same offence to his own children or to other children who are not related to him by blood, given a chance to get back to society." "From the horrifying evidence on record, the appellant is a dangerous person.  He is worse than a murderer. He deserved long prison sentence to keep him away from the society where is a risk to many women and children. "It is my finding and holding that the sentence imposed was lawful, appropriate and justified in the circumstances. I find no reason to interfere with the same. I dismiss the appeal herein and uphold the sentence of life imprisonment imposed on the appellant by the trial court,” the judge ruled. 