Kenyan based manufacturers want the government to harmonise laws, policies and regulations, at the national and county levels, to make Kenya competitive. They spoke during the launch of the Regulatory Audit Report, 2020 that highlights regulatory challenges facing the business community in the country. The Kenya Association of Manufactures(KAM) chair, Mucai Kunyiha said that while regulations seek  to create a level-playing field for businesses, regulatory overreach hinders the competitiveness of local industry. “At the national level, manufacturers are required to adhere to duplicating requirements, from different regulatory bodies, in the counties, we have to pay various fees, levies and charges. This drives up the cost of doing business in the country, thus reducing our competitiveness locally, regionally and even globally,” said Kunyiha. He called for the involvement of the business community in the formulation of laws, regulations and policies, by both levels of government Secretary for National Administration at the Ministry of Interior and Coordination of National Government, Arthur Osiya, said that the manufacturing sector’s growth has stagnated over a period of time, which is partly attributed to poor and different policies and regulations. “The 2010 Constitution envisioned smooth collaboration and cooperation between the two levels of government, to create a conducive business environment. However, this has not been the case, with numerous regulations and county fees, charges and levies being put in place,” said Osiya. He said the government shall continue pushing for transparency, accountability, flexibility and effectiveness, to drive the competitiveness and productivity of local industry, Principal Secretary, State Department for East African Community (EAC), Kevit Desai called for harmonisation of regulations across the region, to enhance market access, particularly in the EAC. “Addressing regulatory challenges faced by manufacturers will make our exports more competitive in the region. Greater levels of industrial integration and promotion of value addition shall enhance the overall diversity of our products and services. ” said  Desai. The Regulatory Audit Report highlights some of the regulatory challenges facing industry at both national and country levels, as well as recommendations to create an enabling business environment.