Four Kisumu county enforcement officers involved in dragging hawker Beatrice Atieno  Magolo on the tarmac behind a moving pick-up have been suspended. This follows public outrage after the officers were filmed dragging Atieno on a speeding vehicle causing her injuries. Acting Kisumu city manager Abala Wanga said the officers were suspended immediately as investigation into the incident began. Those sent home are driver Kevin Omondi, George Nyoje, Simon Nyumba and Wycliffe Omondi. The suspension comes after Governor Anyang Nyong’o condemned the incident and directed Wanga to immediately suspend them. At a press conference on Thursday at City Hall, Wanga said the officers shall be subjected to internal disciplinary process to account for their actions. He said so far they have found the four culpable based on preliminary investigations. “This does not in any way prejudice the offer of treatment granted to the hawker plus a free stall at Chichwa market to enable her sell her wares under the by-laws,” he said. Wanga noted that the victim has the right to opt for any other legal proceedings if she so wishes. He termed the incident a serious human rights issue, which should not be politicised. Wanga said the county government is committed to promoting the interests of all hawkers to ensure they are accommodated to do their businesses. He announced that Nyong’o will on Friday launch biometric registration of all traders including hawkers for well-coordinated placement in markets and designated areas for traders in the next months. He, however, urged hawkers to abide by the city by-laws and strictly operate within the designated places. “We are appealing to hawkers to stop selling their wares in restricted places. Nobody is above the law,” he said. Wanga said the Kisumu county government is democratically elected and is bound by the national values and principles of governance as enshrined in the Constitution. “The Constitution not only encompasses good governance, integrity, transparency and accountability but has a special regard for respect for human dignity, equity, social justice, inclusiveness, equality, human rights, non-discrimination and protection of the marginalised,” he said. The enforcement officers were on routine patrol duty to ensure that hawkers do not violate the county by-laws and operate in the designated places during the incident. “It is untrue to allege that the hawker was arrested, tied and dragged at the tail of the pickup as it has been made to appear. Rather it was an incident where the hawker was fighting for her wares by hanging on the guard rail clutching her wares and the driver sped off in panic,” Wanga said. He condemned the incident as well as a gang of boda boda riders for inciting the public who pelted the enforcement officers aboard the vehicle with stones, hitting the driver. “Nonetheless, the actions of the enforcement officers are regrettable as much as the hawker herself failed to take regard to her own safety,” Wanga added. The driver, Wanga said, without seeking confirmation from the enforcement officers seated behind the pickup made the unfortunate and regrettable decision to drive off while Atieno was still clutching onto the pickup rail demanding her wares back. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili also condemned the incident and apologised to women over the incident. He reiterated that those involved have been suspended. “As we speak they have received their suspension letters with investigations under way. Those found culpable will be sacked,” he said. Owili said about 12 officers were allegedly involved. Edited by Henry Makori