The Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has given police 30 days to submit a report on the just concluded by-elections. In a letter to Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, Haji said the report should capture all incidences of violence and other electoral malpractices especially in Matungu constituency within Kakamega county and London Ward in Nakuru County. Haji further directed the police to submit a report of investigations into a claim that former Sports CS Rashid Echesa assaulted an IEBC official. "I hereby direct that you immediately institute joint investigations into the said allegations and submit the resultant investigations file within 30 days hereof," Haji said. Haji's directive comes a day after Mutyambai directed the police to charge and arraign all politicians who had been arrested as a result of the violence. The four legislators who are close allies of Deputy President William Ruto were released on  Sh50,000 cash bail after spending the night in police cells. They are Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei, Kimilili's Didimus Barasa, Chesumei's Wilson Kogo and  Belgut's Nelson Koech. The legislators were arrested on claims they would sponsor violence in the just concluded by-election. "On the of march along Chwele Bungoma road the accused were found armed with offensive weapons named hoe stick in the circumstance that indicated they planned to commit a felony in breach of peace," read part of the charge sheet. They all denied the charges with the case coming for hearing on April 4. Echesa was on the other hand arrested after he surrendered himself to police. Police had been looking for Echesa for questioning over election violence experienced in Matungu Constituency in Kakamega County. This was after he failed to surrender to police as directed by Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai. Mutyambai had issued an ultimatum to Echesa to surrender to police Friday by 1 pm. The police boss said should Echesa fail to surrender by 1 pm Friday he will be treated “as an armed and dangerous criminal. Echesa went into hiding following the assault incident that occurred at the Bulonga polling station, with police launching a search for him. “The IG has directed Hon. Rashid Echesa who is on the run after assaulting an election official to surrender to the nearest Police Station by 1.00 pm this afternoon otherwise he will be treated as an armed and dangerous criminal,” read the statement issued by Spokesman Charles Owino. Echesa slapped the IEBC officer accusing him of chasing one of their agents out of the polling station during voting.