Buoyed by the resounding win at Kiamokama ward by election, ODM is plotting to clinch the Bonchari seat in the forthcoming by-election. Kisii County ODM Chairman Kerosi Ondieki said they are keen to keep the momentum from Kiamokama ward, where the party’s candidate, Malach Matara, emerged winner last week. “We want to clinch the seat. About five candidates have shown their interest which means we will do a nomination, which is the best way to choose a candidate,” said the former Kisii County Assembly speaker. The party performed dismally in the 2017 elections, failing to clinch a parliamentary seat in all the nine constituencies, a trend Ondieki says they want to reverse. Already, four aspirants have shown their interest in the party’s ticket. They include Kisii County Agriculture Chief Officer Geoffrey Mogire, Water and Environment CEC John Momanyi, David Ogega and former Energy Regulatory Commission chief Pervel Oimeke. Oimeke applied for ODM life membership on Friday morning after ditching Jubilee Party. Oimeke and Mogire, a former trade unionist and human rights defender, are first-timers. Momanyi contested the seat on an ODM ticket and finished a distant third in 2017. He resigned from the Kisii County Government last week. “It’s true I tendered my resignation from government last week because you can’t seek nomination while still working as a public servant,” Momanyi told the Star on Sunday morning. Mogire, who is being projected as the ‘handshake candidate’, said: “I’m in the race and I’m confident I will clinch the seat on an ODM ticket.” ODM National Elections Board chairman Catherine Mumma gave interested candidates up to March 11 to submit their application forms to the party headquarters. Others seeking the seat are former MP Zebedeo Opore, who was roundly booed during the burial of immediate former MP the late Oroo Oyioka; youthful Johah Onkendi Ondieki, who was formerly based in the US; Oroo’s widow Teresia Bitutu and youthful political operative Douglas Ogari. Others said to be interested in the seat are prominent Nairobi lawyer Cliff Ombeta and former Kisii Woman Representative Mary Otara. The by-election will be held on Tuesday, May 18, according to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC). The election was occasioned by the death of area MP Oroo Oyioka a month ago at Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu after an illness.