Sofapaka's new acquisition Pitson Mutamba still dreams of playing abroad despite his aborted bid to turn professional with Libyan premiership side, Asswhell SC a month ago. The former Bidco United striker promised to give his all on the pitch for Batoto Ba Mungu in a bid to attract the eyes of foreign scouts. "I can't give up just yet, at least not that easily. I still have a chance to make a good impression in the league and catch the attention of foreign scouts and I'm convinced it will happen soon," Mutamba said. Mutamba blamed the management of the league newbies for failing to provide him with a release letter at the eleventh hour. Furthermore, Mutamba said he has a nagging urge to don the national team colours. "I'm glad to return to Sofapaka. I have a good chance to prove myself and I'm ready to help the team compete for a top position. I intend to score as many goals as possible not only to help Sofapaka claim the title but also attract a call-up to the national team," said an elated Mutamba. He last featured for Harambee Stars in 2018 during the African Cup of Nations qualifiers, where he netted the winning goal for Kenya against Equatorial Guinea in Machakos. It will be his second stint with Sofapaka who he first played for in June 2018 after a brilliant three and a half years with Wazito FC in the National Super League, where he bagged six goals in his final season. He said he is ready for an intense battle with other strikers for a starting role in league assignments and would add more firepower to the star-studded attacking line. "Sofapaka have a number of brilliant strikers, notably Kepha Aswani and Timothy Otieno, whose presence in the squad leaves me with no option but to work harder. I believe they will push me to greater heights," said Mutamba. Sofapaka have posted mixed results in the new season, having kicked off badly with a lackadaisical performance, which sent former coach John Baraza and at least six  players packing. After thirteen matches, they sit ninth on the log with 18 points but Mutamba is convinced the side will soon find their footing amidst the struggle.