The BBI Secretariat wants court to suspend a case filed by lawyer Charles Kanjama last week pending the determination of nine other cases before a five-judge bench. In the case, Kanjama has challenged the BBI signature verification process conducted by the IEBC and wants the court to quash the whole process for being unlawful. However, through lawyer Paul Mwangi, the secretariat wants the court to include them in the case and suspend it. “The honourable court be pleased to stay the instant proceedings pending the hearing and determination of Nairobi High Court petition E 282 of 2020, David Ndii and others vs Attorney General and others,” reads court order. The secretariat argues that the orders sought by Kanjama are prejudicial to them that is why they should be involved. Mwangi says the case should be suspended because it is similar to other matters  filed in court. “The orders and subject matter of this suit are directly related to the orders sought in the other suits pending before the constitutional division of the national high court challenging BBI,” reads court documents. Mwangi has accused Kanjama of filing the case deliberately while being aware of the existence of other cases challenging the BBI. He says the advocate did not inform the court that there were other matters related to the case that had already been filed. “It is in the interest of justice the court intervenes at this juncture to prevent abuse of the court process and avoid a scenario where courts competent, concurrent and equal jurisdiction are sitting to hear and determine similar issues and giving conflicting orders,” Mwangi says. He says as the mover of the constitutional amendment and having collected the signatures for verification, they have a legitimate expectation to be in the matter. "As the mover of the Constitution amendment process and having collected and submitted the signatures for verification and approval, the BBI has a legitimate expectation that it must be involved and accorded an opportunity to be heard in any such decision pertaining to the signature collection it collected and any such action that affects it," he adds. Mwangi has also questioned why Kanjama never challenged the Okoa Kenya and Punguza Mzigo Initiative processes. He further says the BBI is satisfied with the process of verification and approval of signatures that they collected from Kenyans that was conducted by IEBC. “It’s absurd that Kanjama who never even appended his signature is purporting to complain on behalf of the BBI and unnamed persons,” Mwangi says. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 