Operations at the Voi gem centre will start operating even as it awaits the official opening by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Sh60 million mineral processing centre in Taita Taveta has remained closed since its completion three years ago. Speaking during the inspection tour at the facility, Tourism Principal Secretary Safina Kwekwe ordered the management committee to fast-track its operationalisation. Kwekwe, who led other principal secretaries from the National Development Implementation Technical Committee, said opening the centre will impact the growth of the region’s economy. The project shall serve as the country’s sole gemstone processing centre. “This project shall spur the growth in the mining sector in the region. It must start operating as we wait for the official commissioning by the president,” Kwekwe said. It is one of the government’s mining flagship projects. She was accompanied by her counterparts Peter Tum (Labour), Nelson Marwa (Social Protection), Ibrahim Mohammed (Defence) and livestock’s Harry Kimtai. The PS said the centre will provide a range of services including stone cutting and polishing, banking, a gemstone laboratory and a buying centre among others. “All gemstones will be processed, weighed, valued and packaged before being exported. The centre will also act as an exhibition gallery where dealers and buyers will come to buy processed stones,” he said. Taita Taveta is endowed with numerous gemstones, including Tsavorite, ruby, tourmaline, red garnets, green garnets, Tanzanite and iron ore. Others are manganese and limestone. A fortnight ago, the Ministry of Mining gazetted the committee to oversee the operations at the facility thus setting a way for its opening. In the gazette notice, Mining CS John Munyes named the Taita Taveta Gemstone Dealers’ Sacco chairman and veteran gemstone expert Benson Kigo to chair the committee. The facility’s centre manager Edward Omito was also named as the committee’s secretary. Other members are Thomas Mwashumbe, Mohammed Huri, Consessa Wachenje, Doreen Mugambi and Evans Masachi. The committee, Kwekwe said, will be tasked to help operationalise the facility, offer advisory services to the centre managers and sensitize stakeholders on the value of the facility. “Once opened, the facility will eliminate brokers and mining cartels who dictate stone prices. The government is keen on ensuring that artisanal miners benefit,” she said. Taita Taveta Deputy Governor Majala Mlaghui had faulted the government for abandoning the centre, saying its completion was long overdue. She said local miners were languishing in poverty due to poor prices occasioned by brokers and mineral smugglers. “We donated land for this project which was supported by our people. We have a stunning building and fantastic equipment, but, sadly, the facility is yet to start benefiting us,” Mlagui said. The centre is now waiting for staffers for the cadaster services, mineral audit and sealing, and appraisal services to be posted before its doors.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris