Kenya Sevens' skipper Andrew Amonde believes the Emirates Invitational tournament in Dubai will be a  true test for the side ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. Shujaa will face the likes of Canada and France who did not play in the Madrid Sevens and the experienced forward says it will help their cause come the Olympics. “Dubai will be tougher than Madrid event. The quality of opposition we are going to face will test us accordingly and we must be  ready for the battle,” he noted. Amonde, who missed out on Madrid due to poor health, said playing club rugby for KCB in the past one month has shaped his fitness and conditioning. “I'm  in good  shape  having recovered from illness and I was delighted to lead the side and spur them to victory' added Amonde The long-serving skipper said the squad is balanced with both the experienced and young players who want to do the country proud. "This team is well rounded. There is a hunger and desire to do the country proud in this event in Dubai,” he said. Shujaa will also face Madrid winners Argentina, Spain and Canada and head coach Innocent Simiyu said they have polished the mistakes from the three losses to Argentina in the Spanish capital last month. "We had a good outing in Madrid and we have identified areas we would want to improve on going forward "The key area for us will be the set-pieces, our defence system and hopefully, we need more match fitness for the boys as we prepare for Tokyo," he added. The team had light training session yesterday and have five days to polish up on their skills before action starts on Saturday. Following the event in Dubai, Shujaa and Lionesses are expected to play a warm up tournament in France before the final squad is named in June for Tokyo. Elsewhere, the Kenya Rugby Referees Association (KRRA) President, John Mwangi Karimi has been certified as a match official educator by World Rugby. Karimi is a long serving match official who has officiated on the local and international front. This certification enables Karimi, who is also the deputy principal of Alliance High School and head coach of the institution’s  rugby outfit, the Bush Bucks, to train and guide match officials in their pursuit of further qualifications in officiating. He joins a panel of educators including Godwin Karuga, Victor Oduor, Beryl Akinyi, Noreen Liyosi and Constant  Cap who are all still involved in active officiating. Others are—Paul Weloba, Paul Kilonzo, Peris Mukoko, Adelaide Nasambu, Baraza Wanyama, Robert Dol, Sarah Otieno, Lameck Ongati, Dennis Wachira and Henry Baraza.