Versatile defender David Alaba becomes a free agent this summer after rejecting a new deal with Bayern Munich. He wanted to sell his talent to Spanish clubs but his high wage demands are enough for Real Madrid and Barcelona to distance themselves from entering a bidding war for his services. Consequently Premier League elite clubs Chelsea and Manchester City are hurriedly putting together plans to come up with a financial package which would attract Alaba. The Austrian international wants £400k-a-week and Chelsea’s Thomas Tuchel is a known admirer of his talent. Rivals City will not pay £400k-a-week as this would break their pay structure and leave players such as Kevin de Bruyne and Raheem Sterling rushing to renegotiate their contracts. A bonus structure looks the best way to make up some of the difference between basic pay and extras to boost Alaba’s salary. Watch this space for further news. Arteta’s action could backfire Given that Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta is attempting to rebuild the club with his style of management, I was surprised that he made a big deal of disciplining captain Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang for arriving late. He was only a few minutes behind everyone else and claimed traffic problems as the cause. However, he had been late on several occasions previously. I do hope Arteta’s actions do not backfire on him. Aubameyang was furious and sat silently in the stands and drove away in his hi-tech £250k Ferrari sports car before the post-match warm-down which most teams complete. Arsenal played well but need everything to be working for them at the moment and Aubameyang sitting in the stands feeling angry is not a positive step. Having spoken with several people at the club, the general feeling is that the manager would have been much wiser to have dealt with his complaints about the striker on Monday during training and quietly and discreetly rather than cause Pierre-Emerick much embarrassment and annoyance. No player is bigger than the club but Arsenal are in a delicate stage of their rebuild and Arteta needs everybody on side. How Liverpool can regain their confidence What can Liverpool do to rescue their season and return to playing the quality of football which made them runaway winners last season. I have been speaking with an expert psychologist this week and one thing emerges more than any other. There is nothing wrong with the team and nothing wrong with Jurgen Klopp. It is all down to confidence. They are losing regularly because of a psychological barrier which prevents them from playing to their strengths. There are 92 clubs in the four divisions of top tier English football. Up until last week,  Liverpool ranked 92nd on form. Six defeats out of seven matches left them totally demoralised and suffering from a lack of confidence. The one hope which will help them regain their previous form, according to my specialist psychologist is motivation and their successful run in the Champions League is the thread of light in their current dark tunnel. RB Leipzig are a competent team but they were soundly removed from the competition by a Liverpool side which threw off their shackles and released them from their Premier League nightmare. The Champions League is where Jurgen Klopp can rebuild their confidence and make a difference according to my expert psychologist. Sterling and Guardiola best of pals There have been several rumours this week that Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola has fallen out with Raheem Sterling. Sterling was left on the bench last Saturday against Fulham. Despite Guardiola claiming that he was simply rotating his players because of heavy match schedules, social media went into overdrive claiming the pair had fallen out. I checked this out and can tell you that the pair did not fall out and did not argue. Sterling said, “Some crazy rumours on socials…They are absolutely false.” Guardiola agreed and said there had been no falling out but added, “All players train and react really well. I don’t expect they are happy.  The guys who do not play but there has been no falling out.” Don’t believe all you read on social media. Tuchel: “Close your eyes and shoot!” We have to listen to Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel talking about training players because he has demonstrated with Chelsea’s run of form that he is indeed a very good manager. He was telling us this week how a good striker should score goals consistently. He said, “I truly believe the best strikers are always strikers. It’s not so much about the coaches who train them, it’s just in their blood...it’s the positive thinking that matters and you escape the pressure of having to score. They ask themselves if their decision to shoot is good and the vision clear enough. So if you just hit the ball and more or less close your eyes and hope to God that it’s in, you just focus on the result and that’s what we try to implement and how we try to help. Of course, we show videos and train but for a striker it’s most important to be confident to score.” New/old Newcastle deal emerges Newcastle are in complete disarray at the moment. Hovering dangerously close to the relegation zone, bust-ups between the manager and senior player Matt Riche, dissent in the dressing room and a long injury list have all brought misery and upset to the Black & Whites. However, there is one small shaft of light at the end of the tunnel with the emergence of a potential buyer in a deal we all thought was dead. The Saudi Arabian sovereign investment fund who walked away from a possible deal last year have come forward again and the club believe an agreement can still be accomplished. Asked if he would still be at Newcastle next season, manager Steve Bruce said, “I sincerely hope so. I’m never going to walk away from this.” Wilder will be the winner following his removal It was inevitable that Sheffield United and Chris Wilder would eventually part company. Not because of almost certain relegation for the club this season but because of the behind the scenes arguments, disagreements and Wilder’s complete dissatisfaction with the way the club is run and a lack of player investment. Wilder was at breaking point with frustration over his difficult working relationship with owner Prince Abdullah bin Musaad bin Abdulaziz. Having spoken with a lot of colleagues over the past few days,we are all in agreement that Sheffield United are the overall losers in this situation. Chris Wilder is a respected manager who will find no lack of clubs showing interest in employing him. On the other hand, I fear for Sheffield, because now Wilder has gone, they are rudderless, have no direction and the players do not know what on earth they are supposed to be doing on the pitch. Any new manager coming in will presumably encounter the same problems as Chris Wilder. United to lose two goalkeepers At the end of this season Manchester United are getting rid of three of their goalkeepers so they can cut down on the £600k-a-week, which they are currently spending. Only David de Gea, who is United’s top earner on £350k-a-week and Dean Henderson earning £100k a week, will stay. Sergio Romero and Joel Pereira will leave plus one of the junior goalkeepers. The 33-year-old Romero is stranded at United for the moment because no one made a bid for his services during the January transfer period and the Argentine goalkeeper’s agent is contacting clubs to see if any are interested. Ancelotti admires Ben Godfrey Everton manager Carlo Ancelotti says that his signing of Ben Godfrey to play at centre-back for the Toffees was a smart move. The ex-Norwich arrival cost £20million and has played in several defensive roles but centre-back is his preferred position. Ancelotti said this week, “I think the signing was fantastic. He is young and can be the future of this club. I think he has a lot of qualities. It is difficult to name a single thing. He has a lot of energy, his physicality is really top for a defender. He is fast, aggressive in one against one and is good with the head.” Praise indeed from one of the world’s most respected coaches. Struijk should be given a chance for Leeds There hasn’t been a lot of fuss regarding Leeds United’s injury problems. Manager Marcelo Bielsa has had to arrange and then re-arrange his defence several times. Pascal Struijk has been used in midfield and as a defender and he showed his survival skills during the game against Chelsea. He intercepted passes, blocked forward movements by Chelsea and headed the ball away consistently. His other main quality is that he naturally plays on the left but can play right when needed. He was taught to use both feet when training early in his career at Ajax. He is able to release wingers by threading through diagonal passes. Bielsa now has to decide whether or not to give Pascal a long run in the team given that both injured Robin Koch and Liam Cooper will soon be available. Players looking to move away from agents If you read this column regularly, you will be aware of my dislike for football agents. They suck huge amounts of money out of our game which is ultimately paid for by the fans. I am pleased to say that Raheem Sterling is the latest player to leave his agent and a lawyer is now handling his contracts and personal affairs. Rap singer Jay Z’s entertainment agency, which helped Marcus Rashford in his high-profile school dinners for needy children, has attracted the attention of many players who are taking a closer look at their personal agents. Sterling’s close team-mate Kevin de Bruyne has been negotiating his own new contract with Manchester City.