The Busia government dodged competitive bidding and gave tenders for Covid-19 items to companies owned by one person, an audit report reveals. The special audit report on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu shows the county could have procured the items at prices higher than the market rate. The county officials exposed the taxpayers to the risks of value for money after they failed to conduct a market survey to compare prices prior to the procurement. In what could put Sospeter Ojaamong’s administration on the radar of investigative agencies, Busia awarded tenders worth Sh11.98 million to four companies which are under the same director. The companies; Hanal Investment, Sowina Investment, Megalaser International and Shabsal Company limited belong to Hassanali Babu. The firms were contracted to renovate Covid-19 isolation centres and associated works last year. Busia, situated at the country’s border with Uganda, has been one of the Covid-19 hotspots due to the beehive of activity with many people crossing over at the border point and other illegal routes. The report, tabled in the Senate, reveals that Busia spent Sh89.44 million of the Sh102.63 million it allocated to fight the pandemic on items without conducting any market survey. This includes purchase of 1,721 packs of 50 pieces each of three-ply masks at a price of Sh7,500 a pack resulting in an expenditure of Sh12.90 million. Busia also acquired 1,140 pieces of N95 masks at Sh2,500 per piece resulting in an expenditure Sh2.85 million without evidence of market survey. “Section 8 (3z) of the repealed Public Procurement and Disposal Regulations, 2006 provides that functions of the procurement unit to include carrying out periodic market surveys to inform the placing of orders or adjudication of tenders by the relevant award committee,” reads the report in part. The report further indicates that the audit could not verify the list of goods procured and their established prices and there were framework agreement documents for verification. The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission had carted away the documents in an ongoing probe. Gathungu has also fingered the county government for failing to estimate the value of donations received from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority, Ministry of Health and other donors. In addition, the audit could not establish the accuracy of the donations dispatched by Kemsa to the county as the items were not recorded in Kemsa schedules as having been dispatched to Busia county. “Further, the audit team could not establish the status pf direct donations to Alupe Isolation Centre in Busia since the requested store’s records had been handed over to EACC officers,” the report says. The report shows the Busia received Sh262.88 million from the government, donors and its own source contribution, to fight the pandemic. However, the report shows that as at the time of audit, on July 31, 2020, conditional grant from the government amounting to Sh106.46 million had not been utilised. “This was attributed to the lack of guidelines on how the funds were to be used,” the report says. In addition, none of the Sh6.65 million donated by Danida has been utilised. The auditor attributed the non-absorption to lack of approved budget, work plans and procurement plans to facilitate spending. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara