Researchers at the Kenya Medical Research Institute will study cooking fuel choices among Mukuru residents to help suggest safer, healthier options. The project is an interdisciplinary partnership and will also be carried out in Ndirande informal settlement in Blantyre, Malawi. Researchers will examine the factors influencing the use of solid fuels, which can be damaging to health, in cooking and develop interventions to help tackle the issue. It is led by the University of Stirling and funded by the UK Research and Innovation Arts and Humanities Research Council for £200,000 (Sh30.5 million) The research will explore the cultures, behaviours and lived experiences of those who rely on solid fuels such as wood, biomass waste, charcoal and animal dung for cooking. The scientists will use participatory and visual means to enable communities to contribute to the research. “Biomass fuel continues to be the main source of cooking fuel both in urban and rural setups in Kenya, due to its accessibility and affordability. There is a need to understand the relationship between its use and the emergence of unexplained non-communicable diseases in Kenya,” Kemri acting director general Prof Sam Kariuki said. “The grant award is timely and will not only increase knowledge on fuel choices health outcomes in East and Central Africa and advice policy in practical solutions but foster collaboration between the participating institutions and regions,” Kariuki added. Kemri says the study will lead to a better understanding of the norms and beliefs around food preparation and the barriers to alternative fuel use. The findings are likely to have a wider impact, with three billion people worldwide cooking on solid fuels. Around 3.8 million deaths annually are attributed to household air pollution, which is responsible for half of the pneumonia deaths in children under five, due to exposure while their mothers are cooking. The Kemri study will be led by Fred Orina and Dr Hellen Meme who are the local principal investigators. “It is worrying when you imagine the extent of exposure to household smoke in urban informal settlement areas when meals are being prepared, considering wood and charcoal are the most common sources of fuel. This research is very important in attempting to tackle this issue,” Orina said. The research team will host partnership-building events to discuss the issues with stakeholders, including community representatives, share knowledge and train local research assistants. Research methods will include using photographs taken by community members and walking interviews with those who prepare food to capture their experiences. Air pollution will also be measured during cooking, including through a technique known as 'dots photography’, to assess smoke concentration then the data gathered summarised and communicated to the participating communities in a visual and interactive manner. “For around three billion people worldwide, solid fuels are the only available and affordable sources of energy, with around 840 million having no access to electricity,” Dr Isabelle Uny said. Uny who is from the Institute for Social Marketing and Health at Stirling is leading the multidisciplinary study, which involves partners across the UK and in Africa. “However, the smoke emanating from the burning of solid fuels is bad for people's health and those worst affected live in slums and informal settlements in low and middle-income countries, where they cannot afford to connect to the electricity grid and have crowded living environments with poor ventilation.” 