Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata has said the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill, 2020 will make life more expensive. Kang'ata on Monday said the BBI Bill proposes an expansion of Parliament which will burden Kenyans. The former Senate Majority Whip said taxes are a major component of fuel prices and with an expanded Parliament, taxes will rise and fuel prices even rise more. "Taxes are a major component of fuel prices. With BBI proposing an expanded Parliament comprised of about 600 members, taxes will rise and fuel prices rise further. China, a country of 1.4B, has 2,000 MPs. Kenya will have 600 MPs,  a country of 45M,"  he said. The Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority announced higher prices of super petrol, diesel and kerosene which has sparked a public outcry. EPRA’s acting Director-General Daniel Bargoria said the costs of a litre of super petrol, diesel and kerosene had risen by Sh7.63, Sh5.75, and Sh5.41 per litre, respectively, for the March 15 to April 14 period. But the Orange Democratic Movement while asking EPRA to revoke the new prices said is not the right time as the Covid-19 pandemic has taken its toll on many Kenyans. Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna said the price changes are shocking coming soon after the previous month's increase and just as the country is going into a third wave of the pandemic. According to Sifuna, it is exactly one year since Covid-19 was first reported in Kenya, creating job losses, collapsing industries and winding up SMEs. “The pandemic has been a tragedy for the already heavily-taxed population. Central to this tragedy has been the cost of energy, which has an impact on every facet of our lives,” he said. Sifuna said although the government needs more money, through tax collections to fund its operations, there is no moral ground on which to levy more taxes on a population that is already on its knees. "In the African culture, you do not milk a dead cow,” he said adding, “Silence on our part at this time will amount to complicity. We therefore unequivocally state that we are opposed to this increase in the prices of fuel. We demand that this decree is rescinded before it becomes effective".