A Siaya cleric has petitioned Parliament through Rarieda MP Otiende Amolo to legislate on fees charged by private hospitals. Bondo Anglican Church of Kenya Bishop David Kodia said most private hospitals have become exploitative and poor Kenyans need protection from them. “The reality is, I would like you to address the cost of medical treatment in Kenya,” the letter reads in part. Kodia said the high cost of medical charges by the private facilities is never commensurate to the treatment offered. “How is it possible that spending a single night as an inpatient should cost even Sh100,000 besides other charges usually levied by these hospitals?” he asked. Kodia said it is worse when the patient dies and the body is detained by the hospital over bills. “I wish to plead with you on behalf of Kenyans to consider making legislation that would protect patients from this kind of exploitation,” he said. Kodia said that he petitioned Parliament because Kenyans always turn to MPs to help them raise funds for clearing medical bills. The bishop said the universal healthcare plans would be jeopardised if private hospitals are allowed to be purely commercial enterprises. “Public hospitals must be rated accordingly and the quality of services enhanced. A nation that cannot invest in the health of its citizens is on a time bomb,” he said. Kodia cited the case of a boy whose body was detained last year at Gertrude's Hospital in Nairobi over Sh17 million bill. “I know some would argue that people have choices on where to seek treatment, but that would be a very immoral way to look at this issue. We have all become prey to medical profiteers,” he said. Otiende confirmed that he had received the bishop’s petition and promised to table it before the National Assembly. “There is a tendency by most of such hospitals to charge more bills than they need especially when they know the patient has a medical cover,” he said. The MP said even parliamentarians were not spared of the experience. “This is something that needs to be investigated carefully because currently, MPs cannot use one of the top hospitals in the capital because of a tussle over such erroneous bills between the facility and our insurer,” he said. Amolo said although Parliament will look into the concerns raised, it was important for the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentist Board to examine it since it borders on professional misconduct. “They should be the ones looking into such matters and rein in the culprits,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris