The Nyeri government could have paid over Sh366 million to ‘ghost’ workers in financial year 2018-19 according to the latest report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. The salaries were paid to 872 employees who were not captured in the Integrated Payroll and Personnel Database system. “Sufficient records were not presented for audit to confirm that the payees were bona fide employees of the county government and earned all the monies paid to them,” the report reads. Bizarrely, six employees shared identical bank account numbers, triggering concerns the county paid salaries to ghost workers. The report said the county treasury did not provide any conceivable explanation for the peculiar occurrence. “As a result, the propriety of the salaries and other emoluments and allowances paid to the six employees could not be confirmed,” it says. The payees, according to disclosures by the county government, included Early Childhood Development Education teachers, interns, staff without payroll numbers and those allegedly owed outstanding salaries. “Management did not provide any plausible explanation for failing to include the staff in approved IPPD payroll,” the report says. The 2018-19 report tabled in the Senate last week reveals inconsistencies where Sh3.4 billion was used for compensation of employees compared to Sh3.1 million in previous year. This represented an increase of Sh8.5 million which is equivalent to 39.4 per cent. “The high wage bill resulted in a large share of the county’s resources being spent on staff salaries at the expense of service delivery and development projects for the residents of Nyeri county,” read the audit report. The auditor has also questioned the net salaries paid to 72 officers of the county executive less than one third of their respective basic pay. The anomaly, according to the auditor was caused by excessive non-statutory deductions made contrary to the applicable Human resource policy in the public service and the county Human Resource manual. Both prohibit salary deductions that exceed two thirds of the monthly basic salary of any public employee. “No plausible explanation has been provided by management for this irregular action that put the officers at the risk of pecuniary embarrassment,” it says. During the year under review, the county executive paid Sh3.7 million as contribution to rental payments for Council of Governors liaison offices located at Westlands, Nairobi. The payment, the audit stated, contravened Section 37 of the Inter-Governmental Relations Act, 2012, which stated that all operational expenses of the CoG shall be met by the National government. “No plausible explanation has been provided by management for irregular action,” the audit says. Gathungu also questioned the county finance statement covering the 2018-19 financial year, noting the county executive collected locally generated  Sh837 million revenue against a budget of Sh1 billion and hence recorded a revenue shortfall of Sh162 million equivalent to 16 percent of the budget. Further, analysis of revenue collection trends in the three years ended June 30, 2019 revealed persistent failure to meet collection targets. The report exposed several unsupported expenditures by the Mutahi Kahiga-led administration and as projects valued at millions of shillings stall in the county. “Examination of expenditure records reveals that several suppliers were awarded contracts totalling Sh49.66 million for construction and refurbishment of various building during the year under review. “Although the works were expected to be completed within four months of award of the respective contracts, an audit inspection carried out in September, 2019 revealed that most of the projects were incomplete. Management did not provide satisfactory explanations for the delays,” reads the report. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara