Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has said the only hope for Kenya in dispensing justice and fairness squarely lies with the Judiciary. Sang said the meddling and muzzling of independent agencies by the state  had made them look like lame ducks working to only satisfy those in authority and oppressing the citizens. The governor asked the Judiciary to resist attempts and pressure from the Executive to arm-twist them into giving in their prescribed constitutional independence. He said separation of power must be observed by the executive so that the citizens can enjoy the fruits of independent. Sang cited what he claimed as an outright misuse of the police organs and other related agents to settle personal political scores by those in influential position in government. The governor spoke at the Kapsabet law courts in Nandi during the official opening of a High Court sub-registry that will pave way for posting of a judge. Sang regretted that the country was not heading in the right direction explaining that the gains achieved following the promulgation of the 2010 Constitution had drastically been rolled backward. The new High Court in Kapsabet will temporarily use the town hall as the new building is being renovated together with the holding ground for suspects. Present were judges;  Helen Omondi and Olga Sewe of Eldoret high court and Kapsabet senior principal magistrate Jecinta Oruwa and county secretary Francis Sang. “Nandi county has one of the largest numbers of civil cases involving land and we would be grateful if an Environment and Lands court was established first,” Sang said. He also asked the registrar of the High Court to rescind gazettement of a law court in Kaptumo and revert back to Kobujoi which is the sub-county headquarters for Nandi south. The gazettement of Kaptumo drew the wrath of residents who demonstrated demanding that Kobujoi should have the court established since there were buildings ready for occupation. “We don’t know why Kaptumo was gazetted when the leadership and the public had agreed on Kobujoi which is the ideal place as its in the middle of a vast region of Aldai,” Sang added. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 