Division Two side, Cambridge Universal College play Kenya Premier League sides Western Stima and Kakamega Homeboyz as part of their build-up ahead of the FKC Cup match against Gor Mahia on April 17. The students will be hoping to replicate their counterparts, GFE 105,  who eliminated Gor in the Cup in 2014 at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Cusco coach Patrick Odipo said he is preparing his arsenal well for the match set to be played at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Although Gor are scheduled to take on Congo Boys in the round of 64 before  hosting Cusco, the latter are assuming that K'Ogalo will win the match and face them. Cusco defeated Black Diamond on post-match penalties to progress. Odipo, the man who won the under-20 title with Mathare United, said his boys doing very well in training in readiness for Gor. “Before meeting Gor Mahia, we have to play friendly matches to gauge ourselves. We are supposed to play Western Stima and Kakamega Homeboyz and after that, we will gauge our  fitness levels,” said Odipo, who once trained Sofapaka Youth team. Over the weekend, the students lost 2-1 to GFE 105 in the Eldoret derby . He revealed that his six first team players are injured but expects them to be  available for Gor  fixtures. “GFE beat Gor in 2014 and we are under pressure from our fans to replicate the performance. However, we believe if GFE 105 did it, we can do it too," he assured. Cusco captain Silas Ogana said there are a few challenges in the team but they believe with good preparations, they are likely to live up to expectations. “Against GFE 105,we had poor preparations from the start of the game. Then we failed to defend a goal when we were leading hence we were punished. We did not play as expected but we have an opportunity to correct those minor mistakes ahead of Gor encounter,” said the former student of St Anthony’s Kitale. He added that they have to learn how to defend a goal once they  are in the lead. “We need to score more goals since one goal is never safe. If we had scored 3 or 4 goals, we would have been safe,” he added. As part of their preparations, Cusco has hired three coaches to guide the team to FKF Cup stardom. According to the team manager, Robert Akama, they have hired a goalkeeping coach and two other technical officials to ensure they play top football. “We have reinforced our coaching by hiring three coaches, starting from goalkeeping coach and two others to assist the team. Our focus is to get elevated   into the Division One league,” said Akama. GFE 105 coach Nicholas Okinyo said they will rally behind Cusco to progress because they come from the same region. “For us, we did not register for the competition but we will support one of our own to progress,” said Okinyo. FKF Cup Round of 32  April 17, 2021 Mara Sugar vs NYSA (Kericho Green Stadium) Egerton vs Administration Police (Egerton) Malindi Progressive vs Luanda Villa (Alaskani) Bandari vs Dimba Patriots (Mbaraki) Sofapaka vs Ulinzi Stars (Wundanyi) Marafiki vs Tuske (Kinunga) KCB vs Transfoc- Kasarani Bungoma Superstars vs Nation FC (Sudi) Kajiado North vs Sigalagala TTI ( Gem School) Congo Boys / Gor Mahia vs CUSCO (Kasarani)  April 18, 2021 Fortune Sacco vs Nairobi City Stars (Kianyaga) AFC Leopards vs Posta Rangers (Kasarani) Kariobangi Sharks vs Tandaza ( Kasarani) Equity vs Keroka TTI ( Thika) Twomoc vs Vegpro (Nakuru ASK) Bidco United vs Twyford  (Thika) 