A group of businessmen who are said to be in partnership with a senior director in government could be counting losses running into millions of shillings. Reason? A cloud is hanging over the fate of Building Bridges Initiative campaigns. The businessmen had already ordered assorted merchandise including T-shirts and caps from China. Last week President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) imposed an order banning all sorts of political rallies following a spike in Covid-19 cases. The businessmen were anticipating large and vigorous countrywide campaigns for the BBI referendum  starting April. The merchandise were pro-BBI and are said to be in white and green. *** A storm is simmering within some units of the police after it emerged that some officers could be working with cartels to syphon money from suspects under investigations. There are claims that some officers, working in cahoots with a prominent lawyer recently pocketed millions of shillings from some officers from a county in Nyanza. The money is said to have been flown in a few days ago by the prominent lawyer. However, the cash was intercepted temporarily by Immigration officials at the airport before being released hours later. Officers chauffeured the lawyer with the cash in their private vehicles to their office where the money was delivered. *** A man from Central with political connections shocked revellers at a club in Nairobi when he openly bragged how he is going to secure a senior position in a leading infrastructure agency. Well, the man, after having had a few for the road narrated how he bribed officials to secure the position of director at the agency. He went further to cite how being from the 'right tribe' will ease his way to the seat in the recruitment process that is still ongoing. He claims to know the people who matter. “In Kenya, you just need to have some money and be from the right community to get the job you want," he was heard saying. *** A governor from a county in Western Kenya has gone back to the drawing board to figure out how to deal with three senior staff he fired sometime back. The ex-officials have declared their interest in unseating the governor come 2022 and are already moving round the county selling their manifestos. What worries the governor most is the fact the three are revealing dirty secrets about his administration. At one recent meeting with locals, the county boss was taken to task to substantiate a claim made by one of his former allies, who was asking villagers to support his candidature next year. 