 ODM leader Raila Odinga will on  Friday end his five-day Coast region tour with a rally in Samburu, Kinango constituency in Kwale county. Raila's tour at the coastal counties was meant to lead a popularisation campaign of the Building Bridges Initiative. This is after the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 was passed by over 40 county assemblies last week. His first tour began on Monday in Taita-Taveta where he was hosted by Governor Granton Samboja. He later had rallies in Kilifi, Malindi and Mombasa where he moved from Kisauni, Changamwe to Likoni grounds. In Kwale, Raila will begin with a closed-door meeting with Samburu area leaders at 10am, according to Puma Ward MCA James Dawa. He will then be accompanied by Kwale Woman Rep Zuleikha Hassa, Senator Issa Boi, ODM chairman Hassan Mwanyoha among others to Samburu grounds. There he will seek residents' support on the BBI. Dawa said after Samburu, the former Prime Minister will fly back to Nairobi. The venue was changed from Kinango grounds where Raila and Governor Salim Mvurya in 2014 in an Okoa rally were whipped by an alleged sick man while dancing. Kwale has for years enjoyed the dominance of the ODM until the  December 15 Msambweni by-election where the party faced humiliation after it lost the MP seat to the independent candidate Feisal Bader. It is however, believed that the party is now slowly regaining its grip in the county after BBI was unanimously passed by the county assembly MCAs. Dawa who is the Kwale Assembly Majority Leader said it was automatic the BBI will get the support of many because of its development packages. He said devolution had transformed the county. "If there are people who have benefited most from the devolution it is Kwale residents.  The document gives more of that, I doubt if it will be rejected," he said. Recently, Deputy President William Ruto was in the Coast where he led anti-BBI campaigns. In Kwale he held rallies in Lunga-Lunga and Kinango sub-counties. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 