Rugby Sevens fans around the world can mark their calendars and begin to look forward to the highly anticipated return of the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series as plans are unveiled for the 2021 Series. The condensed 2021 series schedule includes five women’s and four men’s rounds, with the addition of a further two potential men’s events under discussion. In a statement from  World Rugby, the 2021 series kicks off with back-to-back women’s events in Marcoussis, France on May 15-16 and May 22-23. The series will then take a break for the countdown to the Olympic Games and recommence with a men’s event in Singapore on October 29-30, followed by joint men and women’s rounds in Hong Kong (November 5-7) and Dubai  December 3-4). This will be  followed by an exciting climax in Cape Town on December 10-12. "Detailed discussions are continuing with London and Vancouver on the viability of hosting men’s events in the window following the Olympic Games and prior to the HSBC Singapore Sevens in October. Further updates to the schedule will be given when available,"  the statement read . The statement further went on: "Health and wellbeing of players, fans and the wider community remains top priority and both WR and the host organisations will work closely with the relevant national governments and health agencies to ensure secure delivery of the events." New Zealand are the reigning champions of both the women and men's series after being crowned winners of the 2020 edition, which was brought to an early conclusion with five of the eight women’s rounds and six of the 10 men’s rounds successfully completed prior to the onset of the pandemic. In the men’s series, Japan will join as a core teams following their promotion from the inaugural HSBC World Rugby Challenger Series in 2020. During this Olympic year, the England, Scotland and Wales teams will combine to compete as ‘GB Sevens’ in both the men and women’s series’ in 2021. This will create two additional invitational places for teams to participate in the men’s 2021 series events. 