Half backs Sammy Oliech of Impala and Quins' Eden Agero have been recalled to the Kenya Sevens squad for the Emirates Invitational tournament slated for next month. The duo missed the Madrid Sevens last month due to personal commitments and head coach Innocent Simiyu welcomed the return of the two playmakers to the team. “They are very gifted players who open up defences and will bring a new dimension to our structure in both attack and defence in Dubai," added Simiyu. Skipper Andrew Amonde, who also missed the event in the Spanish capital due to sickness, is also in the squad for the two-week tournament meant to aid Shujaa's preparations for the Tokyo Olympics slated for July. Billy Odhiambo will be the vice-captain for the tour. Sinaida  Aura, who had announced her retirement from rugby a month ago, has made a quick return to the Lionesses squad alongside debutant Terry Ayesa. Playmaker Grace Adhiambo misses out as she is sitting  her national examinations. Head coach Felix Oloo  will be seeking improvement after mixed results in Madrid with only  two wins out of six matches. "We have worked hard in training and polished up areas in our facets of play which let us down. The girls are ready and eager to compete at the event," added Oloo. Shujaa will face Canada, Chile, Argentina, France, Uganda, Japan and Spain as the Lionesses face powerhouses USA, Canada, France, Japan, Brazil and Uganda. Squad: Captain Andrew Amonde (KCB), Billy Odhiambo (Mwamba) VC, Vincent Onyala( KCB), Alvin Otieno (Homeboyz), Bush Mwale (Homeboyz), Willy Ambaka (Quins), Harold Anduvate (Oilers), Johnstone Olindi ( KCB), Daniel Taab (Mwamba), Tony Omondi (Mwamba), Sammy Oliech (Impala), Eden Agero (Quins), Jeffrey Olouch (Homeboyz), Nelson Oyoo (Nakuru), Jacob Ojee (KCB) and  Derrick Keyoga (Oilers). Lionesses:  Phaildelphia Olando, Charistabel Lindo, Celestine Masinde, Camilla Cynthia, Enid Ouma,  Janet Okello,  Diana Awino, Leah Wambui, Sarah Oluche, Naomi Amuguni, Stella Wafula, Judith Auma, Linet Moraa, Sinaida Aura, Sheila Chajira and  Terry Ayesa.