Garissa leaders and union officials on Tuesday again deplored the government’s failure to post teachers and end the acute shortage. None of the 120 teachers posted in the four subcounties of Holugho, Ijara, Fafi and Liboi reported for duty when schools reopened in January. The subcounties have 118 primary and secondary schools staffed only by a headteacher. The no-show teachers said they feared attacks by al Shabaab terrorists who have targeted non-local teachers in previous attacks. The leaders addressed the press in Garissa town after a two-day crisis meeting that brought together local leaders and union officials. Garissa Knut executive secretary Abdirizak Hussein said that although teachers were recruited and posted, "They never reported." "It is three months down the line since the teachers were recruited and posted to various schools in the subcounties but as we speaking today, not even a single teacher reported," he said. "The reason they are giving is insecurity. Surely, for how long will this issue of insecurity drag on?" Hussein asked. He was joined by MCAs Adow Mohamed (Holugho), Abdullahi Omar (Bura) and Garissa peace secretary Hassan Osman. “This is a very serious scenario because most of the time the headteacher is away attending to administrative issues. Surely, what learning goes on in those schools?" Hussein asked. “Our kind request to the TSC is to post back all the teachers from out of the area." There hasn't been a single incident of insecurity in the recent past, he added. "The areas include Garissa Township, Balambala and Lagdera subcounties because they are safe,” he said. The Bura MCA asked how the Education ministry expects students to sit the KCPE and KCSE national exams and perform adequately without teachers.  “These children were at home for almost a year, and when they went back there were no teachers yet they are expected to sit the same exam like their colleagues elsewhere. Where is the fairness there?" Omar asked. The Holugho ward rep said the teacher shortage has been talked about for far too long. He said it must be finally addressed before students resume school in May. “It’s ironic we are being told to support BBI that allegedly stands for one Kenya one nation. This can only be achieved if we give each Kenyan equal opportunity in resources and opportunities. Unfortunately that doesn’t seem to be happening,” Mohamed said. Garissa peace secretary Hassan Osman said Education CS George Magoha should personally visit the region and see the problems for himself. “We have several times appealed to the TSC to post enough teachers to our schools but that seems to be a song the government has gotten used to. "While it's already too late for schools in this region to perform well this year, it’s our appeal that they allow non-local graduates with C- to join teachers' colleges,” he said. The militants in the Northeast have attacked non-local teachers, civil servants and police in an effort to paralyse government services and drive non-Muslims away. Also on its hit list are Safaricom masts that are destroyed to cut off communication. Then people have no means of volunteering security information on the militants' whereabouts and plans. (Edited by V. Graham)