Nairobi County will no longer outsource for security as it plans to recruit more constables at Sh25 million within this Financial Year 2020-21. The funds have been allocated in the Supplementary Budget that was passed on Thursday by the County Assembly. “Security, Compliance and Inspectorate require additional reallocation of the recruitment of for Sh25 million to cater for recruitment of Security Personnel County Government installation,” reads the Supplementary Budget in part. In the County Fiscal Strategy Paper 2021, City Hall said it was committed to guaranteeing a safe and secure environment for residents, investor and workers to operate in. In this regard, resources will be invested in security surveillance, intelligence gathering, personnel training and equipment. “The city inspectorate department will be modernised to achieve a trustworthy and recognised law enforcement status that strictly observes human rights in the discharge of their mandate,” reads the document. Last year in November, Nairobi County Government recruited 1,100 county constables. The Nairobi County Public Service Board issued appointment letters to 800 county constables and 300 firefighters and were factored in the payroll effective from November 12, 2020. Responsibilities assigned to constables include maintaining law, regulations and order as directed. The board commenced recruitment by advertising the positions in the local dailies dated March 4, 2020, and on the board's website. At the close of the application notice period, the board had received 20,688 applications for the position of county constables and 12,347 applications for the position of county firemen and women. City hall has been contracting private firms to provide security in public institutions within the county. In September 2018, the then Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said his administration will contract a security firm to provide at least four guards in every ECDE centre to ensure maximum security for the children. The county then contracted Hatari Security Services Company to offer security services to schools and hospitals across the county. However, the terms of the contract were not clear to the public. Last year in October, the County government was in the spotlight after investigations kicked off on how Hatari Security Services was hired by City Hall to guard schools and hospitals and the terms of their contract. The probe comes after guards contracted by security firm were suspended following an incident at Pumwani Maternity Hospital where a woman delivered outside the facility after being denied entry in the facility on September 13, 2021. With the health sector among the transferred core county functions, Nairobi Metropolitan Service in a report before the Senate revealed that City Hall had not yet handed over the firm’s contract. As a result, the Senate recommended that either National Youth Services or police to take over security affairs in the hospital pending investigations. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 