A man accused of extortion and impersonating a public service officer wants charges against him dropped. Paul Misori Oyago accused Industrial Area police of threatening to shoot him dead and illegally detaining him. He was arraigned on Friday before Makadara chief magistrate Angelo on charges of impersonation and extortion. The court heard that Misori on April 3, 2020, at H.H.J. Spices and Cereals Limited in Industrial area in Nairobi, Misori falsely presented himself as a city inspectorate officer and inspected the business. He was also accused of demanding property by written threats. “On April 29, 2020 [at the company], with intent to extort money from Mohammed Abdullahi Dima, [Misori] caused  Dima to receive a letter containing threats of detriment if the demand was not complied with,” the charge sheet read. Misori was accused of attempting to extort money from Dima after he sent a letter containing false accusations of corruption and impunity. Before he could answer the charges, Misori's lawyer Stephen Mundia told the court it would be unconstitutional for his client to take a plea as Ipoa filed a case against the investigating officer in the case. Mundia said his client was arrested on Tuesday and held in custody for more than 72 hours without being produced in court. “Courts have ruled before that if an accused person is detained for over the prescribed 24 hours, automatically any proceedings against them are annulled,” he said. He said it was only after a defence counsel enquired about his detention that the matter was brought to court. Mundia said his client was first arrested in March last year, freed on a  10,000 police bond and told to report daily to police. He said the cash bail was withdrawn, his client was given a free bond and the matter has never preceded. “Your Honour, it's only after the accused person wrote to the investigating officer enquiring as to the stage in their supposed investigations and to Ipoa over what he had witnessed and gone through at the hands of police that the officers decided to charge the accused,” he said. He accused police officers of threatening to shoot his client “The police brandished a gun at my client and specifically asked him why he was playing with fire because he reported the matter to Ipoa,” he said. State prosecutor Cosmas Kilambio said that the decision to charge was  already made by the prosecution office. He further said that if the defence has any issue with the violation of the accused's constitutional rights they are at liberty to file an application at the High Court. Investigating officer Nura Sharama said when the accused was arrested in April, they were advised not to take him to court then because of the coronavirus pandemic. But when the accused was given a free bond, he absconded from reporting at the police station, the officer said. “We received a second report from the complainant that the accused person was still harassing him. I summoned him at the police station severally but he never responded,” Sharama said. He argued that the accused's rights were never infringed. Kithinji directed the matter to be mentioned on Monday, for a ruling on whether the accused will take a plea. He ordered the accused to be freed on a bond of Sh200,000 or a cash bail of Sh100,000. (Edited by V. Graham) 