After claiming the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League January player of the Month award, fast-rising Tusker forward Henry Meja has revealed his target of making it to the final Harambee Stars’ squad, which is set to feature in the final 2021 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers. Stars will host record African champions Egypt on March 22 before traveling to play Togo six days later in their remaining  Pool ‘G’ qualifier matches.  Prior to the two matches, Stars will tackle South Sudan and Tanzania in three build up matches next week. Meja was handed his maiden call up to the team last month when coach Jacob ‘Ghost’ Mulee unveiled his provisional squad made up of local based players. The former Kakamega High School alumnus was last year called up to the national U20 Rising Stars squad, which took part in the Cecafa Championships in Arusha, Tanzania although he was axed from the final squad. The prodigy, who was also named the Tusker January Player of the Month, says he is confident enough to seal a place in the final team and partner with Michael Olunga up-front. “I am working my socks off in the camp hoping to make to the cut. I am ready to don in the national team colours,” he said. Additionally, Meja who had seen limited playing time before January, revealed what he did to compel coach Robert Matano to incorporate him in the starting team. “I had not hit my best as far as fitness level is concerned. I doubled my efforts in training and eventually the coach considered me in his starting team,” he added. The 19-year-old ensured Tusker began the month with a vital 1-0 away win to Kakamega Homeboyz before scoring a brace and an assist in their 4-2 triumph over Kariobangi Sharks at the Kasarani Annex. Meja, wrapped up the month with the winning goal when Tusker saw off Zoo FC 2-1 at the Afraha Stadium. In a poll conducted by the BPL panel, the Kakamega High School alumnus beat experienced Wazito dead-ball specialist Kevin Kimani and Gor Mahia captain Kenneth Muguna to the award. Meja becomes the second recipient of the award this season after AFC Leopards forward Elvis Rupia was voted as December’s best player by the seven-member panel established pick outstanding performers.