Allies of Deputy President William Ruto will stand with him despite intimidation by state agencies, Garissa Women Rep Anab Gure has said. Gure, a Ruto stalwart, said leaders backing the deputy president are doing so out of the conviction that he is the best candidate to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking to the press in Garissa town on Sunday, Gure said that the government was not only out to harass Ruto’s allies but also ensure that the DP does not become president. She said Ruto’s supporters and allies were singled out for police harassment and arrests following the by-election violence in Kabuchai, Matungu, London in Nakuru, and Kisii. Pro-BBI leaders only got a slap on the wrist for their part in the chaos, she alleged. Gure said that the demonisation of the dynasty versus hustlers narrative by those who oppose the deputy president was meant to tarnish his image and incite Kenyans against each other. “The DP has been consistent on this matter that all Kenyans have equal chances and opportunities to not only vie for any political seat including the presidency but also succeed in life. How that has become an incitement baffles me,” Gure said. “My humble advice to state agencies that are being used to bring down the DP is that they are doing so at their own peril. Independent government institutions including security agencies should remain so in observing the rule of law,” she said. Gure said no leader can match the DP's popularity and development record. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and his PS Karanja Kibicho have lately come under fire from the Ruto's camp for an alleged campaign to demean the office of the DP. On Thursday, Ruto tore into the police service, terming it as the biggest threat to national security. The DP said the service has lost its independence and is now being used to settle political scores. He asked the IG Hillary Mutyambai to take personal responsibility should the action of the police result in political instability. A day later, he urged his critics among them ODM leader Raila Odinga to support his presidential bid and stop inciting the public against him. However, Matiang'i hit back at Ruto, accusing him of bashing government officials in public. He urged the security apparatus to be independent and uphold the rule of law and maintain order. 