The National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA) and Postal Corporation of Kenya (PCK) have inked a strategic business deal on logistics and delivery services. The deal will see posta deliver to the public driving licenses, logbooks, PSV badges and other documents countrywide. The seamless operationalisation of the new service level agreement will take effect on or before  March 31. NTSA Director General George Njao said in the era of Covid-19 pandemic, the strategic partnership with PCK would help NTSA decongest their premises by having documents delivered to Kenyans. The partnership comes at a time when PCK is establishing itself as the ideal delivery partner for government agencies. The Corporation is mandated to provide accessible, affordable and reliable postal services to all parts of Kenya as per the PCK Act (1998). Posta Kenya is responding to the fast-changing consumer needs in the adaptation of new technologies Postmaster General Dan Kagwe said. “This enables the development of suitable last-mile delivery networks, which today are the enablers of economic, social, financial, and digital inclusion,”said Kagwe. All shipments will be processed and tracked through the corporation’s Post Global System or any other system developed by the corporation for the purpose. The Corporation will ensure that its office staff uses the online system visible to both parties for updates on the status of each consignment in real-time up to delivery, Kagwe said. Njao on the other hand said the partnership with PCK is aimed at fulfilling a presidential directive of same-day service delivery and improving transparency in the management of documents. PCK has a great capacity to handle distribution and logistical services for NTSA and that the partnership would ease customer experience, Kagwe has affirmed. He asserted that PCK’s long-established national network of over 600 branches countrywide and experience in last-mile delivery will be an added advantage. The corporation is currently a key partner with the Ministry of Interior and  Coordination of National Government and Kenya Medical Supplies Authority (KEMSA) on last-mile delivery of passports and distribution of drugs to support the Universal Health Service to citizens among others.