A study of domestic soccer in 79 countries by global players’ union FIFPRO showed less than one-third have a well-functioning system with stable employment conditions. The report, named ‘Shaping Our Future’ and based on economic market inputs from auditing firm KPMG, said there is a lack of national and international financial protection schemes that guarantee players their salaries. While Europe’s top-five domestic leagues in England, France, Germany, Spain and Italy were said to have a “high degree of stability”, there were 23 countries facing “significant challenges to development”. “We are in the middle of a new wave of industrial and societal development but the culture and governance in the game is stuck in the past,” said FIFPRO General Secretary Jonas Baer-Hoffmann. “Players must have a say on issues that affect their working conditions and take their rightful position in decision-making structures. “It is time for a new ‘social contract’ and a commitment to treat players – male, female, on all continents—with dignity and respect.” The report said countries that have sound governance, stakeholder representation and collective agreements with player unions lead to stability and sustained development. For example, the study showed players experienced better working conditions and stability in Netherlands, which has a small revenue, than they did in large football economies such as Turkey. Elsewherer, former Japan international Keisuke Honda has joined Azerbaijan Premier League side Neftchi Baku until the end of the season, the club said. The 34-year-old midfielder, who retired from international football after the 2018 World Cup in Russia, has been out of action since December when he ended an 11-month stint with Brazil's Botafogo. The 2011 Asian Cup winner had reached an agreement to join Portuguese first-division side Portimonense last month but the deal fell through. Honda, who was capped 98 times by Japan and competed at three World Cups, previously played for VVV Venlo, CSKA Moscow, AC Milan and Vitesse as well as Melbourne Victory in Australia. He will wear the number four jersey at Neftchi, who are chasing their first top-flight title since 2012-13 and are joint top of the standings with Qarabag. 