Women leaders celebrated International Women's Day with a call for more of their kind to seek elective positions in next year's polls. Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege said many women shy away from elective positions, then wait to be nominated to make a change. The MP said they want more women clinching political positions next year, from seats in the county assemblies to governorship. “This is why we have brought these women here so we can give hope to our women that they can come from Murang’a and soar,” she said. Chege spoke at Ihura Stadium in Murang’a town on Monday during an event with other women in senior leadership positions in government. They sought to encourage local women that they can also rise through the ranks if they fight. “Women have proven to have high leadership qualities all the way from their homes to their work areas,” she said. Chege said they want to discourage young women from getting married once they complete their secondary or tertiary education. Out of the six constituencies in Murang’a county, three elected women MPs in the last general election. Teachers Service Commission boss Nancy Macharia appealed to women to fight for leadership positions and not relent until they achieve their ambitions. Macharia said that though women face a myriad of challenges, they can rise above hardship and succeed in life. “We are here as women in leadership to motivate our fellow women and encourage them to not give up. We want them to have no fear and go after any position because what a man can do, a woman can do better,” she said. Macharia said that her commission has put in place measures to ensure it conforms to the Constitution on the inclusion of both genders. She said the number of male and female teachers is almost equal as is the number of principals and head teachers in public schools. “The fact that we have an equal number of men and women in leadership positions in the education sector shows that women can lead just as well if they get the opportunity,” Macharia said. Murang'a women groups received cheques from the National Government Affirmative Action Fund and the Women Enterprise Fund to boost their businesses.  (edited by o. owino)