Nandi county has opened an oncology unit at Kapsabet County Referral Hospital . It will reduce by more than 60 patients the number of patients referred to the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. Cancer patients in the region will now have access to oncology services following the opening of a modern oncology unit at the referral hospital. The unit was opened by county executive for Health Ruth Koech along with medics from the International Cancer Institute, hospital oncologists and several patients who had turned up for treatment. Koech said the unit was part of efforts to enhance cancer services in the county. “The new oncology unit will better serve the growing number of patients accessing chemotherapy services by providing a more comfortable and private area for patients," Koech said. She said the upgrading of cancer facilities and services at the hospital will cut costs for patients in need who had to travel to Kisumu or Eldoret. Governor Stephen Sang’s administration has invested substantial resources in healthcare especially expansion of the referral hospital ,which has been fitted with modern facilities including dialysis machines and ICU units. “It’s wonderful to finally have the oncology unit up and running,” said Patrick Kenei, who is the Kapsabet County Referral Hospital oncologist. He said they were now supporting more than 20 patients, and expect the number to continue increasing in the near future following the upgrade of the cancer services. Meanwhile the county has forged a new partnership with Operation Eyesight Universal. The plan provides quality eye care to all Nandi residents, including  vulnerable members of the community. The department of Health will engage the county department of Education to have screening in schools and trachoma programmes. The county and Operation Eyesight will identify gaps in the health system and plan the best way to fill them. Operation Eyesight has trained personnel in the past in ophthalmology. (Edited by V. Graham)