The country’s public debt crisis is worsening, as repayments are taking up two-thirds of ordinary revenue collected nationally. Public debt repayment is set to consume Sh1.17 trillion, being the lion's share of the country’s revenue estimated at Sh1.78 trillion in the Division of Revenue Bill, 2021. The payout accounts for a third of next financial year’s Sh3 trillion budget. This leaves the National Treasury with only Sh610 billion of ordinary revenue to fund government operations. It is the first time that debt repayment has crossed the Sh1 trillion mark, being payments for annual debt redemption and interest on domestic and external debt. At least Sh829 billion was set aside in the current financial year for debt repayment, a major increase from the Sh538 billion the previous year. Debt repayment was budgeted at Sh641 billion in FY 2018-19, an increase from Sh462 billion in 2017-18. Experts say Kenyans should brace for higher taxes to avert a situation in which the country will not be able to meet its debt obligations. Dr Abraham Rugo, country manager of International Budget Partnerships Kenya, expressed doubt that Kenya could manage the debt crisis. “Unless there are fundamental changes in tax collection, we do not have enough to pay the loan and meet other recurrent expenses,” Rugo told the Star. Owing to the debt situation, the government has a net balance of Sh428.8 billion, up from Sh202.7 billion this financial year, monies it would either source through borrowing or income to ministries. A Sh930 billion deficit projected in the next budget stands to worsen the situation as the country has to borrow to cover it. The Budget and Appropriations Committee has cautioned that it will not approve any increase to the deficit. The Parliamentary Budget Office forecast the public debt stock would hit Sh7.8 trillion at the end of the current year. PBO projects that the debt level is projected to double by June 2030, and recommended that Kenya reschedules its external debt. Treasury has asked Parliament to increase the debt ceiling beyond the current Sh9 trillion, as it has limited room to borrow. “Lengthening the maturity of existing securities may be necessary even though this will transfer debt to future generations,” PBO said in a budget review. “Targeted reduction of debt servicing expenditure alongside reduction of non-core recurrent expenditures will have a higher effect of easing fiscal space,” the experts said. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani has over time restated that the debt is sustainable but pressure from the Covid-19 effects has put a strain on the Exchequer. "Revenue is low. Since debt payment is the first charge on the Consolidated Fund, we remain with insufficient resources to settle all other obligations,” Yatani said. Regardless, Treasury has sought to provide counties Sh409 billion in share of national revenue, an increase of Sh53.5 billion from the current year. The allocation comprises equitable share of Sh370 billion, conditional allocations of Sh7.3 billion  and Sh32.3 billion in loans and grants by development partners. The bill allocates Sh22.3 billion to enhance security operations while Sh11.2 billion would go towards national irrigation and fertiliser clearance. Sh14.5 billion has been set aside for youth empowerment programmes, Sh29.3 billion for a national safety net for older persons, Orphans and Vulnerable Children, child welfare, presidential bursary and severe disability. Digital literacy programmes in primary schools have been allocated Sh1.8 billion. Sh4.1 billion would go into payment of examination fees for KCSE and KCPE exam sam candidates. The bill provides Sh136.9 billion for pensions, constitutional salaries and other related expenses. Sh299.3 billion would go to constitutional commissions established under Article 248 of the Constitution – being CRA, SRC, NLC, NPSC, IEBC and the TSC. The Controller of Budget and Auditor General have been allocated Sh6.5 billion as revenue share, with Parliament set to get Sh37.8 billion. The State Law Office and the office of the DPP have been allocated Sh8.4 billion, while Sh7.04 billion would go to statutory bodies such as EACC, political parties registrar, Witness Protection Agency, Ombudsman, Ipoa and the National Gender Equality Commission. The Judiciary has been allocated Sh17.9 billion as share of revenue, an increment of Sh4 billion from the current financial year. Treasury has allocated Sh5 billion for emergencies, but has not provided for the Strategic Grain Reserves. At least Sh6.8 billion of the revenue raised nationally has been set aside for the Equalisation Fund. County allocation is based on the audited accounts of FY 2016-17. The government has, however, retained Sh7.2 billion for the medical equipment scheme. Counties will also receive, through the national government, Sh332 million for construction of headquarters for Isiolo, Lamu, Nyandarua, Tana River and Tharaka Nithi. (Edited by V. Graham)