Allies of President of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga on Tuesday clashed with those of Deputy President William as the handshake's third anniversary was marked. On March 9, 2018 Uhuru and Raila shook hands on the steps of Harambee House to end the acrimony that stemmed from the chaotic elections in 2017. The anniversary comes at the time when the truce is facing turbulence with betrayal talks threatening to break the handshake. On Tuesday, MPs allied to the Handshake partners celebrated what they termed  success and fruits of the truce between the two leaders – three years later. However, DP Ruto’s men took a swipe at the handshake, saying the country ‘is more divided’ now than it was in 2018. Uhuru and Raila troops said the country has witnessed relative peace and tranquility since the two leaders crafted a harmonious working formula. “Three years down the line, we have had our share of peace,” Ndaragua MP Jeremiah Kioni said. Kioni, who chairs the Constitutional implementation oversight committee of the National Assembly, said that the handshake birthed BBI that is now seeking to fix problems the country had experienced since independence. “If the things we are trying to constitutionalize now in the BBI were done back in 1997 or 1992, the unemployment that we are experiencing today would have been not be as bad,” he added. In their nine point agenda to build the bridges to a cohesive and better Kenya, Uhuru and Raila sought to address the teething problems that have stagnated the country’s growth since independence. They sought to address the polls violence and divisions, curb corruption, strengthen devolution and ensure safety and security of every Kenyan and their property. MPs; Godfrey Osotsi (nominated, ANC), Karim Osman (Fafi, Kanu) and Elisha Odhiambo (Gem, ODM) said the country has never been the same again since inception of the handshake. “Anyone saying BBI has done nothing an enemy of the people of Kenya. I know how Kenya was before handshake. Nairobi was bad. When Raila there is no business today, for sure, there would be no business,” Osman said. Osotsi shared in Osman’s observations but warned of a plot by some politicians to scuttle the handshake. “They want to come and scuttle the handshake but we will not allow them. Handshake was between two people but some people now want to hijack it,” he said. But senators Samson Cherargei (Nandi) and John Kinyua (Laikipia) said there is nothing Kenyans can celebrate in BBI. According to Cherargei, Handshake was a political tool aimed at scuttling the DP’s 2022 prospects. “The people who have benefited are Uhuru and Raila. Kenyans have not benefitted at all because, still the economy is doing badly. Many Kenyans have no jobs. They can’t even fend for their families,” he said. The vocal lawmaker added, “The BBI generally has not helped Kenyans in any way. It has just been a political tool which I think Raila was using for his reinvention to position himself to succeed Uhuru.” Kinyua said, “Form where I sit, I would say we have achieved much. In Laikipia for instance, there is still insecurity. May be after BBI passes but at the moment, I can’t say we have achieved anything.”