Small scale millers have urged the government to enforce the law to keep mushrooming mills out of the market. Kennedy Nyaga, chairman of the United Grain Millers Association, said the stricter regulation will enhance food safety and fair competition. Nyaga spoke on Friday during the millers' annual conference. The lobby has a membership of 140 small scale millers. “There is a high increase of upcoming milling companies and many of them have not met the required standards including on fortification. Even the premises or location of some of the mills leaves a lot to be desired, yet they are selling flour in the market,” he said. Nyaga said approval and licensing from by Kenya Bureau of Standards are a prerequisite for one to start milling flour. Kebs ensures fortification, standardisation and aflatoxin levels of the flour produced meet the standards. One also needs a single permit, three health licences from the Public Health Department (for employees, premises and food handling) and another license for fire from the county government. “But many of the millers are taking short cuts to get these licenses. There should be a body to regulate millers. Don’t forget this is food and if it is not regulated, there is no guarantee of getting safe food,” he said. Nyaga said the government should come up with an agency to regulate the sector and ensure safety and fair competition. He said the lack of proper regulation of the industry has resulted in the high number of millers not fortifying their flour as required by the law. Food fortification is the process of adding essential trace elements and vitamins to food. This is the government’s effort to reduce the number of people with dietary deficiencies. Some fortification elements include vitamin A, vitamin D, iodine, folic acid and iron. A survey carried out in October and November last year found that only 68 per cent of the smallscale millers fortify their flour. Peter Kahenya, a researcher from Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology, said the other 32 per cent are not fortifying their flour. Out of the 68 per cent, only 28 were doing it correctly. The study was carried out in Kiambu, Kirinyaga, Nyandarua, Nakuru, Meru, Bomet, Kericho and Nairobi counties. Kahenya said most small and medium scale millers face technical and financial challenges in implementing the fortification requirement. Ministry of Health official Naomi Kamau attributed the low compliance rate to the lack of proper infrastructure to do fortification. She said a fortification machine costs between Sh500,000 and Sh1 million and this is too expensive for some of the smallscale millers hence the low uptake. “We are working with Jkuat to fabricate a fortification machine that will be cheaper and affordable to the millers,” she said. 