The 2020 Kenya Certificate of Primary Education examination begins today, ending a five-month delay. Some 1,187,517 candidates will sit the exam, which will end on Wednesday. They rehearsed on Friday. The initial plan to administer in November flopped due to the closure of learning institutions to stem the spread of coronavirus. In effect, the candidates will write their examination under guidelines twice as strict to curb examination cheating and spread of the virus. The candidates will, among other rules, be arranged to sit two metres apart in all directions.This will aid in achieving social distancing. This year’s test will be the fifth to be administered under stringent rules since the introduction of measures to weed out rampant cheating that had undermined the integrity of the exam prior to 2016. It will be the first time candidates will wear a mask while in the examination room. Other guidelines include washing of hands or sanitising, body temperature checks and social distancing in the examination room. Last week, Education CS George Magoha while in Mombasa announced that part of the examination safety protocols will be the removal of masks during inspection. Magoha said he was privy to intelligence on plans by some students to write material they will use in the exam room on their face masks. The CS directed that students remove masks during inspection for examination officials to ascertain they are not used to sneak cheating material. Magoha also flagged parts of Migori and Kisii counties as cheating hotspots that are being monitored. Today, the students will write Mathematics in the morning, followed by English in the mid-morning and finish off with Composition. On Tuesday, they will have Science in the morning, Kiswahili and Insha in the afternoon. They close the exam on Wednesday with Social Studies and Religious Education. According to the Kenya National Examination Council, 286,901 field supervisors and invigilators will be contracted for exam administration. Details from Knec indicate the tests are already secured in 479 safety containers that are under 24-hour protection by the police at subcounty headquarters where the examination papers will be housed. The containers have a double locking system and the subcounty directors of education and the deputy county commissioners will be the only ones authorised to open and close them. Some 751,150 KCSE candidates will have their rehearsals on Thursday before sitting the exam from Friday to April 21. Edited by Henry Makori