Five premature, newborn babies have died at Baringo County Referral Hospital. the chairman said on Monday. Dr Philip Cheptinga denied media reports doctor trainees or nurse interns had handled the newborns. He also denied claims the newborns died of exceedingly high temperatures in incubators and in the Children's Intensive Care Unit. The exact cause of death in each case was not immediately known. “Yes, it is true. Our doctors tried their level best to rescue the lives of the newborns but unfortunately they did not manage,” Cheptinga told reporters. The babies are said to have died between Monday and Friday last week. “Our facilities are being run and managed by certified experts and not medical students on attachment,” Cheptinga said. He said the nursery aides the growth of underdeveloped newborns weighing less than one kilogramme; their brains, lungs, kidneys and other organs are not as mature as those of full-term infants. “And [incubators and intensive care] are not only done here in Baringo but all over and in developed countries," he said. He was backed by other members of the board and facility administrator Michael Rotich. Earlier media reports said seven babies had died. County health executive Mary Panga had denounced the deaths but said she hadn't received reports. Governor Stanley Kiptis said according to his basic knowledge a nursery accommodates only one or two children, but not more than five or seven. However, hospitals can have larger nurseries. He accused his political opponents of a witch-hunt, saying it's not yet time for campaigns. Cheptinga appealed to the media to double check and confirm facts before airing or publishing negative information that might scare away patients from the hospital. On Friday last week, a man who identified himself as Noor Oduor recounted the loss of his child and alleged negligence. “Apart from mine, I also saw other six bodies of newborns lying beside the nursery but the facility staff appeared reluctant to give us giving us the right information” Oduor said. The county has been experiencing an acute shortage of doctors and nurses. There's also a shortage of cleaning staff. Last week, routine admission of patients to two wards at Eldama Ravine Subcounty Hospital was suspended due to a shortage of staff. Cheptinga further called on MCAs to consider allocating funds to service and expand the referral facility. “Always when you make budgets as the assembly, you don’t give us even a shilling. How then do you expect the facility to run normally?” he asked. He said MCAs are engaging in a push-and-pull tactic in budget allocation for the facility, each of them saying it doesn’t lie in his or her own ward. “You should all regard the facility as a general referral facility and and support it by pumping in money to improve the services,” Cheptinga said. He also cited lack of budget funds to service and fuel the assembly's fleet of ambulances. (Edited by V. Graham)