Did President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) dress down an influential second-term governor who has been blowing hot and cold on BBI? A mole has whispered to Corridors of Power that the head of state did exactly that when he recently held a virtual meeting with a section of county chiefs to discuss the Constitution amendment process. It was during that occasion that the President is said to have told the man to his face to stop sabotaging the initiative that is meant to help his people. The mole said the county boss committed to supporting BBI and teaming up with his colleagues to popularise the initiative. *** A county assembly official in an urban county has been acting with total impunity lately. Recently, he interfered with efforts of the county executive to honour court orders that had directed the devolved unit to reinstate officials who had been sacked — at his instigation. The county assembly official brags that he played a role in removing the governor and therefore sees no reason why courts should be honoured. The man boasts that he is more powerful than the current governor and that he is untouchable because he has the ear of the state. *** Has a foreigner who lost a lucrative tender at a key ministry gone on the warpath? A little bird whispers to Corridors that the man who held the contract for the past eight years has sworn to disrupt the tendering process by all means. Lately he has drafted a scheme to coerce a partner company, which had withdrawn from the matter to come back and support his cause. Those familiar with the case claim it's a matter of time and the truth about the man will come to haunt him and his country of origin where he is persona non grata. *** A month ago, we told you of a senior employee working at a parastatal in Nairobi who had secured the job with the help of a Cabinet secretary despite having a murky past. Colleagues at the parastatal have raised concerns about her suitability for the job since she has an active graft case in one of the coastal counties. She is accused of engaging in corrupt activities while working at the county. Corridors has since learnt that the management of the parastatal has bowed to pressure and decided to get rid of the senior staff member on grounds that she misled the interviewing panel during her recruitment. 