On Jan 30 last year, the international governing body for aquatic sports, FINA, announced it had suspended the Kenyan Swimming Federation until "elections are held in accordance with FINA Rules." The federation last held elections in September 2014 and subsequent incessant pleas from FINA to goad the officials into seeking fresh electoral mandate fell on deaf ears. The last president to hold office at KSF, Ben Ekumbo, resigned in a huff in 2017 after being entangled in a controversy surrounding the procurement of kits for the national swimming team. Police barged into Ekumbo’s house and found him hiding under his bed. They confiscated much of the equipment from his apartment and locked him up for three days. Then at the beginning of this month, the Badminton World Federation imposed a ban on Badminton Kenya after the local body failed to hold elections as instructed. In a letter addressed to Kenya Badminton chairman Peter Muchiri and Jeff Shigoli, the world governing body chided the local office for failing to conduct the polls within the stipulated window. The elections were initially set for June 2018 but were later shelved by the Sports Registrar given the national body had not complied with the Sports Act. Months later, one of the two factions, led by federation’s acting chairman Peter Muchiri, went ahead to hold an Annual general meeting that resulted in the election of eight individuals by acclamation amidst a low turnout. The other faction led by Geoffrey Shigoli’s group has yet to conduct elections and is currently not properly registered. In a letter addressed to Muchiri and Shigoli, BWF declined to recognise both factions. The letter read: “From the outset, we have to note it is through this letter, we do not wish to assign responsibility to either of the parties specifically.” The implications of such egoistic behaviour exhibited by individuals who are unwilling to vacate office honourably at the expiry of their terms because of vested interests are grave. For instance, our swimmers had to literally beg for slots at the 2021 Tokyo Olympic Games, as a result. Kenya Olympic Committee secretary general Francis Mutuku confirmed the country had received two 'wildcard' (universality) entries for swimmers to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. This means if the Kenyan Swimming Federation is not reinstated, the Olympic Committee has the power to enter the swimmers independent of the swimming organisation and to help them prepare. Elected officials must stop running sports bodies like private enterprises. Once in office, they should faithfully adhere to the existing laws to guide their activities and decisions. That way, they will arrest the wrangles that undermine the progress of sports in the country.