The Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organization has received Sh300 million from the European Union to boost food security. The money will also upscale research and the application of climate-smart technologies to combat climate change. It is a five-year programme to be implemented under the AgriFI Kenya Climate Smart Agricultural Productivity Project. At least 19 groups of farmers along the coastal strip will benefit from the sub-grants. Each group will get about Sh6 million. The funds are expected to empower Kalro to come up with suitable climate-friendly methods to help local farmers increase food productivity, commodity value chain markets, employment and improve livelihoods. EU deputy ambassador Katrin Hagemann said they are trying to address the crisis of climate change and alleviate poverty through the use of simple effective approved agricultural technologies. “We are combining different aspects to assist Kenyan farmers to produce enough food for survival and creating jobs without affecting climate in the process,” she said. Hagemann said they are strengthening farmers’ capacity to respond to adverse weather patterns and support them to continue farming regardless of any challenges. She said the money will facilitate in buying modern equipment to enable proper storage and processing for competitive agribusiness activities. Kalro director-general Eliud Kireger said the trend of climate change is alarming hence the need to help local farmers adopt the use of improved climate-smart technologies to prevent further disaster. He said they are engaging more private partners to help them transit from inferior farming methods to effective ones. Kireger said farmers are equipped with the new know-how to survive in various climate changes. “Some of the technologies we insist people to adopt are the ones that can help sustain themselves in their farming systems,” Kireger said. The officer said in dry areas they encourage small-scale farmers to plant drought-resistant crops such as cassava, millet, sorghum and provide the means on how to produce high yields in such environment. Kireger, however, said the rate of food production in Kenya is still low due to diseases and the use of outdated farming technology. He said climate change has brought about new pests and crop diseases but the government and its partners are working to develop advanced crop varieties that are resistant to illness and weather effects. In Kwale,  Mwazaro Beach Management Unit in Shimoni qualified for the grants. Mwazaro BMU self-help group project coordinator Msemanga Riziki said they have used the money to purchase a motorbike, fishing boat and designed a fish cage. They are targeting to rear over 12, 000 Tafi and Tilapia fish fingerlings that take a short time to mature to ensure maximum harvest and profits with little damage to the marine life.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris