He is undoubtedly one the country's top radio presenters, having had a long, illustrious sporting and part-time coaching career. Introducing Bramwell Mwololo. Many of us don't know that he has played both rugby and football at the highest level both local and abroad. The only other person to have played both football and rugby is AFC Leopards legend JJ Masiga who also played the oval-shaped ball at Nairobi School, Impala, and Watembezi Pacesetters in the 1980s. Mwololo credits interest in sports from his father. “We watched a lot of videos of World Cup especially the 1970 edition in which Brazil won as well as other sporting events and that aroused my interest in football and sports in general, ” he says. Born 56 years ago,  Mwololo attended Muslim Primary School, where his love for the beautiful game started. Mwololo was already a goalkeeper in the school team by class five before the school coach intervened and changed his role to that of a striker. “I remember being in goal for the first team a couple of matches then the coach said he needed to change my position in the team and I  played as a striker and then we went to the nationals. From then, my position changed to striker, ” he added. On completion of primary school, he joined Highway Secondary School where he became a regular in the school team. In Form 2, Mwololo led the school team to win the Nairobi Cup and secured a ticket to the nationals slated for Machakos. At the nationals, Highway made it to the quarterfinals but lost to a Sammy “Jogoo" Onyango- inspired  Thika High who won 1-0 to progress. “ It was a tough game and we battled hard. They had Form six players, who were  playing for some of the biggest clubs in the country. We did our best and it was a good performance,” noted Mwololo. Advances from clubs Mwololo's performance did not go unnoticed as Barclays Bank came calling for his signature. It was an era where parastatals and corporates like the defunct Kenya Posta, Kenya Railways, Kenya Ports Authority(KPA) and  Ministry of Public Works (Motcom) would camp at national school games scouting for talent. "The scouts came calling and some of my teammates ended up with different parastatals and I was happy to join the bank,” said Mwololo. The bank already had top team in various disciplines, such as hockey, football, basketball and rugby. Mwololo joined the bankers as a teller and was an instant success with the football team, playing a striker-cum-winger alongside the likes of Ignatius Khaduli, Abdalla Shedu as well as his brothers Gideon and Peter Mwololo. The team moved up the ranks to contend for promotion to the Kenya Football League during the 1988-89 season. Barclays Bank were involved in a mini-league contest for promotion alongside Railways, Maziwa and Waterworks. They trounced Railways 1-0 in the decider to secure promotion, thanks to  Mwololo's second-half goal. Mwololo was in a rich vein of form during the mini-league playoff scoring seven goals and was looking forward to testing himself against league bigwigs, such as Gor Mahia, AFC Leopards, KTM, Bata Bullets, Shabana and Kenya Breweries. "Sadly, the fairytale run to the top came to a screeching halt. We won our home games but we struggled away due to poor officiating and the results cost us. So the team went back to the second tier,” he adds. Move into rugby At the same time, Mwololo would train with the Barclays rugby team during the football off season. It started as part of his plan to stay fit ahead of the resumption of the football season but then coach Max Muniafu had other plans. In him, Muniafu saw a player blessed with blistering pace and pin-point ability to kick penalties. These two attributes enabled him take to rugby as a duck to water and before long, other teams had been alerted to this new kid on the rugby block. He joined Watembezi RFC for the Sevens tournament in Singapore playing alongside other great players like Roger Akena , Oliver Khabure, Vincent Onyango, George Awinyo, Dan Kimoro, Manuel Okoth, Pete Belsoi,  Ken Thimba and Martin Ndeda. On the local scene, Mwololo dazzled for Barclays RFC, going unbeaten in the Sevens Circuit in 1991 in addition to winning the Christie Sevens, Kabeberi Sevens and Driftwood Sevens. “I was quick on the wing and at the same time, kicked penalties and made conversions. That really helped my game and established my place in the side,” Mwololo notes. Mwololo was to join the Kenya 15s squad for the 1993 World Cup qualifiers, which Kenya hosted but lost to Zimbabwe (42-7) and Namibia(60-9)  although they beat Arabian Gulf 24-23. Fortunes were to change yet again for the young Mwololo when he signed for English Rugby league side, Hunslet Rugby. Rugby league is different from union. It is played with 13 players and there are no set pieces with the ball in play for a longer period. It also has higher financial perks for players. Hunslet used to play their matches at English Premier League side, Leeds United's Elland Road stadium.  "Edward Rombo and Eric Kibe, who were already in England playing  for Leeds, advised me to just use my pace and not to try anything fancy if i wanted to succeed,” Mwololo notes.  In a match against Whitehouse, Mwololo was voted 'Man of the Match'. It was, however, a short-lived journey for Mwololo who after four months left the club due to the cold wintry weather and the underhand nature of the games during which players were out to injure each other. Back to football He, however,terms the experience key to his career as he came away with rich knowledge of  how professional teams are run. “You are given a training programme, nutrition and dieting. It opened my eyes to how athletes in a high-performance environment operate," Mwololo recalls. A year after he  returned home, he went back to his first love, football, in 1995 where he joined AFC Leopards. In his one-year stint at the den, he helped lay the foundation for the club's premier league title in 1998 by mentoring and nurturing the likes of Tony Lwanga, Edward Karanja and Tom Juma who were to lead Ingwe to their last league title in 23 years. He later had a one-year stint with Utalii FC before joining the professional ranks with Al Ittihad of Oman, where he teamed up with Steve Odiaga and steered the club to a third-place finish in the Oman league and a place in the King Kabuz Cup, a regional competition for Asian sides. In 1999, he returned to the country and joined Gor Mahia as a player-coach. His first game from the dugout was an emphatic 4-0 win over then reigning champions Utalli. However, his memorable moment in his short coaching stint was a 2-0 thumping of Nzoia. “Gor had not beaten Nzoia in years and we beat them in that season. Many  thought I was using Kamba witchcraft to win matches,” Mwololo says with a chuckle. Mwololo and Gor Mahia parted ways after falling out with chairman Leslie Okudo over nonpayment of dues. His next football journey was to take him to neigbouring Tanzania, where he coached Moro United for a year before coming back He still harbours dreams of coaching in Tanzania, where he admits football is well structured and taken seriously unlike Kenya. “I would love to really coach Simba. It's a good experience and they respect professionals unlike here,” he says. For now, he is a presenter at Radio Jambo where he hosts a political talkshow every Monday to Friday from 7pm. In the formative years of the radio station, he hosted a morning show alongside Toldo and was named as the  best presenter while the show was awarded the best sports show award. Bio Year of Birth:  1965 Education: Muslim primary and Highway secondary PLAYING CAREER 1984: Barclays Football team 1989 -93: Barclays Rugby team 1990: Watembezi Pacesetters 1993: Hunslet Rugby league side in the United Kingdom 1995: AFC Leopards 1996: Al ittihad in Oman 1997: Plays for Utalii 1999: Gor Mahia player-cum-manager 2000: Coach at Moro United (Tanzania) 2008: Radio Jambo presenter to date