Posta Rangers coach Stanley Okumbi has hailed his team for putting up a perfect performance against champions Gor Mahia despite being reduced to ten men early in the game. Okumbi steered the mailmen to their second win and perhaps the biggest of the season when they stunned pre-match favourites K'Ogalo,whom they edged 1-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. "I'm quite happy with the results.It hasn't been an easy game especially considering it has come at a time we are still not in good form. We have overcome one of the best teams in the country," said an elated Okumbi. Gor Mahia's head coach Vaz Pinto rued the chances his charges created but missed as they went on to register their second consecutive loss, coming hot on the heels of another shock 2-0 defeat to KCB at the same venue over the weekend. "We dominated the game but didn't make use of our chances," said a seemingly perturbed Pinto. The Portuguese remains optimistic about their chances in the competition despite the second straight loss. "We still have a mathematical chance to win the league. We have at least 20 more matches ahead which we can use to turn things around," he added. Barely three minutes into the match, Michael Apudo was sent off by centre referee Isaac Memusi following a rough play on Tito Okello. Apudo sent Okello tumbling down on the edge of the box after tripping him from behind as the South Sudan international frantically charged towards goal with only goalkeeper Kelvin Opiyo to beat. However, Samuel Onyango's effort to put the K'Ogalo in the driving seat proved futile as Opiyo stretched full length to block his resultant delivery. Despite being reduced to ten men, Posta fought tooth and nail to contain the marauding opponents as coach Stanley Okumbi brought on Simon Mbugua for forward Eliud Lokuwam to arrest the rising tempo. And, alas, the mailmen's resilience finally paid off. Just before Memusi could blow his the whistle for the break, Francis Nambute pounced on a lose ball on the left flank and successfully took on Kelvin Wesonga before dashing for goal and placing the ball past Gad Mathews from a tight angle to fire the mailmen in front. A minute after emerging from the tunnels, Gor's stands erupted into song and dance but the ecstasy was short-lived after Memusi choked Samuel Onyango's goal for offside. Desperate for a goal, Gor's coach Vaz Pinto made three successive changes, introducing Jules Ulimwengu, John Macharia and Farouk Abdul for Wilson Silva, Samuel Onyango and Clifton Miheso respectively. Other than Nambute's goal, Posta rarely posed Gor any threat, with chances few and far between. The loss has left K'Ogalo rooted in eighth position on the log with 19 points as the mailmen increased their tally to 14 points, moving one step further from the relegation zone. Elsewhere, Zoo and Western Stima played out to a barren draw at the Green Stadium, Kericho.  