Three Mombasa county officers are undergoing training in Nairobi on Covid-19 vaccination rollout and will then train other medics to administer the jab. The county is expected to receive its first batch of vaccines on Friday and begin the vaccination of doctors, nurses and other health workers. Director of Health Shem Pata said the current vaccine storage room has space to accommodate the expected Covid-19 vials. “With AstraZeneca vaccine, it does not require any special or high temperatures and therefore we do not require special facilities to store the jabs,” he said. The Kenya Medical Supplies Agency is also repairing its cold room in Mombasa to store vaccines in case the county’s facilities run out of space. Doctor Pata said they will follow the Ministry of Health guidelines and start with health workers, then teachers and police officers. He said after essential service providers, the county will then move to vaccinate the elderly and children. “In short, we are ready to receive our share of vaccines and we are ready for the vaccination process,” he noted. Vaccines will at first be administered at the Coast General Hospital. Kenya ordered 24 million doses and received 1.02 million vaccines as the first batch on Tuesday night. The government plans to vaccinate at least one million people using the first batch of doses contrary to the initial plan where 500,000 people. The Health Ministry said plans are underway to secure the second batch of vaccines in the next three to four weeks with the assurance that there will be a stock to give the booster jab as it is required. Task Force on Vaccine Deployment and Vaccination chair Dr Willis Akhwale on Wednesday said the process of repacking vaccines was ongoing with the official flag-off to the counties expected to be done on Thursday. “Today it was the packaging, then they will be flagged off. You have to open them and repack them in small quantities. These things are packaged in quantities of 3,000 depending on how many health workers are in a place and they have to be packaged in specialised packages,” Akhwale said. 