A Makadara law court has ordered a 22-year-old nanny, who allegedly stabbed two of her employer’s children, to undergo a psychiatric test. Gladys Naliaka Nalianya was arraigned on Monday before Makadara Chief Magistrate Angelo Kithinji but she did not take a plea after she refused to utter a word. Bear footed Naliaka appeared in court holding her rubber shoes on her hands, a jacket wrapped around her waist while her head was covered with a white sweater. She was supposed to answer to charges of attempted murder. Naliaka was arraigned last week before Makadara Chief Magistrate Emily Ominde but did not take a plea after police sought more days to detain her pending investigations. In an affidavit filed before the court, Corporal Josephine Nduku said she was investigating a case of attempted murder. She said she was yet to record statements from the victims who are still hospitalized and their parents who are attending to them at the hospital. She further added that they were yet to recover the weapon used to inflict injuries to the victims. She said the suspect has no fixed abode and if set free might flee. It was reported that on a material day at around 7.20 pm on March 11 on Donholm Greenfields Estate, Naliaka, armed with a machete and a knife, entered the house of Gladys Gacheru through the backdoor. The suspect had been employed as a house help at the home for two years. She found the children, aged five and 11, seated in the sitting room. When the current house help went to see who entered the home, Naliaka threatened to attack her with the machete if she made any close move. She then rushed to call the victims' elder brother who was in a different room. Upon coming back they found Naliaka had struck and stabbed the two in the head and she was nowhere to be seen. The victims were rushed to a nearby hospital where they received first aid before being referred to Coptic Hospital. Nduku said the minors suffered deep cut wounds and are still hospitalized in stable condition. “Upon the suspect's services being terminated, she left the home swearing that the family would go through untold suffering in the near future,” the detective said. Naliaka was arrested in Eldoret on Saturday after fleeing from Nairobi. She is suspected to have been headed for Uganda. Kithinji ordered the suspect to be arraigned back to court after seven days.