A submission by IEBC to protect its boundary delimitation mandate has jolted the joint parliamentary committee on the BBI Bill as the team retreats to file its report after public hearings. The committee faces a headache after the Independent and Electoral Boundaries Commission contested the BBI proposal to create and distribute 70 new constituencies across 28 counties. It has emerged that members of the joint parliamentary committee on Justice and Legal Affairs are reading from different scripts regarding the commission’s submission. “IEBC has raised pertinent issues that we as a committee must sit and discuss. It is true the Constitution gives them the mandate to delimitate constituency boundaries,” co-chairman Okong’o Mogeni said. On Wednesday, the commission protested the distribution of the proposed additional 70 constituencies by the BBI promoters without reference to the agency. During a public hearing on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, commonly known as the BBI bill, IBEC chairman Wafula Chebukati said while promotes were right to create the constituencies, they erred in allocating them to various counties. Chebukati said delineation of the electoral units is a preserve of the commission. “In the event that the bill passes as is, it will contradict the existing Articles 88 (4) (c) and 89 of the Constitution thereby presenting possible legal challenges to the delimitation process,” Chebukati said. While a section of the MPs agree that it is the mandate of the polls' agency to draw boundaries and distribute constituencies across the country, some are of the argument that the BBI bill being a popular initiative overrides the IEBC mandate. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr, a member of the committee, submitted that while the IEBC has the mandate to delimitate constituency, BBI is a popular initiative. “What we should ask ourselves is if the BBI is a popular initiative which derives its powers from the people as stipulated in Article 1 of the Constitution, the question is, which one overrides the other?” Mutula said. A member of the committee who declined to go on record on grounds that it would jeopardise the work of the committee said IBEC is justified and that the members must have a serious discussion on their submission. “It is a serious constitutional concern that we must sit and discuss,” the ODM lawmaker said. Omogeni said the committee would retreat on Friday until Sunday to comb through volumes of submissions and discuss the IEBC’s submission before filing a report for tabling in the two houses of Parliament next week. Lawyers and constitutional experts have given varied opinions on whether Parliament can amend the bill that is being driven through a popular initiative.  Edited by P.O