Tension is high and residents are fleeing after bandits stormed homes in the volatile Mukutani, Baringo South subcounty, and killed a man. The attacks occurred on Thursday when elder Gabriel Lekichep was a killed and Jackline Lekidogoa and her two-and-half-year-old child were wounded. She saw Gabriel shot dead, her child wounded before she herself was a target. "Criminals later stormed to burn the houses of two families on Saturday at 3pm,” Mukutani chief Benjamin Lekecher said on Sunday. Lekichep’s body was moved to Kabarnet Referral Hospital mortuary while the casualties were admitted at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret. No livestock were stolen. Residents suspect the cause was an unresolved boundary dispute. The attack occurred about 72 hours after the Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya announced lifting of the Kapedo operation for the next 30 days. “This would allow leaders to go round to preach peace and help produce the bandits and illegal guns” Natembeya said. When contacted for comment over the fresh attacks, the regional commissioner said in a phone message text, "I'm off duty." Chief Lekecher said by the time of the arson, residents had already fled their homes for the congested nearby GSU and RDU police camps. Head of Department of marginalized and minority affairs Amos Ole’Mpaka and lawyer Joseph Tarus visited the survivors in Kabarnet hospital. “It pains me that over 10 years now we have lost over 100 people,  others injured by frequent bandits attacks as the government watches,” Ole’Mpaka said on Sunday. They appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta order swift disarmament o residents or allow everyone to own guns uniformly "so they can protect themselves,” Tarus said. Ole’Mpaka said it is unfortunate merciless bandits can shoot even innocent children and women as armed security personnel do nothing. He blamed the continuing  banditry on heightened political interference, saying some leaders funding the criminals were being listened to by the government. “We are left wondering why and how the government agreed to lift the Kapedo operation that we had believed would help end banditry," Baringo county commander Robinson Ndiwa however rejected claims  the attack was planned by armed bandits. “This can be a murder case because the victims were in a drinking den before the fight,” he said The frequent attacks occur mostly in parts of Tiaty, Baringo North and South subcounties. Residents appealed to the government to consider reviewing and returning the National Police Reservists so they can help save lives, pursue bandits and recover stolen animals. They had been disarmed and withdrawn, with plans to vet them and assign some to police compounds, Bartabwa ward MCA Reuben Chepsongol and his Mochongoi counterpart Kipruto Kimosop had earlier on Wednesday issued warnings, saying they were no longer safe after lifting ending the Kapedo operation. “We are no longer safe as neighboring communities because the bandits have fled the operation in Kapedo and they are now living with us,” Chepsongol said. They urged the government to resume the operation immediately to safeguard people’s lives and property. (Edited by V. Graham)