Microsoft Edge has undergone changes and this browser has acquired a new look. We have been used to Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox and Opera Mini but this new browser is something we can consider using to browse. Unlike the older version of Edge, this new version can be downloaded for Windows 10, 8 and 8.1, 7, and even macOS. If you are using Windows 10, the new design will automatically replace the older version. This new version of edge includes several key updates designed to protect your security and privacy. With the new version, you can enhance and protect your passwords. It offers you a password monitor to alert you if one of your passwords have been compromised. It also has a password generator to suggest stronger passwords for new accounts. To use both features, you need to make sure Sync is turned on, click the ellipsis icon, and go to settings then profiles, and finally Sync. You will turn on Sync button if it was off. To be able to use the password monitor you will need to enable the switch to show alerts when passwords are found in an online leak. Microsoft Edge will alert you if any of your saved passwords were leaked in a data breach. To use the password generator, you will head to setting then profiles where you will turn on the switch for offer to save passwords. The switch for suggest strong passwords will turn on. Microsoft Edge should suggest a strong and secure password. You can also change your DNS (Domain Name System) provider on this browser. This browser uses any DNS provider set up by your Internet Service Provider (ISP) unless you change it. For greater security, some people use alternative DNS providers such as Google, OpenDNS or Cloudfare. By clicking on Settings then privacy, searches, and services, you can point to a different DNS provider in Edge. You can save web content in collections. You can create your collections of web pages, text snippets, and images. This can be helpful if you are conducting research or looking for specific information and want to gather all related content. If you want to save a web page, you will first open it in the browser then click on Add current page link to save it in the collection. Saving the highlighted text and images can be done by dragging the selection to the collections pane. This browser allows you to install extensions from the Microsoft Store and the Chrome Web Store. You will have to click on settings then extensions to see all installed extensions. Once you click on the get extensions link, you will view add-ons in the Microsoft Store. You install an extension by clicking the Get button then hitting the Add extension button.