Mount Kenya University co-founder Jane Nyutu has said she will use her psychology knowledge to help students and lecturers overcome the mental crisis of Covid-19. Nyutu last year graduated with a doctorate in counselling psychology. She seeks to use her knowledge to promote mental health wellness at the institution. It is coming at a time when Kenyans are grappling with mental health challenges as they cope with the impact of the pandemic. President Uhuru Kenyatta last Friday announced new measures as part of the government's push to stem the third wave of the virus. They included cessation of movement into and out of a five-county zone comprising Nairobi, Nakuru, Machakos, Kiambu and Kajiado, and closure of learning institutions. The closure came as some university students were sitting exams or about to begin one, forcing individual universities to look for alternatives, including switching to online learning. Njagi Kumantha, a psychiatrist and the former head of Mathari Hospital, says the Covid effects subject students and lecturers to psychological and sometimes financial pressure. Nyutu, who started MKU alongside Simon Gicharu, researched the 'effectiveness of counselling services on academic performance and retention rate' for his doctoral thesis. “I found that counselling works effectively and students who went through the psychoeducation programme performed better academically,” she said in relation to her recently published research. “We noted that there is a trend. When students register for medicine, it is big numbers but by the end of it, there are many who drop out… I wanted to find out what counselling can do to ensure that students take their studies and graduate successfully and in good time.” Nyutu attained her Bachelor of Education degree at Kenyatta University and was posted to Mang'u High School where she discovered her potential as a counsellor when she was tasked with setting up the school’s counselling department. She obtained her master’s degree in counselling psychology at Daystar University. Nyutu and Lucy Kang’ori have co-authored a peer counselling book—An Integrated Approach to Peer Counselling. It explores in depth the role counsellors play in schools and how they can help tame indiscipline in learning institutions.