The possibility of the Kenya Volleyball Federation women's league being played on weekdays has elicited mixed reactions from stakeholders. The first and second legs have been played in the weekend but this could change if the communication from KVF media liaison Isaac Tirop is anything to go by. Tirop said the schedule remains as per the calendar but due to the return of the Kenya Basketball League, with whom they share the Nyayo gymnasium, upcoming league games will now be played on Friday, March 19. Directorate of Criminal Investigation DCI coach Daniel Bor said the looming switch will deny fans the opportunity to cheer their teams. "Players are used to the weekend fixtures where they enjoy support from fans. Playing on weekdays denies the fans the chance to enjoy the game they love. Sometimes even players are not totally motivated to play without fans. Supporters have always pushed players to their limits," said Bor. However, his Kenya Prisons counterpart Josp Barasa welcomed the move saying irrespective of the day, his charges are always prepared. He also acknowledged the lack of enough playing fields in the country and the available few should be shared. "Playing volleyball is part of the team's obligation. When other officers put on uniforms, my players and I wear tracksuits to the field. Inadequate infrastructure is evident and basketball is also played at Nyayo gymnasium. As Prisons team, we have no issue in case of the changes," said Barasa. National team coach and KCB technical director Paul Bitok agreed with Barasa's views. Bitok fully supports the idea while urging the competition to remain indoor. "We are all committed to ensuring that the women's league is played indoor, no matter the day. We have the club championship and the Tokyo Olympic Games to look forward to and that is where our focus is at the moment," said Bitok. The men's league won't be played this month due to the African Club Championship. Kenya Ports Authority lead the men's log after the first two legs with 19 points, two ahead Kenya Prisons. KCB and Kenya Prisons are first and second respectively in the women's league.