A Nairobi court has directed Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali to file evidence in a paternity case. Milimani children’s court chief magistrate ordered both the MP and the woman who has sued him over child upkeep and maintenance to file final evidence in the case before March 9, 2021, when it will be heard. The magistrate directed the law firms of Katunga Mbuvi and Majanja Luseno for the parties to file their written submissions and other annexures in the dispute for final determination. Shinali has been named as a defendant in the upkeep case by Caroline Mutheu who claims the lawmaker begot a child by her in 2016. Lawyer Mbuvi representing Mutheu is asking the court to compel the MP to pay over Sh200,000 in monthly maintenance for the five-year-old boy. When Mutheu sued Shinali, the MP filed a defence saying he is a stranger to the allegations made by the plaintiff (Mutheu) in her case pursuing upkeep, medical and education for the boy. “I am a stranger to the allegations by the plaintiff that I fathered her son,” Shinali averred in his statement of defence to the paternity dispute. He sought further investigations into the woman’s claims which led to calls for a DNA profiling. When the matter was listed for trial in March last year, Shinali sought a stay of the upkeep proceedings pending an inquiry to paternity. He denied having been notified of the intended suit by the plaintiff through her lawyer. In March 2020, buccal swabs were obtained from the lawmaker, the woman and their child. The specimen were analyased by Pamela Khamala Okelo who arrived at the conclusion that the child in question was fathered by Shinali. “Based on the DNA profiles generated from the samples presented to the Government Laboratory, there are 99.99 per cent  more chances that Bernard Shinali is the biological father of  Caroline Mutheu’s child,” said Okelo, the government analyst, in her report dated April 7,2020. In her evidence to the court, Mutheu says on May 7, 2016, they bore the minor. She says the legislator has since neglected them and the minor is entitled to education, health and shelter. “The defendant is the member of Parliament for Ikolomani constituency, Kakamega county, with a good income,” says Mbuvi in the court papers. “The plaintiff stays and takes care of the minor, the defendant does not care what the minor feeds on or the shelter, unless he (Shinali) is compelled to pay for the good welfare of the minor he is going to suffer,” says Mutheu in her evidence to the court. She is asking the court to compel the MP to pay her Sh50,000 in rent, medical insurance cover Sh35,000 per month, house help Sh15,000,food Sh35,000,clothes Sh40,000 and entertainment Sh35,000 monthly. She is also asking the court to grant any other reliefs it deems fit for the wellbeing of the minor. The case will be heard on March 9,2021. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara  