Aspirants eyeing the Juja parliamentary seat in the May 18 by-election have been warned against holding campaign meetings in their homes. Juja subcounty police commander Dorothy Migarusha told the hopefuls to use social media platforms, saying it was the safest way to control the virus spread. She also warned the hopefuls against using vehicle convoys in their campaigns, saying this will be a violation of the Covid-19 containment measures. Migarusha spoke in Juja town during a meeting with the 12 candidates who will battle for the Juja MP seat. The seat fell vacant after the death of Francis Munyua Waititu, popularly known as Wakapee, last month. Candidates seeking to fill the position include Jubilee’s Susan Njeri, George Koimburi of People’s Empowerment Party, Maendeleo Chap Chap’s Antony Kirori, Eunice Wanjiru of The National Democrats, Kenn Gachuma of the National Liberal Party and Kanu’s Dorcas Wanjiru. Others are Joseph Gichui, James Kariuki, alias JM, and Zulu Thiong’o. All three are independent candidates. Migarusha said police are on high alert and will arrest and prosecute anyone found holding political meetings. “We will not entertain hooliganism exhibited by any candidate and or their supporters. Elections laws must be followed in observance of the recent measures put in place by the government to curb the spread of Covid-19,” she said. The police boss said strict measures will be taken against any aspirant who will violate the laws, including inciting violence by bribing voters. “We will also closely monitor social media sites belonging to the candidates to check possible incitement to violence and voter bribery attempts. We want peace to be maintained before, during and after the by-election,” Migarusha said. The directive did not go down well with some aspirants, who complained that the move would deny them a chance for one-on-one campaigns. Eunice Wanjiru said the ban was a blow to them, since not all Juja residents can access social media sites. “I wish they can consider allowing us to meet our supporters even if it’s just for a day. Campaigning on online platforms is not fruitful even though it will significantly cut costs,” she said. Koimburi welcomed the move, saying all politicians must exercise caution and responsibility to reduce the spread of the virus. “Even though the decision to ban physical campaigns is a huge blow to us, I agree that it’s pertinent to mind the well-being in terms of health of residents," he said. "The gatherings are superspreaders, and we don’t want our people to get sick because we need them on May 18.” Gichui welcomed the decision saying, “The by-election is a one-time thing and it will pass but Juja will remain."    