A mental assessment report in respect to former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko from the Kenyatta National Hospital has been presented in court today. The Director of Public Prosecutions presented the sealed report in court as had been directed by Magistrate Peter Ooko two weeks ago. The DPP said none of the parties in court are privy to the contents of the report. He urged the matter be mentioned on March 15. Ooko had on March 4 directed that Sonko be examined by a government psychiatrist to confirm if he is fit to stand trial. Magistrate Ooko took note of the medical reports from a panel of four doctors from KNH dated 25 February and another by a Dr Pius. Ooko said though there is a concurrence in that Sonko suffers from a mental disorder, being bipolar, but there is however a sharp difference as to whether or not Sonko is indeed fit to stand trial. “Taking into cognizance that mental condition can only be a matter of situation at any given particular time and further taking into account the duration under which this two medical reports were undertaken, I direct that Sonko be again examined by a government psychiatrist who should confirm if he is fit to stand trial,” he said. He then directed that the matter be mentioned today. But when the matter was mentioned on Friday, Magistrate Lawrence Mugambi told the parties in the case that Ooko is indisposed. He directed parties in the case to take a new mention date. Lawyer John Khaminwa representing Sonko told Mugambi that his client checked out of Nairobi Hospital on Thursday. He said the doctors indicated that he should rest for two weeks. He then urged the court to mention the matter end of March. But parties in the case could not agree on when the case should be mentioned next. Mugambi subsequently directed that the case be mentioned on March 22 at noon before the trial court for further directions. In the case, Sonko, Fredrick Odhiambo trading as Yiro enterprises, ROG Security limited and its director Antony Otieno Ombok alias Jamal have denied charges of  conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption,  conflict of interest, money laundering and acquisition of proceeds of crime. It is alleged that the former governor in December 2018, received an indirect private interest of Sh8.4 million from Fred Odhiambo in  a contract  connected with the county over hiring of heavy equipment.