  A governor with a string of cases in court is said to have developed a good working relationship with the powers that be. The county chief is said to be planning to vie for the country’s top seat in 2022. Powerful forces behind his candidature have promised to help him overcome the numerous legal hurdles — that is, if he dances to their tune of vying for the presidency to clip the wings of a senior politician from the region also eyeing the top seat. Observers are now keenly monitoring how the cases proceed and whether he will make good his threat to go for country’s top job despite his apparent lack of political stamina. *** Two members of a prominent family that was part of a powerful delegation during a high-profile burial are unhappy lot. Why? The members of the family were left with a bitter taste in their mouths after the team leader failed to recognise their presence despite their close relationship with the family of the deceased. Recently, some politicians privy to the happenings were overheard lamenting that it seems the camaraderie between the influential families will be hitting a dead end and it is just a matter of time. *** A governor in Western Kenya has been ring-fenced by a retiree who has taken over security matters in the county. The retiree who worked at the country's intelligence unit has been accused of giving the governor lies and propaganda in efforts to edge out those around the county boss, some who helped deliver his victory in 2017. Despite not being on the county payroll, the retiree has an office, complete with a secretary and has been transacting county duties. The governor's diehard supporters fear the man is likely to lead their boss into a hole by 2022. *** Still in Western, an MP from the region is finding it hard to address members of the public in some areas of his constituency over his track record and association with a political formation in the country. The legislator has been forced to cut short his speeches in several public functions, including funerals. He is also accused of favouring his home area and totally ignoring places that did not support him during the last election. With very little time left to improve on his track record, the MP is said to be considering changing his political allegiance to secure his re-election, which is not guaranteed. 