Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has said the school calendar will not be changed. He said that the timetable remains as it had been decided earlier in the year and learners will return to school as planned. Magoha spoke on Monday in Kiambu town while inspecting the opening of the exams. The CS's pronouncement comes despite President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive that all learning institutions will remain closed indefinitely except for candidates sitting exams. During his national address on March 26, the President announced a raft of new measures to curb the rising cases of Covid-19. They included an 8pm curfew in five counties classified under one zone. The counties are Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Nakuru. Meanwhile, Magoha said that there will be no need to summon education stakeholders over changing school timetable. “I am hoping that since it looks like the Covid-19 curve is beginning to flatten, there may be no need to summon education stakeholders, for now, to look at the timetable afresh,” Magoha said. Magoha said that the KCPE results will be announced in two weeks as preparation for marking them is at a very advanced stage. He said the examinations have not been leaked as the government has made sure of inspecting each container every morning before disbursing the exams. “We arrested the key mastermind in Rusinga and therefore we have disrupted the rogue nature of people who had started exposing exams before time,” Magoha said. He said that with the examinations coming to an end next week on Wednesday there have not been any major issues in dealing with the over 752,000 candidates sitting for exams apart from those who got pregnant. “Exams have been delivered to the female candidates who were pregnant or were on delivery and we have not had any major issue so far,” Magoha said. He however said that despite the heavy rains that have set in the government has planned to deal with the delivery of examination materials on time so that the remaining subjects shall be taken as scheduled.