The government has been asked to explain why it authorised the Russian-manufactured Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V for emergency use. Nominated Petronilla Were said the government should also provide details on the safety of the vaccine. She spoke while seeking a statement from the Senate Health Committee on Friday. She also asked for details of the effects of the Sputnik V vaccine at the global, regional and local levels. The British Medical Journal has reported Sputnik V to be safe and effective, even implying it is safer than AstraZeneca, which Kenya is using. There is no indication Sputnik V is in any way inferior to AstraZeneca and other vaccines. Some scientists have suggested Sputnik V be administered as a second dose after AstraZeneca. Interim results of almost 15,000 participants, and 5,000 more in a placebo group, indicate Sputnik V is 91.6 per cent effective, based on its ability to prevent symptomatic infection. Were said, “The government should explain the processes the Pharmacy and Poisons Board used to grant emergency use authorisation of the Russian-manufactured Sputnik Covid-19 vaccine in Kenya through a private entity." The government has since banned the importation and administration of the vaccine. Were demanded details of the efficacy of the vaccine and also wants Kenyans told if there are other vaccines awaiting registration or authorisation by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. “The government should outline the standard operating procedures, protocols and guidelines that are followed prior to the registration and or authorisation for use of health products,” she said. On Friday, the Ministry of Health banned the importation, distribution and administration of Covid-19 vaccines by private enterprises. It followed the publicity received by Sputnik V which was rolled out in the country last week. Deputy President William Ruto and other influential people opted for the Russian vaccine. The government is administering the AstraZeneca vaccines acquired through the global Covax facility. Covax is a global initiative aimed at working with vaccine manufacturers to provide countries worldwide equitable access to safe and effective vaccines, once they are licensed and approved. The ministry said licenses issued to private companies that imported or were distributing Sputnik had been revoked. The Pharmacy and Poisons Board had confirmed approving the vaccine, but for emergency use only, saying marketing approval had not been issued. (Edited by V. Graham) 