Golf Park pro David Wakhu could land three invites to the European Tour following his surprise 7 under during the inaugural Kenya Savannah Classic. Wakhu (66, 68, 74,69: T57) was the sole Kenyan to make the cut in Savannah Classic, where he racked up a tournament total of 277 gross with17 birdies and an eagle. It was Wakhu’s career best both on the European and Challenge Tours, where he has played in two and three tournaments respectively. In the meantime, Wakhu looks to get back to his daily grind once the government relaxes Covid-19 lock-down measures. “After the tournament in Nairobi, there was no guarantee of automatic qualification to European Tour events. "But officials from the Tour promised they would consider my case in at least three events when slots become available. So it’s a wait and see situation,” Wakhu, who has over the past three years ranked amongst the best pros in Kenya, said. With tough Covid-19 protocols in place, Wakhu is among the many players who have taken advantage of the situation, training on their own. He wants to remain in the best possible shape just in case invites come through. “At the moment, I am just doing gym work and fitness at home hoping sports will reopen soon. "We should then get back to what we do best on a daily basis once sports re-open. Should the invite come to fruition, I expect my sponsors will work on the logistical facet on the same. "It’s a chance of a lifetime. I will have played in five European Tour events after two back-to-back events in Karen. "As Kenyans, we hardly get such opportunities and when they present themselves, then you accept with the much needed gratitude,” he said. He added: “This is one of the opportunities I have been waiting for. I now need to work on my swing and mental game. In the meantime, I want to keep my body in shape. At least the two events gave me an opportunity to brush shoulders with top Tour professionals. Going forward, I want to work on how to handle pressure at the big stage." Wakhu also hopes to be part and parcel of the “Race to Dubai” which is a season-long competition to crown European Tour’s Number One player. The list of champions since 2009 reads like a who’s who of modern-era greats, including three-time winner Rory McIlroy and Henrik Stenson with two titles as well as Tommy Fleetwood, Martin Kaymer, Luke Donald, Lee Westwood and most recently Francesco Molinari. 