Police in Kisumu have launched a manhunt for six security guards of Maasai origin from Narok county over theft of Sh2.7 million at Abbysinia Iron and Steel Limited. The suspects allegedly broke into the office of the company's General manager Naresh Sotar and stole the money from a safe on Monday. Kisumu county police commander Samuel Anampiu said the incident is suspected to have occurred early in the morning when it was drizzling. The company which is situated along Kisumu-Kibos road in Kolwa East, Kisumu East Subcounty is usually guarded by the six guards. The suspects include Malioji Ole Nkoitiko (33), Parsele Ole Nyokuni (44), Tirishe Ole Nkarabali (43), Nyayo Ole Napaes (40), Letasuna Legus (23), and Leeso Ole Taki (20). The incident, he said, was reported by Ian Mutinda, the human resource manager at the company during routine progress checks after he realised that Sotar's office had been broken into while at the first floor of the administration block office. Anampiu said Mutinda discovered that the office of the general manager had been broken into and a safe, make Godrej which was containing Sh2.7 million was dragged outside and thrown over the balcony down where it was found broken into and the said amount missing. The money was collected from the sales during the Easter holidays according to the police report. The county police boss said the guards are missing from their residence and suspected to be involved in the incident. "Their phones are switched off. They are all said to have reported on duty on Tuesday at 6pm. Efforts to track and arrest them on course," Anampiu said. He added that no arrest or recovery made so far. The scene was visited by OCS Kasagam, DCIO, and the crime scene support team. In a separate incident, police have arrested two suspects and recovered narcotic drugs within Obunga estate, Nyawita  area. The suspects driver Mathew Kiprono (42) and co-driver Sebastian Kigen (26) were arrested on Monday at 11.30am and in custody. Anampiu said the bhang was discovered in a white Toyota probox KCZ 860W by officers who were on patrol. They will be taken to court today (Tuesday). "The officers stopped the driver but declined to stop. They chased the said motor vehicle using a motorcycle and  reaching next to Kisumu-Kakamega road at Sega Sega area, they found the vehicle hidden at a rough road," he said. Upon searching the vehicle, the officers found bhang hidden between 11 bags of charcoal. A total of 18 stones and tolls of cannabis were recovered packed in a white sack labelled TSS Grain Millers Limited.