Traders at Nairobi’s Uhuru Market have called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to prevent a private developer from occupying the land. Led by Maringo MCA Mark Ndung’u, the traders said they have operated at the open-air market for more than 30 years “and the alleged acquisition of the land by the private developer reeks of the highest form of corruption”. Last month, more than 4,000 traders counted losses after their market stalls were demolished during curfew hours. According to the traders, the demolitions were executed after the private developer allegedly acquired the ownership of the land. MCA Ndung’u questioned why the developer violated the Covid-19 protocols by carrying out demolitions at night. "Why was the operation carried out at night and where did the police officers who supervised the demolition come from?" he posed. Located along Jogoo Road, Uhuru Market is occupied by at least 6,000 traders. It has 324 stalls. Overall, 64 per cent of dealers engage in textile production, with uniform production taking the lion share of 36.1 per cent. Sixty-two per cent of the traders are women while 38 per cent are men. Despite the market existing for decades, it lacks a perimeter wall, floodlights, parking area and a sewerage system. Last year in August, the traders vowed not to move out of the market after they were served notice by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. The traders were given two months to relocate from the market to leave to allow for rehabilitation of the facility. This was after the NMS embarked on the rehabilitation work of eight markets, Uhuru Market included. The others are Jericho, Wakulima, Landhies Road, Kariobangi South, Kayole Spine Road, Embakasi and Muthurwa. NMS Director General Mohammed Badi last month revealed that the markets will have different upgrade works. “NMS will upgrade the markets to modern ones and improve on ablution facilities,” he said. Markets with asbestos roofs will be removed and replaced with others. Perimeter walls and security lighting will be installed. It is expected that construction works will be completed next month. 