Lake Basin Development Authority is implementing multi-million shillings  solar irrigation project aimed at putting 60 acres of its land under irrigation. The project is expected to be commissioned soon in the three Integrated Technology Transfer Centres in Nyanza and Western regions,  seeks to boost food production. LBDA managing director Raymond Omolo said the project is being implemented in Muhoroni, Lichota and Alupe at a cost of Sh116 million. The MD said the  solar irrigation project is fully funded by the government. He said irrigation using solar energy can sustain farming and will contribute to improving the nation’s food security in line with the sustainable development goals. "The projects by extension will be  contributing towards attainment of the governments Big Four Agenda on Food Security," he said The MD noted that LBDA envisages to utilise the farms as demonstrations, and training centres for small scale solar powered farming dubbed Smart Farming Technology. "The surrounding communities and interested stakeholders will have their capacities  enhanced thus contribute towards the realisation of food security  and create resilient communities," he said. Omolo disclosed that  phase one  of the projects is ongoing and the completion rate is averagely at 82 per cent. "Part of the works are currently ongoing at an accelerated pace with most of the project components having achieved practical completion awaiting testing and commissioning," he said. The project components being implemented at the three sites at Alupe, Muhoroni and Lichota demonstration  farms are similar in nature. They involve drilling and equipping of two boreholes in each site, solar installation works, erection of steel tower and elevation of eight 24 meter cubic  PVC Water Tanks. Others  include  irrigation installation work and land preparation,  construction of a farm house and installation of chain- link fencing works. "Most of the works  have achieved practical completion while installation of tanks is yet to be completed due to non-performance of the contracts," he said. The authority has therefore undertaken termination of the contracts as per the contract provisions and initiated procurement of service providers through state department of public works. "Currently, three  technical staff from public works are engaged in the project to backstop LBDA technical team at consultancy level," he said. Their involvement according to the MD has been from design, tendering, management and implementation of the project. He further noted that the authority is currently undertaking partial implementation of phase 2 of the project with utmost importance being given to the security of the project sites pertaining project boundaries. "We  intends to undertake expansion of the solar irrigation project in the  2020/2021 financial year  in the ongoing sites as well as encompass another site at  Sang’alo ITTC Farm," he said. The expansion phase is geared to cover an additional 200 acres of land and employ overhead solar powered sprinkler technologies. LBDA hopes that  operation of the whole project at full capacity will propel it  into a sustainability path through generation of income from agricultural produce. However, the project has suffered a number of challenges which have led to delayed completion timelines as initially projected at eight months. Heavy rainfall, especially during the months of December to January rendered the sites inaccessible hence the pace of work implementation decreased. He said government restrictions on cessation of movement after the outbreak of the Coronavirus  also led to derailment in movement of personnel thus slowing the pace of implementation. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara