Ikolomani member of parliament Hon. Benard Shinali has urged other like-minded lawmakers to work together and come up with bills that can cushion former stars from living miserably after retiring from sports. “We have seen many former sports stars-especially footballers-suffering and losing lives in a sorry state after they retire. Coming up with a bill that will cushion them and give them security in retirement will be a major reprieve to them” Shinali said. The legislator decried the rising number of pre-mature deaths and other social and mental sufferings that former players are going through across the country. Speaking in Malinya village in Ikolomani constituency, Kakamega County during the burial of former Afc Leopards and Gor Mahia striker, Sabastian Andulu, the MP called upon both levels of governments to consider putting in place laws that will cushion the former stars who played at the national level. “It’s very discouraging to see our star Andulu, who did great work in the football industry by nurturing talented youths, lose life in unclear circumstances as he struggled to make ends meet. “Andulu has remained a motivating factor to many youths who idolized him when he used to play for AFC Leopards before having a short stint with Gor Mahia. Besides this, he was very instrumental in planning the Ikolomani CDF soccer tournament. We have lost a hero whose gap won’t be filled any soon,” mourned Shinali. “Andulu commonly referred to as ‘Sebby’ was one of the greatest stars from this region who played with a lot of passion and assisted his teams to win many titles. This prompted many scouts from big teams in the country to focus in this area where we have seen many stars joining clubs featuring in the top flight leagues,” he concluded. AFC Leopards chairman,  Dan Shikanda urged the county government of Kakamega to support the family of the former soccer star, terming his untimely demise as a big blow to the football fraternity. He urged other leaders to support Hon. Shinali in fast-tracking constituting of laws that will cushion former players against harsh financial crunch. Sabastian Andulu who was a star in the late eighties to early nineties has left behind a wife and four children after he was found dead in his house after a short illness. 