Judiciary officers may have siphoned Sh9.3 million from the Milimani law courts’ registry through receipting of fees using parallel and fake receipts. The incidents at the Environment and Land court were flagged in a review of the institution’s books for the financial year ending June 2018. An audit revealed that the monies were neither reflected in bank statements, cash book or counter receipt book registers maintained at the court. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations had in 2018 summoned staffers involved in handling receipts – on request of the Judiciary, but the trial has gone cold. The incident is among dozens of others that put Chief Registrar Anne Amadi’s administration on the spot, amid inaction to recover the stolen funds. National Assembly’s Public Accounts Committee, in a report, observed that the responsible officers are yet to be punished. The Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi-led team said the registrar has neither reported nor instituted any civil proceedings against the officers. The committee has raised concerns that the individual personally liable for the fraudulent action may escape. PAC is further alarmed that the practice could be going on unabated in various courts across the country as revenue leakages remain. Auditors could not also verify revenue amounting to Sh183 million for lack of daily cash analysis to support receipt of fees and fines from July 2017 to March 2018. MPs said the failure was an offence of financial misconduct punishable by a fine and up to five years in jail, marking the matter as unresolved. They want the DCI to conduct investigations and report the findings to Parliament. Lawmakers have also cited Amadi for dereliction of duty and exposure of public assets to fraud for failing to maintain a fixed assets register. Only an inventory listing of assets without values was provided for audit review, without a summary of the register as required. The auditor general said it was not possible to confirm the ownership, existence, location, safety, valuation of the Judiciary’s fixed assets as of June 2018. The register that was provided later had no serial number or title deeds of the fixed assets, hence inconclusive. Construction of 39 law courts across the country at a contract sum of Sh3.5 billion is also queried amid reports the Judiciary denied the Auditor General access to the documents certifying the works as well as payment schedules. “No statement was provided underlying justification for initiating construction of 39 courts across the country,” PAC said, marking the matter as unresolved. The Public Audit Act, 2015, gives the Auditor-General powers of unrestricted access to all documents held by state entities. A query on the expenditure of Sh876 million in transfers to tribunals is also yet to be resolved even as MPs say the failure is an offence of financial misconduct. Judiciary cited an error by the National Treasury during the transfer of the tribunals’ budget in the financial year 2015-16. “The budget was thus spent from the Judiciary’s headquarters. Therefore, the expenditures incurred by the tribunals were a proper charge on the public funds.” MPs said there was a problem as the expenditure details were availed late for audit review, saying the failure was a violation of the PFM Act, 2012. Also flagged are inaccuracies in revenue statements as well as unexplained refunds of Sh5.6 million which were not provided to the auditors for verification. PAC said there was a breach of law in the accounting officer’s failure to ensure that the Judiciary prepares accurate and complete revenue statements. MPs further cited the failure to provide expenditure details for the list of cases appealed successfully and fines refunded. “This offence of financial misconduct and is punishable by a fine of up to Sh10 million and or a jail term of up to five years,” the PAC said. Queries on unreceipted transactions at the Eldoret Law Court as well as unsupported Sh13 million fines at Mavoko law court remain. “The accounting officer failed to provide receipts and accurate, complete and reconciled revenue statements for audit verification,” PAC said. The accounting officer did not account for Sh84 million revenues transferred from respective court station bank accounts to head office’s accounts. A financial management system installed by the judiciary has also been flagged for lack of audit trail and mechanism of feeding details of transactions on IFMIS. Damning queries were raised in the construction and renovation of 28 law courts at Sh6.9 billion. Taxpayers may spend more after five contractors signed contract agreements with invalid performance security bonds – following the collapse of Chase Bank. Auditors also cited trouble with delayed completion of the projects which management attributed to delayed exchequer releases. Judiciary officers were also irregularly reimbursed Sh10.7 million as out-of-pocket expenses during the campaign to reduce Appeals court backlog.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris