Nairobi motorists were on Saturday night stranded as police blocked major roads over curfew time. The motorists were stuck on roads along Thika road for hours with some blaring their horns and insulting authorities over the roadblocks. In Nairobi and other infected zones, the curfew time is 8pm. By this time, many Nairobians were still on the road. Demonstrating how frustrated they were over the roadblocks, the motorists were seen shouting while others were busy taking pictures and protesting on Twitter. But the government has defended its move saying that all Kenyans must follow the measures. "It is important that, as a people, we continue to observe the Covid-19 infection control and containment measures, if we are to quickly flatten the infection curve and have our lives get back to normal," spokesman Cyrus Oguna said. "Observing these measures include strictly respecting the curfew time which starts at 8pm for the One Zone and 10pm for the rest of the country. Let this be a collective responsibility. We wish everyone a blessed Sunday." As midnight approached, some roads were yet to be opened up for curfew. The officers told the affected Motorists to spend their nights on the roads until 4am. "This are orders from above. Call IG," an OCPD was heard telling a motorist. Police mounted roadblocks to implement the curfew orders affecting tens of motorists who were on major highways and roads. GSU personnel were spotted on some of the roadblocks implementing the curfew orders. Some roads only opened up at around 1am when some Kenyans took action to free themselves. “We have managed to push some vehicles and park them on the sides of the road, “ a motorist was heard saying while laughing. Some people were seen boarding boda boda while others started walking. The night curfew across the country will continue until May 29. In a revised Gazette Noticed dated April 12, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the curfew will start from 8pm and end at 4am. “This order shall apply during the hours of darkness between eight o’clock in the evening and four o’clock in the morning with effect from March 29, 2021 and shall remain in effect for a period of sixty days thereof,” he said. However, the curfew will start at 10pm and end at 4am in counties outside the lockdown zone of Nairobi, Kiambu, Nakuru, Kajiado and Machakos. The five counties were put under lockdown on March 29 when President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered a cessation of movement in and out of the zone. He declared the areas a Covid-19 disease-infected zone.