As Muslims begin the holy month of Ramadhan, many have complained of high food prices. They said most families are unable to afford a decent meal. Mariam Juma, a mother of five, said the 30 days of fasting and praying will be different this year as most families cannot afford meals for breaking the fast. Juma, who was shopping at Mackinon market, said she had been forced to cut down her budget as she lacked enough money for all she needed. “I had come to do some shopping for items that we will cook for breaking the fast but I have to go home with fewer items as everything is very expensive,” she said. Juma said her family will be forced to change how they break the fast. It is customary for Muslim families to break the fast with snacks and soft drinks while in the company of their neighbours and friends. But Juma said with the current economy, it will be difficult to practise that tradition. She said last year they received food aid from the county government, Red Cross and Mombasa Cement. “I hope Governor Hassan Joho plans to give us some aid. We need a helping hand,” Juma said. At the moment, a 2kg packet of maize flour costs Sh128 while wheat flour costs Sh120. The cheapest rice goes for Sh100 per kilogramme. Mahmoud Omar, a businessman at the market, blamed the high food prices on the rising cost of fuel. “In the past years most people would have done part of their Ramadhan shopping by now and we would be counting our profits. But this time round people have cut down on how much they spend on food while the majority have not bought anything,” he said The restrictions set to slow the spread of Covid-19 have driven the economy to its knees, with many losing their livelihoods. Last week, a charitable organisation announced a Sh110 million food distribution for needy families during Ramadhan. Jaffar Foundation said it will distribute at least 20,000 bags of food to 20,000 extremely needy families across the country. “One bag contains enough food to last a modest family a month,” said Yusuf Jiwa, the foundation’s CEO. -Edited by SKanyara