The High Court has issued orders stopping blogger Robert Alai from publishing any defamatory words against Mediheal Hospital and Fertility Centre Limited. Justice Msagha Mbogholi granted the order after the hospital argued that Alai has lately gone on a spree of spreading false information about it, alleging that they are being used to conduct illegal trafficking of human organs. Msagha certified the case as urgent and directed that Alai be served with the papers ahead of the hearing of the case on April 22. Court documents indicate that the allegations by Alai are severely denting the image of the hospital locally and internationally. This has led to panic among current and potential patients, investors, partners, financiers and donors, resulting in the loss of business and opportunities, hence hurting the hospital irreparably, they read. “Unless a restraining order is issued, Alai will continue to spread malicious falsehoods about the hospital leading to economic loss, and a dented image which for a hospital is quite critical,” the papers read. The Mediheal Hospital and Fertility Centre Limited was established by Dr Swarup Mishra in Kenya, Rwanda and Ethiopia. Mishra is currently its chairman and the MP for Kesses constituency in Uasin Gishu county. In an affidavit,  Mishra says Alai was deliberate, reckless and negligent in publishing the offending posts. Through lawyer Guandaru Thuita, Mishra indicates that Alai is relentlessly engaged in the act of maliciously publishing through his social media accounts information regarding it, accusing the hospital and its senior management of engaging in human organ trafficking and smuggling, as well as oppression of employees. Mishar says the statements by Alai are false, malicious, reckless and have subjected them to numerous calls and concerns regarding the accusations. “Alai published the said defamatory posts in a sensational manner so as to garner more followers on his social media sites and thus profit economically from the ensuing hospitals public embarrassment,” he alleges. “As a result of the publication of the said offending posts and tweets, our reputation as an honest business entity has been brought to a ruin and has suffered and continue to suffer loss and damage.” Edited by Henry Makori