The woes facing Siaya county assembly clerk Felix Olwero seem far from over. Hours after a Kisumu labour court quashed the decision by Siaya MCAs to remove him from office, the county assembly service board slapped him with a three-month interdiction. The board had in 2019 suspended Olwero over claims of gross misconduct. The assembly suspended the clerk to pave the way for investigations over an alleged withdrawal of Sh2.9 million from the car loan and mortgage fund on September 1, 2015. Aggrieved by the decision, Olwero moved to court and filed a suit at the Environment and Labour Relations Court in Kisumu. He faulted the manner in which the county assembly suspended him. But on Wednesday afternoon, Olwero was relieved after Justice Stephen Radido quashed the decision by the assembly to suspend him. The court directed that Olwero resume his duties in his capacity as the clerk. Moments after the judgment was delivered, Olwero told the Star that he was ready to resume work. “The judgment is a huge relief for me and I pledge to be faithful to the board and do my work diligently in service to the members of the assembly and the great people of Siaya as I have always done for the last five years as the clerk," he said. But as Olwero was celebrating his win, the county assembly service board, chaired by speaker George Okode quickly convened a meeting and resolved to interdict him for three months. The letter of interdiction dated April 14 was signed by the speaker. According to the board, the case being that of public law in nature, did not delve into the merits or otherwise, the conduct, inequities and culpability of the allegations levelled against the clerk. "The decision of the court was thus a public law remedy that doesn't prohibit the board from proceeding with fresh disciplinary procedures against you in accordance with the law," the letter states. Olwero was directed by the board to respond in writing within 21 days to defend himself over the allegations. He is expected to appear before a disciplinary committee of the board on a date to be communicated to him before the expiry of the three months of interdiction. Edited by A.N