Parents in Turkana want birthday parties and photoshoot sessions banned, claiming they are fuelling teenage pregnancies. They said teenagers have been loitering from dawn to dusk and attending birthday parties and photoshoots organised by their colleagues since schools were closed last month. Peter Aremons is among the parents calling for the government's intervention. The Lodwar Fresh Produce Market chairman said such activities should not be allowed during the pandemic because "when girls and boys meet freely without any restrictions, then we expect the rate of pregnancies to rise." “It’s my appeal to the government to act very fast and ban birthday parties and photoshoot activities that are encouraging teenage pregnancies in Turkana," he said. "I don’t know where they get money to organise such activities but I’m convinced girls solicit money from their boyfriends to enable them print t-shirts for the birthday parties and to pay for photoshoots.” He urged parents to ensure they monitor their children. And if they have to organise parties and or photoshoots, they should be done at home in the presence of their parents. Samuel Ekuwom said such activities are done on a daily basis on the streets of Lodwar town and its environs. A recent report by the Ministry of Health showed at least 4,000 underage schoolchildren fell pregnant last year when schools were closed due to Covid-19. Turkana leaders led by Woman Representative Joyce Emanikor and other stakeholders faulted cultural practices that encourage teenage pregnancies. Emanikor said Turkana still holds on to cultural practices that allow forced and early marriages, contributing to teenage pregnancies. She said there are many unreported cases from different areas of the county. “It’s the responsibility of every parent to take care of their children. Children are supposed to stay at home and help their parents. They should not be allowed to do menial jobs in town to earn something because this is the challenge that has contributed to teenage pregnancies in the county,” the MP said. She warned parents against taking cash to settle teenage pregnancy cases out of court. "The future of our children has been battered, we should not take cash to settle the matter. Let the culprits be charged in court,” she said. The lawmaker warned culprits against forging their birth certificates to look like minors. “We are aware of perpetrators behind the teenage pregnancies from wealthy families who are forging the birth certificates for them to look like minors,” Emanikor said. The MP urged area chiefs to be vigilant.