Bungoma MCAs have opposed a plan by the county government to hire village administrators. In an advert in the dailies, the county public service board announced the recruitment of village administrators and cancelled the hiring of ECDE teachers. In a statement to the press, the county assembly said there was no budgetary allocation for hiring village administrators. They said the hiring of ECDE teachers should proceed. “The county assembly of Bungoma takes seriously allegations that some elements at the county executive of Bungoma are hell-bent on disregarding its resolutions, particularly on the hiring of village administrators," the statement reads. Public communications officer Erick Ngobilo said there were no funds allocated in the current financial year for the recruitment of village administrators. "Attempts from some elements in the executive to cancel the recruitment of ECDE teachers and VCT tutors and instead use the funds to hire village administrators are being closely monitored by the county assembly,” Ngobilo said. He said shortlisting for the positions of ECDE teachers and VTC tutors had already been done and interview dates set. “The county assembly will stop at nothing to ensure the process proceeds to its logical conclusion,” he said. Ngolibo said only the county assembly has the power to appropriate funds and re-appropriate the same through supplementary budgets in emergency and unforeseen situations. Bungoma county public administration executive Richard Sabwami said the hiring of village administrators was factored into the budget. He said it was wrong to transfer money meant for ECDE teachers to hire village administrators. “We had allocated Sh29 million in the supplementary budget to hire village administrators, but unfortunately the assembly declined to approve," Sabwami told the Star on the phone. He, however, noted that the process of hiring village administrators should not be stopped. “We are proceeding with other processes as we wait for an allocation in the next financial year,” he said.  