Kenya international centre back Joash Onyango has challenged the management of Kenyan champions Gor Mahia to improve their administrative structures if they hope to attain the heights of Simba SC of Tanzania. The tough-tackling centre back, nicknamed the ‘Berlin Wall’ by Gor faithful inked a two-year deal with Wekundu wa Msimbazi in August and swept fans off their feet right from his maiden fixture. Onyango pointed out on a Facebook talk show ‘Tuchapiane’ that the sides had contrasting management styles which informed the huge difference. “What I can say is that the two clubs are managed in different styles. I hope they will forgive me for saying this. “There are certain individuals at the club who have been given leadership positions but are not doing what is expected of them. If you are the chief executive officer, you ought to do your job properly and if you are the chairman you ought to do your job properly. “The situation is so different at Simba. Here, they cannot ask you to achieve a task without providing the appropriate environment. Prior to his departure, Onyango had made it clear with Gor that he was not going to pen a new deal due to non-payment of salary arrears. He made a firm resolve to move on after the club failed to offset the debt. “The coach always gets the right kind of support from the Simba management and hardly will you hear the technical bench complaining about their requests being ignored,” said Onyango. Onyango believes  Tanzanians are more passionate about their league and teams than Kenyans and goes on to draw comparisons between Mashemeji and Kariokor derbies. “The difference between the two derbies is in the commitment of the fans. I realised that whenever Leopards lost in the Mashemeji Derby continuously, there was a gradual downturn in the number of fans attending their subsequent matches. “In Tanzania, fans are entirely ecstatic about a derby and each of them try as much as they can to attend the match regardless of where they are. “Sometimes the stadium is so filled up to an extent a special screen is set for those who cannot find seats in the stands. You can easily feel the passion Tanzanian fans have for their teams. “I wish to appreciate all the Kenyan football fans who cast votes in my favour when I was feted Simba Player of the Month for March . Honestly, I didn't see the award coming given defenders rarely bag man of the match awards. “Many people asked me to send them the link so that they could rally behind me and there are those who also called to assure me I would bag the award. “Initially, goalkeeper Aisha Manula had taken an early lead but then everything suddenly turned out in my favour as Kenyans swarmed the link to vote.