The High Court has ordered that a woman and her two sons who were abandoned by her husband after he left for America have a right to inherit his property. Meru-based High Court judge Thripsisa Cherere also ordered that the man’s second wife and his son should equally share his property. Mungiria Silas Muriithi died in June 2011 while in the US where he had remarried Mary Nkirote and the two had one child, Kennedy Muriuki. Before he moved to the US, he was married to Margaret Nabea between 1987 and 1992 and they got two children, Audrey Gatwiri and Clinton Kithinji In a case filed in 2015, Nabea and Muriithi’s brother, both left to administer the estates, proposed that the deceased’s wealth be distributed wholly to the exclusion of Nkirote and her son. Subsequently, two of Muriithi’s sisters filed a case in 2017 to protest the exclusion. Nabea said she was married to the deceased under customary law and that there was no intention to disinherit Nkirote and her son but that they were not available to participate in the cause. She, however, disputed claims by Nkirote that it was her (Nkirote) who was paying for an ongoing construction of a residential house in one of Muriithi’s lands. She further alleged that the deceased had assets in America that have not been disclosed and questioned the legal standing of the sisters in representing the second wife. Justice Cherere said even though there was no evidence to prove the ingredients of marriage under Ameru customary law between the deceased and the first wife, the matter does not end there. “In such circumstances, this court must endeavour to consider whether the prevailing circumstances of the case when taken into consideration can be a basis of presuming a marriage,” the judge said. She continued, “The deceased married and cohabited with Nabea for years, begot two children with her, abandoned her and her children in Kenya and relocated to America and did not return home alive, having died there”. The judge said that for that reason "it would offend all notions of justice if the court was to cast away Nabea." “From the facts of this case, I have come to the conclusion that Nabea is a wife of the deceased and hence a beneficiary of her deceased husband’s estate,” Cherere ruled. Concerning Nkirote, the judge said there’s evidence in the form of a marriage licence to demonstrate that she married the deceased in August 2009. “She’s, therefore, a wife and therefore a beneficiary of her deceased husband’s estate,” the court ruled. The judge ordered that the two widows and their children have equal claim on the deceased’s property.  Edited by Henry Makori