Shujaa and Lionesses have been received an invite for the final Olympic warm-up tournament slated for Los Angeles on June 25-27 The event  will act as final build-up event for most teams ahead of the Olympic Games in Tokyo in July. Meanwhile, due to the increased Covid-19 risks and restrictions implemented in France, Paris Sevens, originally scheduled for May, has been postponed. The event was to serve as the first round of the 2021 women’s HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series. Both Shujaa and Lionesses played in the Madrid Sevens and are currently in Dubai for the Emirates Invitational tournament with the second tournament slated to start tomorrow. On completion of the Olympics, the series will commence with a men’s event in Singapore on October 29-30, followed by joint men’s and women’s rounds in Hong Kong (November 5-7, Dubai (December 3-4) before an exciting climax in Cape Town on December 10-12. According to World Rugby chief executive officer, Alan Gilpin, detailed discussions are in progress with London and Vancouver on the viability of hosting men’s events in the window following the Olympic Games. Prior to the Singapore Sevens in October, Gilpin said further updates on the schedule will be made available. Elsewhere, Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu will be hoping his charges can improve on intensity and execution in the second leg of the Emirates Invitational Dubai tournament starting tomorrow. Shujaa finished third last weekend in error-ridden performance and Simiyu hopes  his side can minimise the errors this time round. Shujaa will open their campaign against Uganda in their Pool “Blue” at 11.09am on Friday before meeting Canada at 3.14pm. They will wrap up against Spain at 5.45pm. Argentina, Japan, Chile and France are in Pool “Red.” In the preliminaries played last week, Kenya beat Chile 39-7, drew with France 19-19 and lost to Spain 15-14. In the quarterfinals, Shujaa edged out Canada 21-19 before losing to France 17-5.  They bounced back in the third place playoff to beat Japan 31-14.