NYS servicemen and top officials have been barred from participating in politics or being part of groupings that bear a political character. In new rules, the members of the service have also been blocked from being members of any association or society promoting a cause. The National Youth Service (Limitation of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms) Regulations, 2020, provide exceptions to organisations whose activities are exclusively professional, sporting, recreational, educational, artistic or social. Members of the service will, however, be free to register as a voter and will be allowed to take part in a vote by secret ballot in any election or referendum. “If there is any doubt as to whether an organisation a member joins is of a political character, the matter shall be referred to the director-general for determination,” the new rules read. NYS members have also been barred from engaging in any trade, business or being employed in jobs outside the scope of their duties. This would be if the trade, business or employment results in a conflict of interest with the performance of the member's duties. “A member of the service who intends to engage in any form of employment or business may apply to the director general for an approval,” the rules read. NYS members are also barred from picketing, joining or forming a trade union or association affiliated with a trade union whose objective is to control or influence conditions of employment in the service. Public Service, Youth and Gender Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia said the regulations she has forwarded to Parliament for approval are part of the wider transformational agenda of the NYS. She said the aim of the stringent regulations is to instil discipline among members of the service as is practised by the country’s other security agencies. “We are keen on making the NYS better and a lot of progress has been made to that effect. The new rules will help strengthen our systems,” the Cabinet Secretary said. NYS supports the country’s development and has been instrumental in the ongoing infrastructure upgrades notably the upgrade of the Naivasha-Nakuru-Kisumu meter-gauge railway among other works. The NYS is also responsible for the stitching of uniforms for all the country's disciplined services. The servicemen will also be barred from access to and disclosure of information held by the service if found to undermine the national security or interests of Kenya. Access will also be limited where information impedes the due process of law, endangers the safety, health or life of any person; or involves an unwarranted invasion of the right of another member of the service. At the same time, families of departed NYS servicemen will not be allowed to keep their uniforms while those serving will be required to return uniforms that cannot be refurbished due to tear and wear. The National Youth Service (Disposal of Uniforms and Decorations) Regulations, 2020 defines uniforms as clothing, badges of rank, insignia, medals and accessories issued to members of service. “All uniforms issued to any officer shall remain the property of the service. Upon termination, resignation, death or retirement, all officers or their appointed next of kin shall return the uniforms issued by the service to their respective unit commanders.” Edited by Henry Makori