Coast's political unity talks have been stalled by the third Covid-19 wave but are on course, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said. Joho refuted speculation that his meetings with Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi, Kwale’s Salim Mvurya and President Uhuru Kenyatta were an attempt to have them drop the unity bid. “We had already started the journey but we agreed that because of the Covid-19 situation, we had to halt our agenda briefly,” said Joho. The governor said he was supposed to be in Kwale on March 17 to start another round of talks with political leaders over Coast unity. From Kwale, he was to go to Wajir, and then to Maasai land. “We have halted our meetings only because of Covid. Rest assured, if it were not for the pandemic, the team was growing bigger,” he said. Joho spoke at Jomvu MP Badi Twalib’s home in Miritini where he was hosted for Iftar on Sunday. The governor said more leaders have expressed interest in joining the bandwagon and soon, there will be a formidable team not only from the Coast region, but other parts of the country, marching in the same direction. Twalib said the search for unity is progressing well and soon, there will be a tangible report on the progress. “It is not for me or for Joho to speak about what we have so far discussed because this will be our personal opinion. “If we are to speak, we will speak as a region after the talks in an official statement,” said Twalib. On Ramadhan, Joho said it is time for the faithful  to reflect on their selves and rediscover who they are and what their mission on earth is. “Humanity knows no boundaries. It is time to look out for each other,” said the governor. Twalib called on the government to ensure that the less fortunate in the society get food during this pandemic period. “The government can through special programmes help the poor, not only Muslims but any person who is unable to feed themselves, during this month of Ramadhan,” said the MP. Joho lauded Twalib for coming out to declare he had contracted Covid-19, adding that leaders should take cue for the Jomvu MP. He said there are many leaders who have contracted the virus but are afraid to come out. “They see it as a thing to be ashamed of, which is wrong,” he said. The governor said being Covid-19 positive is not a death sentence. “Badi is now healthy. The best thing to do is to learn from it and protect others,” Joho said. -Edited by SKanyara