Uasin Gishu governor Jackson Mandago believes the postponement of the Eldoret City Marathon, earlier slated for April 11, provides more time for interested participants to register for the race. Before the race was postponed due to last Friday's tough coronavirus measures, the event director Moses Tanui had warned that the registration deadline would not be extended beyond April 6. "Those who had registered for the marathon, I want to assure them their registration is still intact. For those yet to register, the opportunity to do so remains open until when we announce a new date for the marathon at which point we shall close the registration," Mandago said. The governor encouraged athletes not to lose heart, promising that the organisers and the county government will review the Covid situation in the county and countrywide before setting a new date for the annual event. "The race has not been totally cancelled rather we are going to hold it as soon as the protocols are reviewed. We sincerely thank our sponsors who have already come on board and I want to assure them that we are soldiering on to have this marathon once the Covid-19 situation is bearable,” Mandago, also the race's patron, said. The race was postponed for the second consecutive year following a spike in coronavirus infection rates in Kenya, which prompted President Uhuru Kenyatta to suspend all sporting activities locally — among other stringent measures to handle the third wave. Race director, Moses Tanui, was gutted about the postponement of the event, saying he was looking forward to a world-class, international competition. “ I am so disappointed to announce the postponement of this race. This is where I belong and the spirit to give back to the society as a former athlete is being derailed by the coronavirus. Athletes were eager to compete in the race with just 14 days to the extravaganza after a long break due to the pandemic,” the two-time Boston Marathon winner said. He said over 5000 athletes had already registered for the marathon.