Businesspeople in Kwale want the county government to re-introduce tax waivers to cushion them from the Covid-19 shocks. Kenya is currently battling the third wave of coronavirus that has led the national government to impose more stringent measures to curb spread of the virus. Kwale, which largely depends on the tourism sector, is among the hard hit regions, with small scale traders complaining of poor business. Led by Lali Bai, the small scale traders said the partial lockdown of the five counties of Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Nakuru and Kajiado has affected the tourism sector in Kwale. “Our businesses depend on the tourism sector. However, with the travel restrictions imposed on the five counties, there are no tourists coming into the region,” said Bai. He said Diani used to receive a lot of domestic tourists from Nairobi and upcountry during weekends. Hoteliers, tour guides and curio sellers have all been affected. The traders said they are being forced to pay taxes, yet they have lost business. Last year, the Kwale county government gave 90-day waivers on penalties for land and interest rates for single businesses and suspended monthly parking fees for public and private motor vehicles, boda bodas and tuk-tuks. Other measures included suspension of charges for market entry, market stalls and public health outpatient services. Kwale matatus security chief Suleiman Mwachoa said the county government should not have withdrawn the waivers at a time when Covid-19 is still wreaking havoc on the economy. He said the directive on waivers should have remained effective until the pandemic is over. “Business is very low. The only thing that the county government could have done is to exempt us from taxes or charge us half of the normal rates," he said. Mwachoa said the matatu sector is almost paralysed. He said with the eight-passenger rule and increased fuel prices the industry is on its knees and will soon collapse if no interventions are made. A vegetable vendor, Amina Ali, said they have constantly been recording low customers since the pandemic broke. Ali said they barely save as the profits are too little to keep the businesses going. "At this time transport costs are very high. We have to pay market stall charges, eat and do not forget children will soon join Form 1. Where will we get the money?" she posed. In February, the county recorded a loss of Sh90 million in revenue in 2019-20 financial year. Governor Salim Mvurya said a team is already on the ground assessing the damage caused by the Covid-19 third wave on businesses. Edited by Henry Makori