Muslims in the North Rift will dedicate the month of Ramadhan to pray for God's intervention to help end the Covid-19 pandemic that has paralysed all sectors. Muslims Preachers and Imams regional chairman Abubakar Bini said the last year has been very difficult for Kenyans who have suffered severe effects of the pandemic. Bini said many Kenyan families have suffered because of the death of their relatives while others experienced job losses as the pandemic also disrupted education and other development programmes. “As the Muslim community we will dedicate the month to pray for the country and Kenyans especially those who have suffered in various ways as a result of the pandemic”, Bini said. He said, unlike last year when most activities were at a standstill, this time Ramadhan will be celebrated in most counties but with Covid-19 restrictions in place except the five counties which were declared as disease-infested and are partially locked. “In the other counties even the curfew hours will not affect our prayers but we urge all Kenyans to continue adhering to Covid-19 measures‚”  Bini said. The Muslim leaders have however asked President Kenyatta to intervene and help families that are suffering from lack of food. “We urge the President to ensure that we get resources to help the less fortunate among us like the widows, the aged and generally the very poor so that they can also smile during the month on Ramadhan,” Bini said. Imam Mohammed Omar said the Muslim community would fully adhere to the Covid-19 regulations during prayers at all mosques. He said they had sensitised the Muslims on the regulations put in place by the government to fight the disease. “We fully support actions taken by the government to safeguard the lives of Kenyans and during the Holy month of Ramadhan we will pray to God to take away the Covid-19 burden from the world,”  Omar said. The Muslim leaders also urged counties to continue supporting the less fortunate who had been heavily affected following the disruption of most economic activities. He urged well-wishers to also use the month to give to the less fortunate.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris