Auditor-General Nancy Gathungu in her annual audit reports on counties has questioned some stalled projects in North Rift as residents fear they may never be completed. The stalled projects have resulted in wastage of more than Sh3 billion that would have been used to boost devolution in the region. One of the main projects that remains incomplete for more than six years is the Trans Nzoia County Teaching and Referral Hospital which was to be completed by end of 2016 but stalled with about 30 per cent of the work done. The hospital, one of Governor Patrick Khaemba’s flagship projects was to be put up at a cost of about Sh1.2 billion but it has been dogged by graft controversies right from its initiation. To date, it’s subject to EACC investigations and MCAs in the county have refused to approve funding for its completion due to the corruption claims. “We know this hospital project would have been very useful if it was completed but it's regrettable that corruption caused it to stall. This amounts to wastage of our resources,” a community leader in Kitale town said. Khaemba has severally promised completion of the project and as his term nears completion, there is little hope that it will be done. In Nandi, the auditor general also queried the stalled construction of the Nandi County government headquarters which started in 2013. It was to be completed at a cost of  Sh103 million but stalled with more than Sh97 million already paid to the contractor who abandoned the site. In the 2018-19 financial year, the county allocated Sh55 million for the project but later reallocated the funds thus abandoning the plan to complete the project that was started by former Governor Cleophas Lagat. “Nandi residents have thus not received value for money or any benefits from the project,” Gathungu said in her latest audit report. In Elgeyo Marakwet, a plan to construct the governor’s residence at a cost of Sh100 million stalled after residents of Kamariny area went to court arguing that it was located near a water catchment area and on community land next to Kamariny stadium. Governor Alex Tolgos initiated the project during his first term and due to the row, the project stalled completely with the foundation having already been done. West Pokot, Baringo and Samburu also have several projects that have stalled due to various problems ranging from corruption to land disputes in the areas where they are located. In Nandi, Gathungu questioned the inability of the the county government headed by Governor Stephen Sang to complete 491 projects valued at Sh1.3 billion during the 2018/19 financial year. Gathungu says an examination of records indicates that the county government allocated the money for the projects but at the time of the audit only one project had been completed. Another 110 were in progress and 310 had not started. “In view of the unsatisfactory performance in implementation of projects, the residents of Nandi did not obtain any tangible service or value from 491 projects that had been planned for execution during the year.” She said no plausible reason had been given by the county executive for the unsatisfactory performance. Gathungu also queried the delayed completion of 60 ECD centres in the county indicating that Sh114.3 million had been paid for the projects which was almost the same as the total cost although 20 per cent of the work was yet to be done. The auditor says the county had imprudently handled the project supplies and execution of work in a manner that would lead to an overrun of costs. Most of the projects are yet to be completed.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris