Environmentalists and government officials are divided on whether the proposed Malewa dam will threaten Lake Naivasha and communities downstream. Some environmentalists have expressed fear that the diversion of water during the construction of the multi-billion dam would kill the lake. Dutch Ambassador Maarten Brouwer separately met with county and national officials and environmentalists to seek a way forward. Participants in the meetings said there was a need to supply residents with chloride-free water but not at the expense of the lake. Flower farms in the area rely on Lake Naivasha for water. Ambassador Brouwer said the embassy could fund a scientific study on the effects of the proposed Malewa dam on Lake Naivasha and the communities downstream. Lake Naivasha Water Resource Users Association chairman Enock Kiminta said that lack of scientific data had led to the current impasse. Kiminta said the study would shed more light on the effects of the dam on the lake. “We have held a consultative meeting with the Dutch Ambassador over our concern and he says that they are ready to sponsor a study on the effects of the dam,” he said. He said it was not clear how much water the dam would hold and how much would be released to the lake. “The same rivers that are serving Lake Naivasha will be used to fill up the proposed dam and this is one of the concerns we have raised in the past,” he said. David Kihagi, a representative of Lake Naivasha Basin Water Resources Users Association, said that it was not clear who would benefit from the dam. He said the state had assured them that the water would be used in Naivasha and the Industrial Park in Mai Mahiu. “We want to be involved in the environmental audit, get more information about the dam and seek scientific data and studies on water balance in this region,” he said. The Lake Naivasha Fact Sheet produced by the Lake Naivasha Basin Landscape Association projects that the lake could die by 2031 if no proper planning was done. The report suggests that the lake has become shallow due to an increase in siltation while water abstraction was on the rise against a reduced flow. Abel Omanga, the lead consultant in the research, said the lake was currently under pressure from various quarters. With the emergence of the capital projects, demand for water would rise, meaning more pressure on the lake whose water levels currently are on the rise, he said. “The biggest effect on the lake will be the proposed Malewa Dam which will see water diverted from the lake and this will lead to a rise in conflict over the lake resources,” Omanga said. The consultant said that the lake was the only second freshwater body in the region but pollution from neighbouring farms and residential areas was affecting water quality. “There is a need for urgent action to save this lake which is currently under high pressure as demand for water, fish and riparian land rise further,” he said.   (edited by o. owino)