A lawyer has sued seeking to restrain the Parliamentary Service Commission from forwarding names of two nominees by the Law Society of Kenya to the panel tasked with recruiting IEBC commissioners. Also sought by Sheila Murugi Mugo is an order stopping Dorothy Jemator from being a member, sitting or participating in the proposed selection panel. The panel is to be constituted for the purposes of appointing the chair and commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Mugo is challenging the nomination of Jemator to the selection panel, claiming she is not suitable. Mugo is pleading with the court to intervene and resolve the issue, bearing in mind the critical role of IEBC commissioners and the emotive nature of elections in Kenya. “It is imperative that the court intervenes as a matter of urgency as the entire selection process may be subjected to future challenges and elections can also be invalidated in future if it is found that the selection panel was biased in selecting IEBC commissioners,” Mugo said in her affidavit. President Uhuru Kenyatta in a gazette notice dated April 14 declared four vacancies in the IEBC. The law provides that upon the declaration of the vacancy in the office of the chair and commissioners, the President shall appoint a selection panel. The selection panel consists of, among others, a representative of the law society. LSK under the law is required to forward a name of its nominee within seven days after the office is declared vacant. LSK called for applications from its members who might be interested in serving on the selection panel to submit their application by April 20. Through president Nelson Havi, the society then presented the name of Morris Kimuli as nominee to serve on the selection panel. The society again through its CEO submitted the name of Jemator. This meant the two different offices within LSK presented two parallel names. Mugo now says that the Parliamentary Service Commission is in the process or has already accepted and is about to forward the name of Jemator to the head of state despite letters from Havi indicating why the latter is not suitable. Jemator, Mugo said, sits in two distinct state tribunals – the HIV/AIDs tribunal and the energy and petroleum tribunal. She is also a member of the BBI steering committee and is thus not suitable to sit in the selection panel of IEBC. It is said that Jemator has engaged professionally in business with the IEBC and she is thus not suitable to be a member of the selection panel. She said that if Jemator is allowed to be a member of the selection panel, then the entire process will be flawed from the very start and this will be a grave injustice to the citizens of Kenya.  Edited by A.N 