A 40-year dispute surrounding the ownership of over 1,000 acres in Ndabibi, Naivasha, took a new twist after farmers invaded it, claiming they got it from a white settler. The group from Ndibithi Farmers Society accused an influential politician from the area of using police to arrest and intimidate them. Police watched from a distance as the farmers tilled the land and planted seeds, vowing that they would stay put. They said their parents received over 2,500 acres from a white settler that they worked for before Independence, but some people were keen to grab part of it. Farmer Edward Maina said they had legal documents to prove ownership of the vast land that they managed to legally get in 1974. He accused the influential politicians of using police to intimidate them and wondered how a police post had been constructed on the disputed land. “We have a title deed proving ownership of this land, but an individual is using police to try and grab it, but we shall not allow this,” he said on Thursday. Maina called on the regional police boss to investigate the police post, adding that its main operation was to arrest and harass the farmers. “We have been involved in a protracted dispute with this tycoon for years, but he has never appeared in court,” he said. Farmer Peter Njoroge narrated how they had been beaten and arrested several times by security officers manning the farm. Njoroge said despite the intimidation by the police officers, they were not ready to leave the land. “Police have been arresting the most vocal people at night with a view of silencing them but we have vowed that we shall not be cowed,” he said. Beth Wanjiru, an elderly farmer, said they knew of no other home, adding that the move to till and plant on the farm was to keep away grabbers. “Some people in the government are misusing the police to arrest and intimidate us, but we have all the documents to prove we own this land, and we shall not move out,” she said. Ninety-year-old farmer Ng’ang’a Njoroge said he had been arrested several times over the dispute, adding that he would not back down in demanding his historical rights. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara