Mombasa county is planning to fumigate mosquito breeding sites following an outbreak of Dengue fever in the region. The mosquito-borne tropical disease, whose symptoms include a high fever, headache, vomiting, muscle and joint pains and a characteristic skin rash, was first reported in the region in 2017. Last week, the county health department said the disease had been reported in five sub-counties of Kisauni, Changamwe, Jomvu, Nyali and Likoni following the rains experienced in the region in mid-March. In a statement to newsrooms, county director of public health Dr Salma Swaleh said they had received increased cases of high fever with negative slide for Malaria. “Random blood samples were collected from the patients suspected of dengue fever in different health facilities in the five sub-counties from March 12 to April 7 and submitted to Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Lab at Kenya Medical Research Institute in Nairobi,” she said. Swaleh said out of the 47 samples submitted to Kemri, 24 turned out positive for dengue fever, representing 51 per cent of the collected samples. “They were distributed as follows; Kisauni had six cases, Changamwe and Jomvu had seven cases each, Nyali had four and Likoni two. Mvita sub-county did not submit samples for testing, however, previous trends and recent Rapid Diagnostic Test data indicate that it has the highest burden,” Swaleh said. Due to the expected heavy rains in the region between March and May, a high increase in mosquito population including Aedes, which is the causative vector for dengue fever is anticipated. Mombasa public health communications director Richard Chacha advised residents to ensure they drain stagnant water. “Open stagnant water is breeding grounds for mosquitos. The public should ensure that they do not have stagnant water around their places, they should also clear the bushes,” Chacha said. He said they will soon start fumigating all the areas suspected to be mosquito breeding sites. Jomvu has already started the exercise. Salim Bakari, a patient who is currently recovering from dengue fever, said the disease has similar symptoms to Covid-19. “Last Friday, I felt sick and went to hospital. At the facility, the doctor asked me to undergo a Covid-19 test after narrating how I was feeling. However, I could not afford the test and opted for a general blood test, which showed I had Dengue fever,” he said.  -Edited by SKanyara