National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi on Wednesday shelved debate on the approval of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s PS nominee for State Department for Implementation of Curriculum after MPs raised wage bill concerns. The Education Committee chaired by Busia MP Florence Mutua had approved Prof Fatuma Chege for the newly created state department. Raila Odinga-led ODM MPs protested the creation of the post saying it risked worsening the challenge of a bloated government workforce. Led by Minority Leader John Mbadi and Whip Junet Mohamed, the leaders called for rejection of the PS saying the role can be given to five PSs at the ministry. They questioned the need for another Principal Secretary in a ministry that already has five PSs. “Whereas I don’t have a problem with Chege, the Ministry of Education already has five PSs. We do not need another PS. It is hypocritical to lament of a bloated government and we come back here to rubberstamp creation of more positions,” Mbadi said. Junet called on Parliament to reject the nominee to send a message to the Executive that the country is not ready for more burdens. “There are five PSs in Education ministry. Let us reject something for the first time as a House,” Mbadi said. Majority Leader Amos Kimunya intervened, urging the Speaker to have the debate shelved to allow the Education committee bring more information on the importance of the position. Kimunya said the House risked making a decision based on a wrong premise and thus sought that the debate on the motion on the approval be adjourned in line with Standing Order 96. “I see there is confusion on the report and the matter we are discussing. Because of the seriousness of the matter, I would request that we postponed to another day,” he said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale while supporting the motion termed the new system being bankrolled faulty and called for a relook. “The 2-6-3-3..the whole concept of shifting from 8-4-4 to this new system is faulty…taking it to rural schools where there is no electricity , food, classrooms, no teachers,” Duale said.