Former rugby player Alex Olaba will on Friday appear in court to face charges of attempted murder of a witness in a gang-rape case he is facing. He is also likely to face charges of conspiracy to defeat justice. Olaba was on April 23 produced in court and Milimani senior principal magistrate Bernard Ochoi allowed the police to detain him for seven days to enable them to complete investigations into the claims. Investigating officer George Otieno told the court Olaba made several attempts, directly and indirectly, to contact a state witness in the gang-rape case with the intention of interfering with his trial. He said when Olaba failed to get a positive response, he resorted to unlawful and desperate means to silence the witness. The court was also informed that the suspect wanted to eliminate the witness in the gang-rape case, which he is facing alongside former player Frank Wanyama. The two are facing the charges before principal magistrate Zainab Abdul at a Milimani court and are out on Sh300,000 bail each. Police said their probe had shown Olaba was planning to kill a key witness in an effort to defeat justice. He was arrested in Nairobi West where he was allegedly meeting with an undercover detective planning the murder of the witness. Police said they recovered two mobile phones from Olaba, which are undergoing forensic analysis to establish if there were more people involved. The two were released on bail after the High Court ordered a retrial. The High Court quashed their conviction and 15-year imprisonment after it ruled that there was no evidence that one of the key witnesses in the case was sworn in before taking to the stand. It is a requirement that one must take oath before testifying. The two are alleged to have committed the offence on February 11, 2018, at Seefa Apartment on Highrise estate in Nairobi. The two were warned not to interfere with witnesses, lest their bail be cancelled. In August 2020, Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku ruled that Wanyama and Olaba be jailed for 15 years each. “The complainant was traumatised, hence a deterrent sentence is necessary,” she said in a judgment delivered in camera. The rugby duo played for Kenya Harlequin and the national rugby 7s team. The events that have now culminated in the sentencing started at a party in Spring Valley. The woman said one player lured her to his house after they left the party. According to her, the two raped her in turns, as she fell in and out of consciousness. In a series of posts on social media, she narrated how she had been raped on her birthday. The woman claimed she became pregnant from the ordeal. She claimed to have gone to Nairobi South Hospital for a medical test. Olaba and Wanyama maintained the sexual escapade was mutually agreed. 