Police in Kisumu on Sunday evening recovered a gun at the scene where a businessman was attacked and robbed in Kibos on Saturday night. During the incident, the thugs fled with Sh350,000 and other valuables. Kisumu county police commander Samuel Anampiu said the recovery of the pistol was a major breakthrough for detectives probing the matter. According to Anampiu,  a resident informed the police that he was trimming his fence when he saw the firearm. The gun was found at Riwa village near Kibos market. "He informed chief Tobias Omolo who alerted the police around 6.45 pm," said the county police boss. He said the DCIO Kisumu East and OCS Kasagam visited the scene and recovered the Berretta pistol. "It was loaded with an empty magazine. It was dropped on the ground near the scene where a businessman had been robbed of cash and other items on Saturday night," he said. Detectives from DCI had launched a manhunt for the suspected criminals who attacked and robbed businessman Pascal Oluoch. According to the police, Oluoch was attacked in Kibos by a three-man gang a few minutes to midnight on Saturday while on his way home. The county police commander said a member of the gang was arrested in Kibos town, only hours after the report. A 48-year-old suspect was rescued from a mob that attempted to lynch him. His two accomplices fled on foot. He is being held at the Kisumu Central police station. "He confessed to investigators that he was part of a three man-gang that waylaid the businessman and violently robbed him of Sh350,000s, a laptop and three mobile phones," he said, adding that the money was the day's sales. "They  injured him in the process. Our officers took him to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital for treatment," he added. The injured businessman grabbed one of his attackers who was later subdued by members of the public responding to distress call. "The angry mob beat up the suspect leaving him with multiple injuries before police officers on patrol rescued him," he said. The officers  took the suspect to the regional referral hospital before later locking him for interrogation. According to the county police boss, none of the stolen items was recovered." We have,  however, obtained crucial leads that we hope will enable us to arrest the two suspected criminals," he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara