Nyeri residents will resume getting the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday after a new batch of 2,000 doses were received in the county on Thursday. The county's first batch of 9,000 doses — 6,000 to county hospitals and 3,000 at Othaya Hospital Kenyatta Annex — were depleted early last week. The county suspended the vaccination drive and sought more doses from the Health ministry. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said another 4,000 will be arriving on Tuesday. Health workers were unable to begin offering the 2,000 vaccine doses that arrived on Thursday due to logistical issues and the long Easter holiday, Kahiga said. The vaccine will be available at Mukurwe-ini, Karatina, Othaya and Mt Kenya Level 4, Nyeri County Referral, Othaya Level 6 hospitals and Naromoru and Mweiga health centres. The Consolata Mathari and Tumutumu, both mission hospitals will also offer the jab. Other residents can visit Outspan, a private facility, to get vaccinated. “We want to urge the people to take this vaccine for their safety and security,” Kahiga said. On Friday, Kahiga told journalists at his Nyeri town residence that he suspended all non-essential services within the county for one month. He ordered that all officers who are not offering essential services should work from home. Health workers, firefighters and revenue officers are essential service providers. The county chief made the announcement after the county on Wednesday lost its principal housing officer, Moses Muturi to the disease. The officer fell sick while outside the county but died on arrival to Nyeri for treatment. “We are in a bad situation and the levels [of infections] are going high and therefore I would like to take this opportunity to caution all our people to be extra careful,” he said. About five county officers have also tested positive for Covid-19 and are on medication. Kahiga assured the residents that the five are in stable condition. The governor said all county workers above the age of 58 years must be vaccinated. “Those who are 58 years and above must take the vaccination which will be available in all our centres beginning on Tuesday,” he said. (edited by o. owino)