Heavy rains around Great Rift’s lakeside region have thrown another spanner in the works of an already technical route course. The wet and slippery conditions sloshed the usually dusty conservancy roads for what turned out to be an energy-sapping start. This has culminated in the loss of grip and myriad challenges with car number 26 of Hussein Malik falling by the wayside on a super tricky wash-away. Kenya’s Premier Class driver Eric Bengi was left to rue the tough conditions and this is what he had to say: “It’s totally different from what the situation was when we went out on recce. It’s very very wet out there. Sleeping Warrior is the killer stage. It’s tough. There are lots of rocks towards the end of the section and it’s so wet and slippery. But it’s what it is. Everybody is going through the same stages.” Rally legend Ian Duncan shared similar sentiments, saying: “We are just lucky. It was getting pretty tough in some places. It’s quite tricky, with lots of rocks around. It’s quite an effort getting traction.” Duncan is driving a Nissan 24oRS courtesy of Minti Motorsports, who are also supporting Carl Tundo with the VW Polo after Oman-based Joey Ghose failed to make it for the event. Onkar Rai on his part said: “You know the wet conditions have made things so difficult. Trying to keep up with Carl Tundo in the muddy situation is quite difficult. There is little we can do though as you still have to keep pushing.” Aakif Virani, who is driving an ex-Manvir Baryan Skoda recounted his tough ride on the first loop. “We were taking it easy but things are tough especially on the wet areas of the route.” “McRae Kimathi is also backing off in a deliberate move to survive the demanding conditions: “The first two stages were slippery after the heavy rains last night. I thank God I was able to complete the first loop. For me, I’m treating this event like a marathon and that was my strategy. I want to drive sensibly to the end” Sunday’s racing will take place at Malewa, Kedong, and Loldia on Lake Naivasha vicinity. The tricky nature of Kedong could also turn out to be tricky should heavens open up.