Maize farmers can now use a new product that confuses male army worms so that they are unable to mate with the females. If females do not mate, it means they cannot lay fertile eggs. Consequently, the subsequent population is reduced, and fewer larvae are present to cause crop damage. The chemical, now registered by the Pest Control Products Board, follows the completion of efficacy trials in Kenya and provides an alternative to pesticides use. The Pherogen Spofr dispenser is manufactured by US-based agri-tech firm Provivi. Applied using dispensers installed at specific spacing in the field, the dispensers release a chemical that confuses males such that they cannot locate the females, thus disrupting the reproductive cycle. Farming lobby Cabi said the advance of such products - called pheromones – allows the control of harmful pests while preserving beneficial insects. Army worms are estimated to cause annual production losses in Kenya of about Sh18 billion, according to the Ministry of Agriculture. During the 2019 and 2020 maize cropping seasons, Cabi partnered with Provivi to demonstrate to smallholder farmers the deployment of the chemical. They worked with 309 farmers in Baringo, Machakos and Bungoma counties, all of which proved successful. “Farmers indicated that they significantly reduced pesticide purchases and accompanying labour costs. Women largely recorded considerable savings, as they were previously compelled to hire men for spraying services,” Cabi said in a statement. Farmers also reported a reduction in pesticide sprays from three times to once per season as a result of using Pherogen. Dr Samuel Muchemi, director of field development at Provivi, said: “The area-wide application of the pheromone is crucial in realising change as individual farm efforts only suppress a portion of the pest population. "Additionally, the mating disrupting technology was shown to reduce pest infestation and severity of fall army worm, following scouting by extension workers and farmers on fields where area-wide management of activities was conducted." Dr Ivan Rwomushana, a senior scientist on invasive species management, said, “Cabi will work together with Provivi in expanding the scale of reach to smallholder farmers in the country, raising awareness of the product and mobilizing farmers, to ensure the technology is implemented on a large-scale for optimum impact.” Pedro Coelho, co-founder of Provivi, commented, “Our technology will not only prevent damaging insect attacks, but will help improve the livelihoods of farmers, through improved crops and thereby food supply, without putting their health or the environment at risk." Edited by Henry Makori