Kenyans living near the swelling Rift Valley lakes have been advised to move to safer grounds. This is because the lakes are likely to continue rising during the long rains period. The Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said the long rainy season, a time during which the country experiences extended episodes of rain is here. “However, according to the Meteorological Department, the expected rainfall is likely to be depressed, with only a few areas in the regions of Nyanza, Western, Central, parts of Rift Valley and Eastern are likely to receive above-average rainfall. Other regions are expected to receive below-average rainfall or none. These are the Counties of Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Marsabit and Tana River,” he said. He said Kenyans who live in areas that are perennially threatened by floods such as Nyando, Nyatike, Budalangi and Tana River to consider moving to safer grounds during heavy rainfall. “Those living in mud-slide prone areas such as West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Muranga should also consider moving to safer areas,” he said. The Kenya Metrological department has warned of isolated storms in some parts of the country. The five-day weather forecast showed that rainfall is expected over several parts of the country and there will be isolated storms are likely to occur over some parts of Lake Victoria Basin, the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley, the Highlands East of the Rift Valley and the Southeastern Lowlands. These includes Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties. Other Counties also likely to experience isolated storms are Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Nairobi, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta Counties. Oguna told Kenyans in the areas that are likely to experience heavy rainfall to take advantage of the rains and plant trees. “At the same time, farmers in areas expected to receive good rainfall are urged to take advantage of the rains and plant the correct crop variety for their zones as advised by extension officers. Additionally, let everyone in the wet regions plant trees during this season,” he said.