The family of a man police claim went missing following Saturday’s dawn raid in Mbungoni, Mombasa, says he was taken away by security officers. Five suspected gangsters were killed during the raid. Lawrence Kamau’s wife Miriam Ndunga said on March 12 at around 9pm, heavily armed security officers arrived at her house in Kisimani with a photo of her husband. “They asked me if I knew him. After I confirmed knowing him, they started hitting me with a wire saying I am harbouring an al Shabaab,” said Ndunga at the Muhuri Legal Aid Clinic, in the company of Muhuri officials Francis Auma and Ernest Cornel. Ndunga said by that time she had last called Kamau two hours earlier to find out whether he had succeeded in getting a vehicle to Kiambu. He was to travel. The two do not live together. Kamau, who supplies rice and potatoes from Mwea, does not have a house in Mombasa and sleeps at his brother John Kamau’s house in Mbungoni whenever he comes to Mombasa on business. His daughter Pauline Njambi said her uncle John’s neighbour called her at around 10pm saying she had seen her dad in the company of security officers. Apparently, John has two houses – a single room which he uses as a prayer room and where the five suspected gangsters were killed in the Saturday dawn raid - and another one where he lives. Njambi said the security officers were at the house where John lives at around 10pm and came back at 4am, both times in the company of Kamau. According to Njambi, the neighbour who opened the door for the security officers told her they searched John’s house before they left. Njambi went to several police stations before finally filing a missing person’s report at Nyali police station on March 15. Ndunga and Njambi, who were at the Muhuri Legal Aid Clinic on Thursday, said their relatives in Kiambu started receiving calls from people who introduced themselves as police officers asking them to produce John or else Kamau will never be seen again. “That means they have him. I am sure they have him because they called threatening that we will never see him until we produce Pastor John,” said Njambi. “I want my dad. That is what I want. The last few weeks have been traumatising for me. I have even gone to the morgues to look for him,” she said. Police insist they are still searching for Kamau. On Saturday, Nyali subcounty commander Daniel Masaba said the five slain suspected gangsters had been terrorising Nyali and Kisauni residents. He identified them as Benedict Mugure aka General, Michael Kimani aka One Man Army, Newton Kibara aka Kaparo, Bakari Hassan aka Beka and Salim Ndegwa aka Kidevu. Masaba said John and Kamau were the ring leaders of the gang and operate River Trinity Miracles Church near where John lives. However, Njambi and Ndunga said although John is a pastor he does not run the church but only prays there. Meanwhile, Purity Kanyenje, the wife to Mugure, one of the slain suspected gangsters, told the Star they failed to conduct a postmortem on his body after they failed to secure a letter of authorisation from the police. “My son, Paul Muiruri, came from Nairobi and was to go secure the document but the police refused to give him saying they have to question me first,” said Kanyenje. Muiruri said officials from the Independent Police Oversight Authority have been in contact with them to help unravel the mystery. “I was at the Nyali police station but they said they could not give me the necessary form because they have to get two people who identified my father’s body,” Muiruri said. The family plans to bury Mugure next Tuesday. Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma said the police are frustrating the family for sinister motives. “They know exactly what happened and that is why they want to frustrate the family,” said Auma. Edited by Henry Makori