Mount Kenya University has acquired equipment that will hasten testing for Covid-19, with results delivered within three hours. The university has strengthened its capacity in the war on the virus to provide a safe teaching environment for students and staff. Eliud Ng’ang’a, MKU principal laboratory technologist, on Tuesday received the equipment on Thika campus. He said it would greatly assist students and staff to easily know their coronavirus status. The equipment uses realtime PCR laboratory technique that significantly reduces the waiting time before test results are made available. Ng’ang’a explained that the RT PCR technique enables scientists to see the results almost immediately when the process is on. “This will significantly boost our preparedness in detecting Covid-19 as an institution,” he said. In recent months, RT PCR has widely been adopted in detecting Covid-19. In the past, it was used in diagnosis of infections such as Ebola and Zika virus. Institutions that have previously used it are now adapting it for use in detecting Covid-19. The technique—highly sensitive and specific—can deliver a reliable diagnosis in as little as three hours, though laboratories take on average between six and eight hours. This is in comparison to other methods that can at times take days. Its downside, however, is that it cannot be used to detect past infections, which is critical in understanding the development and spread of the virus. Prof Simon Gicharu, founder and chairman of MKU, said the university has been improving its capacity to fight Covid-19, adding that numerous innovations over the past year had helped them heighten the war on the contagion. The RT PCR technique once again puts the university ahead in its efforts to fight Covid-19. At the onset of the virus, it joined the fight by assembling low-cost ventilators named “Qtron-Vent”—some of the first to be produced locally. The ventilator uses a regular bag valve mask, which is widely available in most healthcare institutions and ambulances, and other locally available materials. The university also developed its own hand sanitiser for use by its community and a contact-tracing mobile application. In June last year, it set up handwashing stations in rural areas. The stations project was an initiative implemented jointly with Partner for Care, a non-governmental organisation. It won the university the Global University Innovative Civic Engagement Award by the Talloires Network.