2021 para badminton men doubles bronze medalists Anthony Mc'Otwal and David Mariga are more than eager to grace the forthcoming Paralympics and probably return home with a gold medal each. And they deserve such a feat. Both players have made a good impression of themselves in past tournaments and boast of remarkable positions in the world rankings. “During the 2019 Uganda Intermediate Para badminton Championship, I bagged two silver medals in the men's and mixed doubles respectively as well as bronze in the singles category,” said Mc’Otwal. “My objective is to perform better and raise my position in the world rankings. I’m currently seeded 28th in the world and 1st in Africa,” he added. Mc’Otwal hopes the national para badminton team will return to action soon so that they can run on fumes ahead of their next task in Spain after a spell of inactivity that was occasioned by a government ban on sporting activities. “We have not gotten enough time to train due to the recently imposed Covid-19 containment measures,” he added. Mariga has urged the government to consider giving their training grounds some facelift given all of them are currently in a sorry state. “Our training ground is not the best. It is concrete whereas by international standards, we ought to have a rubber surface. And as the rat race for the Paralympics continue, this is probably a month of Sundays for both players as they cross their fingers anxiously awaiting to land possible qualifications when in reality they appear to be chasing the rainbow. “The communication we received earlier was that we would be traveling to Spain to take a final stab at the Olympics qualifiers. We haven't been told anything to the contrary,” said Mc’Otwal. “I feel good and I am looking forward to qualifying for the Paralympics,” said Mariga. They will, however, have to wait for another day given this opportunity might have already slipped through the cracks. Geoffrey Shigoli, who leads a faction fighting for Badminton Kenya leadership, says the chances of Mc’Otwal and Mariga qualifying for the Paralympics remain remote, and as things stand the two are merely chasing the rainbow. “Even if we were to attend the event in Spain, we still wouldn't qualify simply because we missed out on many qualifiers which gave our opponents an edge over us,” said Shigoli.