EF Logroño's Cynthia Shilwatso was conspicuously absent from the Harambee Starlets provisional squad named on Friday by coach David Ouma ahead of an international friendly match against Zambia in Lusaka on April 24. Thika Queens' forward Esse Akida and red-hot Ulinzi Starlets’ striker Neddy Atieno also failed to make the cut even as Ouma moved to quell anxiety prompted by their absence. Ouma said attempts to include Shilwatso in the squad ran into a hitch after the Spanish side insisted they still needed her for each of their remaining league fixtures. "It was impossible to rope in Shilwatso because the league in Spain is still going on,” said Ouma. “I know the fans are disappointed that some of their favourite stars won't be in action but we have faith to get decent results from the selected players,” he added. Ouma added they had rummaged through a wide spectrum of locally organized competitions for fresh talent. “We have spent enough time searching for fresh talent in the Women Premier League, Division One, school games as well as the FKF Women Cup. “We have reached a decision to afford the budding players a chance. The national team is about evolution not stagnation,” said Ouma. Kibera Soccer Ladies enterprising custodian Pauline Muthakye and her team mate Lilian Mmboga are among the players who have received maiden call up. Interestingly, Ouma left out Vihiga Queen's Terry Engesha who has displayed consistency throughout the season, having emerged the Kenya Women's Premier League Zone “B” top scorer after finding the back of the net 14 times. “One of our main goals is to always make the team better each time, that means hitting the refresh button every time to give new players a chance to really experience playing for the national team while still maintaining some of our best to keep the momentum running,” said Ouma. Ouma unveiled the squad on Friday, as soon as they had received Covid -19 vaccine jabs at Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani. The Starlets will pitch residential camp on Wednesday, April 15. Provisional squad Goalkeepers: Annette Kundu (AEL Champions) , Valentine Khwaka (Mathare United Ladies), Pauline Muthakye (Kibera Soccer Ladies), Judith Osimbo (Gaspo Ladies) Defenders: Ruth Ingotsi (AEL Champions), Quinter Owiti, Dorcas Shikobe (Thika Queens, Foscah Nashivanga, Nelly Sawe (all Thika Queens), Leah Cherotich (Gaspo), Vivian Nasaka (Vihiga Queens), Juliet Andipo (Kayole Starlet), Lucy Nato (Ulinzi) Midfielders: Lillian Mmboga (Kibera Soccer Ladies), Vivian Corazone Aquino and Sheryl Angachi (both Gaspo Women), Lydia Akoth (Thika Queens), Laventine Lihemo (Kibera Soccer Ladies), Topister Situma (Vihiga Queens), Puren Alukwe (Zetech Sparks), Diana Wacera (Gaspo Women), Rael Kamanda (Makolanders), Janet Bundi (Vihiga Queens), Siliya Rasoha (Ulinzi Starlets), Rachael Muema (Thika Queens), Martha Amnyolete (Trans Nzoia Falcons) Forwards Mwanahalima Adam (Thika Queens), Mercy Airo (Gaspo Women), Gilly Okumu, Faith Machora (Zetech)