All the 47 governors are to appear before the Senate oversight committee starting next week to clarify gaps in the 2018-19 audit. The Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee will hold the sittings from next Tuesday until September 22. Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko chairs the nine-member committee. Ayacko took over from Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri last December. “All county executives are required at least 14 days prior to the scheduled date of appearance before the committee to have submitted writing responses including supporting documentation to the specific issues,” reads the notice by clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye. Each executive is also required to submit to the committee, on the day of appearance, at least 15 hard copies of their responses. The county chiefs will explain audit queries flagged by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu for the 2018-19 financial year. Stalled projects, unexplained and unsupported expenditures and unrecovered imprests are among issues Gathungu cited. Kisii Governor James Ongwae will be the first to appear before the committee on May 4. Nyamira'st Amos Nyaribo will be next. Governors Okoth Obado (Migori), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Wycliffe Oparanya (Kakamega), Christopher Khaemba (Trans Nzoia) and Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma) will appear on May 6, 7, 10, 11 and 12. Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia) will be questioned on May 13, Martin Wambora (Embu) on May 24, Muthomi Njoki (Tharaka Nithi) on May 25, Mohamed Kuti (Isiolo) on May 26 and Marsabit's Mohamed Mahamud on May 27. Acting Nairobi Governor Anne Kananu will appear last before the panel on September 22, a day after Narok’s Samuel Tunai. The senators also summoned county assembly speakers and clerks to defend their audit queries between June 29 and November 10. “Each county assembly is required to acknowledge in writing the receipt of notification of appearance to the clerk of the senate at least seven days prior to the scheduled date of appearance,” reads the notice to the county assemblies. Nyegenye said the committee will interrogate queries for 2018-19 and pending audit reports from 2017-18. Isiolo and Meru county assembly leaders will appear first on June 29. Embu and Kirinyaga will follow on June 30, Mandera and Tana River on July 1, Kericho and Nyandarua on August 2 and Samburu and West Pokot on August 3. Nyeri and Laikipia assemblies will be grilled on August 4, Turkana and Migori on August 5, Nakuru and Baringo on September 6 while Nandi and Uasin Gishu will be questioned on September 7. Vihiga county assembly will be the last to be grilled on November 10, a day after Tharaka Nithi and Homa Bay appear before the committee. Before breaking for recess last month, the senators approved at least 20 reports by the committee for three financial years. The panel recommended the withholding of funds to Lamu county over recurring audit issues. The team also recommended investigation and prosecution of accounting and procurement officers for various offences. (edited by o. owino)