Kwale residents living in low-lying areas prone to floods have been advised to monitor rising water levels and evacuate to higher grounds as heavy rains are expected in the region. The warning comes days after some parts of the region experienced average rainfall and the neighbouring country of Tanzania was hit by the Jobo cyclone. County director of meteorological department Dominic Mbindyo said floods might occur in areas like Vanga should heavy rains be encountered both in Tanzania and Kenya. He said River Umba in Lunga-Lunga has a tendency of swelling, cautioning residents to relocate to higher areas to avoid possible floods and mudslides. "It is important for you to be alert when the water level rises and seek safety to avoid further disaster while you still can," he said. Last year rains caused damage to the road network and infrastructure disrupting transport as bridges collapsed and roads rendered impassable by floods. One of the bridges that were swept away was Marenje linking Tanzania and Lunga-Lunga highway. In 2019, several houses, farms and livestock were swept away by floods in Vanga and Mwangwei following a downpour that lasted for a week. In Diani, over 200 families were displaced, leaving towns abandoned as residential areas and market places in Mwaroni, Lemba and Darad villages were partially submerged by floods. Scores of people and traders recorded massive losses as some had to wade through chest and neck-deep water to salvage what they could. A section of local mines also collapsed, burying some people alive in Ukunda. In 2017, heavy rains claimed over five lives and at least 1,500 families slept in the cold after being left homeless. Dams and several rivers burst their banks. Marere bridge in Kinango was washed away, while Perani and Ramisi bridges were overtopped by rainwater. Mbindyo called on the county government to work on the drainage and sewerage systems. He said being proactive will prevent towns from being flooded, especially in Ukunda, which is considered a tourist hub. The weatherman said stagnant water and mud could possibly be breeding grounds for mosquitoes and a centre for waterborne diseases. "I would advise the Kwale government to take necessary actions to minimise harm when rains approach," he said. Mbindyo said emergency services and rescue teams should be put in place to respond in case of any eventualities. He also urged parents to restrict children from walking in flooding areas to avert drowning and electrocution cases. Some roads have deep potholes and in other areas, electricity wires pass beneath the ground posing danger during heavy rains. -Edited by SKanyara