Education stakeholders in Rabai subcounty in Kilifi have promised to continue supporting public schools as most parents cannot afford to take their children to private institutions. The promise was made on Saturday as parents, teachers and pupils from Mwangutwa Primary School celebrated two of their 2020 KCPE candidates who excelled in the exam. Josiah Ondari and Daniel Ngeti both scored 411 marks, topping the subcounty in the exam whose results were released last week by Education CS George Magoha. According to the subcounty education director Mariam Ngome, public schools in Rabai posted an improvement in their results compared to 2019. “Seven candidates from public schools in the region scored 400 marks and above, including two girls,” Ngome said. She said that given enough support, public schools, despite the huge number of learners they are forced to register, can still outperform their private counterparts. The third best candidate in Rabai was Daniel Mwazuya from Isaac Nyondo Primary School, who got 410 marks while the best girl was Alice Ndune from Kaliang’ombe Primary School with 408 marks. Benyoka Primary School produced two candidates in the top six. They are David Maraga (403) and Elvina Nzai (400). Teddy Simigo from Mbungoni Primary School scored 402 marks. About 30 of the 141 candidates scored 350 marks and above. The school has a population of 1334 pupils. It was ranked 216 among the most populated primary schools in Kenya. Out of the 1,334 pupils, 705 are boys and 629 are girls and all learn in the 20 classrooms that are in the school. There are 23 government teachers, and two others hired by the Board of Management. The school has a shortage of nine teachers according to administrators. Mwangutwa Primary School headteacher Elius Tsuma Mwajoha said candidates, teachers and parents' cooperation had contributed to the good performance. “I commend you for working tirelessly to ensure our focus as a school was maintained throughout the learning and revision period. Today we celebrate the highest performance ever,” he said. Educationist and Rabai politician Philip Mbaji said he aims to see education standards in the subcounty improve. Mbaji is eying the Rabai parliamentary seat in 2022. He said the region is the cradle of education and thus leaders must work towards ensuring improved standards. “Education started here, therefore any efforts to reclaim our lost glory as a people must be complemented,” Mbaji said. He said Rabai hosted the first missionaries who introduced education in East Africa in the 1840s. Mbaji who spoke on Saturday at a funeral said improving education standards in Rabai requires concerted efforts from all stakeholders including parents, teachers and both the county and national governments. “Last year was a difficult one for schools and parents had to step in and provide encouragement to their children after schools were closed for close to eight months due to Covid-19.” “I wish to commend you for your continual guidance to our children. From that strictness and discipline, we have managed to produce top six candidates not only in Kilifi county but Coast region,” he said.  Edited  by Kiilu Damaris