Nyeri industrialist cum politician Thuo Mathenge has declared interests for the Nyeri gubernatorial seat in 2022, making him the fourth person to publicly declare interest for the post. Others who have publicly declared their interest include Governor Mutahi Kahiga, who will be defending the seat, former Family Bank CEO Peter Munyiri and Mathira CDF chairman Wahome Mwangi. Thuo run in 2013 but came third behind Nderitu Gachagua and Wahome Gakuru, both deceased. Gachagua won the seat in 2013 but died in office on 24 February 2017 at the Royal Marsden Hospital in London where he was undergoing treatment for pancreatic cancer while Gakuru who won the seat in 2017 General Election died on November 7, 2017, in a road accident at Kabati area near Kenol  along the Thika - Murang’a road. Thuo expressed interest in 2017 but was barred by IEBC from contesting over questionable academic credentials. “They denied me my right  to contest in 2017 and denied Nyeri people their right to vote for me but this time round,they will not be able to bar me because I have put everything in order,” he said. Thuo who is the chairman of The New Democrats party said the party will field a presidential candidate but is also willing to negotiate and form a coalition government with other parties in case it loses the presidency. Several candidates have shown interest to vie for the presidency through the party ticket but did disclose names of the interested presidential candidates. He said TND was aiming to win between 50 to 150 parliamentary seats in the 2022 elections so as to give the party more bargaining power during formations of coalitions after the 2022 General Election. “We want to win as many seats as possible because we want to form a coalition government with other parties. This is because the government will be formed by a coalition of parties and not a single party,” he said. The party, he said, will conduct nomination to pick a strong presidential flag bearer. The party,  he however added,  has no intentions to dissolve and join other entities but will only join a coalition of parties as a partner. The party will field candidates in all levels from MCA all the way to the president, he noted. On the issue of IEBC, he called for the formation of a commission with persons of high integrity who will oversee a free and fair 2022 General Election. “There should be transparency and accountability on the part of the commission to be formed so as to ensure that the 2022 elections are peaceful,” he said. He was speaking in Nyeri on Friday where he launched the Nyeri chapter of his party which has an MP in parliament and 13 MCAs across the country and has candidates in upcoming by elections. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara