When Kenya Pipeline takes to the court at the African Club Championship later this month in Tunisia, head coach Paul Gitau will have one mission in mind — winning the title that has eluded the club since 2005. Pipeline are set to leave the country for Kelibia, Tunisia this weekend for the April19-May 1 tournament and Gitau believes his is a team that can overcome the hurdles ahead, even better than the 2015 All Africa Games-winning national line up. Two years ago, the Oil girls struck a bronze medal in Egypt, the same position they clinched in the KVF league and Gitau feels they have the character to go two steps better. "This team is no longer young. It was young when we started the league matches but they have now played all the teams in the Kenya Volleyball Federation league," said Gitau. "They have had all the exposure a player needs and are in better shape. This team is stronger than the Kenyan team I entered at the AAG in 2015." "I went to Brazzaville with Kenyan 'B' team. The 'A' team, Malkia Strikers, were in Japan. They were not as strong as this team but we still won the gold medal. This Pipeline team is neither youthful nor weak but full of quality" said the experienced tactician. However, Pipeline will miss the services of budding left attacker Pamela Adhiambo, Gladys Ekaru (middle blocker) and libero player Agripina Kundu who are in the Malkia Strikers' bubble training camp in preparation for the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. In addition, youngster Mirriam Chelimo is under medication and therefore unable to travel. Gitau said the trio's absence will not hinder the team's quest for a gold medal. "I am convinced that this team is ready to win the championship. We are doing the final touches, trying to minimise our mistakes. We have no shortcut because winning the title is the bare minimum," he said. "All Kenyan teams will be missing key players but this should not be an excuse and I can't even discuss that. The players we have can win us the title" Pipeline are working on the net and floor defence. "We have to hit more balls with power at the top of the net. We are also ironing out our mistakes in blocking while fine-tuning the service department," added Gitau, while appreciating the support they have had from their employers. "We are happy to have a sponsor who caters for our needs. The salaries were reviewed three weeks ago and we want to repay that faith with good performances going forward. We want to represent the Kenya Pipeline management in a good way."