Ghosts of 2017 presidential election came to haunt Court of Appeal judge Martha Koome during her interview for the Chief Justice job. Koome was put to task to explain how she held a night sitting and granted orders in absence of one party and overruled a High Court decision. The High Court had ruled that all the returning officers in the entire country were illegally in office, throwing the management of elections into disarray. Judge David Majanja who is also a commissioner with the Judicial Service Commission told justice Koome to explain why she did not reach out to the other party in the case before issuing the order. In her defence, judge Koome said that first, the bench to hear the matter was empanelled by the then Appeal Court President Kihara Kariuki (now Attorney General) to hear the case urgently because the election was to take place the following day. She also noted that she was not the presiding judge of the bench.  Retired judge Erastus Githinji led the team. And when the only one advocate appeared before them, they asked why the other party was not represented and was informed that due to urgency there was no time to serve. However, the bench did not call the other party in the case. "AG Kihara was then the President of the court and I was in Mombasa then and the court was a circuit court. That week we were all in Nairobi. The day before the election was a public holiday and I was called by the registrar and told that the President had said the matter should be heard as urgent. We should not lose sight of the determination of the election taking place next day," she said. Even with that explanation, the matter was not put to complete rest as the Acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu asked follow-up questions. Judge Koome was asked if the then-CJ David Maraga had authorised their night sitting given that she justified it by insisting on the public interest in the matter. And having worked as a firebrand activist against state oppression while at FIDA, she was asked whether she has changed and whether she will fight the government. In her response, justice Koome said she always does whatever work she is given by God with excellence. “I have changed as a judge completely because the job description of a judge is to determine a dispute and abide by the code of conduct of the Judiciary. This is the new job I have and I am government, as the new CJ and I am heading the other arm of government and I am going to engage them. This is our country and we need to pull together and deliver and make everyone understand what is independence and inter dependence,” she said. She added that she will ensure she does her work diligently, always bearing in mind the Constitution being her true north. She was questioned on other decisions she made as a judge to enable the interview panel to understand what informs her thinking in her judgments. Koome explained that her decisions have always been informed by public interest and promotion of rights. For example, she said she allowed the auditing of Anglo Leasing contracts bearing in mind that it was a matter of public interest and it was important for the government to find out if the contract had value for money. The contracts were questioned by the Kibaki regime and the High Court stopped auditing the same but when it got to Court of Appeal judge Koome gave the go ahead to PWC to audit them. She also justified her holding in a defilement case where she held TSC liable. The judge said that even though TSC did not engage in the defilement it owes a duty of care because it is the body that hired the teachers who are accused of defiling children under their care. She said that TSC ought to have come up with a policy to tackle such issues and the court learnt that though the commission had regulations the same was not even cascaded to schools. Judge Koome was also asked to explain the philosophy behind the CAK where the Court of Appeal overturned the decision by the High Court that ruled that CAK had breached the privacy of Kenyans. She said this is the authority that has the mandate of managing the communications for the whole country and it had been invaded by illegal mobile operators who were not paying their dues. CAK had started the process of consultation for people to understand that the BMS was supposed to nab the illegal mobile communication. “However in the middle of consultation before it is finalised they are taken to court with the allegations that CAK was installing something that would eavesdrop on our conversation,” she said. The High Court judge had ruled that the authority had breached the privacy rights of Kenyans therefore it cannot go on. At the time the illegal mobile operations were running all over making it impossible for the CAK to carry out its mandate. “This was really a matter of public interest to define a mandate of a body because if the body given a mandate is stopped from doing its work, that affects many people and the economy,” Judge Koome said. The judge also said the decision was important because at the time, because of the case, Kenya was about to be isolated internationally which led them to rule in CAK’s favour. On the issue of mandatory death sentence, Judge Koome says doing away with mandatory aspects of it helped justice. She says sentencing is judicial authority however, death penalty is still a provision of the law but death penalty as the only penalty is unconstitutional because it takes away judicial authority. She noted that not all murders are the same and therefore the sentencing ought not to be the same. The famous Muruatetu case dealt with certain aspects of the death sentence. In that precedent the court held that the mandatory death sentence ought not to be imposed on every case. Death sentence concept promotes Hammurabi's code. Hammurabi is retaliatory justice 'an eye for an eye.' However, she says the decision on death penalty opened the Pandora's box and she will follow up with the Attorney-General to find out if the sentencing report has been prepared to ensure the sentencing policy takes into account the decision of the Supreme Court. There is need for a coherent sentencing approach to sentencing, she said. The Muruatetu decision ought to apply in sexual offence cases but not all. For example, where there is no sexual violence and there is consent, where the age difference between the perpetrator and the victim is not huge it can be used to reduce the punishment, she said. Judge Koome says the Court of Appeal has been reducing the sentences for the convicts of defilement cases who are 19 to 20 years. “We need to nurture our youth, cases where there was no violence for example a case of Romeo and Juliet I have seen the Court of Appeal reduce the sentence to five years which is more like a slap on the wrist,” she said. The judge says this will depend on the circumstances of the particular cases that were before the court. Judge Koome if appointed a CJ wants to pursue operationalisation of the Judiciary Fund to help solve the persistent problem of under-funding. She noted that there are currently so many projects that have stalled due to lack of fund and this, among other things, will be solved. Justice Koome will also then put in place a system that will monitor value for money. She will also negotiate with the executive to appoint the 41 judges who are pending. In order to serve Kenyans well, she said, she will put in place proper communications channels such as coming up with a short text messaging which will enable litigants to know the progress of their cases. Judge Koome says she will also negotiate with the government to ensure that all tribunals are transitioned to the Judiciary. "Indeed, all the tribunals are supposed to transit to the Judiciary. It is the usual push and pull because you are talking of power of appointment and running tribunal from a ministry, it is usual teething problems that need to be overcome. I will engage in negotiations to fix meetings with the ministry and saying hence forth the tribunal will be answerable to the registrar of tribunals who is appointed by JSC," she said. On the issue of mediation, she said there is no way the Judiciary can solve all the problems in the society. “Judiciary is there as a matter of last resort. Some of the problems can be solved through use of alternative dispute resolution forums,” she said. Judiciary is doing as much as it could and working hard to open multiple doors to deal with ADR. Judge Koome subscribes to feminist legal theories which say that the law corresponds with structures of patriarchal dominance and oppression. “I subscribe to that 100 per cent, the statement is correct that the legal structure is dominated by patriarchy because our society is patriarchal. Laws are made in Parliament and the dominant majority in Parliament is male so it’s informed by their background and socialisation. They are socialised to look at women as second-class citizens who are not supposed to take part in leadership positions,” she said. She added: “We have come a long way especially with a Constitution that outlaws discrimination; the old Constitution outrightly discriminated against women as it did not allow citizenship and allowed customary law.” Thankfully, judge Koome said, the Constitution now remedied that through provisions of gender equity. She gave an example of a case where a woman won a discrimination suit against a hotel which turned her away for not being accompanied by a man. On the issue of matrimonial property, judge Koome believes that one is not entitled to property at the point of entry into marriage. However, she says that if the spouse contributed to development of existing property, then he or she acquires occupational rights. And if given the chance to head the Judiciary, Justice Koome will hold service week in her first 30 days in office with a view of reducing the pending cases before the Supreme Court. "I haven't even known what problems there are in the Supreme court for me to solve. Thirty days is a short time to do inquiry of the problem and solve it, but low-hanging fruit is to do service week to list the cases that are pending within the 30 days and reduce the backlog," she said. On the issue of the 41 judges she told the commission that she will endeavor to negotiate with the Executive. “We must discuss the issue of the 41 judges with the president and find out where the problem is, resolve and have the judges sworn in,” she said. On BBI, Judge Koome declined to comment on the ruling by Supreme Court that the cases filed at the High Court should be determined first. "Those are sensitive matters I can't discuss the case it will be prejudice. I will read the files call the judges of the Supreme Court and mice form there whether the supreme court takes over the cases that will be a discussion arrived at consultative forum," she said. She wants to be remembered for a good legacy she will leave behind. “I want to be remembered when I retire and people say there goes the judge who was a defender of justice and builder of institutions,” she added. -Edited by SKanyara