Efforts to identify the body of a woman whose body parts were found dumped in Naivasha early last month have not borne fruits. Fingerprints collected by police and taken to the registrar of persons have failed to match any on their records further complicating the bizarre killing. Some of the body parts were found dumped in Kabati estate and the others near the town sewerage plant with investigations indicating that the deceased was murdered elsewhere. Naivasha police boss Samuel Waweru has called on members of the public whose kin went missing to visit the local mortuary and help identify the victim. “The victim is around 19-years-old and we suspect that she had not registered for an ID and that is why her fingerprints are missing from the registrar of persons,” he said. Meanwhile, police in Naivasha are looking for a truck driver who made off with fertiliser worth millions of shillings during a robbery along the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road. During the Wednesday night incident, the driver working in cahoots with other men, managed to offload the fertiliser meant for Western Kenya into another trailer. It was not until Thursday morning that the partially empty truck was discovered abandoned along the busy highway before it was towed to Naivasha police station. In the past, police have accused some drivers of working with highway robbers in stealing cargo mainly electronics destined for nearby countries. In the latest incident, the driver parked near Longonot town claiming that the trailer had developed a mechanical breakdown. A police source said later in the wee hours of Thursday morning, a group of youths moved in and offloaded part of the fertiliser before fleeing. Waweru said it was only a matter of time before they catch up with the driver. “In nearly all the cases involving highway robberies along the Naivasha-Mai Mahiu road, we have come to learn that drivers are involved,” he said. He said they had heightened their patrols along major roads noting that PSVs had adhered to the law in terms of observing the curfew hours.  -Edited by SKanyara