Government officials have destroyed a Sh32.3 million assortment of medicines seized at JKIA in 2018. The destruction was conducted by drug inspectors from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board in a joint exercise with the Judiciary and supervised by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. This was in line with a court order that the drugs be forfeited to the state for incineration under the courts’ supervision. The 346.3kg consignment of medical products in question was being smuggled through JKIA as personal luggage. Inspectors from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board seized it and arrested the owners following a joint intelligence exercise with the DCI and customs officers in 2018. The products, which were wrapped in sacks, included mifepristone tablets and other assorted medicines mixed in sacks. Mifepristone, also known as RU 486, is used to cause an abortion during the early part of the pregnancy. The case was finalised and three accused persons were fined Sh700,000 each, while the exhibits were forfeited to the state for safe disposal through incineration. “PPB wishes to notify both public and private healthcare facilities and those who handle pharmaceuticals that they should apply online for disposal of any pharmaceutical waste that they may have or get in touch with PPB regional officers,” senior drugs inspector Julius Kaluai said. “Members of the public are advised to use health safety codes displayed in registered pharmacy outlets to verify the legality of the premises. Send SMS to 21031; it is free of charge.” The PPB is the national medicines regulatory authority whose mandate is to protect the health of the public by regulating pharmacy and ensuring the quality, safety and efficacy of medical products and health technologies. Kenya is among countries that have been battling illegal trade in pharmaceutical products, with the board putting measures in place to ensure the safety of consumers. The board has stepped up the fight against substandard, falsely labelled and falsified drugs to protect consumers from the dangers posed. It has an elaborate drug registration system that ensures that only safe, quality and efficacious products are registered. The drugs are analysed by laboratories to ensure they comply with the label claims. Currently, the agency randomly collects samples from all over the country and effective analysis is done at the National Quality Control Laboratory to test for quality, safety and efficacy. A system reporting suspected poor-quality medicines and adverse drug reactions has also been established to monitor medicines. “It is the responsibility of every medicine wholesaler to verify the documents of those to whom they are selling. Failing to do this is an illegality and they will face the consequences since these documents are not private in any way.” The centres of trade for these illicit drugs are unregulated chemists. Poverty, which drives consumers to purchase the cheapest goods and services on offer, is said to be a major contributing factor as counterfeit drugs are relatively cheap. The World Health Organization requires governments to establish strong national medicine regulatory authorities with the capacity to exert effective market control through proper monitoring and surveillance. According to WHO, one in 10 medical products is substandard or falsified and likely responsible for thousands of deaths globally. Substandard medicines are a threat to the growth of the manufacturing sector as their negative impacts on human health are profound.