Communities living around Kedong area in Naivasha have now backed the drilling of geothermal power in the region by a private company after years of differences. The communities which have been affected by the Sh9.8billion project have reached an agreement with Akiira geothermal company after a series of consultative meetings. This is despite a study by a non-governmental organization noting that some members of the community had not been consulted by the investors. The move had split the communities into two but following a consultative meeting in which the environmental audit report was tabled, they agreed to back the multi-billion project. One of the leaders Mike Ole Roka from Kitet community said there was misinformation over the scope of the work and environmental impact. Roka said though the company had not hit any wells, the community had benefited from various projects including water and education for their children. He questioned the credibility of the environmental report noting that many of the community members did not participate in the audit. “We are calling on the national and county governments to back this project as it will be a game-changer in the country once complete,” he said. This was echoed by another elder Maenga Kisotu from Lapland area who said that they had seen the fruits of such projects in the past. He said that once the groundworks started area youths would benefit from job opportunities and later the nation would get cheap electricity. “We fully back this geothermal project in our area as in the past we have benefitted from other such works by Kengen and other investors,” he said. The company community liaison officer Isaac Seroney said that they were keen to work with the community adding that they had set communication channels. “We have gone through the report and though some of the findings are questionable we are keen to work with the community and resolve any impediments,” he said. Maurice Ouma from Jamaa Resources Initiative which was involved in the study defended the report saying some members of the community were locked out of the process. He said the gas released from the geothermal wells had effects on the environment and livestock and hence the need to engage all those affected by the project. “We are happy that the Akiira Company has agreed to engage all the villages around the area where the geothermal wells and plant will be constructed,” he said. One of those opposed to the project Jackson Shaa welcomed the move to address the community issues saying that some of the families had been oppressed for years.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris