More than 15,000 residents of Murang’a town and environs will receive additional water through a Sh32 million World Bank grant. The spillover from Murang'a town has made water scarce in the arid region. The project will build a four-kilometre pipeline extended from Mjini settlements near Murang’a town to Kabuta area to support last-mile water connectivity. Murang’a Water and Sanitation Company (Muwasco) managing director Daniel Ng’ang’a said Kabuta and Githuuri areas have been experiencing water rationing. The limited water has made it hard for residents to observe Covid-19 guidelines on sanitation. Ng’ang’a said the grant issued through the Water Trust Fund will raise the number of people supplied with the commodity to about 150,000. “Over 1,000 homes will be connected to water once the pipeline is fully installed. The water will be drawn from Kayahwe water treatment plant through gravity to reduce the cost of water supply,” Ng’ang’a said. In 2017, the company implemented a Sh16.9 million project to connect more than 9,000 more residents to clean drinking water from Mathioya River. The project was funded through a grant from the Dutch government through its water companies. The area has seen an influx of real estate projects as many residents sought to avoid congestion in Murang’a town. Water was insufficient at that time. A part of the grant, Ng’ang’a said, will go towards improving the supply in Miriira areas. The company has been supplying free water in informal settlements to support the fight against Covid-19. It has installed water points  replenished using water bowsers in shopping centres. He said World Bank has issued grants to local water companies to cushion them against the effects of Covid-19. “The government has been supporting water service providers since the pandemic started to help boost hygiene standards among Kenyans and help them stay afloat,” he added. Last month, Muwasco entered into a partnership with Can Do Kids, an American NGO,  to enhance its water services. The partnership with will see a world-class water laboratory established at the firm’s Kiawambeu water treatment lab. Four 300,000-litre water tanks will also be constructed to boost the company’s storage capacity. (Edited by V. Graham) 