Lady Justice Martha Koome has promised to negotiate with the government to ensure that all tribunals are transitioned to the Judiciary. Justice Koome vowed to engage in negotiations through meetings with ministries to ensure a tribunal will be answerable to the registrar of tribunals who is appointed by the Judicial Service Commission. "Indeed all the tribunals are supposed to transit to Judiciary. It is the usual push and pull because you are talking of the power of appointment and running tribunal from a ministry. It is the usual teething problems that need to be overcome," she said. Justice Koome spoke on Wednesday as she faced the JSC panel on its third day of interviews. She is among 10 candidates shortlisted for the position of Chief Justice. Judge Koome said if appointed as CJ, she will pursue the operationalization of the Judiciary Fund to help solve the persistent problem of under-funding. She noted that there are currently so many projects that have stalled due to lack of fund and this among other things will be solved. Justice Koome said she will then put in place a system that will monitor value for money. She vowed to also negotiate with the Executive to appoint the 41 judges who are pending. In order to serve Kenyans well, she said, she will put in place proper communications channels such as coming up with a short text messages which will enable litigants to know the progress of their cases. On the issue of mediation, Koome said there is no way the Judiciary can solve all the problems in society. “Judiciary is there as a matter of last resort. Some of the problems can be solved through the use of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) forums,” she said. She said the Judiciary is doing as much as it could and working hard to open multiple doors to deal with ADR. And if given the chance to head the Judiciary, Justice Koome said she will hold a service week in her first 30 days in office with a view of reducing the pending cases before the Supreme Court. "I haven't even known what problems there are in the Supreme Court for me to solve. Thirty days is a short time to do inquiry of the problem and solve it but low-hanging fruit is to do service week to list the cases that are pending within the 30 days and reduce the backlog," she said.