A section of leaders from Siaya county were on Friday forced to flee for safety after chaos erupted in a function they were attending within South East Alego in Bar Osimbo area. The leaders include Siaya Senator James Orengo, MPs Otiende Amollo (Rarieda), Sam Atandi (Alego Usonga) and Aduma Owuor(Nyakach). They were attending an afternoon reception function following the inauguration ceremony of the area assistant Chief Risper Akoth in the morning. However, when speeches were being made, the area MP Atandi after addressing guest and locals invited his Nyakach counterpart who later invited Otiende to address the resident. When the Rarieda MP concluded his speech, he invited Orengo to address to make a closing remark at the event. However, this did not go well with the locals who demanded that the aspirant for the position of MP in the area Ochogo must also address them and not be ignored. While speaking to the media, Ochogo noted when the commotion started, he was forced to go to the podium to address the locals. "The locals were demanding that I had to address them before the senator spoke so I went to the podium thinking that following the demands, the senator who allow me to address the locals after the area MP ignored me". He added " I didn't even take a minute at the podium, the next thing a heard was a gunshot from behind, and everyone started to run for safety in all direction. We didn't know what was happening. I ran to my car as others ran for safety wondering who made the shot". However later, Otiende when contacted accused aspirants of being behind all that occurred. He alleged that the aspirant had sponsored goons to disrupt the function. The MP noted that his counterpart Atandi had refused to offer the microphone to Ochogo stating he was his competitor. "When everything erupted we were forced to flee for safety as the goons were stoning the chopper," he said at the same time calling on the police to investigate the matter. "He tried to cause chaos, we dint want to be part of it, we went to the chopper and left". The Rarieda MP however noted that nobody was injured and the entire thing was just Alego politics at play.