Public primary schools produced 10 of the top 15 performers in the 2020 KCPE exams, outshining their private counterparts. They performed even better in the top five, producing the first four, with only one candidate from a private school emerging joint fourth. Faith Mumo from Kari Mwailu Primary School in Makueni county emerged the top performer after scoring 433 marks. Yvette Nanzala Wesonga (432) from Chogoria Girls Primary school in Tharaka Nithi county came second. Wesonga tied in second place with Angel Gakenia Muriithi of Maseno Girls Boarding Primary School in Kisumu county. Nzoia Sugar Primary School in Bungoma produced the fourth-best student, Samwel Mkahanu Wanyonyi, who got 431 marks. Willaim Castro from Crystal Hill Academy in Kericho tied in fourth place with 431 marks. Laureen Chepkemboi Tarus of St Mathew's Septonok, a public school in Nandi county also tied in fourth. Eliud Kipkirui of Lessos Hills Adventist Primary School scored 430 marks to grab the seventh position nationally. Karatina D.E.B Primary School which is located in Nyeri county produced the eighth-best candidate, Margart Waruguru with 429 marks. The eighth position was shared by three candidates including Bernice Omondi of Nairobi Primary School and Joy Nkatha Kiogora of Chogoria Girls. The eleventh position was taken by four pupils from private schools with 428 marks including Polycup Ombongi of Ober Boys' Primary School in Homa Bay county. Others who tied in the same position were Daniel Mboya of Crystal Hill Academy, Lowell Njenga and Debra Zawadi both of Emmanuel Springs Academy, Makueni county and Jeff Mutungi of Friend's Academy in Trans Nzoia county. While releasing the results on Thursday, Education CS George Magoha lauded performance by public primary schools for weathering all the challenges to post impeccable results. Magoha acknowledged the improved performance of public schools, despite their high enrolment numbers and inadequate teaching and learning resources. “In particular, I am impressed that public schools have shone in the 2020 KCPE, scooping 10 of the top 15 overall slots in the examination. Additionally, of the top 15 places," Magoha said. There were fears that the long break due to the coronavirus pandemic would impact negatively the overall performance of public schools. Schools were closed between March and early October in 2020. While private schools had invested heavily in digital learning for the six months, public schools remained closed due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases. In the 2019 results, the best candidate was Andy Michael Munyiri of Damacrest Schools, a private institution in Thogoto, Kikuyu, Kiambu county, who obtained 440 marks  (edited by o. owino)