Uncleared goods belonging to broke Italian firm CMC di Ravenna will be auctioned next month as Itare Dam is stalled. The Sh34 billion dam project stalled after the contractor – now facing auction of its equipment —left the site, citing financial constraints. KRA has listed for sale the company’s equipment and accessories that were to be used for Itare Dam. The reason for auction is nonclearance. Equipment to be auctioned include a rota dump station and second-hand muck cars in five 40-foot containers at the Inland Container Depot in Nairobi. The goods arrived in the country on November 9, 2018. Also listed for sale are hoses connectors, clamps and other spare parts imported in a one 20ft container for exclusive use in the Itare Dam water supply project. Brand-new flat car mortar boxes of various types are also listed for sale to recover unpaid tax, as well as imported rails and other equipment fittings. The law requires goods deposited in a Customs warehouse to be removed within 30 days, otherwise, they will be deemed abandoned. The EAC Customs Management Act, 2004, gives the KRA commissioner the power to put such cargo on sale by public auction. Nairobi ICD chief manager Rosemary Mureithi said interested buyers may view the goods at the Customs Warehouse, ICDE on May 14 and May 17 during office hours. KRA and CMC di Ravenna have been embroiled in a tax dispute since the Italian firm claimed Sh147 million in VAT input. CMC di Ravenna was last August, however, ordered to pay Kenya Revenue Authority Sh333,320 in taxes. The taxman has not stated how much it is owed by the Italian firm but the company had earlier claimed it was to import materials — exclusively for the dam works, tax-free. CMC Di Ravenna filed for bankruptcy in 2018, the cash crisis forcing it to abandon not only the Itare project, but also the Arror and Kimwarer dams. Senior Treasury officials, senior managers of the implementing agency, and directors of the Italian firm are in court over the alleged loss of Sh28 billion in the project. The government has fresh plans to resume construction of the Itare Dam, citing ongoing consultations with stakeholders and a hunt for a new contractor. Tourism PS Safina Kwekwe during a recent tour of development projects in Rift Valley said talks were underway to address issues that caused the works to stall. CMC di Ravenna had completed only 30 per cent of the work, being the dam foundation, treatment plant, outlet tunnel and pipeline. A new contractor is to tender for the remaining 70 per cent of the work. The government had initially planned to hand the project to a subcontractor seconded by the broke Italian firm. Taxpayers are at the risk of losing Sh11 billion already spent on the project should the government terminate its contract with CMC di Ravenna. The Cabinet was exploring three options —  waiting for the Italian firm to get back to its feet, engaging a new contractor; or having the financier – BNP Paribas and Intesa San Apolo – second a subcontractor. The latter was said to present challenges as it would mean a change of eligibility of export credit from Italy.  (Edited by V. Graham)