The UN High Commissioner for Refugees Filippo Grandi has said Kenya will not shut down Dadaab and Kakuma refugee camps but will seek solutions. “The government of Kenya is not closing down those camps, but wants to have a solution, to see what’s the way forward,” Grandi said. “I think the government of Kenya will continue to provide hospitality, but understandably they want to have a strategy for the future and the discussions continue.” Grandi is visiting the Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda and Burundi to assess the problems that refugees are currently facing. Last month, Kenya told UNHCR to come up with a timeframe to close Dadaab and Kakuma camps, citing national security concerns. The Ministry of Interior said there was no room for further negotiations. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and his team had given the UN refugee agency 14 days to come up with a plan for closing the camps. Speaking to journalists in Rwanda on Sunday, Grandi said they have had a good discussion with the Kenyan government. He revealed that the UN refugee agency has submitted future plans for the two camps to Kenya. On April 8, Kenya's High Court suspended the government move to shut down two camps that hold refugees from war-torn neighbouring countries. The US acting top diplomat in Africa Robert Godec said the United States was very concerned by the possibility of closing the camps and said he has raised the issue with Kenyan officials. He said the US was encouraging Kenya to move forward on a proposal under discussion with the UN refugee agency. “We hope and expect that Kenyans will live up to their international commitments and that this matter will be resolved,” Godec said. The Dadaab camp holds more than 200,000 refugees mainly from Somalia, which has not known peace since the 1991 ouster of long-time dictator Siad Barre. The Kakuma camp in northern Kenya hosts nearly 200,000 refugees and asylum seekers, the majority from South Sudan's civil war. Kenya has been saying for years that it would like to close the Dadaab camp near the Somalia border, calling it a source of insecurity. Officials have described it as a recruiting ground for the jihadist rebels of the al-Shabaab extremist group and a base for launching violent attacks inside Kenya. A court in 2017 blocked the closure of Dadaab, saying it was not safe for refugees to return to Somalia. Kenya demanded a timeframe the agency will use in closing the camps over insecurity and environmental degradation among others. UNHCR agreed to repatriate up to 100,000 refugees to other countries like the USA, Canada, Ethiopia and South Sudan. “We disagree on the timeframe because it is open-ended. We need a definite date on when these transfer will start and end,” said an official aware of the talks. In the response to Kenya,  the refugee agency said it is hosting 512,494 refugees and asylum seekers with 224,462 at Dadaab, 206,458 at Kakuma and Kalobeyei settlement and 81,574 in urban areas. “The need to ensure additional support for sustainable reintegration in areas of return, as well as transitional support for the relocation of non-Somali populations including Kenyans, registered as refugees from Dadaab camp is another essential aspect,” said part of the response. UNHCR said in its response delivered on April 7 it has to verify the identity of the refugees, an issue Kenya says has done and has been doing every three years in the past 30 years the camps have been here. It also wants the continuation of the deregistration process of Kenyans registered as refugees and a review of the existing individual return package. UNHCR has proposed community-based reintegration support in priority return areas in the main countries of origin, alternative solutions for refugees and asylum seekers from the East African Community and solutions for refugees with protection concerns in third countries and Kenya. “Key elements of the roadmap include gradual consolidation of Dadaab, closure of camps within the complex and environmental restoration and conversion of Kakuma camps into an integrated settlement of EAC citizens willing to reside there under alternative stay arrangement and integration together with Kalobeyei into new Kakuma municipality in line with the Turkana county plan.” UNHCR plans to relocate 10,000 to Somalia, 5,000 to Ethiopia, 5,000 to South Sudan, and 3,500 to Burundi by end of 2021. Some 25,000 refugees will acquire residency status in EAC and settle 5,000 others in the US. However, due to lengthy security screening, no Somali departures are foreseen for 2021, the response says. In Somalia and South Sudan, UNHCR will need an increased presence in areas of return and expansion of facilities to host the staff and refugees. This can be done in 2022.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris