Is a senior national government administrator playing a key role in the Jubilee (headquarters pictured) offensive in the Bonchari by-election? Corridors is aware of widening cracks in the Jubilee party campaign teams after the official allegedly insisted on leading the campaigns. This has triggered a falling out among the top brass. Some officials are said not to be keen on success. The aim is to deal a deadly blow to the official. He is said to have bulldozed his way to have the Jubilee field a candidate. The move jolted the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga. Some Jubilee leaders are said to be keen on leaving the official to manage the campaigns, but very wary of a bitter lesson ahead. *** A legislator from Western Kenya eyeing a Governor's seat in 2022 is  stressed. His party leader recently showered praise on another legislator from the county during a public function. This left residents wondering whether the accolades were equivalent to an endorsement. The legislator has always considered himself the foot soldier and point man of his party leader and has been expecting an outright endorsement. A bird whispers to Corridors the legislator had believed it would be plain sailing in his quest to be governor until his counterpart in Parliament, who seems to have the ear of the party leader, showed interest in the seat. *** A top government official from Central Kenya keen on a gubernatorial position  is said to be secretly working with the Tangatanga wing of Jubilee as he prepares to try his luck in politics. Informed sources say the official, who was thought to be an ally of President Uhuru Kenyatta, does not want to be seen openly associating with the pro-DP Tangatanga faction. However, he is expected to start working openly with Tangatanga from next year. The official has been bankrolling Tangatanga events in Central though he has never been present during public meetings and rallies. *** A Nyanza MP is on the spot after word went out that he influenced the appointment of his mother to the board of a vocational training institution. The MP is said to use monies from the National Government-Constituency Development Fund and bursaries to dictate how learning institutions are run. Only schools that do as he wishes receive substantive amounts for development from the NG-CDF kitty. Bursaries are largely given to close friends and relatives and areas that overwhelmingly voted for him in the last election. Many constituents are contemplating writing a petition to recall him from Parliament if he does not embrace fairness and justice. 