National football team Harambee Stars will test their mettle in six matches as they charge for a historic maiden slot in the 2022 World Cup in Qatar. And in the midst of it, Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa confirmed they would organise two friendlies to light up Stars ahead of the qualifiers set for early June. “We want to play one or two matches before the next World Cup qualifiers. We are already looking for the teams since we understood what we need to do in such matches. I want us to put our best foot forward, give the team the support they want and leave the work to the coach. Kenya have been pooled in Group 'E' alongside Mali, Uganda and Rwanda in the continental magnum opus which will be settled on a home and away round-robin format. A total of 54 nations will clash head-on for the five available slots set aside for African nations in the most coveted global showpiece. The two Afcon finalists in Cameroon early next year will secure direct qualifications. Harambee Stars will fire the first salvo in the campaign against neighbours Uganda Cranes in Nairobi either on June 5/6. Coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee charges will hit the road straight to Kigali a week later (June 12 or 13) to flex muscles with hosts Rwanda. Kenya then have a tricky date with Mali in Bamako either on September 3 or 4 and will thereafter host them in Nairobi three days later (September 6 or 7). Stars will travel to Kampala to lock horns with Uganda in their reverse fixture on October 6/7 before closing their campaign in Nairobi against Rwanda 0n October 11/12. According to the latest Fifa ranking, Mali are the highest in this group at position 54 with 1412 points. Uganda are 83rd with 1301 points whereas Kenya are 104th on 1187 points. At 133rd, Rwanda are the lowest-ranked in the group with 1103 points. Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee will most likely be mandated by FKF to navigate the ship in the stormy seas after Mwendwa handed him a clean bill of health. “I don’t want to put the cart before the horse, but if you look at our results [since Mulee took over], you can answer that question of whether he deserves to continue as the coach or not, but as FKF, we are happy with his job and what he is doing," said Mwendwa. “I think everyone can see his good job so far, and what plans he has for the team and I think let us see after one year what he can do."