Lack of school fees stands in the way of a Kiambu orphan's dream of becoming a medical doctor. Mary Wanjiru was the third-best candidate in Limuru in the recently released KCPE exam results, scoring 417 marks. She was hardly done with celebrating her stellar performance when a new and cold reality dawned on her that she might fail to join her secondary school of choice. She would like to join State House Girls or Pangani Girls, but her guardian cannot afford the fees charged in either. Wanjiru has grown up at Alpha Joy Care Children’s Home in Ndeiya ward where she took refuge. The home has been relying on the support of well-wishers to sustain its children. What it gets is barely enough to cater to their needs. Wanjiru attended Rwacumari Primary School, which had a mean score of 230. She would walk for five kilometres to school daily but never gave up despite the fatigue that came with the journey. At the end of it all, she made her mark, emerging the best in the school and in Ndeiya ward. Her classmates Victoria Wairimu and Daniel Kimani followed with 414 and 399 respectively. The children's facility has been Wanjiru's home and its director her foster parent. She described director Elizabeth Mungai as her mentor. Wanjiru is holding fast to her dream, believing that she will come through the financial predicament. She has pleaded for support. “Since my mother died, we were brought to this home and I started concentrating on what God can offer. As of now, I am leaving my fate to God, He will make a way,” a hopeful Wanjiru said. She aspires to be a paediatrician. She says that will allow her to interact with children and enable her to help the needy among them. Director Mungai says she is troubled by the possibility of the girl failing to join her school of choice. Those willing to help Wanjiru can reach Mungai on the phone—number 0722105760. “When I received Wanjiru's results, I shut myself inside my room and started crying, wondering how she will learn. Her marks are so high—they are of a national school,” she said. “I would hear her home-mates celebrate the results, but I was in deep thoughts full of tears. No leader from this region came to celebrate with us.” Mungai on Saturday said getting a well-wisher or a donor these days is a headache, especially at a time when the country is struggling with the economic fallout of Covid-19 due to the stringent measures put in place to control the contagion. She said she has 35 vulnerable primary schoolchildren in the home. Besides, she has 13 in secondary schools; they, too, need fees, clothes and food. Six others are pursuing their university education. “I have no option but to take her (Wanjiru) to any of the day schools around. I know the entry points of those schools are low while her marks are high, [but] it is because of how issues are in the country,” Mungai said. Kiambu County Parents Association chairman Samuel Wanjema on Saturday urged the government to release bursaries in good time so that those joining Form 1 can benefit before their enrolment date. He called appealed to well-wishers to identify and adopt needy cases.