Plans are underway to compensate residents of four Nyanza counties affected by the expansion of the Sh8.5 billion Ahero-Kisii-Isebania road. Nyanza regional coordinator Magu Mutindika said on Tuesday that the Ministry of Lands has already evaluated compensation claims, hence they are only waiting for a report of beneficiaries and how much each should get. “The most affected stretch of the road where we had major cases for compensation covers Kisii, Ahero and parts of Migori town. Once the report is out, the government will fast-track compensation,” he said. The road, which passes through Kisumu, Homa Bay, Kisii and Migori counties, was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta just before the 2017 General Election and was among key campaign pledges. “We have been keenly following the project, which passes through the four counties in the region and forms a key infrastructure ring around Lake Victoria and the neighbouring Tanzania,” Mutindika said. He said the Presidential Delivery Unit, mandated with checking on the progress of the work, has said it is 65 per cent complete. The 172-kilometre road starts in Ahero town in Kisumu county and passes through Katito town, Sondu market, Oyugis, Kisii, Suneka, Rongo, Awendo, Migori and Isebania. Because of age and narrowness, there were frequent accidents on the road, which was only four to five metres wide. “It will boost trade between the region and Tanzania, tourism, Kisii soapstone trade and increase economic impact at Lake Victoria,” Mutindika said. According to the Africa Development Bank, which is funding the project, the project comes with additional 75km improvement of feeder roads. They are the Oyugis-Kendu Bay (19.5km), Nyanchenge-Tabaka-Ogembo (15km), Sondu-Nyabondo (6km), Oyugis-Gamba (7km), Suneka-Rangwe (18km) and Misambi-Ekerenyo (11km). Mutindika spoke at Rongo University College, where he led members of the President's Delivery Unit to inspect ongoing projects in Migori county. At the university, the team inspected the ongoing Sh370 million tuition block, which is 95 per cent completed, and a five- and four-storey twin library complex worth Sh1.37 billion, which is set to be finished in 18 months. Edited by A.N