West Pokot leaders have condemned the arrest of maize traders in the county. On Wednesday, security officers from the county impounded 22 lorries ferrying suspected unsafe maize from Uganda to Kenya despite the government banning importation of maize. The government stopped maize importation from Uganda and Tanzania in March over safety concerns, citing high levels of aflatoxin. But the leaders, led by Governor John Lonyangapuo, termed it wrong for security officers to harass traders. Lonyangapuo said the maize that the traders were selling was locally sourced from the county. “Every year I distribute maize seeds to farmers for planting. Currently, we have enough food for home consumption and surplus for sale,” he said. Lonyangapuo said that last year, the region received enough rainfall and most maize stores in Kacheliba are full of certified maize that is locally produced. He said if laws concerning trade have changed, national officers should have educated residents before carrying out the crackdowns. “We have experienced insecurity in this region for a long time, currently most of the people who were engaging in cattle rustling are now engaging in business. Let’s not distort the peace we are currently enjoying,” he said. “I am now being questioned by some of the youths who want to know what the government wants them to do. They say started doing business so as not to engage in cattle rustling. Let us educate our people on the new laws.” The county chief said Kenya Revenue Authority and Kenya Bureau of Standards officials should be at the border to help control importation of maize from the neighbouring country. “It’s wrong to arrest people while in the country as it’s hard to distinguish between locally produced and imported maize,” he said Security officers seized the lorries that were trying to sneak the maize into the country through non-gazetted border points. The security team led by West Pokot county commissioner Apollo Okello waited in ambush at Kacheliba Matatu stage in Makutano town, where the lorries coming from Pokot North, which borders Uganda,  offload the maize. Hundreds of maize traders cried foul as their lorries were towed to the Kapenguri police station. The traders have faulted government's move to ban importation of maize from Uganda, saying the Covid-19 crisis has hurt many people and thus Kenyans are facing hard economic times. West Pokot county maize traders chairman Philip Achekek accused security officers of laxity saying: “It means security officers are sleeping on their job that is why the maize sneaked into the country.” Abraham Kibet, another trader, said the government was only focusing on impounding maize while other commodities like sugar, milk, alcohol and other products from Uganda are being sold within West Pokot county. -Edited by SKanyara 