Life is an adventure. Healthy eating is fun, simple, exciting and colourful. Here a series on terrific dietary advice combined with the kind of easy, oven-tested, homemade recipes that Mother used to make are availed to be enjoyed. Why not try a fresh, tantalising batch of these soft, tumbo and diet-friendly cookies? Although named “peanut”, the peanut is a part of the legume family of green peas, soybeans and lentils that provide a great source of protein. Phytonutrients, including folic acid, niacin, vitamin E, magnesium and phosphorus, are nutritionally valuable, with the same health benefits as more expensive walnuts, almonds and/or cashews. As a key factor to heart health, they lower the risk of diabetes, are helpful in weight loss, reduce inflammation and can pre-empt cancer prevention. Peanut cultivation was perfected by the Incas, and archaeologists have found peanut pottery and art in ancient Peruvian tombs. The African connection brings the peanut's journey full circle to America. Originally used by Portuguese and Spanish traders in Africa in exchange for rare spices and elephant ivory, peanuts immediately became an important African food crop because the import was very similar to other native plants that also ripen underground. In both Kiswahili and Lingala, nguba means "groundnut". Brought to the Americas as slaves, Africans continued to call peanuts by their African names as wazungu referred to them as "goobers", deriving from African-American Gullah for guber (meaning "peanut"). The following recipe will make a batch of two dozen cookies that are absolutely delicious and can be whipped up in 20 minutes. Ingredients - 1 3/4 cups all-purpose brown flour (For gluten-free diets, use oat flour or gluten-free flour). - 1/2 tsp baking soda. - 1/2 tsp salt. - 1 cup sugar-free, unsalted peanut butter. - 1/4 cup honey. - 1 cup raisins. - 1/4 cup either softened butter, coconut oil or melted margarine. - 1 large egg, beaten. - 1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract. Instructions - Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. - Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or grease. - Mix flour, baking soda, and salt together in a medium-sized bowl. - In a separate bowl, combine peanut butter, honey, butter, egg and vanilla. - Add flour mixture and stir gently until firm. Add raisins. - Place 2 Tbs dough one inch apart on a baking sheet. - Flatten each portion with a fork, incising crisscross patterns on each portion. - Bake for 10-12 minutes or until golden brown.