Hard work and persistence. These are the virtues the top KCPE exam candidate says helped her emerge as the best student in the country. Speaking on Thursday after Education CS George Magoha released results, Faith Mumo said she was excited and 'flabbergasted'. Mumo emerged tops, scoring 433 marks. She is from Kari Mwailu Primary School in Makueni county. "I'm very excited and flabbergasted. I never expected to be number one... It has been hard during this coronavirus period... I always worked hard," she said. She said her parents and teachers encouraged her and often told her she could do well. Mumo wants to join Kenya High School and dreams of becoming a neurosurgeon in the future. Mathew Masaku, Kari Mwailu Primary School headteacher said that Faith was a bright student. "Faith has got exactly what she deserves. She was our head girl. She was very discipline and hardworking," Masaku said. The headteacher has added as a school Nanzala Wesonga from Chogoria Girls Primary School was the second-best candidate with 432 marks. Angel Murithi was the third-best student, scoring 431 marks. She tied with Samuel Wanyonyi. The top four students were from public schools. Nine students attained above 400 marks. Girls performed slightly better in English, Kiswahili, and Kenyan Sign Language. Meanwhile, boys performed better in Maths, Science and Social Studies. Magoha said overall performance improved compared to 2019, although the mark of the highest candidate dropped from 440. The mean average performance and quality of grades for all candidates were however higher. According to the Kenya National Examinations Council, candidates can access their results by sending an SMS with their index number followed by KCPE, in capital letters, to 20076. Meanwhile, a total of 2,543 candidates who registered for the KCPE exam did not sit the test, KNEC CEO Mercy Karogo said on Thursday during the release of results. A total of 1,181,725 registered for the exam but 1,179,182 sat the paper. A total of 28,467 exam centers were used. The KCPE exams were delayed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The 2020 KCPE exam started on March 22 and ended on March 24, with rehearsals having been done on March 19. Last year, 1,083,456 learners sat the 2019 exam.