A section of leaders in Uasin Gishu county led by Governor Jackson Mandago have written to Interior Ministry Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi opposing the creation of new administration areas. Speaking at Moiben, Mandago said as leaders and residents they had not been consulted and hence the process must be stopped to allow for consultations and public participation. He was with a section of leaders from the county including Soy MP Caleb Kostany and MCAs. The ministry has already posted deputy and assistant county commissioners to some of the new administrative areas created in Eldoret town and other parts of the county. “Through the Uasin Gishu county commissioner, we have asked that the ongoing creation of new divisions be stopped until those involved come so that we consult,” “As county leaders, we want to put it clear that we were not consulted, let alone the public. For this reason, we have already petitioned CS Matiang'i to stop that exercise,” Mandago said. He said it was not proper to carry out such changes without public participation involving leaders or residents from any particular area. “That business of new boundaries should stop. We need to come for a meeting where leaders and the public will agree on the modalities of the new administrative units.” Uasin Gishu assembly chief whip, David Sing'oei, said the public has the right to be consulted on such matters concerning new boundaries. “The governor, the assembly was not consulted and Uasin Gishu the people were left out,” Sing'oei said Cheptiret/Kipchamo MCA, Gilbert Tenai, said Uasin Gishu people must give their opinions on how they want to have the administrative units changed. UDA politician Jonathan Bii said the IEBC should be allowed to deal with issues touching on all boundaries in the country. “IEBC should be given space to undertake its duty, then public participation will be held for the people to present their opinions.” “The exercise by the Ministry of Interior is just illegal and elicits questions,” Bii said. The Interior Ministry has insisted that the posting of new administrative officers was to enhance security, improve national government services and projects in all parts of the country. The changes came amidst debate in the region over the creation of three proposed new constituencies. The majority of the local leaders have for many years opposed the creation of a constituency for Eldoret town fearing that a non-local may easily be elected as MP.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris