World marathon champion Ruth Chepng'etich says her new world half marathon record, set at Sunday's Istanbul Half Marathon, is a 'dream come true.' Chepng'etich clocked 1:04:02 to smash the previous record, 1:04:31, set by Ethiopian Ababel Yeshane at last year's Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon in the United Arab Emirates. "I am really happy about this amazing result. Thank you all for the messages and the great support. The world record is something I have been dreaming of for some time and I am so happy to do it on the streets of Istanbul," Chepng'etich said. Ethiopian Yalemzerf Yehualaw clocked 1:04:40 to finish second, ahead of world 5,000m champion Hellen Obiri — who clocked 1:04:51 to set the fastest time ever run by a half marathon debutant. The Turkish city may as well be Chepng'etich's second home considering the positive fortunes she has enjoyed in the past four editions out of which she has won on three occasions. In  2017, she won the Istanbul Marathon in 2:22:36 before setting a new course record of 2:18.35, two years later. Her exploits in the Turkish city provided Kenyans with a memorable Easter and a welcome distraction from the gloom and doom occasioned by the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic and the resultant stringent measures, which have seen the authorities pull the plug on sporting activities. "Your victory is a reminder to the world that indeed Kenya is a distance running powerhouse. Thank you for once again flying our flag high. We are proud of you," former Prime Minister Raila Odinga said. Tributes also poured in from fellow athletes who praised her for the determination she showcased despite wet, chilly conditions in Istanbul. "Congratulations sister keep it up. Your future is bright," Brimin Kipruto, the 2008 Olympics 3,000m steeplechase champion, said. In the men's race, world half marathon record holder Kibiwott Kandie set a new course record of 59:35 on his way to a sweet victory over arch-rival and former record holder Geoffrey Kamworor who clocked 59:38. Another Kenyan, Roncer Kipkorir finished third in 59:46. The Kenya Defence Forces gunner had to stave off a tough challenge from his counterpart in the last kilometre as the race began to fulfil its billing as a 'battle of the titans.' It was Kamworor's first international foray after a motorcycle accident kept him out of action for most of last year.