Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi paid a courtesy call to ODM party leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday. Moi was accompanied by Muhoho Kenyatta, who is the elder brother to President Uhuru Kenyatta. In his Twitter account, Moi said that the visit was to check on Raila’s recovery from the coronavirus which he contracted last month. “I am deeply impressed by The Rt. Hon. Raila Odinga's quick and steady recovery; a clear indication of his resilience even in the face of adversity. We wish him good health, long life and boundless joy as one of our country's foremost patriots,” Moi said. This comes barely two weeks after Raila announced that he was Covid-free. Raila had tested positive for the virus on March 11 when he checked into Nairobi Hospital for a series of tests after complaining of fatigue when he returned from a gruelling five-day tour of the Coast region where he had drummed up support for BBI. After testing negative, the ODM leader said that he will be taking the Covid vaccine as a way of boosting Kenyans’ confidence in the jab. The meeting between the two comes as the country continues to witness new political realignments ahead of the 2022 General Elections. Kanu is among the four parties that have come together to form the One Kenya Alliance. Other party members of One Kenya Alliance include Wiper Kenya led by Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC of Musalia Mudavadi, and the Ford Kenya led by Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula. It is not clear whether the two leaders discussed the politics, as rumours continue to go around regarding the possibility of Raila uniting with Deputy President William Ruto. However, Ruto has dismissed reports of ongoing talks between him and Raila. Deputy President William Ruto has dismissed reports of ongoing talks between him and ODM leader Raila Odinga to forge a pre-election deal. On Monday, Ruto's office said the DP has neither met Raila’s emissaries nor sent people to negotiate any political deal. Ruto’s director of communication Emmanuel Talam told the Star that the meeting between Ruto and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya had nothing to do with Raila. Allies of the DP from Mt Kenya have also rubbished any such coalition, saying Ruto and Raila were ideologically incompatible. Last week on Thursday, Ruto and Oparanya met at Mahali Mzuri camp at the heart of the vast Masai Mara National Reserve. Also in attendance were former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri and former Sports CS Rashid Echesa. A  day after the meeting, Oparanya trooped to Raila's home reportedly to brief him about the talks. The governor has said he called Raila and informed him about the meeting with Ruto.