Migori senator Ochillo Ayacko was on Tuesday elected as the chairman of the powerful senate watchdog committee, two days after the panel was reconstituted. There was a pull and push among the lawmakers delayed by two months in the reconstitution of the County Public Accounts and Investments Committee. Marsabit senator Hargura Godana retained his position as the vice-chairperson of the committee that oversights billions of shillings sent to counties. Ayacko takes over from Kisii senator Sam Ongeri who chaired the previous committee whose term expired last December and had to be reconstituted before the House embarks on its business this year. Ongeri had succeeded his Homa Bay counterpart Moses Kajwang’ who had held the position for three consecutive sessions. Senators Imana Malachy Ekal (Turkana), Njeru Ndwiga (Embu), Christopher Lang’at (Bomet) and Mercy Chebeni (Nominated) are new members of the committee. Senators Fatuma Dullo (Isiolo), Kimani Wamatangi (Kiambu) and Johnes Mwaruma (Taita Taveta) who sat in the previous panel have retained their positions. Wamatangi makes a comeback to the committee after dethroning his Muranga Counterpart Irungu Kang’ata as Majority whip. The committee oversights the expenditure of billions of shillings of taxpayers' money given to 47 county governments under the Division of Revenue and other conditional grants. Their role is equivalent to Public Accounts Committee (PAC) and the Public Investment Committee (PIC) of the National Assembly tasked with scrutinizing national government expenditure. The lawmakers have been scrambling for slots in the nine-member committee over what has hitherto described as a fight for “visibility”. Although the Senate Standing Orders do not specify who should chair the oversight committee, in the last Parliament, senators agreed that the position should be chaired by a member from the minority side. The influential committee which is essentially the face of the Senate has in the past had to fight off claims of extortion and a scheme to make more money in allowances within its rank and file. Some governors have also accused members of the committee of salivating for their seats. Last year, the Council of Governors (CoG) accused the committee then chaired by Sam Ongeri of revisiting what they term as outdated audit queries to extort governors. The county chiefs faulted the lawmakers for investigating financial queries dating back to 2015. According to the CoG, such incidents raise questions and depict that the lawmakers have sinister motives which warrant investigations. “It is unfortunate that some of the issues being raised by the Senate committee emanate from previous financial years dating back to 2015 which begs the question of where the Senate has been all along.” COG said in a statement. “We hereby categorically state that Governors will not bow down to the extortionist nature of this County Public Accounts and Investments Senate Committee, "We call upon the EACC and DCI to investigate the County Public Accounts and Investments Committee of the Senate on this matter of extortion,” it added. The committee, through Ongeri and Narok Senator Ledama Olekina, hit back, saying the county chiefs want to evade accountability. “We derive our powers from Article (1)(2)(3). We are defending counties and also ensuring they account for public monies they are given,” Ongeri said. Olekina warned that county chiefs who fail to appear before the panel will have only themselves to blame. “While the Senate is fighting to have more resources to the counties it’s a shame for the chair of CoG to say that they won’t be appearing before CPAIC to account for funds they have been given,” he said.