Several aspirants are crisscrossing Trans Nzoia seeking support to succeed Governor Patrick Khaemba. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa launched his plan for the county's top seat more than two years ago and is leading the pack of aspirants. Ford-Kenya is the dominant party in the region and both Khaemba and Wamalwa were elected on the party's ticket. Wamalwa has the advantage of being a close ally of the party leader Moses Wetang'ula and the outfit's secretary general. “I will vie for the governor seat and our plans are well on course,” Wamalwa said. Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa is also being mentioned as a possible contender for the seat. Eugene has not confirmed or denied claims that he is laying ground to vie for the Trans Nzoia governor seat. The CS has a considerable following in the county and will complicate the race should he vie. Wamalwa and Eugene are considered to have well-oiled machinery for the race to succeed Khaemba. Others in the race include businessman Kakai Bisau who vied unsuccessfully in the last elections and is also planning to make another stab for the county leadership. Other hopefuls include Woman Representative Janet Nangabo and Ben Wanjala, a professor, but both of them are yet to confirm their interest. Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party is also expected to field a candidate. The region is cosmopolitan, with the Luhya community being dominant followed by the Sabaot, Kikuyu, Kisii and Marakwet. Alliances among the communities will play a critical role in determining who takes over from Khaemba. Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kutuny said residents are keen to elect as Khaemba’s replacement a person with a vision for the unity of communities in the region and take Trans Nzoia to the next level of development. “All the people want is a uniting leader who will also focus on development priorities where much more needs to be done so that we alleviate poverty and improve the lives of residents,” Kutuny said. For Khaemba, the focus is to complete projects he initiated before his term ends next year. The county chief faces an uphill task because his main project, the Kitale Referral and Teaching Hospital, has stalled. The Sh1.5 billion project is also the subject of investigations by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption over alleged graft in the purchase of land for the project. There is little hope of having the project completed but Khaemba is credited with implementing several other programmes to benefit residents. He has invested heavily in the agriculture sector to support farmers and increase production. The county has projects worth more than Sh6 billion in progress but it has completed work on the Kitale bus park and opened new markets.   (edited by o. owino)