Interior CS Fred Matiang'i has said the government is crafting stringent rules to curb cases of sexual harassment in the police service. He on Friday said a team had been formed to come up with rules that will guide relationships in the National Police Service. He said among others, the move is aimed at addressing rising cases of sexual harassment and killings in the service. However, Kenyans are asking whether rules can prevent two adults from falling in love. Matiang'i had said, “We will adopt a system similar to that of the Kenya Defence Forces which bars the soldiers from getting into intimate relationships with their colleagues." "Moving forward, it will be illegal for a police officer to date or get married to a fellow law enforcement officer. If it happens that two police officers fall in love, then one has to leave the Service." Kenyans are questioning how effective the 'love ban' would be. Matiang'i's remarks come nearly three weeks after a bodyguard attached to his office and his wife, a traffic officer, died in a murder suicide. General Service Unit officer Hudson Wakise shot and killed his wife Pauline Wakasa before turning the gun on himself. Wakasa was given a full ceremonial send-off but Wakise was buried without police presence. They were interred in their separate family homes. Last week, ODM leader Raila Odinga bemoaned the increasing cases of spouses killing one another in domestic fights. The AU Infrastructure envoy decried that “too many lives are being lost on  daily basis going by media reports.” Raila, calling for an urgent national discussion on gender based violence, said the “abnormality of the murders cannot become the normal.” Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko further advised couples to learn how to say sorry instead of resorting to killings. “The recent cases of domestic violence involving the killing of spouses, children and even parents like the case of the young man in Kisumu are extremely disturbing, and we need to bring this bad culture to an end as Kenyans,” Sonko said. In his ninth address on the Covid-19 pandemic, President Uhuru Kenyatta raised concerns with the "increasing tensions within (our) homes." The President ordered the National Crime Research Centre to probe the escalating cases of gender-based violence and violation of children’s rights.