A policeman detained for allegedly shooting dead a herder over a pasture dispute in Machakos will undergo a mental assessment before taking a plea. High Court judge George Odunga on Thursday ordered that constable Victor Kariuki should be taken for mental assessment before facing trial possibly for murder. Kariuki is yet to take a plea. Odunga directed that the suspect should remain at Machakos GK Prison where he had been remanded after the prosecution requested for 10 more days to conclude their investigations. The court ordered that Kariuki be returned to court on April 23 after mental assessment to appear before Odunga. The officer attached to the Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit had earlier appeared before Machakos resident magistrate Nelly Kenei but did not take a plea. The court granted the prosecution 10 days to continue detaining him at Machakos police station as they finalise investigations. Kariuki was arrested and locked up at Machakos police station following the Monday evening incident that occurred at Vet Farm, opposite the governor's office. According to a police report, Kariuki had responded to a distress call from security officers deployed at the farm who informed him that herders were illegally grazing there. He rushed to the farm and met a group of herders, where a confrontation erupted. He reportedly shot in the air to scare the charged crowd. Muendo Maundu, 38, died on the spot after he was hit in the shoulder. Maundu allegedly tried to snatch the rifle and was shot in the back on the right shoulder and the bullet exited on the left. The crowd then advanced to the offices of Vet farm where they set on fire a hay store and grass plantation. The fire brigade was called but the store and the plantation were already destroyed. “We were chased by the officers four times. They demanded Sh6,000 to release our cattle. The police officer just turned and hit Maundu after he attempted to drive the cattle away. The officer ran after killing him," one of the herders said. Maundu's body was moved to Machakos Level 5 Hospital mortuary for a postmortem. Machakos subcounty criminal investigations officer Rhoda Kanyi intervened, restoring calm among the locals. She urged witnesses to cooperate with the police and assured them of their safety. “We will ensure that you are protected accordingly through the Witness Protection Agency. Relatives to the deceased should also come up. Justice will be served,” Kanyi said. Edited by Henry Makori