A woman told a court on Thursday she was not in a sexual relationship with a businessman she accuses of defrauding her of Sh31 million. Bellah Bronislavia who appeared virtually in a Kibera court said she never had sexual intercourse with the suspect and that they were only friends. “Because he was a married man we agreed to set boundaries and do business. I have never had sexual intercourse with the suspect,” she told the court. In the case, Edwin Obi Okoye is accused of defrauding Bronislavia of Sh31 million between December 18, 2017 and May 14, 2018 in Nairobi. The charge said the accused person falsely pretended that he had a business. He has since denied the charges and was released on bond. While testifying before senior principal magistrate Derrick Kuto, Bronislavai told the court that Okoye was dealing in telecommunication devices and she too had some Safaricom dealership countrywide. “I thought I could buy his devices as I had some business across the country too. That never happened because Mr Okoye wanted me to pay for the items upfront,” she told Kuto. She said she talked with the suspect on how they would partner in the business “The communication with Mr Okoye was on WhatsApp and it was supplied to the police. I had ordered around 100 devices and I wanted to pay some deposit and once I received the items from him in totality I would pay the other amount, something Okoye refused as he wanted me to pay upfront. I refused because we had just met,” she told the court. "Around August or September 2017, he called me and told me that he was back in the country. We talked about his new wife whom he had just married. His business  both in Kenya and the UK." She told the court that Okoye kept on asking her for some loans. After sending him Sh5 million the accused person told her his investors had delayed paying him and he was to repay in May 2018. “On January 2, 2018 he asked me to loan him another Sh 8million to his company. On 16 February I sent Sh5 million to the same account. February 24, 2018 I sent Sh6 million to the same account. March 26, 2018 I sent Sh1 million to the same account. On May 16, 2018 I sent Sh6 million to the same account and in total, I had transferred Sh31 million to the said account,” she told the court. Okoye through his lawyer told the court that the money never went directly to him. The court also heard that the accused person sent the woman Sh500,000 on November 2020. The magistrate directed that the matter be mentioned on June 11. Edited by Henry Makori