The multi-million beautification project in Diani, Kwale county has run into headwinds. It has been almost two years since the contractor left the site. To date, the structures that were brought down along the roads to pave way for the grand project is what welcome visitors to the area. Kwale Environment and Natural Resources chief officer Nuru Mohammed said the project was delayed because it was marred by some legal challenges. “The contractor left the site because some issues came up in the initial stage,” she said. The project was supposed to be done in three phases and scheduled for completion in 2022. The first phase of the project was to cost taxpayers Sh16 million, the second and the third phases were estimated to cost Sh10 million each. According to Mohammed, they had underestimated the magnitude of the work. They did not take into consideration the Kenya Power electric polls and the licenses required from the Kenya National Highway Authority. She said they are working to address the challenges with the respective authorities. Mohammed said they have already received the required documentation to proceed with the project, but currently they are facing shortage of funds. “We now have approvals from Kenya Power and KeNHA, but we must first pay a certain fee before the work continues,” she said. The beautification project included the construction of better roads, to decongest traffic at the entrance of the thriving tourism hub, improve the water and drainage system, lighting up the streets and planting various species of indigenous trees and flowers. It is also meant to open up employment opportunities to jobless youth. Currently, the county government has skipped phase one and embarked  on phase two of the project which involves the decoration of the town by installing dustbins and planting flowers along the roads. Last week, a section of the business people whose property was destroyed to pave way for the project protested against the county government. They accused the county of causing massive destruction and losses for their businesses. The business owners questioned why the Kwale government conducted the demolition early while they and did not have proper development plans. Mohammed, however, urged the residents to remain calm saying soon the contractor will resume work. The project was designed to add value to Diani municipality. Diani is a world renowned tourists’ destination and it has won several times in the World Travel Awards. Despite the worldwide recognition, during rainy seasons Diani becomes an eyesore. Most places flood due to the blockage of the drainage system. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara