The highways agency has signed a Sh17.9 billion deal with a Chinese firm for the construction of the 453km Lapsset corridor roads. China Communications Construction Company and the Kenya National Highways Authority signed the agreement in Nairobi on Monday. The contractor can now begin construction works in the corridor, including on the Ijara-Sangailu-Hulugho road. Director general Peter Mundinia repsented Kenha while the general manager signed for the Chinese firm. The works on the 453km road are expected to take approximately 24 months to complete. They will comprise the 257km section of the Lamu-Ijara-Garissa road and another 113km Hindi-Bodhei-Basuba-Kiunga road. On Wednesday, Kenha assistant director and head of communications Charles Njogu said the 114km Lamu-Witu-Garsen road is substantially complete. He said that the contractor was undertaking final works that include road markings, final drainage works and road signage. Works on this road have been ongoing for the last four years. H-Young in partnership with GIBB Africa won the Sh10.8 billion tender in 2017. “The deal will see the three roads constructed and ready for use in two years," said Njogu. According to Njogu, once completed, the roads will have a significant impact on the Northern Kenya corridor, more so with the Lamu Port in place. The roads are expected to not only promote national security, social welfare but also socio-economic activities. They will enhance access  from the national road network to the proposed Lamu Port and resort cities, towns and county administrative centres. They are also expected to enhance peace and security in the northern frontier. “Such infrastructure will also place Kenya’s Lamu Port as the most competitive port in East, Central and Southern Africa as large vessels will now be able to dock for reconsolidation of cargo in and out of the coastline, to various destinations," said Njogu. He revealed that the planned road network will also place the Northern part of Kenya on an equal pedestal as other regions, thus contributing to the national cohesion and regional balance. Lamu Port regional manager Salim Bunu said the planned road network will help project the Lamu Port as the next big thing in the harbour business. “We are going to see the Lamu Port host the biggest ships ever to anchor in this region, bigger than what we have seen at the Mombasa Port and other ports in East Africa. The expected turnup is astronomical," said Bunu. -Edited by SKanyara