Kenya has shown a consistent pattern of cryptocurrency adoption and growing trade rates in recent years. During an interview, the Blockchain Association of Kenya (BAK) said that bitcoin exchange knowledge has grown, and Kenyans are now using platforms like Bitcoin-billionaire.net and other cryptocurrency exchanges to pay for everything. Additionally, cryptocurrency trading has risen in importance in Kenya, and Kenyans now have a wide range of exchange options to go to if they would like to buy cryptocurrencies including Bitcoin. Read along to explore 5 of the best cryptocurrency exchanges in Kenya. Cex.io Cex.io first joined the cryptocurrency trading field in 2013 as a Bitcoin trading and cloud mining service. Ever since the business has evolved into a multi-functional network of over 500,000 users. It’s a multifunctional cryptocurrency exchange recognized by millions of customers across the world, enabling consumers to purchase bitcoin with a credit card or debit card in a simple and safe manner. CEX.IO offers a variety of payment methods (SWIFT, SEPA, ACH, and Faster Payments), as well as 24/7 customer service and a reliable system. Cex.io is well-known internationally for its extensive trading tools for Bitcoin, Bitcoin Cash, Ethereum, Ripple, Stellar, Litecoin, Tron, and other crypto assets. Paxful Paxful, a peer-to-peer Bitcoin trading network, was founded in 2015 and facilitates buyers and sellers to directly connect by posting exchange offers. As a result, Paxful handles more than 20,000 trades each day than any other Peer - to - peer cryptocurrency network. With Paxful's escrow feature, users of the network are protected from scammers when trading. Paxful accepts a variety of payment types, namely PayPal, MoneyGram, Amazon/iTunes gift cards, and others. Changelly Changelly is a cryptocurrency trading and exchange service that can be operated just about anywhere in the world and is supported by a highly reachable and user-friendly trading interface. Changelly is a real-time cryptocurrency exchange that provides the best live prices for each pair. The user interface is bright and easy to use, and payments are completed quickly. Changelly's enrollment process is fast, and the company's conversion system is incorporated into some of the most popular cryptocurrency exchanges, including Poloniex, Bittrex, and Binance. It provides a private service with low fees and high exchange limits. There’s 24/7 availability of assistance present through chat on its official site. Kraken Kraken is among the largest global cryptocurrency trading systems that managed to raise $100 million from its biggest supplier in a direct offering valued at $4 billion in 2019. It provides a huge range of cryptocurrencies and generally recognized payment methods. Kraken provides flexible ordering platforms and smartphone applications, in addition to a broad range of crypto options, so you can fine-tune your trading history. Trading on Kraken has a lot of positive aspects. It refers to both experienced investors and new investors looking to gain a better understanding of the business. Millions of people use the app, which offers cryptocurrency to fiat trading and also some pricing information to Bloomberg Terminal. To put it briefly, Kraken is a safe and reliable cryptocurrency trading site. It is one of the most trustworthy exchanges as opposed to other options. Kraken provides capital in the following currencies: USD, EUR, CAD, GBP, JPY, and CHF. Bitsquare Bitsquare is a peer-to-peer bitcoin exchange that enables users to purchase, sell, and swap bitcoins for other cryptocurrencies and fiat currencies. Bitsquare is the ideal bitcoin trading platform if you consider your protection as a dealer, particularly if you choose to stay anonymous. It's an accessible project, which means it's supported by individual contributions and social fundraising. They are a "Decentralized Autonomous Organization" (DAO) with shareholdings distributed based on project membership. Simply put, if you're ready to volunteer, you could become Bitsquare's next shareholder. Customers of Bitsquare can buy and sell bitcoin using any nationwide fiat currency.