A widely shared news article claiming that a newly developed nasal spray has clinically passed tests for the treatment of Covid-19 is TRUE. According to the article published on the website Hospimedica.com, the spray was found to have reduced the Covid-19 viral load by more than 95 per cent in infected participants within 24 hours of treatment, and by more than 99 per cent in 72 hours. The spray, researched and developed by Canadian Biotech company SaNOtize, is said to block entry of the virus through the nasal way and halt viral replication within the nasal cavity. The Star has investigated the claim and found it to be true. According to the SaNOtize website, the spray is developed from the gas Nitric Oxide that is inhalable, and essential in the treatment of some respiratory problems. It works by relaxing smooth muscle to widen (dilate) blood vessels, especially in the lungs. Media outlet The Times in January reported that SaNOtize had started the clinical trial of the Nitric Oxide nasal spray to evaluate its effect in the treatment of Covid-19. This followed prior trials conducted in Canada; and also independent lab tests conducted at the Antiviral Research Institute at Utah State University. The clinical trial conducted in the UK was published on the website Business Wire and was carried out by Dr Stephen Winchester and Dr Isaac John at Ashford and St Peter’s Hospital NHS Foundation Trust. It sought to determine the clinical efficacy of the spray for the treatment of mild Covid-19 infection. The primary outcome measure was the difference in Covid-19 virus load from baseline through Day 6 when using the spray. According to the National Institute of Health, clinical trials of drugs are usually described based on their phase. NIH typically requires Phase I, II, and III trials to be conducted to determine if a drug can be approved for use. Phase I trial tests an experimental treatment on a small group of often healthy people (20 to 80) to judge its safety and side effects and to find the correct drug dosage. Phase II trial uses more people and focuses on effectiveness. The phase aims to obtain preliminary data on whether the drug works in people who have a certain disease or condition. These trials also continue to study safety, including short-term side effects. The last phase gathers more information on safety and effectiveness, studying different populations and different dosages, using the drug in combination with other drugs. The nasal spray is yet to undergo the final phase before it is termed effective in the treatment of Covid-19. Clinical trials have shown that the spray is both a safe and effective antiviral treatment in preventing Covid-19 transmission and symptom duration, as well as reducing symptom severity and damage in those already infected. Israel and New Zealand have given interim approval for the sale of biotech firm SaNOtize Research and Development's Nitric Oxide Nasal Spray (NONS) which could help prevent transmission of the Covid-19 virus, the company said. According to the study’s authors, the results of clinical trials conducted in the United Kingdom show that a Nitric Oxide Nasal Spray (NONS, SaNOtize) is both a safe and effective antiviral treatment. Seventy-nine patients with confirmed Covid-19 were given the spray early following diagnosis during the trial. A parallel study conducted earlier in Canada that assessed findings from more than 7,000 self-administered treatments of the nasal spray by patients, found similar results. Both results demonstrated that the spray significantly reduced the level of SARS-CoV-2, even in patients with high viral loads. The UK study notes that the average viral load reduction was 1.362, which is a decline of approximately 95 per cent. After 72 hours following treatment, the viral load decreased by more than 99 per cent. SaNOtize is applying for emergency use authorisation to regulatory authorities in the UK and Canada currently. This post is part of an ongoing partnership with PesaCheck examining content marked as potential misinformation on Facebook and other social media platforms.