Kiang’ombe village residents in Thika West are up in arms against the area water service provider, Thika Water and Sewerage Company  over salty water in their taps. The residents accuse the water firm of mixing their clean water with borehole water that was drilled in the village by the Government under the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation through Athi Water Works Development Authority. The residents led by their chairperson Milkah Wangui held peaceful demonstrations in the area where they castigated the firm for piping salty water that is highly concentrated with fluoride. “Cooking with the water is tricky because food like Ugali is turning blackish, tea and porridge are going bad, we are now forced to buy bottled water for cooking and drinking,” Wangui said. She noted that before the borehole was drilled, the village, with over 5,000 residents,  was getting sufficient water from the water firm and that they were settling their bills on time. “We are now receiving and paying bills for salty water. We call on THIWASCO management to act swiftly and disconnect the water from the boreholes,” she said. The chairlady averred that residents and especially children have started contracting water related ailments saying that children in almost every homestead in the village are suffering from diarrhoea. “The high fluoride levels in the water we are consuming has also begun to stain our teeth. We are worried that we might end up suffering from other complications if the situation is left unchecked,” Wangui said. The residents told the water provider to intervene and end their suffering warning that if the firm fails to take action they will disconnect the borehole water. “We are tired  of making countless trips to hospitals and taking drugs because of something that can be addressed by the responsible bodies,” said resident Henry Kihuria. THIWASCO managing director Eng Moses Kinya told journalists at his office that mixing the water was aimed increasing supply in Kiang’ombe village and other villages in the area including Kiandutu, Kiganjo and Kamenu due to the high population increase. “The population in  Thika has in the recent years increased drastically and this has overstretched our water production and distribution. The borehole was drilled to supplement our supply and ensure that residents do not suffer with lack of  water,” Kinya said. He however divulged that the firm will dispatch experts to the village to examine the fluoride levels in the water they are consuming noting that if the levels are high the borehole will be shut. “Our laboratory technicians will be on the ground to take samples and conduct an analysis to determine if the fluoride levels are high. We will close the borehole if the water is unfit for human consumption but if the levels are low we will increase our clean water supply so that the salty taste can be suppressed,” the MD said. He reiterated that the firm is working round the clock to ensure uninterrupted water supply in Thika despite the bloating population. “We are embarking on other projects including drilling more boreholes with an aim of increasing our capacity and supply so that Thika residents can have sufficient water in their homes,” Kinya said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara