The Kiambu county assembly has passed a motion for the establishment of an epilepsy coordination committee to help needy persons living with the disorder. The motion tabled by Nominated MCA Mercy Nungari on Thursday was passed unanimously. It seeks to have the committee—which will include representatives from the county health services, ministry of health stakeholders of epilepsy care and research institutions—to establish mechanisms for incorporating management of epilepsy into primary health care provisions in county health facilities. "This will include ensuring epileptic drugs are availed to needy patients at subsidised prices at the county hospitals," Nungari said. She said the committee will provide a forum to gather data from research institutions and create strategies to support groups and community epilepsy clinics in the county. It will also coordinate public health education and awareness in order to improve the knowledge of the disease to reduce stigma and discrimination. Nungari acknowledged that poor diagnosis coupled with a lack of accessible and affordable healthcare is the major gap in the management of epilepsy in Kenya. "Lack of awareness about the disease where it is associated with supernatural powers increases stigma and discrimination. High cost of diagnosis and treatment due to few epilepsy specialists like neurosurgeons and few imaging facilities in rural and semi-urban areas, negative effects of the available epilepsy drugs to some people which discourage medical treatment are also some of the challenges," Nungari said. The MCA said the motion was necessitated by concerns that epileptic persons from needy backgrounds including their families suffer mentally and financially because they cannot afford the high cost of diagnosis and treatment and as a result, they are unable to control seizures and improve the quality of their lives through affordable medical treatment. Gitothua MCA Daniel Kabeeri while seconding the motion said epilepsy is one of the diseases that has not been recognised or given the required attention. "The life span of an epileptic person is between two to 10 years which begs for proper health care for them. Epilepsy is a disease where you will not know someone is suffering unless he or she collapses," Kabeeri said. Nominated MCA Nduta Muongi said the motion is of benefit to those who suffer from epilepsy recalling how a colleague who had the disorder passed on after falling down and got electrocuted in his own house. The MCAs in the health committee said funds will be set aside to ensure the implementation is done. -Edited by SKanyara