More than 500 sugar cane farmers from Migori and Homa Bay counties have blamed their persistent financial woes on the failure by millers to honour purchase contracts. They said they had agreed that sugar factories should first harvest cane from contracted farmers and only outsource raw material if there is a deficit. The farmers say right now their crop remains unharvested, yet it is past maturity date. For about 10 months, many of the farmers have been counting losses because of the delayed harvesting. Kenya National Federation of Sugarcane Farmers secretary general Ezra Okoth said farmers had been turned into beggars on account of delayed payments. “The tribulations we undergo are orchestrated by failure to abide by agreement from one of the parties. Cane had over-matured because millers have not harvested,” Okoth told the Star on Monday. He said they are considering going to court to compel the millers to harvest the crop. Okoth said they want the sugar millers to stop outsourcing cane for three months until all the mature sugar cane on their farms is harvested. “Firms outsourcing canes before exhausting that of contracted farmers should be penalised. We shouldn’t continue to suffer over what can be prevented,” he added. Farmers also took issue with county governments over poor roads leading to factories. The management of factories have been saying they are unable to harvest the crops due to impassable roads. Okoth asked Homa Bay and Migori governments to explain why they cannot have good roads despite the cess collected from farmers. “We’re going to boycott paying cess to these county governments. They should improve roads to benefit farmers,” he said. On Sunday, sugar cane farmers in Ndhiwa constituency said their crop was drying up in their farms after they harvested due to poor roads. “Let Homa Bay government tells us where they take money for road maintenance. We want our MCAs to discuss the matter in the assembly,” organising secretary Vitalis Okinda said. Farmers called on Migori Governor Okoth Obado and his Homa Bay counterpart Cyprian Awiti to buy them jaggery millers to supplement inadequate factories. “Let them allocate funds and buy jaggery mills to cushion farmers from consistently experiencing the loss,” he said. Edited by A.N