Marking of the 2020 KCSE exam began on Wednesday and the results will be released in a record 20 days, Education CS George Magoha said. The results will be out before schools reopen on May 10. “We are hopeful that we will be able to reopen by May 10. The examiners have between now and then to complete the process," Magoha said. The number of marking centres has been increased from 20 to 34. Marking will involve 27,284 teachers. The increase in marking centres has been necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic to avoid rapid spread during the exercise. The CS said the ministry was committed to protecting teachers who will take part in the marking. “This centre [Nairobi School], for example, will only accommodate 500 markers instead of 1,000 who would normally have participated in the exercise,” Magoha said. He spoke at Nairobi School as the KCSE exam came to a close Wednesday with the optional Arts and Design practical paper. Some 752,891 candidates registered for the examination but it remains unconfirmed how many actually did the test. In the recently released KCPE results, 12,424 candidates missed the test despite registration. The CS termed the examination process a success but noted that they had witnessed a number of incidents of attempted cheating. Magoha singled out the opening of examination papers prior to the scheduled time as the biggest challenge in securing the exams from cheats. He said the attempts saw 27 examination officials relieved of their duties over allegations of violating regulations. Another 37 are under investigation for trying to influence cheating while 53 phones were confiscated. “We will be presenting the list of teachers believed to be behind some of the examination offences to the TSC for action,” he said. The CS announced that the government is determined to ensure that all KCPE graduates get a place in secondary school. “We are going to ensure every child in this country, whether it is a poor child from public school or a good performer from a private school, gets justice,” Magoha said. He added that the selection will be free and fair. “We want a system that will pick the best brains from Kiandutu slum in Thika and take them to Alliance High School,” he said.  Edited by Henry Makori