Rubis Energy Kenya has launched Ultra Tec, its first additivized fuel that is set to revolutionize fuel and engine performance for Kenyan motorists. Ultra Tec has been designed using advanced fuel technology to improve vehicle cleanliness and performance while reducing emissions for a cleaner Kenya and improving fuel economy to save customers money. Rubis Energy Group Managing Director Jean-Christian Bergeron said their mission is to make their customer’s journey better. "In addition to providing a reliable convenient network of fueling stations, a crucial part of this mission is to provide a high-quality fuel product that can not only improve the performance of our customers’ vehicles but save them money in doing so. "Ultra Tec is now available in all RUBiS stations in Nairobi, Nakuru and Kisumu, and will in the coming days be available at all our stations countrywide," Bergeron said. In order to serve the diverse needs of RUBiS’ customers, Ultra Tec is available in two fuel types: Ultra Tec Petrol and Ultra Tec Diesel, each of which provides superior vehicle performance and fuel efficiency benefits of the Ultra Tec additive at no additional cost to the customer. Through expert testing, Ultra Tec Petrol has been found to improve fuel economy, obtain and sustain greater engine cleanliness, and reduce vehicle emissions hence contributing to the preservation of the environment. Among its many benefits, it also improves vehicle acceleration and promotes optimum engine performance. Ultra Tec Diesel has been shown to improve fuel economy, enhance maximum fuel combustion, prevent exhaust emissions and smoking and protect the vehicle against fuel system corrosion. Ultra Tec accomplishes all of this by removing deposits in the engine structure thus providing a cleaner engine which results in greater fuel efficiency, increased performance and reduced emissions. A cleaner engine should also mean spending less on maintenance in the long term. Bergeron stated that providing Ultra Tec to their customers within the Rubis network is an important step in their commitment to meet all of the fueling and convenience needs of customers. "As we continue to bring Kenol, Kobil and Gulf stations under the RUBiS colours, meet one-stop-shopping needs with our RUBiS Express stores, and provide innovative digital and payment solutions via the RUBiS Card and the RUBiS App, we are proud to now offer our customers a high-quality, high-performance fuel product that will be beneficial to their vehicles and save them money,” he said.