The number of registered political parties in Kenya could jump to as high as 85 if the registrar approves requests from 14 more outfits seeking legal status. The office of the Registrar of Political Parties has invited public views on applications by the parties, signaling a mad rush for political vehicles ahead of the 2022 polls. The parties sought provisional registration just two months after the Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu gave the green light for the full registration of three other political parties. This had pushed the number of registered political parties in the country to 71. Then, the Nderitu's office declined applications from as many as 176 parties that sought registration. According to a gazette notice by Nderitu, the fresh parties seeking registration include Movement United for Super Action, Mkenya Daima Party, Chama Ya Mapatano Kenya, Common People’s Party and Wakenya Sote Party. Others are New Dawn Party of Kenya, Daraja ya Kenya Party, National Economic Development Party, Adopt Development Assembly Party, The People’s National Republican Party, Kenya Union Party, Kenya Democracy for Change, Nationalist Patriotic Party and Vitendo na Sera Party. Nderitu said Kenyans with objections or reservations to the parties obtaining provisional registration have only seven days from April 13. Section 5(2) of the Political Parties Act, 2011 provides that upon receipt of an application for registration, the registrar should within 14 days publish a notice in the gazette and in at least two newspapers with nationwide circulation. The office of the registrar is also to invite objections from any person or any other political party concerning the registration of the name, symbol, colour of the political party or any other issues relating to the registration of the political party. “To this end, the Registrar of Political Parties is in the process of provisionally registering these parties. Any objections may be presented to this office in writing or in person within seven days,” she said. A party given provisional status must be subject to a rigorous process by the registrar's office to ensure it has physical offices, verified details of governing body officials and membership data. Many parties that seek provisional registration even after going through the name search stage fail to comply with the strict provisions of the law on membership and physical offices. Of the 176 parties that sought registration in January, at least 10 proposed names that mirror Ruto's hustler nation ideology. They included the Jubilee Asili Party, the Hustlers and Achievers Party of Kenya, the Hustlers Alliance Party of Kenya, Hustle, the Strive and Achieve Party of Kenya and the National Alliance of Hustlers and Achievers Party of Kenya. Others were National Party of Hustlers and Achievers of Kenya, and Hustlers and Ground Masses Party of Kenya. However, the registrar rejected the hustler names on the basis that they seek to unite on social status, threatening the country's peaceful co-existence. Edited by Henry Makori