In the 1970s, the motorbikes available in Vihiga county were scooters. Hope Nambute, a businessman in Luanda town, said they were more feminine and that made men uncomfortable. "The current generation is good for both genders," Nambute said. "It is flexible, reliable and affordable, despite the economic hardship we are experiencing," he said. With the current motorbikes, remote areas are highly accessible compared to the past, where people were to depend on bicycles, which were more cumbersome, he said. The number of boda bodas in Kenya has risen to more than 2 million, which the trader said reduced theft cases in most towns and rural areas as well. "Accidents have been a major blow to bike users. The rate at which they are killing and crippling people out there is quite alarming," he said. "Most of the bike riders are ignorant of road safety matters. They think they are always right even when they have done something wrong." Nambute said most of these problems can be fixed if bike owners avoid hiring schoolchildren who need quick money. He said those with bikes should not lease them to arrogant friends either. The trader urged the authorities to take the sector seriously and equip the riders with road safety skills to curb accidents. The county government has been training the riders through their saccos but at a slow pace. Nambute said riders should also try to instil moral values among themselves to restore order in the sector. Harrison Sayi, who has been in the sector for eight years, said despite THE ups and downs in the industry, he has been able to put food on the table and pay school fee for his children. He said hiking fare has remained a challenge in the swelling industry. "With the fluctuating fuel price, it is the most challenging part we experience. Sometimes the prices goes up to Sh130, but the client will still remain with that fixed price," he said. "If you tell them fuel price is up and we want to increase rates, they just walk away. Some are our long-term clients, we can't overcharge them, so we keep struggling with the burden." He said fuel price increase affects the whole economy. Foodstuffs and motorbike prices are hiked, but riders are expected to remain with constant fares. “Recently the sector has been flooded with bikes. We no longer get the lion's share as we used to, and clients have shifted from stage visiting. They only call so you need to have a good relation and trust to get clients,” Sayi said. He said with trust, a client will have faith in you with his or her information. They can send you or call you to pick something for them. "So we are forced to be on with our phones all the time," he said.