 Covid-19 patients will continue to pay for their treatment costs as the national insurer says it is still unable to cover the disease. The National Hospital Insurance Fund said Covid-19 remains a pandemic with many unknowns, and that the current treatment costs vary wildly. “With a pandemic, there’s actually a specific exclusion in the contract. And there's a good reason why pandemics are usually excluded in insurance contracts. First of all, it's new, there is worldwide spread and you do not even know how much it will end up costing,” NHIF chief executive Peter Kamunyo told the Star. He said this should change in the future, once the epidemic is under control. “A good example is HIV. When HIV came in and it was declared a pandemic, initially, you remember nobody was paying for it at all. But after some time we understood how the disease behaves and we were able to model,” he said. Current Covid-19 hospitalisation costs vary outrageously, with hospitals accused of extorting patients. For instance, costs for patients with severe disease in ICUs spill over Sh100,000 a day in some private hospitals. Last year, a model by Kemri Wellcome Trust showed such cost should not exceed Sh51,684 per day. The Kemri model showed costs for asymptomatic patients in hospitals should range from Sh21,359 per day to Sh24,705 for patients with severe disease but not in ICU. This would still make Covid-19 the most expensive disease for insurers because of the high number of patients. In November last year, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said based on these modelled costs, NHIF would have incurred a bill of between Sh4.82 billion and Sh22.51 billion on Covid-19 alone by November. “Therefore, it would not be financially viable for NHIF to finance the treatment of Covid-19 for current national or enhanced medical scheme members of the fund,” he said. Kamunyo said the fund collected about Sh64 billion last year, and 90 per cent was paid to hospitals for services rendered. “We collect over Sh60 billion annually. Last financial year, it was close to Sh64 billion. And 90 per cent of that goes out to pay providers for benefits that members access,” he said in an interview. Kamunyo said all contributions took a hit last year during the lockdown. “We noted a dip in terms of membership. And we got very many letters. Schools closed down and we got many letters saying that now we are no longer in operation,” he said. However, the recovery was faster than expected. Kamunyo also assured Kenyans the fund has improved its appeal mechanism. This is especially when the fund pre-authorises less money for medical procedures than the beneficiary expects. “When you note that something is inconsistent or it's not addressing your need, we do have a grievance procedure through the call centre. If there's a query, it is escalated to that team. And they actually look at it and I personally have been involved in a few of them,” he said. Kamunyo said such discrepancies and delays are often caused by the hospitals and not the fund. NHIF has also created a division of case management to follow up on the welfare of patients and to curb fraud by hospitals. “They (case managers) are able to speak to doctors to establish exactly an intervention taking place. Because one of the dangers in healthcare insurance is coding up. Somebody is going to have a little lump being removed, but it is recorded as major surgery,” Kamunyo said.  Edited by P.O