What were you doing before politics? I started serving as postmaster for Kenya Postal Corporation back then but due to personal reasons, I transited to business. As a businessperson I had tremendous rapport with clients propelling my reputation locally, hence the transition to politics. Being a woman and a mother how have you managed to balance politics and family? I am lucky to have a supportive family that has been there for me in all my political career, so balance wasn't hard to achieve. You have been a woman rep for four years now, what has been your experience? For the last four years it has been my learning experience. I have witnessed the plight of our people firsthand and I'm elated to have been able to elevate the condition of our people, where I could. Being elected as woman rep for the first time was a nice feeling. Yes of course. Being a woman rep for the first time there is joy. I have always been interested in leadership. This is evident in the positions I have held throughout my career. From family to church to work. These past and present experiences have shaped me into the leader I am today. I thank the people of Vihiga county for giving me a chance to serve them. What would you say is the worst moment you have had as a woman rep? The misconception of people about the woman rep roles is my worst moment in my political career. A lot has to be done in terms of civic education so that our people understand the roles played by their various elected leaders ranging from governor, woman rep, senator, MP and MCA. What is your best moment as Vihiga woman rep? Transforming people at the grass root level, individuals, or families is my best moment and empowering all across the county via my office. What other challenges have you faced within this period of time you have been in office? The office of woman representative is underfunded, yet our people's expectations are immense. Women representatives are expected to do as much as governors who have allocated funds for major development projects. However, with the little my office has been allocated, I have ensured I impact lives positively. What is your relationship with the county assembly, senator and governor as well? I enjoy a good relationship with all carders of leadership in Vihiga county, especially on ensuring service delivery to our people. What has your office achieved in developing the county and empowering all sectors of the economy? The main role of a woman representative is affirmative action for women, youth and persons living with disability through value addition initiatives and table banking. To this end, my office has been able to support different groups by offering tools of trade like incubators, tents and chairs for hire, seed money to boost table banking initiatives and issuing cows and goats to small-scale farmers. My office has also offered safety training, driving licenses and put up shades for boda boda operators, a major source of income for youth in Vihiga county. I have also been able to support education of our children through award of bursaries and provision of water tanks to special schools in an effort to provide clean drinking water. Through my personal initiatives I've been able to put up decent shelters for vulnerable families, jigger eradication campaigns and supplying food among other necessities needed to combat the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. These are just a few of the projects my office has done for the period I have held office. As a leader in Vihiga county how will you rank the current governor in terms of performance? I will leave it to voters in Vihiga county to decide. They will have a chance to assess the performance of not only the governor but for all elected leaders come the general election in 2022. Edited by Henry Makori