The persistent drought in Kaloleni subcounty has forced residents to share water sources with animals, exposing them to the risk of contracting waterborne diseases. Many residents rely on water pans which are now drying up, forcing them to walk long distances in search of the commodity. The water is also dirty. In Gotani village, Kayafungo ward, residents scramble with animals for water from a pan meant for livestock. Mary Mjeni said they are forced to use the water because it is the nearest pan that still has water. “This water pan was dug for use by livestock but we have no option now but to use the water since it is what we have. We use this water with dogs and livestock. Cattle normally walk into the water and urinate while drinking but we still have to use it,” said Mjeni. She said the nearest place where one can get fresh water is at Kibao Kiche on the Kaloleni-Mariakani highway about 15km from Gotani town. A boda boda rider charges Sh150 from Gotani to Kibao Kiche and back. Mjeni said the Mwabaya Nyundo to Gotani water pipeline laid by the county government of Kilifi has not had water for the last three years. “The water problem has affected businesses too. I have a poultry project and I use about eight 20-litre jerry cans of water daily on the project only. I have had to reduce the production from four chicken houses to one because of the problem,” said Mjeni. Mwaringa Mae, a livestock farmer from Kajongoni, expressed fears that the water pan might dry up in a week. “Very many farmers depend on this water pan for their animals. I doubt if by next week there will be any water remaining. We have been contributing so that water could be pumped at the Kajongoni borehole but nothing has been done. We are suffering with our animals,” Mae said. About seven kilometres from Gotani, Ndheru water pan is facing a similar problem. The water pan about five kilometres from former Labour CS Kazungu Kambi’s homestead is nearly drying up. “This water pan is drying up and we want to expand it by ourselves because the government has not taken it up. Before fetching water you must dig and carry three pans of soil so that when the rain comes we can get more water,” said Kenga Musha, who is in charge of the water pan. The water pan serves residents from as far as Mwanamwinga about 10 kilometres from the water pan. Mariam Mwalimu from Mwanamwinga said she has to walk for one hour to get to the water pan. “I wake up at 6am and get here by 7am. I make at least three trips a day. On a day that I cannot come I have to pay someone to fetch for me at Sh30 per 20-litre jerry can,” said Mwalimu. After the Mche Kenzi multipurpose water pan in Mwanamwinga dried up, men now have to escort their women to water sources in far places. Hussein Kilifi said men are forced to escort the women because of security concerns. “We get water from very far, so we wake up as early as 5am and escort our wives to the water pans and then we return home to prepare to go to work. By the time we get to the water pans it is normally clear and women can walk back alone without the fear of being raped by sex pests,” said Kilifi. A borehole launched by ODM leader Raila Odinga in 2015 in the area has not produced water since then. Edited by Henry Makori