The Prisons Department has raised concern over an upsurge in cases of diarrhea and pneumonia within the penal institutions. The use of buckets by inmates to relieve themselves has been blamed for diarrhea while pneumonia attacks have been linked to sleeping on the floor. For years, inmates sharing cells have used plastic buckets to relieve themselves before the waste is carted away in the morning. The correctional facilities have announced plans to treat their waste, with five prisons in Nakuru and Naivasha picked for piloting. This emerged during a tour of Naivasha Prison and Sanitation treatment plant in the town that is currently using human waste and sawdust to produce charcoal briquetts. Chief Administrative Secretary in the State Law Office Winnie Guchu said cases of diarrhea and pneumonia in prisons were worrying. She said that the department was keen to overhaul the waste management system within the prisons by borrowing a leaf from private companies involved in briquettes making. “We are concerned by the high cases of diarrhea in the prisons and we are keen to end the use of buckets by inmates by introducing new sewer systems,” she said. Guchu noted that the three prisons in Naivasha and the two in Nakuru would be used as pilot projects in the management of waste and making of the briquettes. She attributed cases of pneumonia to the archaic practice of inmates sleeping on the floor. The CAS said the department was working with a partner to introduce beds in all women's prisons. “We have already received over 300 beds from the donor and we are in the process of rehabilitating all prisons hosting women and minors across the country,” she said. Correctional Services PS Zeinab Hussein said funds have been set aside in the coming financial year to address the issue of waste management. She noted that the department was using over Sh1 billion on firewood every year, adding that the introduction of the briquettes would save the state over Sh700 million annually. “As part of the ongoing reforms, we are keen to improve sanitation in all the penal institutions and address the issues of hygiene for mothers and their children incarcerated in prisons,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori