Jomvu MP Badi Twalib has asked parents to trust educational institutions within their localities to encourage stakeholders to invest more in them. Twalib on Saturday said investing in local teachers and educational institutions will save parents the trouble and money to send their children to faraway places for education. “If I, as a parent, have trust in the teachers and educational institutions within my Jomvu subcounty like I do, then I will not send my child to Western for education. I will have them school in Jomvu,” the MP said. He spoke in his private office in Mombasa while celebrating his daughter Zaharia Badi Twalib’s performance in the 2020 KCPE. She got 398 marks and was a candidate at Iyale Miritini School in Miritini. “I trust the teachers and educational institutions in Jomvu and that is why all my children school here,” said Twalib. He noted that more secondary schools need to be constructed in Mombasa so as to help increase the transition rate while at the same time saving parents money. “If there is a secondary school within my locality and proper investment has been put in it, I will have no reason to take my child to, say, Nyanza or Nairobi, for education,” said Twalib. Many parents in urban areas like sending their children to rural areas for their secondary school education after going through primary education in the urban areas. While congratulating Jomvu schools for their performance in the 2020 KCPE, Twalib said parents, as was the case during the Covid-19 pandemic, have a vital role to play in their children’s education. A good example is how parents at Golden Key School in Mikindani, Jomvu constituency, rallied behind the teachers and the pupils to help them post excellent results. The school, with 18 candidates, managed a mean score of 349, with Pheona Wawuda topping the class with 411 marks. In 2019, there were 26 candidates who posted a mean score of 341. Evans Mambo, the head teacher at Golden Key School, said parents were vital. “During the schools closure, we could not trace some of our candidates. Parents were left to guide their children,” said Mambo. Most of the candidates were emotionally affected while others were in despair, according to Mambo. However, joint sessions where parents and teachers helped encourage the candidates helped them get their confidence back. Edited by Henry Makori