ANC Leader Musalia Mudavadi held talks with politician-businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki amid speculation the tycoon could be take up the vacant position of secretary general. The ANC boss hosted Buzeski on Friday at Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi where they discussed politics, the economy and the Covid-19 situation. The leaders discussed the difficult economic situation in the country and how businesses can be supported during the  pandemic. They issued a statement saying they were focused on agriculture, incomes and food security. But sources said the two extensively dwelt on politics especially  emerging political alliances ahead of the 2022 polls. Last week Buzeki said he would announce his new party soon and join an alliance ahead of next year’s polls. The Uasin Gishu governor aspirant resigned from the Chama Cha Mashinani where he was the secretary general. Buzeki, who is a harsh critic of DP William Ruto, and is a front runner for the governor's seat in the DP’s home county, says he is finalising plans to unveil the way forward for his team. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has hinted he is in talks with Buzeki and other close allies to join ANC and strengthen the party ahead of 2022. “We want to strengthen the ANC and bring in more Kenyans and that is why we are in talks with friends like Buzeki to join us,” he said. Buzeki supported ANC to win in the recent Matungu by-election but he says they are yet to engage in formal talks with the party headed by Musalia Mudavadi. “ANC has approached us but we are yet to agree on any way forward. We will have our party soon and our options are still wide open,” Buzeki told the Star last week. Sources however indicated that ANC was considering to have Buzeki take over the position of secretary general, which is vacant after the resignation of Barrack Muluka last year. Buzeki resigned from CCM after party leader Isaac Rutto, who is former Bomet governor, decided to join the hustler movement of DP Ruto. “I cannot be party the to Tangatanga style of politics. We did not consult with Isaac Rutto on his moves and therefore I will not subscribe to his decisions,” Buzeki ssaid when he quit CCM. He had initially quit Jubilee after differing with DP Ruto and his allies. Buzeki has confirmed he will vie for the Uasin Gishu governor's seat and Buzeki said t his political stand against the DP will not affect his plans. “I don’t have to be anyone’s sycophant in order to do what I want. I am an independent-minded person and I will offer my plans, policies and manifesto to the people of Uasin Gishu in the coming elections,” he said. Buzeki vied as an independent candidate in the last general election and lost narrowly to Governor Jackson Mandago who is completing his second term next year. Buzeki along with politician Jonathan Bii and Nairobi county executive Vesca Kangogo are among those seeking to succeed Mandago. Despite the expected DP Ruto wave in the region, Buzeki is considered a major player in Uasin Gishu politics and could still go against the grain and cause an upset, (Edited by V.Graham)