The cost of implementing proposals in the Building Bridges Initiative certainly looks prohibitive. This is because of the current status of the country's economy. It is not favourable and the Covid-19 pandemic has destroyed the livelihoods of the common man in the past year. People are hungry, jobless and desperate. Last week, we saw adults shed tears when they were told to close hotels just as they were beginning to see improvements in their businesses. In view of the enormous cost of implementing the BBI proposals, I would suggest that some of the reforms that would gobble up part of the money needed for implementation be staggered. This way, there would be some money available to address some of the country's most pressing needs. We should not prioritise some of the reforms at the expense of the sources of livelihoods of Kenyans. The government needs to implement the proposals in a manner that will not result in people taking to the streets to demonstrate against the unbearable cost of living. We know that all over the world, revolutions have been occasioned by the loss of livelihoods. As civil society, I would urge that the government to carefully balance the need for some of these reforms and the urgency to address the socioeconomic problems brought by the Covid-19 pandemic. Whereas the Jubilee government has put so much emphasis on the Big Four agenda and other development plans, there is also need for governance reforms. Governance reforms cannot be overlooked if the proposals in the BBI are to be implemented successfully. Experiences have shown that if we do not attend to concerns raised by Kenyans or even institutions over the shortcomings in governance, all investment in the BBI proposals could be lost. We just had a virtual meeting of civil society groups on the state of governance reforms, especially those that will be a result of the BBI process. The consensus that emerged from the meeting was governance reforms are key for the success of the BBI proposals. Suba Churchill is the coordinator of the National Civil Society Congress.