Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed has urged Kenyans to support their countrymen and women in whatever way as they embark on the next 100 days of preparations for the Tokyo Olympics set for July 23-August 5. Amina said the Olympians are a reflection of 50 million hard-working Kenyans and thus the country's support will go a long way in enhancing their performance on the global stage. "Our athletes take inspiration from Kenya’s unique strengths as a country Through its beauty and people, beautiful landscapes and game reserves, our rich culture and lately, our fight against the pandemic that’s driven by our competitiveness and sacrifice of all our athletes,” Amina said. She added that Kenyan sportspersons are in the same category as doctors, police, farmworkers, nurses, and school children, among others, who wake up early in the morning to make a positive difference in society. "The reason Kenyans work hard every day is for the country, people, family, friends, and children. 100 days until Tokyo is a mere representation of a bucket of 50million plus Kenyans waking up to make the day worth counting," the CS said. She was speaking at the National Museum on Wednesday morning at a worldwide event to mark the last 100 days before the rescheduled global showpiece kicks off. During the event, Amina launched the hashtag #YouAreTheReason as Team Kenya's slogan to rally Kenyans behind the team as they continue with their preparations. "This all-encompassing slogan will continue running beyond the Olympics to create a movement of young people, young adults and everyone else to both make our athletes feel the support of all in the country in the shared beauty of sports as a uniting factor in this country," she said. Also launched was Team Kenya's website (teamkenya.or.ke.), which will be a one-stop source of information on developments in the Kenyan camp as well as other Olympic stories globally. Present at the event were Olympics Kenya president Paul Tergat and acting secretary-general Francis Mutuku.