Twelve PSVs were impounded and 27 people arrested on Saturday for violating Covid-19 protocols along Mombasa Road at Mlolongo weighbridge. Buses, matatus and private vehicles were inspected for social distancing, mask wearing, whether the vehicles had thermoguns to check temperatures and hand sanitiser. PSVs require fumigation certificates in Machakos. Those arrested include PSV drivers, conductors passengers and others. Private vehicle drivers without face masks also were arrested. The numbers were announced on Saturday evening by Mlolongo assistant county commissioner Dennis Onganga. The crackdown will continue indefinitely. Athi River subcounty police commander George Kashimiri said the crackdown was mounted by the National Police Service, NIS, DCI, National Government Administration Officers, the Health ministry and  Machakos county. Machakos county commissioner Fredrick Ndunga on Thursday gave motorists until Friday to comply with the Covid-19 directives. He directed the multiagency team to start enforcement from Saturday. "We are inspecting all vehicles passing through this roadblock to ensure they comply to the Covid-19 protocols, " Kashimiri told the Star at the roadblock on Saturday. He said it was shocking some motorists, including PSV drivers, hadn't complied with the directives and were ferrying passengers at full capacity despite possible exposure to the coronavirus. The police boss said some passengers were keeping face masks in their pockets instead of putting them on. The vehicles within Machakos county are also expected to have fumigation certificates as ordered by Ndunga. Some motorists tried dodging the officers by using alternative panya routes to evade the roadblocks. Kashimiri deployed officers to all alternative routes. "I am telling the public Covid-19 is real, let them put on face masks, maintain social distance, wash their hands regularly and avoid boarding full vehicles for their own good," he said. He said those arrested will be arraigned. Kashimiri said the crackdown had just begun, warning that no one would be spared. Mlolongo assistant county commissioner Dennis Onganga joined the officers in educating the motorists, PSV drivers, conductors and passengers, on the Covid-19 protocols. He tasked drivers to use their thermoguns on passengers to check temperatures, display compliance certificates and confirm the vehicles had been fumigated. Onganga said private vehicle drivers should ensure everyone wears masks and capacity is limited. They should also have thermoguns and sanitiser. (Edited by V. Graham)