Unesco director-general Audrey Azoulay has called on the police to hasten investigations into the murder of KBC video editor Betty Barasa. Barasa was shot and killed in her house in Ngong on April 7 in an attack by three gunmen. She had left her place of work. “I condemn the killing of Betty Barasa. I call on the authorities to investigate this crime and determine whether it was linked to Barasa’s profession as a journalist. Gunpoint censorship must not be allowed to undermine journalists’ ability to carry out their work,” said Azoulay in a statement. The United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization promotes the safety of journalists through global awareness-raising, capacity building and a range of actions, notably in the framework of the UN Plan of Action on the Safety of Journalists and Issue of Impunity. No arrest has been made so far. Police now believe the gunmen behind the murder of were on an elimination mission. A postmortem on the body of Barasa found out she had a single bullet in her head that was fired in the face. She died out of excessive bleeding. She was buried last week at her home. The detectives have recorded statements from her husband Geoffrey Barasa, their house help and a friend, Tony Osende. Osende told police he was a friend and classmate to Barasa and neighbour in the area. He said they were working on a thesis with the journalist and that he had hiked a lift to the home before leaving to his house. He said as soon as they arrived home, they were confronted by the gang and forced into the house where he and four others including the husband and three children were subdued for minutes before Barasa was killed. Detectives handling the matter said they recovered a bullet head from Betty’s clothes which is undergoing forensic analysis to know if the gun may have been used elsewhere. The men were in constant communication with unknown people over the phone. The killers were armed with two AK-47 rifles and a G3 rifle. Mr Barasa, 49, who is the head of finance with National Museums said the gang of three wore balaclavas and gloves and he could only see their eyes. Edited by Henry Makori