Kitui cleric Julius Nyerere has compared battling Covid-19 illness to going through hellfire. Nyerere, the Messiahship Worship Church archbishop in charge of East Africa, spoke after he was discharged from the Covid-19 isolation ward at the Kitui County Referral Hospital. He said for "14 tough and agonising days", he had been through hell. “I have passed through hell but God has been faithful to heal and to deliver me from the shackles of the virus,” Nyerere said. He said he had a persistent throbbing headache, weakness and unrelenting pain in the muscles to the point that he could not stand without being supported. The cleric said his backbone also became weak and felt malleable and he could not sit up until his admission. “With a lot of pain all over the body and with a weak backbone, I had to lie on a bench or chairs because it was so weak and it could not allow me to seat up or walk on my own. My sugar level also shot up to 20.2,” Nyerere said. “I want to say this for the benefit of the church and the clergy, that Covid-19 is real.” Nyerere said it was important for all to follow the Ministry of Health protocols and guidelines to prevent themselves from contracting Covid-19. He said the virus is unforgiving and he would not wish it on anyone. “I pray and also beseech the general public to protect themselves because it is not easy to know when it will strike,” he said. Nyerere said he could not trace how he contracted the virus but spent time in other hospitals in Kitui for three days before he was diagnosed with Covid-19. “We need to stay safe and follow all the health protocols as we continue to pray. It is very important to know that Covid-19 is there and is one of the worst viruses,” Nyerere said. He called on Kenyans to go for the Covid-19 jab to be protected. Nyerere, however, said the vaccine should not be forced on unwilling Kenyans. “I advise the public that it is good to get the Jab because I know it is tested by WHO and our own health experts who found it good. Since it is not a killer vaccine, the public needs to know it is good to get it for their own benefit‚” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris