A governor from a county in Western is frustrated because the popularity of the man he dethroned is growing by the day. He recently confided in an influential political figure from the region that he doesn't understand what he has done wrong. Efforts by the county chief to endear himself to residents have fallen flat as MCAs and wananchi have no kind words for him. What has puzzled the governor is why his rival is enjoying such popularity. The rival is said to be supported by President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and his handshake partner, ODM boss Raila Odinga. *** A politician who recently defected from his party has received a rude shock following the suspicion and scorn greeting him at his new camp. The MP is said to be distraught after he realised his move will not cause seismic waves, nor will he be received with pomp and colour at the new outfit. The lawmaker is said to be perplexed that everyone is charting their own path on the other side and the price tag includes fighting to stay relevant and catch the eye of the big boss. After learning the hard way that the grass is not always greener on the other side, the man could suffer double jeopardy. His detractors are on the offensive. *** It has been quite some time since the lucrative board of a state corporation in the Transport docket interviewed six shortlisted applicants for the job of director. The applicants are now worried as the board has taken too long to announce the results and yet the interviews were done in a day. Moles on the board tell Corridors there is interference by a section of board members from one community who want to shortchange the applicant who emerged the winner but who is not from the 'right' community. A big reason is that one of 'their own' who lacks qualifications to get the job. *** An in-charge officer in a department at the investigations bureau of the Directorate of Criminal Investigations could be busy harvesting from county governments instead of taking suspects to court. There's no work done apart from sending officers with their private cars to bring resources from the accused persons to shield them from possible graft prosecutions. He is backed by a well-knit cabal with tribal connections. Working in the department has been hell for some officers being sidelined. Only those from the 'right' tribe are assigned roles, especially those touching on investigations of county officers. Perhaps DCI boss George Kinoti could be persuaded to crack the whip and restore sanity to ensure professionalism. (Edited by V. Graham)  