The joint Justice and Legal Affairs committee was last evening on the horns of a dilemma over the push to amend the BBI Bill despite expert advice not to do so. The Star has established that a clique of lawmakers was determined to make a raft of changes despite constitutional experts warning against it. After day-long deliberations that insiders told the Star were "intense", the joint team, though divided, proceeded to write their final report ahead of next week’s special sitting. By the time of going to the press the committee had not agreed on whether to amend the Bill or not. “We have a lot to do. It is debate galore here but the deliberation is tense.  The work won't end today. We will have to extend,” a source said. The source, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the deliberations, added, “We are still at the preliminary stages. We have a lot to do.” According to our source, Senator Okong'o Omogeni (Nyamira) and his Siaya counterpart James Orengo – the drivers of the amendments push – questioned the need for public participation if the document could not be opened to incorporate public views. Kwale Woman Representative Zuleikha Hassan – a member of the amalgamated committee– told the Star that they were doing a final report including bringing out observations and facts that stood out during the public participation exercise. “We are in the process of writing the report. So writing our joint observations and facts about the different issues brought about during public participation,” she said. The committee had hired the services of legal experts to guide them on a number of issues including whether the joint team can alter the Bill. The constitutional experts who had been deliberating for weeks presented their recommendation to the committee on Monday. The legal and constitutional experts included Patricia Kameri-Mbote, a law professor at the University of Nairobi and Collins Odote, also from UoN. The Star has established that the experts recommended presentation of the report, cautioning that any alteration would defeat the purpose of a popular initiative. The experts argued that any attempt to amend BBI will expose the process and Parliament to legal challenges as anyone might move to court to challenge it on account of Article 257 that provides for amendment of the Constitution through a popular initiative. “The experts made it clear that we should not interfere with the document,” a lawmaker who attended the two-day retreat told the Star. A summary of the experts’ report sent to the Star read in part, “The Bill is a product of a popular initiative stipulated in Article 257 of the Constitution. To avoid any litigation, Parliament should consider it as it is.” The legal consultants also raised issue with the proposal to create and distribute the 70 constituencies, a role that they opined should be given to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. The experts are said to have opined that the schedule creating the 70 seats was unconstitutional. While appearing before the joint parliamentary committee on Justice and Legal Affairs on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in March this year, IEBC boss Wafula Chebukati termed the proposal unconstitutional and accused BBI promoters of usurping the commission’s constitutional mandate. But in what could cause a legal quagmire, the experts reportedly established during their research that only 13 county assemblies received the right document for consideration. They are Mandera, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Murang'a, Kiambu, Turkana, Elgeyo Marakwet, Laikipia, Nakuru and Siaya. According to the Constitution, at least 24 county assemblies should approve the draft bill for it to sail to Parliament. The push and pull now puts next week's sitting of the National Assembly in jeopardy as the matter was one of the reasons to recall the MPs who are currently in a one-month Covid-19 break. Edited by Henry Makori