Eleven contestants eying the Dock Workers Union general secretary post say they have no confidence in the current election arrangements. They want a meeting with the outgoing officials, who are supposed to make the necessary arrangements for the May 20 elections, to iron out several issues they say are key. Citing possible rigging plot, the eleven said: “We have had several meetings among ourselves and we demand a level playing field where the best amongst us can win without manipulation of the system.” In a statement, the eleven, led by Siyat Abdillahi, a former police officer, said they want to ensure malpractices witnessed in the two previous elections are not repeated. However, outgoing general secretary Simon Sang has dismissed the alleged plot, saying all arrangements are in place for the May 20 elections. “I am also told some people are going to court today and intend to hold a press conference to declare that the term of the office ends today (Tuesday). But they should know that we have also finished the business for our term and what we are left with is to facilitate the CBA registration and payment and go for elections,” Sang said in a counter-statement. Abdillahi and his group want a caretaker office to take charge of the elections, which Sang said is inconsequential. “Even if they convince the court to have a caretaker office, same will be drawn from members,” Sang said. Apart from Abdillahi, others who are uncomfortable with the current election arrangements include Omar Masumbuko, Kanga Maganga, Edward Opiyo, Athmani Athmani, Abubakar Mohamed, Renson Thoya, Majengo Wara, Lusigi Harrison, Mohamed Mabanda and Said Chande. Abdillahi said they are concerned about the membership register and whether it is ready. They have no confidence with the election board that has been constituted and want union members to nominate their preferred candidates for the board. The elections board, made up of 10 members, was proposed by Mombasa county labour officer Willy Kimani, in a letter dated March 10, as requested by the union. The proposed names include Kimani himself as the board chair, D Njagi as the secretary, and J Katana, C Opalakadi, G Matahi, B Bakari, T Gona, B Kase and F Kahindi as the board members. The union elections will be conducted in Mombasa, Lamu, Kisumu, ICD Embakasi and Naivasha. Abdillahi’s team said the ballot papers should not be printed by the incumbent officials as has been the case. “This is what they use to rig the elections in their favour. Last time, the ballot papers for the general secretary post finished way before the ballot papers for other positions were finished. “This means they deliberately printed few papers so that they can make their supporters vote early and lock out the others,” Abdilahi told the Star. But Sang said there cannot be any changes to the elections arrangement because the budget for the same has already been made and approved by the National Executive Council. “Any move they make administratively must be in line with the constitution of the union and the Labour Relations Act,” Sang said. He said the April 24 special conference will go on as usual and that he has information his opponents had made elaborate arrangement to take away the union vehicle from him. “This is what I knew in advance that l was not going to use it after the special conference on April 24 and during the campaigns and therefore l had already planned to use the two family cars we own,” Sang said. “All these shenanigans is not any other interest other than privatisation. Members, let no one of them get more than 100 votes on May 20, 2021 because their mission is not for your good,” he told the union members. He noted that the negotiated and signed CBA will not change since it has been endorsed by the Federation of Kenya Employers and is only awaiting one clarification from the management of the Kenya Ports Authority.  -Edited by S Kanyara