The battle to succeed the late Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange is taking shape with at least seven candidates having expressed interest in the seat. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is this week expected to the declare the seat vacant. Analysts say with the seat being in President Uhuru Kenyatta's Kiambu backyard, the race for the Jubilee ticket is likely to shape the contest. Deputy President William Ruto-linked United Democratic Alliance party is said to be exploring options on how to approach the looming by-election. However, it is worth noting that UDA has been avoiding directly fielding candidates in Uhuru's Central Kenya backyard to avoid a confrontation. UDA is likely to enter the race through Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria's People's Empowerment Party, although the vocal MP has denied such a move. In what is shaping to be a bruising battle, the larger Koinange family is keen to have the Jubilee Party nominate one of the late MP's kin to succeed him. However, the family is split after two members expressed interest. Lenah Koinange and Damaris Wambui, the late MP's daughters, are eyeing the Jubilee ticket. The two who run hospitality establishments in Kiambu are said to have started scheming for the seat, threatening to split the larger Koinange family. They have the support of factions, with a unanimous decision on the family's pick yet to be made. Lenah has been battling in court for a share of her father's multi-billion empire. Other candidates who have declared their interest include businessman-cum-politician Kariri Njama, US-based Raymond Kuria and former Kiambu Women Rep aspirant Lydia Njeri Ndung’u. Njuguna Wanjiku and Mwalimu Richard Njoroge have also expressed their interest. June Koinange, who has been active in Kiambaa for years, has not yet declared her interest in the race. A section of elders from Kiambaa is said to have backed Lenah, a matter that has triggered cracks in the family given her court battles. With Jubilee likely to face a headache on the best nomination process, there is a push to have competitive nominations as was in the Juja parliamentary race. On Sunday, Jubilee deputy secretary general Joshua Kutuny said the party will make a decision once the seat is declared vacant and IEBC releases timeliness. "It is too early to say anything. Politicians eyeing the seat can say anything but as a party, we shall issue guidelines once the electoral commission sets the by-election date," he told the Star. Juma Kamau, a Jubilee activist from Kiambaa, said the party must employ a transparent, free and fair process to nominate its candidate. He said the party must emphasise on a selection criteria that will bar people with questionable conduct and integrity issues from flying its ticket. "Kiambaa is in President Kenyatta’s county and we cannot afford to elect someone who will negate President Kenyatta’s anti-corruption agenda. We want a nominee who will support President Kenyatta. We don’t want a candidate whose record will embarrass the President," he Kamau told the Star. Edited by Henry Makori