Kanu party has said they will not field a candidate in the Kiambaa constituency by-election and instead will rally behind a Jubilee party candidate. Kanu national executive director George Wainaina who was speaking in Kiambaa on Friday said in the spirit of their alliance with Jubilee and consultations with Kiambaa residents, it was agreed that the area belongs to Jubilee. “Kanu has joined hands with other leaders who include Kalonzo Musyoka, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula and also the President is with us in the alliance. Kanu will not field a candidate candidate for Kiambaa ,” said Wainaina. He said that under the association, their preferred candidate is businessman and political leader Kariri Njama who is a member of Jubilee party. “We have confirmed that Kariri is a member of Jubilee and through support of President Uhuru Kenyatta who is the party leader, we will back a candidate from Jubilee,” said Wainaina. He said Jubilee should hold a free and fair nominations, adding that those who are interested in the post should fight it out in the Jubilee nominations rather than parties fronting different candidates. Kiambaa's  expected by-election was occasioned by the passing on of the area Member of Parliament Paul Koinange who died of covid-19 related complications. Kariri while announcing he will be vying for the Kiambaa MP seat dispelled social media rumours that he had ditched Jubilee saying he is still an active member of the party. “My membership number is JP 19347 anybody who has doubt can confirm. We are behind the President and the Jubilee party ideologies and we will finish the journey with the President,” said Kariri. He called on Jubilee not to front any candidate but instead allow proper and fair nominations so that Kiambaa people can have their say on who to lead them. “We do not support a preferred candidate by the party and Kiambaa residents have talked about it and it is only fair that those interested in vying come out and battle it out in a free and fair nomination,” said Kariri. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 