A Baringo primary school teacher who has been battling illness for 20 years is appealing for sh2.5 million for a kidney transplant. His cousin has offered to donate a kidney and transplant surgery is needed urgently to save his life. Jonathan Chesang, 42, a teacher at Kiptaiwa Primary School in Barwessa, Baringo North, was diagnosed with diabetes 1997 when he was in high school. “Since then, I have not known health since my condition worsens every day” Chesang said on Saturday. The diabetic developed high blood pressure and his condition has deteriorated. He has kidney failure. Doctors at Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital said he urgently needs a transplant. The father of one has depleted his medical cover and savings. Dialysis costs at least Sh20,000 a week for two sessions. Chesang is living at home in remote Kiptaiwa village, hoping one day he will receive Sh2.5 million for a kidney transplant. In December last year, his cousin offered to donate a kidney “but as a family have not been able to raise the money to fund the transplant," he said. Now his eyesight is failing. “Right now, I cannot see well or, walk on my own because I can easily fall. I can't even lift a five-litre  jerrycan of water," Chesang said. He needs a special diet but the food isn't available locally and is expensive to import and purchase. After high school, Chesang joined Murang'a Teachers Training College in 2006. He developed high blood pressure and stomach ulcers due to diabetes and lack of a proper diet. He said his father, who is also ailing, sold all the family animals to pay his college fees and settle his medical bills. After securing a Teachers Service Commission job, he was posted to Narok in 2015. His legs began to swell. He was hospitalised for seven months in 2017. His whole body started to swell; he was diagnosed with kidney failure. “Since then I have been undergoing dialysis at Baringo Referral Hospital and MTRH at Eldoret twice a week," Chesang said. A fundraiser has been scheduled for Sunday at Kabarnet Sportsline Hotel. Pay Bill: 247247 Acct No: 260767 (Jonathan Chesang) (Edited by V. Graham)