Global ICT solutions company Echo International yesterday launched into the Kenyan market through its local subsidiary Echo Kenya, seeking to tap into the country's vast ICT space. The firm will offer cloud-based, ICT solutions with a focus on building partnerships with corporates, enterprises, and multinational enterprises who seek to delve into the digital space. Through these partnerships, Echo will help its clients seize new opportunities through selection and implementation of the relevant technology to optimise their workforces and other resources in the now changing world of work. “The Covid-19 pandemic led to a major shift in the way people work, with most or not all businesses moving some of their processes online, this presented an opportunity for us to set up in Kenya,” said Echo Kenya’s Chief Operations Offficer Loren Bosch. Bosch noted that the Kenyan market offers many opportunities for their brand and noted that Kenyans also have a great willingness to adopt to technology. With its network of strategic partners spanning 44 countries, Echo's clients will benefit from the wide coverage across Africa for every connectivity requirement including simple internet access, fibre, wireless, or VSAT (Very-Small-Aperture-Terminal) for remote areas; as well as managed multi-branch wide area network solutions across multiple territories. According to the World Economic Forum, in our lifetime 75 million current job roles may be displaced by the shift in the division of labour between humans, machines, and algorithms, while 133 million new job roles may emerge at the same time globally. “Leaders will have to be more agile in their approach to organising and coordinating how work gets done, how their staff interact and collaborate and how they engage with their customers,” said Ken Munyi, Managing Director, Echo International Kenya. To mark its entry into the Kenyan market ,Munyi announced the launch of its ‘Superwan’ offering, a software-defined network solution, that is particularly suited for businesses with multiple branches and offices. Kenya is one of the most progressive adopters of technology; not just in Sub-Saharan Africa but iranks highly across the globe. According to the World Bank, Kenya’s ICT sector has been growing at an average of 10.8 per cent annually since 2016, becoming a significant source of economic development and job creation with spillover effects in almost every sector of the economy. Echo Kenya is leveraging this progressive growth evidenced through Kenya’s entrepreneurial spirit and culture to enhance Kenya’s transition into the Fourth Industrial Revolution.