 Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi will form a political party to champion for the rights and unity of Mt Kenya East residents ahead of 2022. He will use the party to form a coalition with like-minded leaders. Meru county chief of staff Gideon Kimathi on Sunday said the party will have a national outlook. Kimathi is Kiraitu's close ally. He said the region should have its own party that can be used to bargain for residents at the national table. “We might be cheated if we don’t take things with the seriousness they deserve. When the President is meeting party leaders, we see Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Chairity Ngilu (Kitui) in one table but in Meru we are on village politics. We will have a party to cater for the interests of Embu, Tharaka Nithi and Meru counties,"Kimathi said. He was referring to a State House meeting where President Uhuru Kenyatta in February invited party leaders for talks on BBI. Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu), Raila Odinga (ODM), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Charity Ngilu (Narc) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) were present. Kibwana and Mutua were not at the meeting. "We must support our leaders. I am serving the people under Kiraitu’s administration but I may also vie because I have whatever it takes to run. I have two degrees,” Kimathi said on Sunday at a church service at Gaatia in South Imenti. Politicians including Senate aspirant Mwiti Kathendu and North Imenti MP Rahim Dawood called on Meru leaders to unite and form a party to unite residents ahead of 2022. “We vote as a block, there is a need to negotiate as a block but we are currently disintegrated. NOPEU never landed because it seemed to have an agenda to fight Kiraitu and it is a Mikinduri party without a national outlook,” Kathendu said. Dawood said Meru is ready to form its own party. He called on Agriculture CS Peter Munya and Kiraitu to work together in preparation for 2022 General Election. “We had APK (Bus party) in 2013 that was popular in Mt Kenya East and I wish the two leaders unite so that we can join a coalition of like-minded. We do not know for now how it will go but once BBI is passed we should eye the seat of prime minister or deputy prime minister," the MP said.  Edited by P.O