The Supreme Council of Muslims Kenya (SUPKEM) has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to mobilise government resources and support the Muslim communities across the country during the holy month of Ramadhan. The Council’s acting national chairman Al Hajj Hassan ole Naado said the state, the private sector both local and international development partners of goodwill should support them especially this time the world facing the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the press in Narok town on Sunday, Naado expressed hopes that the government will find a way of assisting them. “We are seeking the head of state’s support in efforts to mobilise material and financial resources that will assist identified need families during this holy month of Ramadhan,” said Naado. The month is anticipated to commence on either Tuesday evening or the evening of Wednesday as per the sighting of the moon. He also appealed to the state to provide relief food to over one million Kenyans facing starvation in the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands(ASAL) counties. The chairman decried that the number of starving families in ASAL counties such as Tana River, Wajir, Garissa, Mandera, and Isiolo has increased from 700,000  last year to a million this year. Naado decried the high numbers of starving families in pastoral counties according to the National Drought Management Authority(NDMA) may rise by 90 percent by August this year should mitigation measures delay. The council boss called on the Muslim communities in  Kiambu, Nakuru, Nairobi, Kajiado, and Machakos counties, which are under lockdown, to continue fasting and observe the Covid-19 containment measures. “We are urging the Muslim faithful to abide by all the prescribed measures and protocols established by the government and health ministry to contain pandemics especially set by the Interfaith Council for National Response to Corona Virus pandemic,” he said. He also noted that in the counties that have not been affected by the lockdown, the Muslims should strictly adhere to social distancing, washing of hands with soap or satinising, and proper wearing of face masks throughout their stay in the mosque or any other religious gathering. Naado also called on privileged Muslims to chip in and assist the needy members of the society saying that many slum dwellers in urban areas were also facing starvation as the pandemic continued. “As Muslims, we should be brothers’ keepers. Those who are blessed with resources should come out and assist the poor in their neighbourhood during this Ramadhan season,” plea Naado. Ramadan is a holy month of fasting, introspection, and prayer for Muslims, the followers of Islam. It is celebrated as the month during which Muhammad received the initial revelations of the Quran, the holy book for Muslims. Fasting is one of the five fundamental principles of Islam.