A drought in Baringo is killing hundreds of sheep, goats and cows, leaving farmers with massive losses. National Drought Management Authority Baringo coordinator Bethuel Wafula confirmed the livestock deaths on Tuesday. “It is true livestock farmers have lost numerous animals this season to insecurity and prolonged drought,” Wafula said. The semi-arid area has yet to receive rains. Wafula said herders from the nomadic pastoral communities have been unable to move in search of pasture and water because of a security operation in the area. On Tuesday, the Star found several carcasses of cows along Chemorong’ion-Mochongoi road in Baringo South. Thousands of stranded herders are watching as their animals die in parts of Baringo North, Tiaty and Baringo South. “We cannot go anywhere to graze our animals fearing for our lives, yet the little available pasture got finished by February” Ng’aratuko resident Enock Ronguno said. Sandai chief Michael Chepkuto said residents had lost about 200 cows and 300 sheep since January. “Our people cannot go out to graze their animals freely, fearing the lethal bandits that have dominated the nearby Arabal, Chemorong’ion, Kasiela and Kapndasum bushes so they resort to watching them die of hunger at home,” Chepkuto said. Five MCAs led by Mukutani’s Renson Parkei called upon the government to compensate the victims for the huge losses. “We trusted the government to help to flush out the bandits and protect its people and property but it has failed,” Parkei said. Ilchamus MCA Joseph Ole’Parsalach, Reuben Chepsongol (Bartabwa), Kipruto Kimosop (Mochongoi) and Nixon Lemlem (Marigat) also called for a speedy intervention. A security operation to rein in bandits terrorising residents along Baringo, Turkana, Samburu and Laikipia borders in ongoing. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya said the operation shall continue as long as the armed bandits still exist. “As government, we are committed to disarming all the civilians to restore peace in the entire North Rift region,” he said. The operation had been suspended for a while last month after the leaders from Pokot community urged the government to allow them lead peace efforts. Led by Tiaty MP William Kamket, the leaders said they would help get the bandits and illegal guns. The situation has worsened. The operation area has been locked down again, with roadblocks erected guarded by armed security personnel. “We have restricted movements, let people remain in their respective territories and eat their livestock,” Baringo police commander Robinson Ndiwa said. The crackdown on bandits was intensified after they attacked on February 17, killing two senior GSU officers in Kapedo. The bandits later raided Mukutani in Baringo South, killing 65-year-old man injuring a woman with her child. They later attacked Mochongoi and drove away some 200 livestock.  (edited by o. owino)