Covid-19 funds totalling Sh370 million cannot be accounted for by the county government of Bungoma, the Auditor General says. An audit says the county spent the money without any work plan, with many instances of double payments and allowances. “The special audit established that the county government of Bungoma rolled out activities without work plans in place and the reason provided was the emergencies prevalent during that period,” reads the report in part. Chief officer for Health Patrick Wandili explained that the money was from the emergency funds vote and work plans are not usually done. “The approved budget in place covered Emergency Fund and National Covid-19 Grant. Approved procurement plans for the own county funds and National Covid-19 Grant were provided but none of the other funds had approved procurement plans in place. In respect to training, no training plans were made citing the emergency nature of the Covid-19 pandemic,” the report quotes Wandili sa saying. The report further points out that there was double payment of some staff members. “Analysis of the July and August 2020 payroll data indicated that there was a double payment to staff members in the month of July and August,” the report says. There was no evidence that recoveries of the money paid out had been done as at the time of the audit. The report further indicates that there was double payment for some health facilities like Mukwa dispensary. “While, the approved amount was Sh73,519 for a place like Mukwa, we established that double payments were made,” it reads. The report further indicates that the county government of Bungoma further spent the KDSP funds through an imprest/cash system. This means that no procurement for services or goods would be required even for amounts above Sh500,000. A review of  imprest warrants under the funds showed that Sh20,198,000 was spent on training without any clear supporting evidence of the trainings. The Auditor General also points out that Bungoma county did not avail documents such as approved plans or details of the trained personnel like number of trained personnel, signed attendance lists, receipts for claimed expenditure, authority to pay participants for training, approved conference and facilitators rates to support the utilisation of the funds “Further, expenditure for booking halls and meetings to contain up to 80 people at a time of restrictions could not be explained by the county,” the report says. The report further says that Bungoma county did not account for the donations they received. Edited by Henry Makori