Police in Eldoret have identified more than 10 clubs whose licences will be suspended for defying Covid-19 control regulations. The county is now recording more than 65 cases daily and police commander Ayub Ali says bars are superspreaders of Covid-19. He said police have been raiding the bars and clubs to forcibly remove revellers during curfew hours. Ali said the officers risked being infected and a decision had been made to have the licences withdrawn until further notice. Uasin Gishu is one of the four top counties recording high Covid-19 infections daily. “We met as a county response team and decided that the identified bars will have their licences withdrawn because they are openly defying government regulations which are aimed to protect all of us,” said Ali. Crowding in churches, matatus and bars has been blamed for the high rate of Covid-19 infections in Uasin Gishu county. Governor Jackson Mandago has directed officials to act and ensure control measures are enforced fully. Health executive Evelyne Rotich said many residents have defied Ministry of Health control protocols. Rotich said unless residents adhere to the protocols the county risked having a lockdown imposed to control the spread. ICU beds and other Covid-19 facilities are full due to high admissions. The county  has revived contact tracing as one way to fight the quick spread of Covid-19. The county has more than 5,000 infections currently. Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno chaired an emergency meeting of the county Covid-19 response team, which also directed police to swing into action and enforce control protocols which have been largely ignored by residents. Chemno said public service vehicles, boda bodas, crowding in supermarkets, bars, hotels and churches are some of the weak links causing the quick spread. He said a multi-agency team is leading the crackdown on those defying the regulations and ensure they are prosecuted. “The directives given by the President are very clear and can not be amended. We have to follow through and ensure that we reverse the rising infection curve in the county and also in the entire country,” said Chemno. The North Rift counties which received 60,000 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have so far given the jab to more than 50,000 residents including more than 15,000 medics. This week the counties have been focusing on reaching all the medics both in urban and rural areas. Edited by Henry Makori