Wazito captain Bernard Ochieng allayed fears of a looming mass exodus in the wake of damning reports suggesting the Moneybags allegedly owe salaries dating back to February. Ochieng played down the dire financial situation that appears to be gradually eating into the club's tranquillity and, ironically, also threatens to destabilise a side that has constantly been perceived to stand proudly among the wealthiest in the country. Amidst the heightened and deafening disquiet in the camp, the skipper has reiterated that the temperature in the room is absolutely normal with every member of the squad unfazed, smug, happy and in high spirits. "I'm yet to receive any complaints of discontentment from any of my teammates. I wouldn't wish to discuss anything touching on money, but all I can assure you is that all is well at Wazito," said Ochieng. Ochieng said they had their sights fully trained on the title this season and were actually well on their way to meeting their set targets before the Football Kenya Federation Premier League was called off unexpectedly following the outbreak of the third wave of coronavirus pandemic. "We started off splendidly and we've met our objectives reasonably well coming this far," said Ochieng. Wazito are in a decent sixth position on the log with 25 points, 11 adrift of leaders Tusker. They encountered a torrid start to the season but gradually picked up momentum after the management made the uncompromising but necessary decision to overhaul the technical bench, previously led by Fred Ambani, who paved the way for Francis Kimanzi at the helm. During the last transfer window, Wazito invested heavily in a versatile and vibrant playing unit that brought together a blend of youth and experience. Ochieng said the players had now taken to personalised training while eagerly awaiting the resumption of competitions. He expressed fears that the indefinite break occasioned by a government ban on sporting activities might enfeeble the season's vigour after it had gained considerable impetus towards the penultimate round of the first leg. "There is no doubt that the break will slow things down and it won't be easy for the teams to pick up easily upon resumption," said Ochieng. "It's sad we are going through this period for a second time. A big number of players depend mainly on football for their daily upkeep and you can only feel sorry for them."