Kenyans can now apply for compensation in case of any bodily injury or serious illness caused by the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. The compensation applications have opened but one can only make a claim 30 days after injection. Although the AstraZeneca vaccine is proven to be extremely safe, compensation for any serious side effect was instituted to instil confidence, experts said. Compensation will be made by US-based risk management services provider ESIS Inc, a subsidiary of the giant Swiss insurer Chubb Ltd. The programme covers serious bodily injury or illness that requires hospitalisation or prolongs an existing hospitalization, or injuries that result in permanent total or partial impairment, or death. Deaths attract the highest compensation, at Sh10,000 per day of hospitalisation up to a maximum of Sh600,000. Pregnant women who receive the vaccine can also be paid if it harms the unborn child or results in miscarriage. Payments for the rest is calculated based on GDP per capita of Kenya x12x the given harm factor resulting from the vaccine. “The reason for this 30-day waiting period is to allow registered healthcare professionals to determine whether the adverse event which you have suffered (or the person you represent, has suffered) is indeed serious,” Covax said. Minor side-effects such as pain, headache or fever will not be paid for. Applications are made through the www.covaxclaims.com website. Kenyans who take the Sputnik V or any other vaccine not in the Covax programme cannot apply for compensation. All applications must be supported by evidence from a registered nurse, medical doctor or pharmacist who will provide documentary evidence. Covax said all applications will be thoroughly scrutinised and those eligible for compensation will be notified within 30 days. The patients or their representatives will be notified to choose the method of payment they prefer, and money will be wired within 28 days. The scheme also warned those who make falsified claims or forge documents will be chased to the courts and prosecuted. The compensation scheme started on March 31, 2021, and runs until June 30, 2022. To be paid you will sign an agreement committing not to pursue any other compensation. “By providing a no-fault lump-sum compensation in full and final settlement of any claims, the Covax programme aims to significantly reduce the need for recourse to the law courts, a potentially lengthy and costly process,” WHO said in a statement last month.