At about 1pm on Saturday, March 13, Doreen Moraa Osoro returned home from school. She took lunch and was later tasked with cleaning the dishes. But she disappeared. Her parents found her room untidy, her books and school uniform spread on the floor, but her bag and a few home were missing. She had sneaked from home without telling anybody and for over a month now, she is yet to be traced. Her family has searched frantically for the 12-year-old with no luck. The family lives in Molo. Doreen is a Standard 6 pupil at St. Francis Academy. Her father David Osoro said they have searched for their daughter at the homes of their relatives in vain. Osoro told the Star his family suspects that his daughter was lured by a 23-year-old man whom they suspect is keeping her in an unknown location. He said he got wind before that while in school, her otherwise disciplined daughter would be seen playing and secretly meeting with some boys. One of them, he said, is the one they suspect to have hidden the girl. They reported the matter to Molo police station under OB number OB26/17/03/2021. The father of five also claims that the local police are complicit in the disappearance of her daughter. For example, he said, on the day of her disappearance, alongside others, he trailed the suspect to their home where they thought the daughter was. "He told us to give him time and tell us where the girl was but later denied ever knowing where she was," Osoro said. Their next course of action was dragging the man to the police station, and this is where their contention with the police starts. At the station, Osoro claims, a police officer took the phone of the suspect and deleted some material that they suspect were photos of his daughter and let him go. And from then, the officers have restrained from actively pursuing the matter, he said. At one point, Osoro said, he went to the OCS office with some journalists in tow but the officer denied any connivance. "I am sure that the police are complicit in the disappearance of my daughter. They left the suspect to go even after I gave them a clear lead to pursue the matter," he said. Osoro believes that if the officers detained the suspects and vigorously pursued the alleged lead, Doreen would be back home.  -Edited by SKanyara 