Hardened by combat and with three bronze medals already engraved with her name, Elizabeth Akinyi is convinced she is now bold and ripe enough to successfully charge for gold at the Tokyo Olympics in July. The pugilist's soft demeanor might portray her as a pushover but her track record paints a different picture. A welterweight battler over the years, Akinyi just added another decoration to her sparkling collection of medals, when she emerged third at the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship held in Kinshasa, DRC to scoop her third bronze. She, however, believes she shot herself in the foot by indulging too much at the dining table prior to the contest. "We had prepared well before the event and I was looking forward to a better performance, only that my weight let me down. I weighed much more than required and my opponent who was slightly lighter took advantage because she was faster in the ring," said Akinyi. Akinyi is among sixteen boxers who have been unleashing furious power on their punching bags after pitching camp at the national team's training base in Lavington, Nairobi mid last year. The 24-year-old who will comprise the 'Hit Squad' quartet in the Kenyan Tokyo Olympics-bound contigent believes 2021 is her year after several of her previous efforts ended in a bronze haul. “I bagged my first medal at the African Confederation Boxing Championship (AFBC) in Brazzaville, Congo Republic in 2016 after losing to Clotide Essiene of Cameroon 4-1 on points in the semi-finals. “Then in 2020, I doubled up my fortunes at the African Olympic qualifiers in Senegal where I again emerged from the ring with a bronze, effectively locking me out of the Olympics,” she said. However, Lady Luck smiled on her when the world repechage qualifiers in France were called off and the Tokyo Olympics boxing task force handed her and Elly Ajowi automatic slots after seeding them ahead of their competitors in their respective categories. Akinyi was barely in her teenage years when she first sprang into action and began cutting teeth at St. John's Sports Society on the periphery of Nairobi's sprawling Korogocho slums. "I was 14 years old when I started training at St. John's under the late boxing coach James Odongo,” she said. Interestingly, she rose through the ranks to secure promotion as a national team player without breaking sweat in any league encounters. “I never participated in any league encounters but got involved in a wide array of locally organized tournaments. “I remember when Obama visited Kenya, Kentrack organised a tournament which I participated in. I instantly caught the attention of the promoter, Kennedy Otieno, who asked to know more about me. “Otieno invited me to join his stable and I accepted the offer. From there on I became involved in a competition dubbed 'Road to Rio Olympics'. “That's how the national team coaches got to see me in action and it wasn't long before I earned my maiden call-up,” says Akinyi. 