Kenyans have become so keen that no political activity escapes their notice. On Tuesday, Kanu chairman and Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and President Uhuru Kenyatta's brother Muhoho visited ODM leader Raila Odinga at his Karen home.  Kenyans were quick to notice that while Gideon immediately shared the meeting's photo on his social media pages, neither Raila nor ODM posted the photo. This raised questions on the place of the Orange Party in the talks said to be tied to 2022. Concerned observers told Corridors that they hope the party stalwarts will explain the decision. ****** Nepotism in a university in Nyanza is rife it stinks to high heavens. The vice chancellor, whose second and final term ends in about a year, has employed more than 100 of his close relatives and clansmen to key positions in all the 20 plus departments. It is feared the VC, who runs the institution like a personal kiosk, will leave behind a trail of destruction and massive misuse of donor funds. His point men recently tendered a gate worth Sh30 million, setting tongues wagging. Fear has gripped his kinsmen as the man’s term draws to an end. ****** Still in Nyanza, residents of a county are wondering why the police have not stopped a governor’s nocturnal activities in breach of the curfew. The officers were overheard laughing, saying they have given the governor the perfect camouflage. They spoke of how they shift the big man from his official Prado V8 to a Probox at night to enable him to inspect several storey buildings coming up in the town, which he is building through proxies. The governor is said to have deposited money with the persons putting up the blocks. ****** Last December we told you of a senior officer at a security agency who had been suspended for graft but returned following a court order only to find his post already filled. Well, the situation has remained the same. The man has continued to report to the agency’s headquarters for newspapers and tea, in what has become a daily ritual. Corridors is apprised that the man recently ‘upgraded his temporary workstation’ with a phone and makes calls for the better part of the day. It seems the authorities’ hands are tied as they cannot redeploy him to a posting below his rank. 