Growing demand for housing in Othaya has led to high rent charges making it the most expensive town in Nyeri county. House rents have skyrocketed, beating charges in bigger towns like Karatina and Nyeri. Residents say the high housing demand and the subsequent rent increase have been driven by the operationalising of Othaya Level 6 Hospital and ongoing construction works in the constituency. The town has witnessed a rise in population in the last four years, with over 1,000 hospital staff and hundreds of construction workers moving there, leading to a rise in the demand for housing. The hospital was constructed during retired President Kibaki’s tenure but opened to patients last year. James Kanyi of Allaken Marketing Services, a property and housing agent in Othaya, says the competition for the few available houses has also pushed land prices up. “People coming to work in the town are forced to rent houses in the neighbouring Kiria-ini town in Murang’a county about 10km away or take up unoccupied houses in rural areas of Othaya,” he said. A one-bedroom house that went for Sh1,500 and 2,000 some 10 years ago is now going for between Sh10,000 and Sh12,000 while a modern two-bedroom house that went for between Sh2,500 and Sh3,500 around the same period is going for between Sh13,000 and 20,000 depending on when the house was constructed. A bedsitter rent has increased from between Sh1,000 and Sh1,500 to between Sh6,000 and Sh8,000 over the same period. Kanyi says newly constructed buildings are the most expensive. This is unlike in Nyeri town, the county’s headquarters, where a one-bedroom house goes for about Sh7,000 with a two-bedroom costing between Sh10,000 and Sh12,000 in rent depending on location. A bedsitter in Nyeri town goes for between Sh5,000 and Sh6,000. “Othaya is more expensive than even some estates in Nairobi which is the country’s capital city,” he says. For land, a 50 by 100 plot that in the year 2000 cost between Sh100,000 and Sh350,000 has risen to between Sh1.5 million and Sh5 million while an acre of land within the proposed municipality is going for between Sh14 million and Sh24 million depending on the location. There is fear that the demand will further rise after the completion of the Kenya Medical Training College - Othaya campus - which will, upon completion, have a capacity of over 1,000 students and staff. Othaya also has an existing private Diploma Teachers Training College. Elizabeth Wanjohi and Eliud Githaiga, both Othaya residents said some people are contemplating moving to neighbouring towns if the situation doesn’t improve soon. But there are investors who are celebrating saying the increase in the number of visitors has improved their income through increased rent. “My tenants constitute construction workers, hospital staff, bankers, teachers and other professionals in town,” said an investor. Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi says the town, which was initially targeted to hold a population of 4,000, is on a growth trajectory and it is targeted that 5,000 homes will come up in the next 15 to 20 years. To attract more investors and address the crisis, Mugambi says the sewerage system is being expanded at a cost of Sh60 million to enable investors build storey buildings. “Earlier, people feared putting up storey buildings as their septic tanks would get filled quickly and had to empty them regularly which is very expensive,” he said. However, there is now a sewerage plant that has been done where the liquid waste is channeled. Since the construction of the sewerage system started, investors have started putting up storey buildings with about five tall buildings already coming up in the town. Mugambi said the vision to turn Othaya, currently a township, into a municipality is the reason behind the beehive of road construction activities. Already, its map has been redesigned. “The logic of having a municipality is to enhance service delivery and bring services closer to the people," the MP says. Roads network to the town is being improved to ease access to the hospital as well as prepare the town for its new status. “We have town roads being upgraded by Kenya Urban Roads Authority, where 20km of roads will be upgraded from murram to bitumen standards,” he said. Kenya Rural Roads Authority is doing 60km of tarmac while Kenha, through Mau Mau roads, is doing 20km of tarmac. Currently, the new awarded roads are approximately 100km while 30km are in the process of procurement, bringing the total kilometres of roads set to be tarmacked to about 130km in the constituency, Mugambi said. Tarmacking and resealing of new roads will cost Sh5 billion. Othaya constituency is an agricultural area with the main activities being coffee, tea and dairy farming It has three tea processing factories, a coffee dry mill and a private milk processing plant.  -Edited by SKanyara