NLC deputy director of investigations and forensic services Antipas Nyanjwa died of a heart attack but police want to know what triggered it. A postmortem exercise performed Thursday indicated a heart attack but samples were taken for further tests and analysis to determine the cause. The man who put away Rwanda genocide murderers was said to be in low spirits. He had been ordered transferred to Homa Bay, which he unsuccessfully appealed. The 52-year-old detective's job had been to pinpoint forged documents and other problems in the disorganised lands registry known for cartels and fabricated documents. He was a distinguished criminologist who started out at DCI. Officials at the commission said Nyanjwa had been expressing fears for his life over his investigations into land cartels. He reported his concerns to his supervisors. He had just recovered from Covid-19. Chief Government Pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor performed the autopsy and briefed the family. Nyanjwa’s brother Kennedy said results of more tests could change the official cause of the death later. It was the second mysterious NLC death in a month. Deputy Director of communications Jennifer Wambua was last seen alive on March 12. Her body was found a day later in Kajiado in the woods. She had been strangled. She had appeared depressed, colleagues said. NLC had paid her Sh2.7 million to implement a strategic plan; Sh2 million was withdrawn two days before she went missing. Three suspects have been arrested. Police said they have not established a link between the two deaths. Concerning Nyanjwa, police were present during the autopsy. Witnesses said Nyanjwa seemed unhappy on Monday after he learned his office was locked and he had been ordered to leave for his new posting. Nyanjwa collapsed and died at Soiree Gardens Restaurant on Ngong Road, Nairobi. It has emerged Nyanjwa was to meet an MP from Kisumu and among others at the restaurant. Witnesses said he arrived, parked his car and sat inside for a long time. A manager at the restaurant Ann Githinji said Nyanjwa did not take food or water. “He stayed in his car for a while and later left for a short call but did not reach there. He could not walk and held onto a rail before he sat on the ground complaining of breathing problems. He did not eat anything here,” Githinji said. He had said he was to meet friends to discuss his transfer from the commission and other personal issues. The MP and his team had also not arrived at the restaurant before he collapsed. The staff rushed him to hospital. He was pronounced dead on arrival, police said. “The staff say he had not ordered food and he developed breathing problems before they rushed him to the hospital ... We don’t know where he had been before then,” an investigator who asked not to be named said. Nyanjwa had a history of heart-related complications. NLC officials said Nyanjwa had been moved to Homa Bay and named the county coordinator but was yet to report. He and others were investigating a Sh20 billion parcel along Thika Road. Ownership was disputed by different parties and he was to submit his report. He was officially transferred on July 20 last year but appealed the decision by the commission. On April 7, acting NLC secretary Kabale Tache directed Nyanjwa to immediately report to his new posting. “Further to your transfer to Homa Bay county vide letter dated 20 July 2020 and your appeal dated 28 July 2020, I am writing to notify you the matter was deliberated by the commission ... on 25 and 29 March 2021.” “It was resolved that you ought to have reported to Homa Bay county as envisaged. Pursuant to this, I am writing to ask you to report with immediate effect,” Tache wrote. Insiders told the Star Nyanjwa saw the transfer as punishment as he had cited health as among the reasons he did not want to be transferred. He was deputy head of investigations at the commission since 2014 when he joined from the DCI. He had served as deputy head of the document examination section of the forensic unit at DCI. He had been an instructor at the DCI academy. “He was one of the celebrated document examiners in the country. He was a dedicated man,” a former DCI colleague said. On November 28, 2008, Nyanjwa was attacked and seriously wounded as he and his wife Violet drove to their home in Kisumu. Court documents showed about four people wearing police jungle jackets and saying they were police from Winam Camp showed up and engaged them in a conversation before they suddenly attacked the couple. Nyanjwa and his wife were cut at the back of the head. He woke up at Aga Khan Hospital after four days and later was airlifted to Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi for further treatment. The attackers robbed Nyanjwa of his pistol, Sh328,000, two mobile phones and other personal effects. Two of the suspects were later arrested and jailed over the incident but released on appeal.  (Edited by V. Graham)