Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has warned that the county may be placed under lockdown due to increasing numbers of Covid-19 cases. The county is recording an average of 50 cases per day and Mandago is worried that the trend may cause President Kenyatta to impose a lockdown like in the other five counties already affected. “The number of new cases in this county is very worrying and unless as residents we comply with control protocols to stop further spread, then we may be considered for a lockdown,” Mandago said on Wednesday. He said the county would enforce a crackdown against individuals and institutions violating the control measures. “We will even withdraw licences and shut down hotels or bars that will be found working with complete disregard to Covid-19 control measures,” Mandago said. The eight counties in the North Rift region have recorded more than 1,500 infections in the last three weeks, with almost half of the cases coming from Uasin Gishu. Nandi, Trans Nzoia and Turkana are also recording increasing numbers. Mandago has at the same time urged Kenyans to surrender oxygen cylinders they are hoarding in their homes so that they can be utilised by health facilities in the country. The Ministry of Health has expressed concern over an acute shortage of oxygen cylinders in health facilities after it emerged Kenyans had bought them and are now keeping them in their homes. But according to Mandago, there is no need for Kenyans to hoard the oxygen cylinders as they can only help an individual who has Covid-19 and that the oxygen is administered alongside other medication. “Oxygen alone is not treatment for Covid-19 so if you are hoarding the cylinder please release it. Aside from the oxygen, you will need to be diagnosed first by a doctor,” said the county boss. He said his administration is ready to follow up on individuals who are hoarding the cylinders so that they can be used to benefit patients who need them. “Let’s not make Kenyans suffer by hoarding some of these basic things that are now needed more in our health facilities,” Mandago said. The governor, however, said the Kamalel Isolation Centre for Covid-19 patients in the county still has sufficient oxygen cylinders. “As a county, our Kamalel facility has oxygen but we are forced to take them for refill and take them back to avoid a scenario where someone will buy them to go and hoard,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori