Restaurant Group–Eat'N'Go has launched in Kenya after acquisition of the Domino’s Pizza and Cold Stone Creamery franchises in the country. Lunched in Nigeria in 2012, it has established itself as a premier food operator in Africa. The acquisition in Kenya will see Eat'N'Go Restaurant Group become the largest Domino’s pizza and Cold Stone Creamery Master Franchisee in Africa. Group CEO and managing director Patrick McMichael said the company has confidence in the market and that their entry was driven by the regions’ high growth potential. “We are looking forward to making an impact on the Kenyan economy as we focus on offering the highest quality ice cream and pizza products in the market. As a business, our success has been pegged on providing unique and excellent customer experience at a favourable price point,” McMichael said. “We have understood Kenya’s supply chain and believe that with the ever-expanding middle-class, we have the opportunity to provide our customers with convenience and value for money,’’ McMichael added. The company has committed to investing in Kenya to drive the expansion, distribution, and growth of its business . This will include the upgrading of the Cold Stone Creamery and Domino’s Pizza stores across the country, to make its operations competitive and expand its customer base. “By the end of 2021, it is our vision to reach 180 stores across Africa. We will continue to bring satisfying, delectable yet affordable food offerings to every market in which we open stores,’’ said McMichael. The leading quick service restaurant company is also looking at leveraging its product research and development to increase market share in the region through the introduction of new flavours. To complement its market entry, the company has unveiled six new Cold Stone Creamery flavours, together with Domino’s Pizza globally renowned signature American Classic Cheeseburger Pizza. With expansion into the country, the brand now has over 147 stores (in Nigeria and Kenya). With over 3,000 employees, Eat'N'Go is fast becoming one of the fastest growing franchising companies in the Africa.