@alalmaurice Private schools now want the government to fund the education of their learners as is the case with those in public institutions. The Kenya Private Schools Association says they should be considered for capitation ahead of reopening next month. Kepsa national treasurer George Mudanyi said the state should give them funds. Currently, only learners in public schools are funded. But Mudanyi said the funding should be allocated to every child regardless of whether they are in a private or public school. He said the government had not come clear on capitation, which he termed vital to schools in the development of children. In an interview with the Star, Mudanyi said private schools are ready to admit more learners if the government provides capitation. “As an association, we will continue to dialogue with government officials in pushing for the need to advance the funds to private schools,” Mudanyi said. He is the director of Mudasa Academy, a school in Vihiga county. The official said capitation should not only be focussed on public schools. “All children in both public and private learning institutions are Kenyans and they deserve to be treated equally. We are all in the sole objective of helping to transform, educate and develop our children,” Mudanyi said He said that the 100 per cent transition of learners from primary to secondary schools will only be realised if private schools are financially empowered. Mudanyi said private schools play a key role in giving quality education to the children and should not be left out in any government support to learning institutions. Mudanyi said the right to education of a child is enshrined in the Constitution. There are 1,600 private secondary schools spread across the country capable of admitting 165,000 students transiting from primary schools. “Most parents would like to benefit from government capitation, but, unfortunately, this is not extended to private schools at the moment,” Mudanyi lamented. He said government officials should seriously look at the matter, arguing that private schools can help decongest their public counterparts. Mundayi said they are ready to admit learners joining Form 1 to help implement the 100 per cent transition policy. “It is not about giving capitation to schools but giving capitation to every Kenyan child,” he said. His Mudasa Academy posted good results in the 2020 KCPE exam, with 30 out of their 70 candidates scoring 400 marks and above. Mudanyi attributed the good performance to hard work and commitment by teachers, pupils and parents.  Edited by P.O