Kenya is eyeing the international market for honey and other bee products with the United Kingdom being one of its latest targets, Agriculture PS Harry Kimtai has said. The PS observed that just like many other parts of the world, honey, wax and other related products were in high demand in Britain. Kimtai emphasised the need for quality products that meet the local as well as international standards through good, hygienic, and modernised apiculture practices. Speaking in Naivasha during the Apiculture Platform of Kenya Annual General Meeting, the PS said properly produced and processed honey and honey products will not only be acceptable in the markets but also fetch better prices. The PS who was accompanied by APK chairperson Stephen Kagio among other senior APK leaders and stakeholders said farmers who will qualify to export will receive certification for selling in the international markets. “Kenya has already signed a trade agreement with the UK and honey is among the key products that we would like to market,” Kimtai said. Kimtai said the government was set to train approximately 500 beekeepers on good apicultural practices, in a bid to ensure quality production and promote food safety and market access along this value chain. “The 500 will be instructed as Trainers of Trainers and would be expected to train other producers as a way of increasing the number of honey producers in the country,” he said. He observed that with proper strategies and mobilisations, the country had the capacity to produce sufficient amounts for locals consumption and a surplus for export. He said the TOTs will be mainly youths and will be exposed to different areas in the apiculture sector such as wax processing and manufacture of beauty products and standard bee farming equipment among others. APK Chairman Stephen Kagio asked stakeholders in the sector to come together because there is power in numbers especially when it comes to production, aggregation and marketing, and related. “If we work together, we will learn from each other and explore opportunities in this sector both locally and internationally,” said Kagio He noted that most beekeepers are small-scale, and therefore, they would rather work in groups in order to benefit from economies of scale.