It had been a long time since I had travelled to Kisumu and the moment we arrived there, it felt different since I could see the overpass that welcomed us into the County. It had been a six-hour journey from Nairobi with my cousins and we were very hungry. We had been snacking the whole journey having sandwiches, juice and crisps. One of my cousins had never been to Kisumu, so we settled for a place near the Lake so she could enjoy having a meal by the Lake. We decided to settle on Dunga Hill Camp. Once we arrived at the parking outside the premises, it was already full. I was not surprised since it was a Friday and people wanted to blow off the steam after a very busy week. The security guard ushered us in the gate to more parking space that was in the vicinity. At the parking, I could hear music but did not see people around. When I stepped out of the car a few meters from where I was standing I saw people in gazebo type shelters enjoying their favorite drinks and food with some cool music in the background. We made our way towards the lakeside to look for a place to sit and enjoy our meal. As we headed down the steps to the lake, it became imminent that it was a band that was playing covers of various music artistes and more people were sitting close to the Lake. We sat a few metres from the Lake and the breeze that was there was cool. The view of the Lake from where we were seated was breathtaking and we quickly placed our orders as we enjoyed the serenading music. Our meal arrived and I was already salivating. I could not wait to eat it. The meal presentation was moderate and the smell was so captivating. We had ordered Tilapia, Chicken, and Pork with sides plates of Ugali, Fries and Traditional vegetables. The view of the Lake as we had our meal was one to behold since there was a sunset. I was so hungry that I forgot to get a picture of how beautiful the sunset was. A meal is not enjoyed well without having a drink to drown it down with. So we ordered for some drinks. I had a beer as the rest had their favorite alcoholic drinks. After an hour of enjoying the beautiful view, breeze and time to chat, we wrapped our journey with travelling to Luanda, Western Kenya which was our destination.