The High Court has extended an order stopping Nairobi county government from increasing parking fees for both private and public service vehicles. Justice Anthony Mrima said until a petition filed by the Consumer Federation of Kenya and Matatu Owners Association is heard and determined, there should be no increment of parking fees in Nairobi. Consequently, the judge directed that Nairobi Metropolitan Services be enjoined as an interested party for having taken over transport services in the county. The aggrieved vehicle owners through their lawyer Henry Kurauka argued that the increment was punitive and was done without public participation as required by the Constitution. The lawyer argued that the petition raises substantive issues of law which the court is called upon to determine. The judge directed that the matter be mentioned on May 3 for purposes of giving directions to the hearing of the petition. The new charges were to come into effect on December 4 last year. City Hall issued a public notice dated December 2, 2020 increasing the fees from the current Sh200 to Sh400. Buses that are not PSV were to pay Sh1,000 daily. The notice was signed by county parking services director Tom Tinega. However, the Consumer Federation of Kenya protested the decision, arguing it would hurt consumers seeking transport and parking services within the city. Kurauka argued that if the proposed changes were implemented, the rights of consumers would be greatly violated even as they struggle with the high cost of living. “There is no reasonable cause to increase parking fees at a time when most consumers are struggling to provide basic needs for their families such as food, housing, healthcare, school fees, clothing, fuel, airtime, transport and expenses for other important social activities,” he said. The organisation also noted that the decision requiring buses to pay more to access the city centre would cause a ripple effect and result in raised fares, which would hurt commuters’ travel plans. Cofek said the county government had not ensured the security of vehicles, adding that it had received numerous consumer complaints of increased insecurity in the designated parking zones. It added that security services had been assigned to parking boys.  -Edited by SKanyara