Football Kenya Federation Premier League side Wazito FC have suffered yet another blow after world football governing body, Fifa, prohibited them from signing new players for the next three transfer windows. The decision comes after the Moneybags ignored an earlier directive to offset dues owed to two of their former players, Paul Acquah and Mansoor Agu. Fifa raised concerns through a letter addressed to the club on Tuesday, pointing out that they were yet to comply with their pending financial obligations. “We refer to the above-mentioned matter and acknowledge receipt of the attached correspondence for the parties’ perusal. We take due note that in its correspondence, the Creditor informs us that the Debtor has not complied with its financial obligations in accordance with the decision of Fifa. “In this regard, we wish to inform the parties that a ban from registering new players internationally has been implemented by Fifa at the beginning of the next registration period. “Moreover, and in accordance with point six of the aforementioned decision, debtor´s member association is requested to implement on the debtor at the beginning of the next registration period, a ban from registering new players at national level,” read the statement. Last week, a lawyer representing the players, Evans Majani, warned that Wazito were also still not off the hook just yet even after making an effort to address the issue. “Wazito have paid Issofou Bourhana and Augustine Otu and Piscas Kirenge but haven't sorted Paul Acquah and Mansoor Safi Agu,” said Majani. “If they don’t pay the two, we will move back to Fifa for more drastic measures to be instituted against them. We demand due process in sacking players,” said Majani. On February 4, 2021, world football governing body Fifa banned Gor Mahia and Wazito from signing new players in the concluded second player transfer window. The development came after Gor failed to pay Tanzania winger Dickson Ambudo Sh1.2 million while Wazito failed to offset a Sh1 million debt owed to Liberian Augustin Otu. Apart from Otu, four other players also reported Wazito to Fifa. They included Ghanaian forward Paul Acquah, Togolese defender Issofou Bourhana, Ugandan midfielder Mansoor Safi and DR Congo forward Piscas Muhindo who were all awarded a total of Sh6 million in salary arrears. Mansoor got Sh1,698,000, with Sh370,000 outstanding remuneration. Acquah was awarded Sh2,165,806 plus Sh150,000 remuneration, while Muhindo got Sh1,040,000 and Sh200,000 remuneration. 