Col Alice Mate, a lawyer, has been appointed as director of the Assets Recovery Agency to improve the fight against graft. She replaces retired Muthoni Kimani, a long-term senior Solicitor General in the office of the Attorney General who acted as the director for almost six years. Col Mate's appointment was a surprise move. She is a navy officer who worked in the legal department of the military for almost 10 years. She has prosecuted courts martial sessions against military personnel. She won most of them. Her colleagues describe her as a hard working and dedicated, an officer who will bring fresh blood to ARA. Kimani retires after serving in the State Law office for more than 30 years, rising through the ranks to be named the ARA director. There are efforts to move ARA to the Office of the DPP. ARA is in charge of reclaiming of assets at least suspected to have been acquired illegally or with illegally acquired finances. The agency was established under Sec 52 of the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act. The Act empowers the director of the Financial Reporting Centre to send reports to law enforcement authorities, any intelligence agency, or  other body for further handling if a transaction appears suspicious. The authority only needs to suspect that a person facing graft-related charges acquired their wealth irregularly for it to demand they account for how they acquired it. Failing to do so means the authority can seek court authority to freeze assets. ARA with its powers of seizure is the new sheriff in town, unsettling graft lords, even more than the EACC and DCI. Mate's appointment by the Attorney General is seen to be President Uhuru Kenyatta's latest move to give more powers in the graft war to the military. The President has denied assertions he was militarising the country by deploying KDF personnel to key government departments. “I am not militarising anything. I am using reliable Kenyan citizens to fulfill my agenda for this republic. The KDF are part of us and are also part of our citizens,” the President said last year. By frequently turning to the disciplined forces to steer key projects, the President has shown his frustration at the manner missions are carried out by civilian bureaucrats. “If all of us operated and behaved, loved and served their country the way  the Kenya Defence Forces does, Kenya would today be a great country. And we all have a big lesson to learn,” Kenyatta said. The President’s actions have been influenced by the perception that soldiers are clean and disciplined. In Nairobi, Maj Gen Mohammed Badi is in charge of the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, which is greatly improving the capital city. Besides the turnaround in the city, the military has taken a hands-on approach in rehabilitating the Thika-Nanyuki and Nairobi-Kisumu railway lines, the port of Kisumu and restoring government vehicles and vessels. Concerns over extensive use of the military peaked following the announcement all state-owned aircraft would be placed under the Kenya Air Force. The move followed reports of wastage in management of the aircraft. Earlier, the President had also transferred the Kenya Meat Commission  to the Defence ministry from the State Department of Agriculture. KMC is set for relaunching this month. (Edited by V. Graham)