Simba SC Communications Officer Haji Manara has sent tongues wagging after sensationally claiming South African giants Orlando Pirates were ready to splash Sh100 million for on-form centre back Joash Onyango. Manara disclosed the development while fielding questions from radio talk hosts at Wasafi FM on Monday night. “Let me reveal a secret, yesterday one of the Orlando Pirates managers called me to ask about the price of Onyango and I quoted one million dollars. He said they were ready to initiate talks," said Manara. “Onyango is rising so fast and has already attained a $1 million tag. That's just how good he already is. He has regularly been chosen as the best centre back in the Champions League,” observed Manara. The former Gor Mahia centre-back has been putting in man-of-the-match performances in the Tanzanian Premiership and has been equally exceptional in the CAF Champions League where Simba wrapped up their matches on top of Group 'A', ahead of Egyptian giants Al Ahly. Joash was named in the CAF Champions League team of the week after Match Day Two where Simba SC staged a massive upset by stunning Al Ahly 1-0. The 28-year-old was recently named the Simba March Player of the Month after fending off strong opposition from Aishi Manula and Luís Miquissone. Onyango, who joined Wekundu wa Simbazi from Kenyan champions Gor Mahia, capped off his impressive run by scooping the Emirates Aluminium Simba Fans Player of the Month for March award. He garnered a whopping 20,288 (79 per cent) of the total 25,719 votes cast. His closest rival goalkeeper Aishi Manula came a distant second with 4, 673 votes (18 per cent) while Luis Miquissone gleaned a paltry 758 (two per cent). Onyango took home TSh1,000,000 (Sh46,000) in prize money. Contestants were picked through a robust selection process where five players were picked by the club's board and shortlisted to three finalists who were eventually subjected to a popular online vote by the fans. He turned out for Harambee Stars in their African Cup of Nations qualifier against Egypt that ended in a one-all draw at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. He, however, missed out on Kenya's 2-0 win over Togo 2-0 in Lome after the Togolese federation returned a report indicating he and three other Harambee Stars players had contracted the Covid-19 virus prior to the match.