Squatters in Likuyani and Lugari subcounties in Kakamega have opposed the planned degazettement of parts of the Turbo forest reserve for development. They were displaced by the infamous 1992 ethnic clashes. Led by their chairman Jotham Wanjala, the 1,500 squatters said they must first be prioritised. The county government has proposed to hive off 460 acres of the forest reserve for the establishment of the Seregea-Turbo township and agricultural use. The squatters settled on some 240 acres of land which is part of the forestland at Mautuma area but have not been issued with title deeds to date. The National Environmental Management Authority has put up a paid-up advertisement calling for submission of comments on the Environmental Impact Assessment reportRon the proposed degazettement of parts of the forest. The 460 acres are to be used for the development of social amenities of the proposed township. The facilities include construction of a market, county government offices,  agricultural use and another 100 acres for the establishment of a police station and a National Youth Service college for the Seregea-Turbo township. The EIA report recommends the issuance of land title deeds to the affected settlers who will give way for the development of the degazetted areas. The report also recommends the development of an all-inclusive joint forest management plan between the Kenya Forest Services and the community or upgrades the existing plan to cater for emerging issues. Wanjala yesterday said that those planning to cut off parts of the forests could be meant to benefit Individuals. “We have been waiting for titles for close to three decades now and any attempt to gain entry into the forest must settle us first,” he said. Lukuyani MP Enoch Kibunguchy has also opposed the plans to degazette part of the forest. “Any attempt to take forest land for whatever reason must be approved by Parliament,” he said. He said that he will seek an audience with Environment CS Keriako Tobiko to address the issues around the Shamba system in the forest. “We want the CS to issue a gazette notice stating that people engaged in the Samba system is forests plat crops that are common in those areas,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris