When people can only attend church 15 at a time, they instead crowd markets and trading centres to pray, ignoring social distancing to limit the spread of Covid-19. They spread the word of God and the coronavirus. A human rights lobby group has urged the government to monitor the number of people in public places to ensure social distancing and limit the spread of Covid. Monitoring will enable the government to consider lifting some restrictions, the group leaders said. The Voice of Men and Children's group said many people crowd public places without considering masks, hand washing and social distancing. Chairman Bishop James Njenga said Kiambu markets are always filled with customers and sellers pushing and pulling each other. He said despite the county government mounting hand washing points at  entrance of the markets, very few people bother to wash their hands. Njenga deplored that while churches ae advised to only hold 15 people when conducting live services, a lot of people still worship in large groups in trading centres. “We wonder what went wrong. Is it that people do not understand the need to stay safe or is it the government that does not enforce orders?” he asked. Speaking at his office in Limuru sub county, Njenga urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider increasing the number of people allowed to attend church at one time. He also called for increased numbers at weddings and dowry payments -- or lift restrictions altogether. “If opening churches again will not be considered, we might lose much of our flock to vices such as alcoholism, illegal groups and gangs," he said. “We used to hold seminars and teaching sessions where we mentored youth, women and men, but these days such activities do not happen,” Njenga said. He was accompanied by treasurer Cyrus Koimburi who said  bar operators have started misbehaving and some carry alcoholic drinks to sell them from their homes and in maize plantations. “People are drinking too much alcohol in groups and are sharing the same glasses and bottles in different places. If someone had Covid-19, how many people do you think he or she will pass it on to?” Koimburi asked. Edited by Kiilu Damaris