Land document verification exercise for 8,200 allottees claiming legal ownership of the 17,000 acre land in South Ngariama in Kirinyaga county was unexpectedly halted due to Covid-19 risks. The three-day activity had already started on Tuesday and was to end on Thursday when police directed that the exercise be suspended. The verification was being conducted at the South Ngariama chief’s office grounds by the county government in partnership with Geo-Acre Surveys, the contracted surveyor. Kirinyaga county commissioner Jim Njoka confirmed to the Star that the exercise was put off until further notice. He said the meeting was in contravention of the presidential directives on Covid-19 that bars public gatherings. “We cannot allow people to come together when there is an upsurge of the virus infections in the country,” Njoka said. Gachoki wa Gitari from Geo Acre Surveys told the Star that by the time the exercise was halted, they had already verified about 4,000 land documents. “We were overwhelmed by the high turnout so I requested we halt the exercise to allow us to put in place a well-organised health safety structure for the well-being of all participants,” he said. They are hoping that the exercise will resume on Monday. Gitari has however assured of a genuine document verification process that will enable legal owners to get title deeds. “We are aware that a lot of illegalities have been carried out on this land like forging land documents, selling other people‘s land, crimes that have resulted in loss of lives,” he added. Lands executive Samuel Kanjobe said the verification is part of the titling process for the land whose surveying had stalled for years. He said the exercise is aimed at updating the allottees register for beneficiaries and current occupants of the land which will enable completion of surveying and the titling of the land. The CEC said the original owners of the land will be required to produce their identification cards, allotment letters and original ballot while land purchasers will be required to produce the sale agreement, identification cards, allotment letters, the purchaser’s identification cards and the original and copy of the ballot. In a joint press statement issued last month, the county assembly promised that the rightful owners of the land will be given title deeds. “We are committed and determined to ensure that we secure title deeds for the rightful 8,200 families and reclaim the public land that has been grabbed. We will stop at nothing to ensure that it is done,” the statement read. The land was originally and formally vested into trusteeship of the defunct Kirinyaga County Council in June 1965 on behalf of the people of Kirinyaga, pursuant to the provision of the former 1964 Constitution and Trust Lands Act, Cap 285. The land was earmarked for demarcation and allocation to the residents of Kirinyaga according to the nine (9) Agikuyu clans, part of which was to be designated as public land. The County Council of Kirinyaga was then placed as the legally appropriate entity to initiate the adjudication process of the land guided by the judgment of the Meru court case of 2006. The defunct local authority contracted Geo-Acre surveyors to subdivide, allocate and do a cadastral survey and mapping of the same vide memorandum of understanding dated November 22, 2006. In so doing, the contractor was to assign land for public utility, for wetland including riparian and the rest to the rightful private owners. The process was however abandoned by previous administrations until this year when the current administration together with the county assembly revived the matter and set aside funds to fast track the process. -Edited by SKanyara