Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa has urged the Ministry of Sports to expedite the process of okaying the resumption of top-flight leagues to enable the national teams to perform well in their upcoming assignments. “I would like to appreciate the Ministry of Health and Ministry of Sports, Culture, and Heritage for making the vaccine available to our players. “I now appeal to them to push for the safe resumption of Football in the country, to help us continue feeding the National team who are getting ready to take part in the 2022 Qatar World Cup Qualifiers in June,” said Mr. Mwendwa. Mwendwa spoke during a Covid-19 vaccination exercise targeting players plying trade in the FKF-PL at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. The process was facilitated by the federation in conjunction with the Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Health. The FKF boss warned officials and players who will evade the jab that they would remain locked out of competition for the remainder of the season. “Anybody who will not have been vaccinated by the time the league resumes will not be allowed access to the stadium. We are doing this to reduce the prevalence of the virus among footballers,” he said. Mwendwa said the immediate resumption of competition will enable local-based players to prepare adequately for future national team engagements given they would have more time on the pitch. “The FKF-PL serves as a feeding pool for the national team who are set to take part in the 2022 Qatar World Cup qualifiers in June with their first match slated in June against Uganda,” said Mwendwa. “The resumption of the leagues will help the players maintain match fitness and create a pool of players that can be called up to do duty in the national team as they prepare for the 2022 Qatar World Cup,” he added. "Our opponents in the qualifiers are fully engaged in matches, a fact that gives them an upper hand going into the competitions. The coach affirmed he would always include local-based players in his future plans. “Which is why I'm appealing to the government to allow us back to the pitch so that we may prepare for the tasks ahead for both men and women," he added. Saturday's exercise roped in players of 10 Nairobi-based clubs.The remaining 8 clubs are scheduled to receive the first batch of vaccines by Tuesday next week.