A fish shortage has hit Lamu county resulting in a decline in production as it is a common delicacy and meal accompaniments in Swahili households. This has been attributed to the stringent regulations imposed on the fishing sector in the region. The regulations include: ban on night fishing and most recently, a crackdown on fishermen using prohibited gear in the Indian Ocean. Last week,20 fishermen were arraigned at the Lamu law courts for using illegal fishing gear among them monofilament nets. Major fish shops and outlets both in the islands and mainlands in the region have closed down due to the shortage. The shortage, the first-ever in the region, has seen a spike on fish prices with a kilo shooting from Sh300 to Sh500. Owing to the measures facing the sector, hundreds of fishermen have found themselves on the wrong side of the law after being arrested, prosecuted and their gear confiscated by security agencies. As a result, many have since quit and chosen to concentrate on other income-generating activities citing frustrations. The commencement of Ramadhan means an increased demand for fish but the fishermen have been unable to meet the demand. “Ramadhan is among the major periods when fish is consumed on a large scale. That means huge profits for players involved from the fishermen to the mongers and hawkers.” “Right now, however, there is no fish. Many of us have chosen to down our tools until all these frustrations end, ” Muhasham Faisal, a fisherman said. The fishermen have asked the government to intervene and provide them with alternative income-generating ventures. “They arrested me last week and said I did not have identification documents on me. Last year in December, they arrested me for the same reason.” “Now I feel targeted and so I have decided to quit. It’s depressing what they are doing to us”, Omar Athman, a fisherman from Pate island in Lamu East said. Lamu island Fisherfolk spokesperson Shaffi Mohamed said the Covid-19 pandemic had adversely affected trade and tourism sectors in the region. He said it was unfair for the government to impose too many rules on the fishing sector, their only remaining source of livelihood. Lamu hotelier Saumu Mohamed said they have been forced to purchase fish at very high prices as the supply doesn’t meet the demand. Most households have now been forced to feast on dry fish as opposed to the fresh supply as the shortage continues to bite. “It's unusual to eat dry fish during Ramadhan but that’s the only option we have left, ” Mwanahamisi Ayeesha said. Lamu has over 7000 fishermen spread across the various islands across the archipelago.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris