All smiles as Person Living with disability get letter of offer for the Park Road Affordable National Housing Project. Sergeant Jacob Mosiori Michira who is a staff living with disability based at Nairobi West Prison was today ( Friday) handed over a letter of offer from the Ministry of Transport, Infrastructure, Housing, Urban Development and Public Works for a 3-bedroomed house in Park road estate. Park Road estate in Ngara is under the Affordable National Housing Project where 1,730 completed units were officially handed over to those who qualified through the Boma early this year. While handing over the letter, Commissioner General of Prisons Wycliffe Ogallo termed the process as a great step towards actualising Affordable Housing under the Big 4 Agenda. He highly encouraged other officers to plan for life after retirement by investing wisely on retirement homes while they are still in service. “This is a true reflection to show that indeed the Government of Kenya is not discriminatory in the process of allocation of these houses to the citizens of Kenya as it also considers persons living with disability (PWDs),” Ogallo added. Sgt Michira was injured in the line of duty in 2013. He thanked the Commissioner General for all the support he has accorded him as a PWD working with the Kenya Prisons Service that has enabled him perform his duties with diligence. Deputy Commissioner General of Prisons Mrs. Florence Omundi added that indeed disability is not inability and who also applauded the officer for his endurance through the whole process. According to Housing PS Charles Hinga, the allocation for the Park Road project which is a mixed settlement considered civil servants and non-civil servants on 60-to-40 per cent criteria. He said the 60 per cent (822 units) have been occupied by the members of police and Kenya Defence Forces President Uhuru Kenyatta under his Big Four Agenda promised 500,000 affordable housing units for Kenyans by 2022 as one of the deliverables from his flagship projects. Hinga said some other 5,551 units are under pipeline on various stages of construction. The lowest price for the one-bedroom unit 30 sq metres is set at Sh1.5 million but there might be slight variation for projects not on government land but registered under the AHP programme through the Bomayangu portal. “Overall we shall have one bedroom of 30sqm selling at Sh1.5 million, 2 bedroom of 40sqm at Sh2million, 2 bedroom 60sqm at Sh3 million, 3 bedroom of 60sqm at Sh3, 550,000 and 3 bedroom 80sqm at Sh4 million,” Hinga said. This will apply for houses within Nairobi. The construction of second phase of AHP is set to kick off soon in Shauri Moyo, Embakasi and Athi River where some 3,000 units will be constructed