A third suspect in the murder of National Land Commission deputy director of communication Jennifer Wambua is expected in court on Monday. Police had been given until April 26 to hold him as they investigated his possible involvement. Peter Njenga alias Sankale, 44, was arrested on April 13 and produced in court the following day where police sought more time to hold him. Police said Njenga, who is a small scale businessman in the area, had crucial evidence to help them in the probe. Wambua went missing on March 12 and her body was found in Kerarapon area in Ngong the following day. Njenga was produced in court where investigating officer Vincent Lang’at said in an affidavit at the Kiambu law courts he was among people last seen with Wambua at the spot where her body was found. Kiambu chief magistrate Patricia Gichohi granted investigators 14 days to hold him. She ruled the orders will be reviewed on April 26. The investigators searched Njenga’s house in Embulbul but it is not clear what was recovered from there. On April 8, the investigators arrested a boda boda rider and a herder who were among the people spotted at the scene where the body was found. Benjamin Saitoti and David Sempuan were presented to the Kiambu court on April 9 and later on April 23. The court allowed police to hold them for ten more days. The investigators have made several trips to the suspects’ houses in search of evidence. The police are now banking on forensic analysis of the suspects’ mobile phones and DNA analysis to unravel the murder mystery. One of the two suspects has an active case of robbery with violence, police have revealed. A pastor and a friend who were among the last people to speak to Wambua on phone have recorded statements. It is claimed the pastor encouraged her to go the place where she died to pray for her “problems” to go away. Saitoti and Sempuan walked to their village elder in Ngong area to say they saw the woman alive. The men talked to their elders before police were called to pick them up. This came almost a month after the incident happened. And police are now waiting for results of various tests being carried out to establish if the men were involved in the murder. Various samples picked up from the deceased were taken to the Government Chemist for analysis. Preliminary findings showed she was sexually assaulted. The two suspects have told police they met Wambua lying at the scene on March 12 and held a brief discussion with her before they were joined by another man they can identify. According to the suspects, the man stayed with her until late when they left. The suspects claim Wambua looked depressed and asked for water and the man left to buy her from a nearby shopping centre . The suspects told police they left the scene, leaving behind Wambua and the man talking. An autopsy showed she was strangled by bare hands. She was supposed to be on a five-day leave from March 8 but showed up in office on March 12, the day she went missing. Edited by Henry Makori