Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s close allies have launched a scathing attack on President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration over the Njiru demolition they claim was orchestrated by the state. The ODM lawmakers, in a bare-knuckle attack,termed Jubilee administration  cruel and a government that has lost touch with the people. The eviction was on March 27. Speaking Thursday at Parliament Buildings, their statement is the official position of Raila Odinga-led ODM party. The MPs included TJ Kajwang’ (Ruaraka), Anthony Oluoch (Mathare) and Kwale Woman Representative Zuleikha Hassan. Without naming names, the trio claimed a prominent family is behind the evictions to grab the expansive land which has been home to more than 5,000 households for years. “You are a big person and you have got so much (land) and you come for the little folks and demolish their houses in the cruelest manner,” Kajwang’ said. The Ruaraka MP said the residents were not issued with a eviction notices as required by the law. “This is  public land inhabited by these people for a long time. As a lawyer there is something we call adverse possession. This country is coming from a colonial era and a period where people enriched themselves unjustly.” The Ruaraka lawmaker said as ODM, their working with Jubilee administration does not in any way amount to muzzling of opposition voices on issues directly affecting the people. “If you think that just because we share a political philosophy then you think we can be muzzled. I can tell you that we are the voice of the people. We will criticize what is wrong when we be at the back of front benches.” Kajwang' further demanded an explanation from the Interior ministry, saying they had intelligence that the demolition order originated from Harambee House. “We know that this demolition was ordered by very powerful people in the Interior ministry. To the extent that it was executed by police officers, it means that order was given by people at Harambee house,” Kajwang' said. “We want to know who exactly owns this land, why evictions became necessary at this difficult time and why the people were not given notice to move out.” The lawmakers threatened to mobilise people to stage a sit in at the contested land if their concerns are not addressed. Mathare MP Oluoch said the government breached international obligation in the manner it carried out the eviction. “Kenya is signatory to international instruments which are part of Kenya’s law, these include instruments that obligate not to evict Kenya in an unjust and inhumane manner,” Oluoch said. Early this week, a demolition squad accompanied by armed Police officers destroyed property and brought down houses in the area rendering hundreds of people homeless. (Edited by V. Graham)