The World Bank will not make public the beneficiaries of multi-million contracts awarded through its funding for Covid-19 response in Kenya. The expenditure of the cash triggered an uproar, with some Kenyans alleging possible embezzlement. Some Kenyans directly petitioned the bank to provide information on all supplier contracts funded by the World Banks’ Kenya Covid-19 Emergency Response Project and Transforming Health Systems for Universal Care in April last year. However, the institution said such contractual information contains details whose disclosure could negatively impact competition under projects financed by the Bank. “The bank has an interest in restricting public access to contractual information resulting from procurement processes carried out in bank-financed projects.” World Bank’s Access to Information Committee, in a ruling on a request for the facts, said the information in the request by the petitioners is restricted from public access. “The bank exercised its prerogative to restrict. The AIC considered the appeals on both a violation of policy and public interest grounds.” “The AIC decision on appeal challenging a bank denial of access based on the bank’s exercise of prerogative to restrict is final,” the ruling reads. Taxpayers raised the issue with the expenditure of Sh1 billion that was donated by the World Bank to help the Health Ministry respond to Covid-19. MoH got an additional Sh2.3 billion from the bank to support the national response to Covid-19. The bank said such disclosure would subject the projects to increased costs, and prevent the bank from ensuring the economy and efficiency necessary in the use of its funds. World Bank says such interest is to enable it to fulfil its mandate, that is “to make arrangements to ensure the proceeds of any loan are used only for the purposes for which the loan was granted.” The bank says the harm to the bank’s interests in the procurement process outweighs the benefits of disclosure, as well as to the interests of contractors who are parties to those contracts. “There are exceptional circumstances that justify the business unit’s decision to exercise the bank’s prerogative to restrict access to the requested information.” World Bank has taken back its word on September 8, last year, where it said it did not have the information requested by Kenyans. “Nevertheless, the error is harmless because the information remains restricted from public access by the bank’s exercise of prerogative to restrict,” the ruling reads. At that time, the bank told the petitioners that it did not deny access since “the system does not automatically generate the link for the requester to file an appeal electronically.” World Bank, from the justifications listed, held that it properly and reasonably exercised its prerogative to restrict access to the requested information. “The AIC upholds the bank’s decision to deny public access to the requested information. The decision on this appeal is final. Information restricted by the bank’s exercise of prerogative to restrict is not eligible for public interest appeals,” the ruling reads. It was until November 10, last year,  that the bank said the responsible business unit informed the committee secretariat that it identified the contracts in the bank’s possession that are responsive to the request as restricted from public access. The Health Ministry, on the Sh1 billion, disclosed that Sh330 million was spent on laboratory equipment and Sh277 million on procurement of personal protective equipment. CS Mutahi Kagwe in a report to Parliament in April last year said test kits were procured at Sh196 million while fuel and maintenance for 30 vehicles cost the taxpayer Sh14 million. The ministry said Sh70 million was spent on communications, Sh4 million on tea and snacks and Sh42 million to lease 15 ambulances. Other expenses were stationery, airtime for staff, and accommodation for health workers who were quarantined. However, the information was short of details of the suppliers who were awarded the tenders which have been subjected to probe by MPs.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris