Police have summoned top Citizen TV bosses over an investigative report on an alleged guns syndicate in the service that was aired by the station on Sunday. Director of Criminal of Investigations George Kinoti said they want the editorial director, head of strategy and other relevant journalists involved in the story to help them investigate and nab those behind the said syndicate. He added the station did not bother to seek a comment from police or government over the allegations. “The allegations are extremely serious. We shall be asking the editorial director, and other relevant reporters to come and give us more insights to this report in pursuit of criminals harbouring the weapons,” Kinoti said. He added the report seemed to be a malicious attempt to discredit the National Police Service. “We can only conclude that it was aimed at creating public pandemonium over the management of the security sector." At a press briefing at DCI headquarters, Kinoti denied the guns acquired by the station crew for an exposé that aired on Sunday, April 18, were leased out by policemen. The station reported how rogue police officers were aiding in criminal activities by hiring out their firearms and uniforms to unlicensed members of the public. “None of the two guns they presented to us belong to police. And we feel the reporting was done to paint police in bad light," Kinoti said. He added the service had filed a complaint with the Media Complaints Commission over the story. Kinoti said the investigation into the matter would be acceptable only if the media house included the police in the exposé. “I don't know why I was not approached to collaborate on the exposé. We never refused to be embedded in your operations. Put us on board, up to now we have no idea of these crimes,” he said. “Which commander can dare cover for a police officer who gives a criminal a firearm?” he posed. Kinoti said they have officials who track police firearms day and night. “If a firearm is missing, we have mechanisms to track this. Which evidence are you giving rather than sensationalising the matter? How do we believe that uniform belongs to the police?” On the handcuffs, Kinoti said tenders are given to civilians. “It is not a big issue. They can be gotten anywhere even here at the police service. We need to talk about accountability and we cannot tell where it came from without evidence,” he said. The head of ballistics unit at the DCI Johnstone Mwongera said parts of the rifle had different numbers, meaning they came from different firearms. On Monday, the Citizen TV management handed over the weapons to police at Kilimani police. They said they were obtained from criminals who hired them from police. Those who handed over the weapons include Joseph Njenga and Linus Kaikai, the legal officer and director of strategy and innovation at Royal Media Services respectively. The weapons include an AK47 assault rifle with a wooden butt without a serial number, one magazine for AK47 assault rifle, one mini pistol make Kral King s/no. 82553 with an empty magazine, one pair of handcuffs s/no. KP/IEL/2002, one empty magazine and nine rounds of ammunition of 9mm. Others include two long-sleeved jungle shirts, one smoke jacket for APs, one smoke jacket for KPS, one webbing for APs, one blue T-shirt, one blue short-sleeved shirt for KPS and one pair of blue trouser for KPS. They also handed over a statement by the reporter Purity Mwambia. Edited by Henry Makori