Former human resource manager at security firm G4S has accused his employer of wrongfully  terminating his employment contract. David Mutisya who worked for the company for over two decades has moved to the Labour Relations Court demanding Sh100 million in compensation after being dismissed in 2018. He claims that his woes at the security firm started when he questioned opaque hiring of employees. ''We had people being employed without going through the prescribed process . When I challenged the process as the human resource manager, I was kicked out without any compensation even after serving the firm for 25 year,'' Mutisya said. Prior to the termination of his employment contract, David Mutisya had served the multinational company in various roles, having joined the firm in 1992 as a personnel officer. In court papers seen by The Star Newspaper, the former manager describes in graphic detail how his opposition to a flawed recruitment process of couriers in February 2018 among others triggered a chain of events that eventually led to his exit from G4S. He accuses the company’s human resource directors  at the time of witch hunt and blatantly flouting the company’s recruitment policies by presenting for induction training and subsequent employment of candidates who had not attended a selection interview process in a clear case of favouritism and or corruption. Through his advocate Fidel Limo of Limo & Njoroge Law Firm, he is seeking a declaration by the Labour and Employment Relations Court that the termination was unlawful and unfair amongst other prayers. The firm has dismissed Mutisya's version of events, stating that it will strongly defend its position in court. "We do not recognise Mutisya's version of events and we will be vigorously defending our position in the Labour Relations Court,'' the local office said in an email response. The case comes at the backdrop of a transition in G4S Kenya Limited after the parent company G4S Plc whose headquarters is in the United Kingdom was recently acquired by Allied Universal of the United States of America. An earlier bid last year for G4S Plc by GardaWorld a Canadian Security Firm whose local face is KK Security flopped  with the  later citing undetermined legal suits against G4S and pension liabilities.