The day KBC journalist Betty Barasa was gunned down at her Ngong’ home, her husband had printed her final master's thesis for ready for submission. Geoffrey Namachanja said the brutal killing of his wife of 17 years in the presence of his three children has struck a blow against his family. "I was waiting for her to come and check the document and, if okay, submit to her lecturer so she could complete her course," he said, adding that he had secured some money to register Betty for a PhD programme. "Just like I grew up half-orphaned when my father died, it is said that the killers have made my children to grow up half-orphaned." He spoke yesterday during a requiem mass for the murdered video editor at Montezuma Monalisa Funeral Home in Nairobi. And turning to the casket bearing the body of his wife, Geoffrey said; "Betty my wife, I'm sorry you have to go this way. I will take care of the children and sustain your life purpose." It also emerged that as Betty was being gunned down, her brother-in-law Edwin Namachanja—the principal of Maranda High School—instinctively called her husband to check on him. Geoffrey picked the call, but there was commotion in the background and he only heard someone say “huyu ndiye amepatiwa ruhusa.” Geoffrey then told his brother that he would call him later. “When he said he’d call me later, I thought that maybe he was late home so he got caught up by police officers at curfew roadblocks and was negotiating his way,” Edwin told the congregation during mass. A few minutes later, Geoffrey’s daughter called back and when Edwin picked the call, she was crying and clearly shaken, shouting “uncle, uncle, uncle uncle”. “I told Indiana (Betty’s daughter) to give her dad the phone,” he said. When Geoffrey eventually got to speak to him, he said repeatedly: "They have killed my wife." "Shaken as I was, I told my brother to hold himself, not to break down for the sake of the children," Edwin recalled. Geoffrey would then secure the house, close the doors and the gate before he sounded an alarm. "If a phone call could save life, then my call to my brother could have saved my sister-in-law's," Edwin said. Betty was buried at her Oloolua home in Ngong' in a private ceremony. Speakers at the requiem, including National Museums of Kenya CEO Mzalendo Kibunjia, Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula and Kabuchai MP Majimbo Kalasinga, called on the state to expedite investigations into the murder and bring the perpetrators to book. Geoffrey works as financial controller at the National Museums of Kenya. "The long arms of government should find the killers and bring them to book," Kibunjia said. "Criminal law has no time limit. The state should ensure that those responsible and their motives are exposed no matter how long it takes," Wetang'ula said. Deputy Head of Public Service Wanyama Musiambo assured the family that the police was robustly investigating the killing and would ensure the family gets justice. 