Several Kenyans believe the country is headed in the wrong direction, the latest poll study by Infotrak has suggested. The study, conducted between March 13- 16, said 65 per cent of Kenyans are of the view that the country is on the wrong path, a figure that has steadily risen from 56 per cent in December 2020 and 48 per cent in June 2019. The poll added that just 14 per cent think that the country is on the right path. It said the number was slightly higher in December last year, at 18 per cent but 14 per cent in June 2019. “Majority of those who believe the country is going in the wrong direction are from the rural area 68 per cent, while those in the urban settings comprise 60 per cent,” it stated. The study said 51 per cent of those who feel the country is headed in the wrong direction cited the high cost of living and unemployment. The findings said 11 per cent feel the Covid-19 pandemic is not being well handled and eight per cent think there is bad politics. The study added that 28 per cent of those who said the country is heading in the right direction feel there is peace in the country while 10 per cent said the economy is growing and 10 per cent said the Covid-19 pandemic is being handled well. The study further noted that the Nyanza region has the highest number of people who believe the country is on the wrong path at 78 per cent followed by Eastern at 72 per cent and then Western at 71 per cent. Others were Coast 63 per cent, Rift Valley 62 per cent, Nairobi 59 per cent, Central 56 per cent and North Eastern 50 per cent. Overall, more males 66 per cent than females 64 per cent believe the country is going in the wrong direction. The survey covered 30 counties in all eight regions of the country. The Rift Valley region had the largest sample size while North Eastern had the smallest. The survey had a sample size of 1, 000 respondents The study said the high cost of living and unemployment are the issues Kenyans want the government to urgently address. It added that three in five Kenyans noted that the Covid-19 pandemic is both a personal health and financial issue for them. “Seventy-seven per cent of Kenyans noted that the pandemic has affected their livelihoods in one way or another,” the study showed. It added that three out of five noted that the cost of living had become extremely high as a result of the government lifting the Covid-19 tax relief measures. The study further said 61 per cent of Kenyans noted that the cost of living has become extremely high as a result of the government lifting the Covid-19 tax measures It pointed out that 27 per cent said the cost of living has become moderately high as a result of the action while 10 per cent believed the cost of living had remained the same while 2 per cent said it had reduced. A tax reprieve announced by the Kenyan government in April last year to cushion people from the effects of COVID-19 ended on December 30, last year. The tax relief was a temporary measure necessary to support Kenyan businesses and provide critical relief to the most vulnerable in society, though the lack of tax funds was having a toll on the Kenyan economy and government planning. The measures lowered both corporate tax for resident entities and top individual income tax from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. Besides, incomes of individuals earning less than Sh24,000 per month were fully exempted from Pay As You Earn tax. The survey further said a total of 48 per cent of the Kenyan population want the government to urgently address the state of the economy. The study further suggested that 65 per cent of Kenyans support the government's extension of the nationwide curfew with 88 per cent backing the ban on political gatherings. The poll was however conducted days before President Uhuru Kenyatta announced new measures on March 26. In the new measures, Uhuru ordered the cessation of all movement into and out of the capital Nairobi and four other counties following a surge in the number of Covid-19 cases. Kenyans were prohibited from moving into and out of Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Kiambu and Nakuru counties. The President also ordered a revision of curfew hours for the five counties from 8 pm-4 am. The rest of the country will continue to observe the 10 pm to 4 am timing.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris