Kenya Ports Authority has started moving heavy equipment from the Port of Mombasa to Lamu Port, which is over 240km from the coastal city, the management has confirmed. On Wednesday, Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani, KPA acting managing director Rashid Salim and senior government and port officials toured the Lamu port to assess its readiness ahead of the official opening on June 15. Yatani also toured the Port of Mombasa to check the equipment that will be sent to Lamu and to oversee other administrative issues at the parastatal. The first three berths of the planned 32 berths have been completed at a cost of about Sh40 billion. The China Communication Construction Company has been at the site since 2015. KPA has subcontracted Comarco, a leading marine and specialised contractor, with over 40 years of experience, to move the equipment in two shipments from Mombasa to Lamu. “Yes, a special team that is handling the equipment will be at the Port of Mombasa to start the loading exercise,” said Bernard Osero, KPA’s head of corporate affairs. According to other KPA officials handling the shipment exercise, Comarco and Port of Mombasa engineers will start loading the first shipment on Saturday and Sunday. “The first ship will leave the Port of Mombasa on Monday and will be in Lamu on Tuesday,” said a senior official at the centre of the operation. He said the first shipment will be for equipment that do not need stable loading and offloading. “Not very sensitive equipment,” he said. He said currently, the Indian Ocean is very rough because of the south-east monsoon winds, therefore the second shipment of sensitive equipment will be done on May 6. On the first shipment, the official said, they will be moving four terminal tractors, eight skeletal trailers, two forklifts, two low-bed trailers, four lateral mark buoys and assorted lifting equipment. On May 6, KPA will transport the sensitive equipment that require stability. They will be loading two rubber-gantry cranes, one Kenya Revenue Authority scanner, two mobile cranes and other equipment needed for the operation of the facility. “Tentatively, we expect to begin operations before the official date of June 15,” said the official. Two giant shipping lines, Maersk and Express, have already shown interest in using the Lamu Port, according to KPA.  Edited by Henry Makori