The Kisumu county government has for the last three years spent Sh813 million on water projects to expand provision of safe, clean and affordable supply to residents. Water and Environment executive Salmon Orimba said the yearly allocation for water projects is Sh271 million. The total annual budget for the department is Sh360 million. The water projects initiated by the county include drilling of boreholes, pipeline extensions and rehabilitation. Orimba said 60 boreholes have been drilled in various subcounties in efforts to facilitate provision of safe and clean water to residents. “We have done 20 boreholes each financial year since Governor Anyang' Nyong’o took over. His agenda is to ensure access clean and safe water within the shortest time possible,” Orimba said. Orimba said the boreholes are spread across the 35 wards in the county with emphasis given to areas that were least covered. He said renewed efforts have been put in Seme and South West ward in Nyakach that has seen extension of water coverage move from 65 per cent up from 48 per cent in three years. “We realised that Seme is the least covered subcounty and South Nyakach ward in Nyakach subcounty. We have put a lot of efforts in those areas and have prioritised water source development,” Orimba said. He said they have also ensured that nonfunctional water facilities in various areas are revamped for water provision to residents. “We have rehabilitated water facilities which were built several years back such as Nyakach water supplying system. Today, I can authoritatively confirm that there is over 60 per cent water coverage,” Orimba said. For sustainability of water projects, he said the county is handing over the facilities to Kisumu Water and Sanitation Company (Kiwasco) to manage them. “It is the company that we have to manage our water facilities in the county. This will ensure effective and efficient management and water supply to locals,” Orimba said. The CEC said the management of small water projects is however handed over to community.  Those entrusted with management are frequently trained to ensure efficient service delivery to the intended beneficiaries, Orimba said. He said his department will be pushing for increased funding in the subsequent budgets to meet his set objective of reducing distance covered by residents in search of water to a radius of 50 metres. Orimba said the county government remains committed to ensure locals access clean and safe water supply across the county. He said various water projects have been completed and operational in subcounties with some ongoing to enable the county realise on adequate water provision. "We target to have our people access water supply without any struggle. This is the agenda of Governor Nyong'o and his entire county team," Orimba said. Last week, Deputy Governor Mathews Owili commissioned a Sh2.3 million water project that will benefit more than 3,000 residents in South West Nyakach upon completion. The construction of Obura/NK Ngala water project is a reprieve to the community members who have been walking long distance in such of clean and safe water for domestic use. South West Nyakach residents have been in the past hit with acute water shortage. Owili lauded the project, terming it a gift and reprieve to the community members. The water project is being implemented in a partnership between Living Water Service Centre and the county government of Kisumu. The project will entail pipeline extensions of about 2.7km, provision of standard water kiosks with installed storage capacity of five cubic metres. The deputy governor said the project will supply clean water to thousands of community members, including learning institutions. "The community members will also benefit from hygiene promotion, capacity building among other corporate social responsibility activities," he added. Last year, the county government partnered with Living Water International to build a Sh64 million water project in Nyakach subcounty. The project is expected to be completed this year. Owili said the county and the partner have each contributed Sh32 million towards the project. More than 20,000 residents in Central Nyakach will receive clean, safe and affordable drinking water after completion. We expect to complete the project in the first quarter of 2021. This is in line with our agenda to increase water coverage, which currently stands at 57 per cent,” he said. Owili said residents have grappled with acute water shortage for years. “We are going to tap the water from Nyabondo Plateau before distributing it to the population downstream,” he said. The county government, he said, is committed to realising 90 per cent water coverage in 10 years. 