The Ugandan Government has commended Kenya Ports Authority for the port infrastructural improvements which have contributed to faster handling of cargo. Ambassador Paul Mukumbya, the new Uganda Consul General to Mombasa made the observation during a courtesy call on the KPA Acting Managing Director Rashid Salim. He recollected President Yoweri Museveni’s last visit to Mombasa saying he had spent most of his time at the Port of Mombasa to show the importance of the facility in the bilateral relations of the two countries. Ambassador Mukumbya further thanked the KPA management for the provision of high service standards and for being responsive to issues raised by the Uganda business community. He held fruitful business discussions with the MD on plans towards enhancing efficiency at the Port of Mombasa and the Northern Corridor. The ambassador thanked the Authority for hosting the Uganda Revenue Authority officials at the Port of Mombasa. On his part, Eng. Rashid termed Uganda as a valuable customer saying KPA had opened a liaison office in Kampala, Uganda, for the importers and exporters in that country to be served better. “The port has also extended its services to the Inland Container Depot Naivasha linked by the Standard Gauge Railway line and the Kenya Government donated some land to Uganda as their cargo storage facility to reduce the cost of doing business,” he added. Over the last five years, Ugandan cargo at the Port of Mombasa has registered a compounded average growth of 4.9 per cent from 6.35 million tons in 2016 to 7.70 million tons in 2020. In the same period, Ugandan cargo occupied an average share of 23.7 per cent of the total cargo throughput handled. During the period, there was a steady growth in total transit traffic at an average of 7.0 per cent compound annual growth rate. Uganda maintained the biggest market share registering an average of 80.8 per cent throughout the period. The Uganda Revenue Authority Assistant Commissioner, Customs External Operations Officer, Julius Rubagumya, who was also present thanked the acting MD for the interventions he makes whenever they encounter hiccups in the business processes at the Port. He expressed satisfaction with the support received from the KPA employees from the top management to the lower cadre staff. Rubagumya lauded operations at Kisumu Port noting it had facilitated the convenient movement of fuel imports into Uganda across the Lake. He added that the upgrade of the Meter Gauge Railway (MGR) linking Kisumu to Naivasha SGR will further reduce the cost of doing business for the benefit of the consumer. The officer said the service will enhance smooth and timely delivery of cargo because of the seamless connectivity between the Port of Mombasa and Kisumu Port hence marketing of this service should be prioritized.