Two Kirinyaga schools proprietors who ventured into poultry rearing when schools closed due to Covid-19 are impressed with their candidates' performance. Joseph Maina and James Kung’u of Mwea Brethrens and Roka preparatory primary schools used their institutions as business premises. They say they had converted their schools to chicken coops to enable them to generate income during the difficult economic times their pupils were at home. Nine months later, schools resumed and both did not hesitate to revert to learning. In the recently announced KCPE results, Maina’s school had 34 candidates while Kungu’s had 27. Speaking to the Star, the two said the candidates' performance was satisfactorily good considering the challenges they underwent while converting the school back to normalcy within a short period of time. In Mwea Brethrens, Munene Zerubabel was the leading candidate with 395 out of  500 while in Roka Preparatory Esther Mburu lead with 391. “They did exemplary well considering the state they found the school in. We had just transitioned from chicken rearing business to normal learning and it took quite some time and effort to settle,” Maina whose school had a  mean score of  311 said. According to Maina, the teaching team also reduced as some of his teaching staff did neither participate in the online teaching nor report after schools resumed as they had gotten other jobs. However, he hopes in next year’s national exam his pupils will bring back the lost glory and hopefully capture their spot which is scoring over 400 marks for over 10 candidates. On his end, Kung’u whose school achieved a mean score of 300.5 is hopeful that all his candidates will join a good secondary school and continue excelling in their academic journeys. Meanwhile, celebrations continued across Kirinyaga county as top scorers enjoyed the fruits of their labour. One of the top candidates in the county Bridget Muthoni Thuku from Kerugoya municipality primary school attributed her success to hard work and teamwork . Muthoni scoped 419 marks and was among the top candidates in the county. “I’m hopeful that I will join Alliance girls and after undertaking my secondary school education, join the teaching profession,” she said. The jubilant staff of Good shepherd academy in Kerugoya town celebrated the brilliant performance of their pupils. They say regardless of the corona challenge, the candidates managed a mean score of 376 with the leading candidate managing 417 marks. “We did not have them for long during their final year due to the closure of schools to contain the spread of the virus.” So having 24 pupils with 400 marks and above is no mean feat. We are thankful to them for not shaming us,” John Mugo, the school’s director said. As for Joel Victor Mutugi from Alber school, his 415 marks did not come by without him breaking a sweat. The young learner who aspires to be a lawyer admitted to having been deeply disturbed by schools closure occasioned by the corona pandemic however that did not break his spirit and destruct his vision to get good marks. Same case with Jane Annet Michere from Sky limit primary school who scored 400 marks emerging as one of the top 6 students who hit 400 and above. She says her success can be ascribed to her teachers who pushed her to shine in the national exam.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris