A family in Machakos has finally interred the remains of its matriarch after 17 years of legal battle over a land dispute. Esther Nzakwa died on August 31, 2004. She was 93 years old. The body has been lying at Machakos Funeral Home mortuary for close to two decades. Her son, Michael Musau, said they are happy because they have finally laid their mother to rest. "We cried and mourned until our tears dried up. We now feel relieved," he said on Saturday. Nzakwa's body was interred on Saturday at Musau's compound in Mbuani village, Kola, Machakos county. Three armed AP officers escorted the family from the mortuary to the grave site. The officers stood guard during the burial that took less than an hour in compliance with the government’s Covid-19 protocols. Katanga assistant chief Josphat Kyungu had a difficult time controlling hundreds of curious villagers who wanted to attended the burial. The administrator told reporters that the case was taken to court by Musau. “The woman’s last born son [Musau] took the case to court demanding that his mother be buried next to their father’s grave. Their father had three wives. The siblings have been battling in court over the issue,” Kyungu said. There was not viewing of the body and speeches were limited to save time. “Today we are burying our beloved mother who has been in the mortuary for 17 years. I thank all who have assisted us to bring her home. I think most of our siblings, including myself, now feel relieved,” Musau said. He described his mother as a disciplinarian and a hardworking farmer and trader. “She used to do business and would travel long distances trading in many kinds of wares. She sold beans and maize. People knew there was always food at her store,” Musau said. He said his mother ensured all her children went to school. “She insisted we must go to school.” Deliverance Church International pastor Julius Manthi said Nzakwa was an active member of the church. “When she died, I had to cancel a local church meeting to come stand with the family. I transported the body to Machakos Funeral Home where it has been for 17 years,” Manthi said. The cleric said Nzakwa helped the less privileged in society and she was a role model for younger women. Grandson John Ndunda said his grandmother was loving and caring.