Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has appealed to the national government to assist in supporting and resettling families displaced by rising waters in the county. The county admitted that it could not be able to assist all the families mainly around Lakes Naivasha and Nakuru which were hardest hit by the rising waters. This comes days after the Red Cross warned families living around water bodies to shift to higher grounds due to expected heavy rains. Kinyanjui said that water levels in all the lakes in the county had risen affecting families and wild animals. He pointed to Lakes Naivasha and Nakuru as the most affected, saying there was a need to resettle and offer humanitarian support to the displaced families. “We have done a lot to support those displaced by the lakes but this is a drop in the ocean and the national government should chip in,” he said over the weekend. On Lake Naivasha, he noted that the numbers of displaced animals had risen sharply leading to an increase in cases of human-wildlife conflict. “We have seen cases of hippo attacks on the rise and it's time that we addressed this crisis before we lose more lives,” he said. Kinyanjui also challenged the technical committee undertaking a study on the abnormal rise in the lakes to release its report. “We are awaiting the report by the technical committee so that we can know what has caused this rare phenomenon and the way forward,” he said. According to Lake Naivasha Water Resource Users Association, metrological reports indicated that the region would get heavy rains starting this week. The association chairman Enock Kiminta said that currently, water levels in the lake had dropped from 1891.56m above sea levels last year to 1891.10m. “When the water levels dropped some families whose houses had been flooded decided to return and we are worried by the move,” he said. Kiminta said as per the projections by the weathermen, the rains could be heavier and could cause more displacement than last year. He said the fuel pipeline in Kihoto estate had been flooded raising fears among residents and environmentalists. “Water from this lake is very corrosive and we fear that it might have effects on the metallic underground pipes that ferry millions of litres of fuel every day,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris