Acne can start with just one bad pimple that can be easily ignored, putting the blame on a few late nights or junk food. But letting your pimple dawdle on the skin can do more harm than good. The first step in treating acne is having peace of mind. Through sidestepping emotional distress, studies show that treating acne can alleviate the feelings of negative self-esteem, depression and suicidal thoughts. Early treatment of acne avoids scarring, which may take time to heal both mentally and physically. As much as dermatologists advocate ‘beauty’ sleep (sleeping for at least eight hours a day), sleeping on clean sheets and pillows is also something Dr Saini’s research has proven to contribute to. “Dirty sheets are loaded with bacteria that can cause your skin's immune system to become overwhelmed and increase the chances that a bacteria that causes acne will overflow and cause problems,” Saini says. Dirt on dirty sheets can also clog your pores, leading to pimples, she says. To avoid years of treating acne, visit the dermatologist as soon as you notice the symptoms. Early-stage acne treatment can save you the last-minute rush of expensive and time-consuming visits to the dermatologist. Parents and guardians should also keep in check with their children’s healthcare as they play a huge role in impacting their lives. Getting faster results from treatment from a professional dermatologist will save both your skin and your coin. Home and Internet remedies may work for a short time but may bring prolonged consequences as time goes by. Your doctor can assess your acne and prescribe a prescription-strength treatment that will not only clear up your skin but keep breakouts at bay. Decrease the need for stronger acne medicine. When acne becomes severe, strong medicine is needed to clear it. These medicines have more possible side-effects. So, seek professional help early to avoid these stronger acne medicines and know what type of medicine to use. Paying a visit to the dermatologist might not necessarily mean that you want your acne to be treated. That visit may help you identify your skin type and aid in selective skin-care routines and choice of makeup and treatments. Does your skin ever do that thing where it's clear and perfect for a couple of days and then all of a sudden, it's like haha, just kidding! For some people, their struggle is just mild acne. This situation can go from zero to 100 real quick. Therefore, avoiding self-medication, seeking treatment and drinking lots of water may give you answers to your questions.