About 800 girls aged 10 to 19 have fallen pregnant every month in West Pokot since the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country last year. Community-based organisation Declares Kenya said the figures were derived from the Kenya District Health Information System's records. The organisation said the cases have increased because of the effects of Covid-19. In the past year, 10,000 teenage pregnancies have been reported in the county. Declares Kenya director Jefferson Mudaki said eight girls delivered in hospitals while sitting their KCPE exam. Mudaki said learners stayed at home for seven months and were vulnerable. Speaking in Kapenguria, Mudaki said teenage pregnancy has become a menace in the county because of low uptake of contraceptives. “It’s a taboo in this county to talk openly about sexuality issues,” he said. He said adolescents and women have been denied a chance to make their own informed choices concerning reproductive health. He said the organisation engages girls and educates them to understand sexuality and family planning. “We engage adolescents in a talk show, online dialogue platforms for chats and advocacy through the media,” Mudaki said. He said cultural practices were hampering access to contraceptives. “In this community women are meant to give birth to many children for them to be respected and dowry paid not to go to waste,” he said. “When women and girls have access to contraceptives, it means we have a healthy nation. We shall have few girls dropping out of school and reduced mortality deaths,” he said. A study by the organisation found that three out of 10 teenage girls have either had their first child or are pregnant with their firstborn. The county is  among the top three in the country in teenage pregnancies at 29 per cent. It has a low uptake of child spacing methods at 8.6 per cent. Despite efforts by different stakeholders in education and child protection, many schoolgirls are still victims of early pregnancies. The county has a fertility rate of 7.2 per cent, with an average poverty level of 67 per cent compared to the national 45 per cent, based on the 2014 Kenya Demographic Health Survey. West Pokot reproductive health coordinator Wilson Ngareng said there is a need to allocate specific budgets for adolescents. “Teenage pregnancies are high because of cultural practices and residents have not embraced child spacing,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)