Barely three months in office, Deputy Governor Anne Kananu has demonstrated transformational leadership that has brought calm to City Hall. Despite ongoing court cases surrounding the position she holds, work at the county government of Nairobi has been progressing seamlessly. At the weekend, Kananu declared she will contest for Nairobi governor next year. Her announcement may have come as a surprise, but those close to her must have seen it coming. However, the timing may have surprised them. When she took over from county assembly speaker Benson Mutura, who was acting governor, Kananu said her focus was to bring in new leadership in the county. "I am not a politician, and I will not start being one. I’m focused on bringing a new spirit of cooperation, collaboration, partnership and mutual respect with all organs of government. Nairobi is now back on course," she said. However, after declaring her interest in the governor's seat, she warned potential opponents to brace themselves for a tough political duel in the capital city. "I will be vying in 2022. For those who think I am only here for a little while, I am telling them that I am here to stay. We shall face-off,” Kananu said. Her rise to political power has taken a short time and has been lucky to be the first female deputy governor of Nairobi. Prior to January 15, 2021, Kananu had served as the Disaster Management chief officer for three years, where she maintained a low profile. She was married to Philip Njiru Muthathai, who died in January 2019, following a road accident. Her former boss and Governor Mike Sonko nominated her as his deputy on January 6 last year, but the court blocked the county assembly from vetting her. After the court cleared the case, Kananu was vetted and sworn in as Nairobi’s deputy governor which hindered the chances of a by-election being held after Sonko was impeached. Her candidature will be viewed as an inspiration to women and young aspiring leaders across the country. Since she came into office, Kananu has worked closely with her cabinet and county staff to ensure that services are running. She has led her cabinet in various meetings, being assisted by acting county secretary Jairus Musumba The 10-man cabinet include Mohammed Dagane (Public works and Transport), Charles Kerich (Housing and Lands), Janet Ouko (Education), Lucia Mulwa  (Agriculture) and Winfred Gathangu (Trade). Others are Allan Igambi (Finance), Larry Wambua (Environment), Hitan Majevdia (Health), Newton Munene (ICT) and Vesca Kangongo (Devolution). A senior City Hall officer told the Star that in the past few months, Kananu has always been available and accessible to staff. “The deputy governor has never shut out anyone when approached. In my opinion, her readiness to always listen and assist people is what makes her unique, an opposite to what we were used to before,” the officer said. With the Deed Transfer of some key functions to the national government still active, Kananu has shown goodwill to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. NMS is handling the four core county functions of health, transport, environment and ancillary services. On numerous occasions, the deputy governor has accompanied NMS director general Mohammed Badi while he inspects various city projects. She has also accompanied President Uhuru Kenyatta while he launched various NMS-initiated projects in Nairobi in February. Shifting talks to the Building Bridges Initiative, Kananu last month came out to popularise the document, noting that Uhuru knows what is best for Nairobi residents and Kenyans at large. She urged the youths not to be misused and blinded by wheelbarrows but to support the bill as it was the only way to empower them. To win the seat, she will have to identify herself closely with the ruling Jubilee party, which gave her the opportunity to serve in the position. Kananu will also have to cascade well her relationship with the current MCAs and those aspiring for her to be able to go to the ground and convince residents of Nairobi for votes. Also, it will depend on what she will be able to achieve for the next one year and few months despite NMS being in the picture. For her, the stars can only keep shining at least for now even as we expect a lot to unfold ahead of the 2022 general elections. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara