@alalmaurice The Kisumu government has warned traders against selling or renting out stalls allocated to them. Acting Kisumu city manager Abala Wanga said those found doing so at Maendeleo market adjacent to Khetias supermarket risk losing them. “We have reliable information that some beneficiaries are already selling their spaces, while others plan to rent them out upon completion,” he said. Early this year, the city management issued letters of stalls allocation to 357 traders. They included Maendeleo and Nguo Investment traders who had been affected by the ongoing restructuring and modernisation of the city. Wanga said beneficiaries must obey the terms and conditions for use of stalls and spaces that they duly signed. According to the agreement, if a trader fails to develop the space within 90 days from the date of allocation, it is reallocated. Wanga noted that the stalls or spaces remain the property of the county government and are not transferable to a third party. “A trader must neither sublet stall or space nor share stall or space with another trader. Only traders whose details are appearing in the allocation letter shall be required to operate businesses within the specified stalls or spaces,” he said. The city boss said a breach of the terms and conditions shall lead to the termination of engagement. Wanga said after a series of meetings, the city management, together with the beneficiaries, unanimously agreed on a standard with which the stalls were to be structured. Before allocation, the beneficiaries formed groups and began construction as per the set standards, he added. Wanga noted that the process has been ongoing smoothly until last week when they received reports of gross violation of the stated terms and conditions. “We also have information that some individuals have already manoeuvred their way to owning more than one stall in the market,” he said. He clarified that the offer letters of beneficiaries found selling spaces/stalls at Maendeleo market shall be revoked with immediate effect. The public should, therefore, be warned that those spaces are neither for sale nor transferrable, Wanga said. He directed any individual who has more than one stall to surrender the extra ones immediately to the city management. Wanga reiterated that they will work tirelessly to ensure that the “One Trader One Stall” regulation is strictly adhered to. “Failure to comply with the terms and conditions as stipulated in the allocation letter will lead to the risk of losing one’s opportunity of trading in the area.” He urged the coordinating team that was appointed to work effectively to see that the entire process becomes a success or else the city management will move in and take charge. Wanga assured traders that the county remains committed to transforming the lives of micro and small enterprises by providing them with better spaces. He also commended the traders for their continued support and cooperation as the county finds alternative spaces for them.