Thirty-three roadblocks have been erected on major roads in five counties that have been put on partial lockdown over the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The roadblocks will be on major roads leading into and out of Nairobi, Kiambu, Machakos, Kajiado and Nakuru. This is meant to help in implementing a directive restricting movement into or out of the five-county zone. Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai said they are aware there will be many who want to move into and out of the region for Easter celebrations. He said the roadblocks will be manned day and night to ensure total compliance. “We urge those within the zoned area to exercise caution and remain around except for essential service providers,” Mutyambai said. He said the curfew hours for the counties remain 8pm to 4am until further notice. He spoke at his office after holding a meeting with a multi-agency team on the management of national security. Wilson Njega from internal security, Commissioner General of Prisons Wycliffe Ogallo and Director General of National Transport and Safety Authority George Njao attended. They said Covid-19 remains a major threat, hence needs to be taken seriously. There are fears many Kenyans may try to travel upcountry from the zoned area for the Easter festivities. Other parts of the country will continue to observe the rules put to manage the spread of the disease. Mutyambai said 3,000 prison warders had been released to help police in implementing the directives. “For our part, we commit to being humane as we discharge our mandate. We urge the public to cooperate with the police officers as they enforce the rules,” he said. The curfew and partial lockdown will run for 30 days from March 29. President Uhuru Kenyatta banned all in-person meetings, movement into and out of the five counties and revised the curfew hours. Kenya has so far recorded 134,058 positive cases of the coronavirus, 2,153 deaths and 92,679 recoveries. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i released a list of essential service providers who will not be affected by the curfew orders. In a Gazette notice published on Wednesday, the CS listed medical professionals and health workers; national security, administration and coordination of national government officers; public health and sanitation officers; and licensed pharmaceutical companies, pharmacies and drug stores. Others are licensed distributors and retailers of petroleum and oil products and lubricants and telecommunications operators and service providers, licensed broadcasters and media houses, Kenya Revenue Authority, Kenya Airports Authority and licensed civil aviation service providers. The curfew order will also not affect persons working for Kenya Railways Corporation, Kenya Pipeline Company, water service providers, food and farm produce processors, distributors, dealers, wholesalers and transporters, and licensed supermarkets, minimarkets and hypermarkets.