A woman who sued the family of a former sub-county administrator to get recognized as the second wife on Friday presented her case. The administrator died at a hospital in Eldoret town, Uasin Gishu county Eve Okuku had filed a petition in a Homa Bay court to have the family of Rachuonyo North assistant county commissioner James Mabeya know she was the second wife. Okuku said she should be recognized as part of Mabeya’s family on grounds that she has been living with the administrator for 14 years until two weeks ago when he died. Through her lawyer Helen Mimba, the petitioner said she is known by Mabeya family on grounds that they had visited the deceased home in Cherangany in Trans Nzoia. She said Mabeya had introduced her as the second wife to his family. “Having lived with the man for at least 14 years qualifies Eve Okuku as the second wife to the deceased. The deceased parents had also received a dowry from Mabeya,” Mimba said. Before Homa Bay Principal Magistrate Tom Olando, the complainant said she qualifies to inherit the property of the deceased. The petition was filed immediately after Mabeya died- the court stopped the burial until the case was heard and determined. In the case, Pacifica Nyaboke, Brian Kegicha, Andrew Mabeya and Jeyi Mabeya who are the immediate family members to the deceased were listed as the first, second, third and fourth respondents. However, the respondents through lawyer Japheth Osoro asked the court to dismiss the case accusing the petitioner of imposing herself as the wife to Mabeya. Osoro argued that Eve Okuku has not provided the family with evidence to show she is the second wife to the deceased administrator. He said the complainant is not a bona fide wife of the deceased. “No evidence to prove the person named Eve Okuku was married to the deceased. Let the court dismiss the case and close the file and allow the real family members to bury their loved one,” Osoro said. According to Osoro, marriage acts have guidelines including witnesses who oversee the ceremony. He said no member of the deceased family was informed of the petitioner was living with the deceased. Magistrate Olando said he will give a ruling over the case on April 28.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris