Sofapaka captain Michael Kibwage has revealed his lingering title ambitions as a major factor that made it easier for him to join ‘Batoto Ba Mungu’ from KCB. Kibwage revealed Sofapaka’s long standing ambition to hunt for the league title convinced him to make the switch in spite of the bankers’ unyielding stance in keeping their skipper. “Joining the club was a tough decision to make because both Sofapaka and my former club KCB both tabled lucrative offers but one thing stood out, Batoto Ba Mungu’s title ambitions. “This was the deal-breaker and equally a huge exposure to attract more offers out of the country. Not forgetting coach John Baraza (who left) who equally played a role in convincing me to join the club,”explained the 10-time international. The 23-year-old defender began his career at FISA Academy Under-8 level, proceeding to the senior team, where he earned a scholarship to join St Ignatius Mukumu Boys High School. He would also play for Kakamega Homeboyz Under-20 and AFC Leopards before a move to KCB. Kibwage boasts of an excellent national team outing having amassed 10 caps to his name. He is still hungry to be part of the Harambee Stars squad when the World Cup qualifiers come along in June. “My journey to the national team has been a steady one. The growth has been immense and getting to represent the country is such an honour and privilege. I played my first match against Swaziland under coach Sebastian Migne and  have played a couple of other matches for the Harambee Stars. The national team is a different level and one has to remain at their best all times. I have gained a lot and I feel ready to command a starting role in the team,” he said. The centre-back further adds that he clearly can’t describe the turn of events that has seen him captain nearly all clubs’ he has been at, but he attributes it to being natural born leader. “It has been such an honour;  to be honest leading the rest of the teams in all levels of my career. I clearly can’t describe it all but I believe it is not ordinary as well. I feel it’s a calling and affirmation that  I was entirely born a natural leader. My latest capacity at the team was such a huge surprise because I never expected  this in my first year at the club,”he said. Kibwage remains determined to go beyond the local scenes and play for established sides in the continent. “My desire as a player is to win the FKF-Premier League title, grace the Caf Champions League tournament and represent the country at the Nations Cup,” he finished.