Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has asked the EACC and the DCI to investigate the management of Sh40 million from the county assembly car and mortgage revolving fund account. In a letter dated April 19 sent to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, he also wants a forensic audit of the Sh200 million revolving fund to support cane development in Mumias Sugar belt and tender awards by the county government. Malala said the Sh200 million Mumias Sugar revolving fund remains nonfunctional, five years after its establishment, despite taxpayer money having been spent. "I write to you as Kakamega senator, in fulfilment of my oversight role, to request your office to investigate if the money deposited in the said account at the Co-operative Bank, Kakamega branch, is there or not and if not where the money went to," the letter reads. The letter is copied to Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu and Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka. Malala also wants the EACC and the DCI to inspect the accounts of the Kakamega county assembly for financial year 2013-14. "I write to request that any matter pending or active in your offices be fast-tracked and completed before the end of the tenure of both Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and the speaker," he says. Malala also wants the agencies to audit the issuance of major contracts being undertaken by the county government. He says major contracts in the departments of Roads and Infrastructure and Health Services were awarded to different companies with the same directors. "By this letter, we also seek to know the directors of the companies undertaking the said major contracts in the aforementioned departments," the letter reads. But speaker Morris Buluma said he would only respond to the claims once Malala presents evidence. "Has he given you any documents that I can make reference to or he wants the EACC to find out if there is evidence? The latter is what we call a fishing expedition," he said. He said the issue of the revolving fund was a court matter after MCAs, who failed to repay their loans, moved to court to block recovery of the same by the assembly. Oparanya did not answer calls or respond to text messages.  Edited by A.N