A combination of unfortunate circumstances led to the return of Sydney Lokale to Kariobangi Sharks just over a year since he left the club to pursue greener pastures in Europe. Lokale had sealed a move to Finnish top-flight  side, HIFK after impressing for club and country but a succession of injuries and the strict traveling restrictions to Helsinki due to the deadly coronavirus pandemic saw his short stint abroad come to an inauspicious end. "I was very unfortunate with injuries and could not be on the pitch long enough to convince the coaches on how useful I could be to the team," said the lanky striker. "When my contract was running out, I was back in Kenya and like in most countries in Europe, Finland has put tough restrictions to those traveling to their country. Now without a contract, getting the necessary clearance to return there for talks was not easy," added the former Rising Stars hitman. Lokale has now inked a short term deal with highflying Sharks but he is determined to make another stab at playing overseas. "I signed a three-month contract with Sharks, which allows me to possibly play for them in the second leg of the season. I just want to be back on the football pitch playing then afterwards I can think about my long term future," he remarked. His return, though brief, will be welcomed by coach William Muluya who will do with some more firepower as his side target an unlikely title assault. Sharks have relied mainly on goals from injury prone international Eric Kapaito to stay on the coattails of front runners Tusker, KCB and AFC Leopards. "I think the team is enjoying a good run in the league this year. It's a young squad with hungry players who are playing their hearts off. I will be happy to play any part to make sure they achieve their main goals," concluded Lokale. With 15 matches played before the season was suspended due to the rise in covid19 infections,Sharks had 28 points, eight off top spot occupied by Tusker who have played a game more.