Rift Valley and Western ANC branches have backed a possible political deal between Uasin Gishu politician and businessman Bundotich Kiprop (Buzeki) and party leader Musalia Mudavadi. Buzeki met with Mudavadi in Nairobi last Friday sparking off speculation that the businessman could be headed to the ANC soon. “The meeting between Buzeki and Mudavadi is a very good move because we want our party to grow nationally and we fully endorse efforts by our leader to partner with many other Kenyans,” said 14 branch officials led by Brian Juma of Uasin Gishu. Juma and the other officials have however asked ANC to strengthen its network through election of new officials so that they can spearhead Mudavadi’s agenda. “Bringing on board people like Buzeki is a very good move but internally we want party elections in counties like Uasin Gishu so we have officials with capacity to support the ANC agenda,” said Juma. ANC is proposing to have Buzeki take over the vacant secretary general position after Barrack Muluka resigned last year. “There is no formal deal or talks over the same but we met and discussed many matters of national interest,” said Buzeki. The ANC boss hosted Buzeki at Mudavadi Centre in Nairobi where they discussed politics, the economy and the Covid-19 situation in the country. “The leaders discussed the current economic situation in the country and how businesses can be supported in the wake of  Covid-19 pandemic,” said a statement from the Mudavadi’s communication team. The statement further said they reflected on the challenges being experienced in the agricultural sector and its implications on incomes and food security. But sources said the two extensively dwelt on politics, especially emerging political alliances ahead of the 2022 polls. Buzeki is said to be considering to either come up with his own party, join the One Kenya coalition or ANC. Last week, Buzeki said he would announce his new party soon and join an alliance ahead of next year’s polls. The Uasin Gishu governor aspirant resigned from CCM after party leader Isaac Ruto, who is former Bomet governor, decided to join the hustler movement of DP William Ruto. “I can not be party to Tangatanga style of politics. Ruto did not consult before making his move and therefore I will not subscribe to his decisions,” said Buzeki when he quit CCM. He had initially quit Jubilee after differing with DP Ruto and his allies. Buzeki who is a harsh critic of the DP  and is a front runner for the governor's seat in the DP’s home county says he is finalising plans to unveil the way forward for his team. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala has hinted he is in talks with Buzeki and other close allies to join ANC and strengthen the party ahead of 2022 polls. “We want to strengthen ANC and bring in more Kenyans and that is why we are in talks with friends like Buzeki to join us,” he said. Buzeki supported ANC to win in the recent Matungu by-election but he says they are yet to engage in formal talks with the party headed by Musalia Mudavadi. “ANC has approached us but we are yet to agree on any way forward. We will have our party soon and our options are still wide open,” Buzeki told the Star days before he met Mudavadi. Buzeki  who had declared interest for the Uasin Gishu governor's seat said nothing will derail him from his political ambitions. “I don’t have to be anyone’s sycophant in order to do what I want. I am an independent-minded person and I will sell my policies and manifesto to the people of Uasin Gishu seeking their support in the coming elections,” he said. He vied as an independent candidate in the last General Election and lost narrowly to Governor Jackson Mandago who is completing his second term next year. Buzeki along with politician Jonathan Bii and Nairobi county executive Vesca Kangogo are among those seeking to succeed Mandago next year. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara