A police officer arraigned on Tuesday in Machakos for allegedly shooting dead a herder over pasture dispute has been detained. Constable Victor Kariuki of Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit appeared before Machakos resident magistrate Nelly Kenei but didn’t take plea. The court granted the prosecution 10 days to continue detaining the suspect at Machakos police station as they finalise investigations. This was after the prosecution made the application through miscellaneous case number 46 of 2021. A case between Victor Kariuki versus the Republic of Kenya. He will appear in court on April 15 for plea taking. Kariuki was arrested and locked up at Machakos police station following the Monday evening incident that occurred at Vet Farm, opposite the county governor's office. According to a police report, Kariuki had responded to a distress call from security officers deployed at the farm who informed him that herders were illegally grazing there. He rushed to the farm and met a group of herders, where a confrontation arose between him and the herders. In the process, he shot in the air to scare the charging crowd. Muendo Maundu, 38, died on the spot after he was shot in the shoulder. Maundu allegedly tried to snatch the rifle and was shot in the back of the right shoulder and it exited from the back of the left shoulder. The crowd then advanced to the offices of Vet farm where they set on fire a hay store and grass plantation. The fire brigade was called but the store and the plantation were already destroyed. “We were chased by the officers four times, they demanded Sh6,000 to release our cattle. The police officer just turned and hit Maundu after he attempted to drive the cattle away. The officer ran after killing him," one of the herders said. Maundu's body was moved to Machakos Level 5 Hospital mortuary for a postmortem. Machakos subcounty criminal investigations officer Rhoda Kanyi intervened, restoring calm among the locals. She urged witnesses to cooperate with the police and assured them of their safety. “We will ensure that you are protected accordingly through the Witness Protection Agency. Relatives to the deceased should also come up, justice will be served,” Kanyi said.    Edited by Kiilu Damaris