Eldas MP Aden Keynan has called on fellow leaders and well wishers to invest more in religious institutions which he said play an important role in society. Speaking in Eldas town during the opening of Eldas Jamia mosque, Keynan said a morally upright society is one that believes in God. The mosque is the second largest in Kenya after Jamia in Nairobi. It has a capacity of 3,500 worshippers in a single prayer session. Keynan thanked well wishers whom he said played a significant role in building the mosque. Without their support it could not have been possible, the MP said. “A few years ago, with the help of other well wishers I embarked on a modest assignment of constructing the iconic, architecturally-rich Eldas Jamia mosque in Eldas town. I thank God that we are gathered here to witness this auspicious occasion,” Keynan said. The MP said strengthening Islamic centres would promote success, righteousness and high merit in the moral and educational spheres. “Mosques are significant institutions in the life of Muslim populations since they play vital roles as places of worship, education centres, decision-making and dispute resolution grounds. As leaders we should at all times use our God-given opportunities to work closely with other well wishers in not only strengthening   the ones that are there but also building more,” Keynan said. Keynan expressed optimism that the new facility shall help inculcate good morals and religious education in the community as well as foster strong values that promote peace, unity and respect for humanity. Tourism and Wildlife CS Najib Balala said religious institutions like mosques, madrasas and duksis play an important role in human development, hence more investment in them is needed. The new mosque has among other facilities a madrassa, (Qur’anic school), ample parking space and an ongoing Waqf project designed to support its operations and that of other Islamic institutions in the entire constituency. Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi said his administration has created a religious directorate to support spiritual affairs, including madrasas and Quranic centres. Through them, he said, many people are successfully pursuing higher education. Edited by Henry Makori