A Baringo widow wants back the body of her son that was exhumed from disputed school land following a court order last week. On Tuesday, Targok Kipchabas, 85, joined family members to protest and demand back the body of Paul Kipchabas, who was buried inside disputed Koroto Secondary School land in Baringo North subcounty. The body was taken to Kabarnet mortuary. “When my son fell sick and died I thought he should have rested in his grave peacefully only to be exhumed suddenly. I feel like collapsing and dying,” Targok said. Kipchabas, a retired police officer, had an unresolved land dispute when he fell ill and later succumbed to blood pressure-related sickness. “Before he died he pleaded in his hospital bed that he be buried in his ancestral land, where his umbilical cord was buried and now the school seats,” his son Francis Chebor said. Chebor said until his death, his father had been making frantic efforts to reclaim his encroached land in vain. “He had approached the area chief and the elders who turned him down. He then went ahead to petition the court where the case is pending to date” he said. Chebor accused professionals from the area of "bulldozing" to have the school constructed on their family land without consulting them, a move that he said frustrated his father to his early death. He said after his burial, some interested parties moved to court to petition and sought exhumation of the body without involving the family members. “I even didn’t hear about any court case. I just heard some people accompanied by a contingent of police officers came and bulldozed excavation of my son from his grave and took it to only God knows where,” Targok said amid sobs. She appealed to the government to intervene urgently and help return the body of her son back to his grave. Targok said since his childhood, her son never wronged anyone and served the government as a police officer diligently until his retirement. “He only had unresolved issues about his late father’s land that was being grabbed on his watch by the school management,” she said. Josephine Talam, the Kipchabas’s sister, said her brother did not deserve the inhumane treatment. “While he was alive no one listened to him when the school broke his fence. Then upon his death he is exhumed, an act that is so disheartening,” Talam said. Elder Benjamin Kiptosok said as a family they were not ready to dig another grave for their loved one. “Even our own culture doesn’t allow that. He should be buried in the grave of his choice,” he said. Others elders who condemned the incident are Jacob Cherop, Haron Kipomoo, John Chelimo and Edna Chebon. “One side of the interested parties was heard while we, the family, were locked outside until the case on exhumation of the body was decided in our absence,” family representative David Rutto said. On Wednesday last week, Kabarnet senior principal magistrate Paul Biwott ruled that the body be exhumed immediately, saying it could disturb students learning in the school. Enforcement officers and public health officials took three hours to exhume the body then took it back to Kabarnet hospital mortuary. The family wants the body and asked that it be preserved until the hearing on April 28. The public health officials had earlier hinted at disposing of the body in a public cemetery in case the family declined to claim it. Moses Kwonyike, a retired solder who hails from the area, denied claims the deceased man owned land in the school compound. He said when the man heard a school was about to be erected, he left their home located four kilometres away to build a temporary structure inside the school land. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo condemned the exhumation, saying the elders, stakeholders and the family should sit down and resolve the issue once and for all. Edited by Henry Makori