Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o risks a Sh500,000 fine or arrest if he fails to appear before the Senate health committee for the second time. The governor is expected to explain how his administration spent Sh209 million Covid-19 funds. He was expected at the senate on Tuesday, April 20, but he did not show up. “Should you fail to appear before the committee on the said date and specified time, the committee may impose on you a fine or may order your arrest as specified in the Parliamentary Powers and Privileges Act, 2017.” “You may also be guilty of an offence in terms of section 27 of the Powers and Privileges Act for which you shall be liable for conviction to a fine of Sh200,000 or six months in prison or both,” the summons by Senate clerk Jeremiah Nyegenye reads. Nyong'o is expected to shed light on the Sh209 million spent, which was raised in an audit report presented to the Senate by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. According to Gathungu, the cash was spent without following the right procedure and that no approved Covid-19 training plans were conducted. The county, in her view, contravened public spending laws that demand approved plans for all budgeting processes. Gathungu also questioned the decision by Kisumu to mix up conditional grants cash with money from other sources amounting to Sh160 million. Kisumu did not spend Sh930,000 on frontline healthcare workers allowances and delayed the transfer of Sh7.7 million, from Danida to hospitals. The senators have arranged a virtual meeting set for April 30 at 9 am. Senators want the county boss to appear in person to give evidence or provide information regarding the queries. He has been requested to submit documents, to the committee, by close of business Wednesday next week. At a recent press conference, Nyong’o, who is also the CoG health committee chair said counties are not privy to the audit queries. “We urge the media to be patient and allow counties to receive the reports from the Auditor General, study them and respond to any queries. Counties are being condemned without being told their mistakes,” he said. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro, Busia’s Sospeter Ojamoong’, Kajiado’s Joseph Ole Lenku, are among county bosses that have faced the committee.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris