Kenya  boxing team "Hit Squad" heavyweight Elly Ajowi added another feather in his cap after bagging the LG/SJAK Sports Personality for the month of March on Wednesday. The accolade recognised his remarkable exploits in the ring where he capped off his glittering career with a gold medal at Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship held in Kinshasa, DR Congo in March. The Tokyo Olympics- bound National Police Service Corporal stunned African Champion Maxime Yegnong Njieyo from Cameroon on his way to victory. Earlier in the month of March, Ajowi qualified for Tokyo Olympics Games on merit after the boxing task force seeded him ahead of his competitors. The heavyweight's face broke into a broad smile amid tears of joy as he ambled to the podium to receive a 55-inch Nano Cell TV set from title sponsors LG under the "Nano Ni Noma" campaign. “It's such a great feeling to be selected as the best sports personality of the month. This has motivated me to even aim higher at this year's Tokyo Olympics. “It was not an easy thing to fight my opponent given that it was my first fight in super heavyweight. My strategy was to make calculated shots while also defending gallantly. “I'm glad I was able to avenge the match I lost to the Cameroonian in the run up the final,” said a beaming Ajowi. Ajowi nudged aside three other nominees Wilson Bii of Paralympics, Rakep Patel of cricket and Victor Obiero of kabaddi on his way to victory. LG managing director Sa Nyoung Kim paid glowing tribute to the "Chafua Chafua" pugilist. “I wish to congratulate Elly Ajowi for his stellar performance during the month of March. We celebrate and wish him all the best in the 2020 Tokyo Olympics," said LG assistant marketing manager on behalf of Kim. “Recognising and rewarding performance is an important step in identifying and nurturing local sporting talent. “Kenya is known globally for its sporting talent especially in athletics, and we are seeing promising talent in other disciplines, hence our decision to collaborate with SJAK to advance development of sports talent in Kenya,” said Kim. SJAK President Chris Mbaisi thanked LG for their longstanding partnership with SJAK, adding that "recognition of sports personalities is a positive way of appreciating Kenya's spirited gains in sport. “The gold in DR Congo went down in history as his career best and adds up to bronze medals he won during the 2015 and 2019 editions of African Games in Congo Brazzaville and Rabat, Morocco respectively,” said Mbaisi. Mbaisi said in a rare move, Ajowi took the big risk of moving a berth up from Heavyweight to Super- Heavyweight and surprised all and sundry on his debut in boxing's highest weight division. Ajowi joins the growing list of 2021 winners after Tennis star Angela Okutoyi in January and Kenya Morans’ Tylor Okari in February. MO ABOUT ELLY AJOWI Ring Name: EllyDate of Birth: 5th October 1983Stance: OrthodoxCurrent Weight Division: HeavyweightPrevious Club(s): Dandora (1997-2000), Dallas Muthurwa (2004-2006)Current Club: Kenya Police (2016 to date)Occupation: Corporal at Railway Police National Team Debut: 2010 Milan AIBA World ChampionshipClub Coach: David MunuheHobbies: Reading books2019 Goal: Gold Medal in MoroccoCareer Highlights1. Commonwealth Boxing Championships in India –SILVER 2. All African Games 2015 –Congo Brazzaville -BRONZE3. Kenya Open Champion 2010 to 20194. All African Games 2019 –Rabat -BRONZE5. Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship 2021 in DR Congo- GOLD