A South African commercial law firm has partnered with Nairobi-based boutique corporate law firm to offer better services to the African continent. In a statement on Saturday, Cliffe Dekker Hofmeyr said it has established a partnership with Kieti Advocates LLP. The new firm will officially be known as Kieti Law LLP with effect from 1 April 2021. Through this partnership, and under the CDH banner, both firms will not only expand their service offerings in the region but also benefit from the alchemy of Kieti’s embedded regional expertise and knowledge with CDH’s range of services and resource capability. Hofmeyr CEO Brent Williams said this partnership was forged so that both firms could be more responsive to their clients’ requirements. “This coming together will allow us both to offer our clients a seamless, efficient and quality service of the kind they have come to know us for in East Africa. And Kieti Law LLP wishes to do the same for its most important clients in Southern Africa,” he said. Kieti Law Managing partner Sammy Ndolo said the partnership will strengthen the capabilities of both firms to practically and affordably service the market both within Africa and abroad. “Although there have been a few South African law firms expanding into other African jurisdictions over the years, this partnership represents a significant step for our firm to utilise CDH’s renowned capabilities in both M&A and Fintech law,” he said. “Both our firms are particularly excited about the value that the combination of Southern African and Eastern African, commercial legal nous can bring to our respective clients and this step will enhance our ability to provide a holistic offering." Williams concluded that this marks a momentous occasion in the history of both firms. “We are embarking on a great adventure and look forward to seeing what lies beyond the horizon in this shared future. We’re changing the African legal landscape for Africans, by Africans, bringing it to the world in the form of Kieti Law LLP.”