Patients at Ngao Subcounty Hospital in Tana River have been forced to buy food from kiosks, potentially putting their health at risk. They are forced to buy because the hospital is unable to cook after unpaid suppliers stopped deliveries. Resident Abe Bvere said since last year October, they have been forced to buy their patients food from the kiosks or take it from home. He said on Sundays, most of the kiosks do not open, thus, patients either have to go hungry or have someone get them food from home. However, Tana River county director of communication Steve Juma said the problem is not as dire as residents are saying. “We have had this situation for the last one month,” Juma said. He said the exchequer has not released funds to the counties,  affecting the ability of the county to pay its suppliers. Juma did not specify how much the five suppliers are owed by the county government but reports indicate it is more than Sh10 million. Residents also claim the only ambulance available at the county is in poor shape and most times patients are forced to hire ordinary vehicles to get to hospitals. “A Probox will charge you Sh6,000 for transportation to a hospital one has been referred to. Without the money, your patient may die as you watch,” Bvere said. Jiso Abawata said hospitals were also understaffed and drugs have to be rationed. When you question the staff, they say they have not been paid hence they look for money elsewhere. This has made the hygiene conditions at the hospital not the very best,” Abawata said. He said the ambulance was recently repaired after months of neglect and only reviewed after protests. Resident Esther Charo said the maternity wing was recently revived after women  protested. “We used to deliver at home because the maternity was closed. At least now they are doing something,” Charo said. She said they always pray their patients do not require oxygen because there are no oxygen tanks. However, Juma said the county government’s political detractors are responsible for speculation, giving unverified information and painting the county in a in bad light. “We have an operational ambulance on the ground. We are up to the task and addressing the situation. Nothing warrants alarm,” he said. Muslims for Human Rights has said it will formally write to authorities seeking an explanation for the situation at the hospital. “We have received several reports of the same and are currently concluding our own investigations to establish the facts,” Muhuri monitoring, evaluation and communication officer Ernest Cornel said. He said they will seek answers from Governor Dhadho Godhana, the health CEC and their fFinance counterpart. Edited by Kiilu Damaris