Residents of Kitengela and its environs in Kajaido county can now escape the Mombasa Road traffic snarl-ups. Kenya Railways on Wednesday launched a commuter train service from Nairobi Central station to Lukenya. It will cost only Sh100 for the commuters, who will commence the journey at Lukenya Railway station (at the end of Mungai Road) to the CBD. “One turns off at the Namanga Road and Muigai Road junction. The Kitengela halt is at the end of the newly tarmacked Deliverance Church Road,” said Kenya Railways in a notice. The first train will depart from Lukenya at 5.45am and will have stops at Kitengela, Athi River, Mlolongo, Imara Daima and Makadara before arriving at Nairobi Central at 7.40am. This is part of the Nairobi Commuter Rail Service development contained in Nairobi Metropolitan Transport Masterplan. The project is aimed at modernising and expanding under-utilised railway transport infrastructure facilities within Nairobi to attract passengers from the roads and reduce congestion. This will help create an efficient and affordable mass rapid transit transport system for the city. Phase one of this project includes the building of 26 new modern passenger handling stations at the existing railway stations and at new locations. Syokimau, Makadara and Imara Daima are some of the completed stations. The second phase will extend services to Thika and Limuru while the third will target the satellite towns of Ongata Rongai, Kiserian, Ngong, Kiambu, Ruai and Kangemi in the coming months. Kenya Railways has already purchased 11 Diesel Multiple Units at a cost of Sh1.15 billion from Spain. Five are already operational plying along five routes from Nairobi Central Station to Embakasi Village, Syokimau, Kitengela, Kikuyu and Thika. The remaining six are expected next month. In phase two, the railway corridor will be extended to Thika, Limuru and Lukenya, with step three linking the city to outlying satellite towns such as Ongata Rongai, Kiserian, Ngong, Kiambu, Ruai, and Kangemi.