The Health ministry has allayed fears of a shortage of vaccines after some facilities halted the inoculation drive. Hospitals such as the Aga Khan suspended the exercise, having run out of doses. Long queues were also experienced at the Mbagathi Hospital. Data from the ministry showed that more than 130,000 people have been reached with the vaccine. As of yesterday, 65,605 healthcare workers, 11,597 security personnel and 19,094 teachers had been vaccinated. The ministry says the expansion of the first phase to include people aged 58 and above has led to a surge in numbers at health facilities, resulting in a shortage. “The biggest issue becomes the vaccines initially distributed were based on numbers of healthcare workers and other frontline workers in the regions but with the inclusion of 58 years and above our we are now dealing with 2.7 million people against our earlier population target of 1.25 million and therefore the surge occurred,” task force on Vaccines Deployment chairman Willis Akhwale said. The county governments will now be required to do data reporting through the 'chanjo' platform to ensure doses are monitored and refills done on time. "The chanjo system is the one that is tracking consumption and we have implored the Council of Governors that we want it to be a demand not a push so once you report we are able to see how many vaccines you have used and there replenishment becomes easier,” Dr Akhwale said. This comes even as the country recorded 1,412 new Covid-19 cases from a sample size of 9,219, representing a positivity of 15.3 per cent. Six more deaths were also reported, three being reported within 24 hours and the other three from audits of hospital records covering diverse dates. The number of recoveries also continued to rise, with 389 patients having successfully recovered—230 from home-based care and 159 from health facilities. “We have done a redistribution of vaccines that we have in store. We have looked at different health facilities with the data that we have and developed a new redistribution list and this is underway to ensure that the shortage will soon cease,” Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi said. The ministry, however, warned healthcare workers who are receiving bribes from Kenyans to facilitate vaccine queue-jumping that they will have their licences revoked. Similarly, she warned against those charging for the AstraZeneca vaccine, saying the vaccine should be issued free of charge whether in public or private facilities. The decision to include the aged in phase one was arrived at after data showed that people in this age bracket are most at risk of severe disease and account for 60 per cent of the deaths recorded in the country. Kenya is currently experiencing a third wave that has seen an exponential rise in the number of hospitalisations and cases of critical care patients, a situation experts say is likely being fuelled by new Covid variants. Already, hospitals are overstretched and ICU beds running out, with the government reactivating the home-based care for the management of asymptomatic patients.