Kenyan rally giant Baldev Chager is banking on home advantage to excel at the upcoming World Rally Championship Safari Rally  on July 16-19 this year. The reigning Kenya National Rally Championship champion said Kenyan drivers understand the local terrain, which may favour them against their esteemed, experienced foreign drivers. "As locals, we have an advantage of local knowledge and experience. A perfect example is the WRC candidate Safari which we won in 2019. We managed to win it on the very last stage at Kedong. The whole rally we were lying second and Manvir (Baryan) was leading. But there was a huge amount of dust on a 100m stretch at Kedong. How Manvir tackled the dust and how we tackled was very different." "He sucked in all the dust while Tundo and I managed to avoid it by literally keeping one foot on the side,"  Chager said. However,  Chager admits that  a lot has changed in the world of Safari Rally since his last participation in the competition in 1998, where he finished 15th overall with Tinu Khan in a  Subaru Legacy. "From the current group of drivers, I think it's only myself, Ian (Duncan) and Carl (Tundo) that have done the proper Safari when it counted towards the world series. The Safari at the time was a very long endurance drive and quite different from the present day sprint format. All in all, it will be an amazing feeling being a part of WRC Safari," he said. Chager also believes foreign drivers have the advantage of competing in many international events, in various kinds of terrain, and are therefore may not need much time to adjust to the local topography. "WRC drivers have a lot of experience from the whole world; from racing in the desert to Argentina to Europe and rough gravel in Greece. So they're not far behind and if you look at most of their team managers, they are actually retired rally drivers. The WRC car has everything modified to it from the engine, transmission to suspension. The R5 cars currently being run in Kenya are a step lower than the WRC car," Chager said. He has been in red-hot form in this season's KNRC, which was in its second circuit in Machakos before all sporting activities were suspended to mitigate the third wave of the coronavirus pandemic. Meanwhile, WRC Safari Rally Chief Executive Officer Phineas Kimathi says they are working on initial timelines assuming that the rally was still run on its initial dates of July 16 to 19, 2020. “The Service Park is complete and it is going to be the biggest in the history of WRC. Because of the Covid-19 situation, we are expanding space and adding a few facilities. We are building a VVIP Pavilion adjacent to the newly laid service park asphalt. The pavilion will be ready before the WRC Safari Rally in June."