Governors have asked the National Treasury to release Sh4.6 billion to help counties contain the third wave of Covid-19. The counties say they need to urgently upgrade infrastructures such as oxygen delivery systems and vaccine cold chains. Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora said the Sh4.6 billion was already given to counties by the World Bank and was previously earmarked for the Kenya Devolution Support Programme. “Kenya’s health facilities, especially the intensive care units and shortage of oxygen plants, are a major concern,” Wambora told journalists at the CoG headquarters in Nairobi. The Kenya Devolution Support Programme is a Sh20 billion project financed by the World Bank to support capacity building and technical assistance in counties over four years from 2016. The national government was expected to contribute about Sh8.7 billion in complementary funding, bringing the total programme cost to Sh28.7 billion. Wambora said Laikipia Governor Ndiritu Muriithi would engage the National Treasury on the support programme and delays of regular funds to counties. “CoG has tasked their Finance committee chairman, with the assistance of a few governors, to engage the National Treasury with a view to ensuring the Treasury releases our share of allocation on time without delays, as is still the case at the time of this press statement,” he said. The Embu governor said the CoG and the Ministry of Health have also formed a joint intergovernmental health committee to coordinate Covid response. The committee will cover, among other things, financial support by donors and harmonise donations of medical equipment to ensure they are compatible and have readily available and affordable spare parts. He said the team will also ensure harmonised training of health officials. “The co-chair of the joint intergovernmental health committee will be CoG health committee chairman and MoH Cabinet Secretary,” Wambora said. He said all counties are smoothly rolling out vaccination plans. “However, it is worth noting that the Covid-19 vaccine does not guarantee full protection against the virus,” he said, noting Kenyans still need to wear masks, sanitise and keep social distance. By Wednesday, at least 161,000 people had been vaccinated against the virus. The Health ministry said the expansion of the first phase to include people aged 58 and above has led to a surge in numbers at health facilities, resulting in a shortage. “With the inclusion of 58 years and above our we are now dealing with 2.7 million people against our earlier population target of 1.25 million and therefore the surge occurred,” Vaccines Deployment chairman Willis Akhwale said. County governments will now be required to do data reporting through the 'chanjo' platform to ensure doses are monitored and refills done on time. "The chanjo system is the one that is tracking consumption and we have implored the Council of Governors that we want it to be a demand, not a push, so that once you report we are able to see how many vaccines you have used and their replenishment becomes easier,” Dr Akhwale said.