The weatherman has hinted that most parts of the country will receive rainfall in the next seven days, though rainfall amounts and coverage are likely to reduce as the forecast period progresses. A few areas in the Northwest and Northeast are likely to experience strong south-easterly winds with speeds exceeding 25 knots. During the forecast period, Siaya, Kisumu, Homabay, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Bungoma, and Busia counties will receive morning rains on Tuesday and Wednesday. Evening showers are expected over a few places throughout the forecast period. Turkana, West Pokot, and Samburu counties will also experience morning rains on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Sunday and the rest of the mornings are likely to be sunny. Afternoon showers and thunderstorms are likely to occur over several places on Tuesday and over a few places on Wednesday and Sunday in the Northwest region. Some places in the Highlands East of the Rift Valley including Nairobi will receive rains on Tuesday, Wednesday and Sunday. Afternoon showers are also likely to occur over several places on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. Morning rains will be experienced in the South-eastern lowlands on Tuesday and Thursday while the rest of the mornings are likely to remain sunny. The Coastal strip region will receive rain on Tuesday morning and a few places on Wednesday. In the past seven days, rainfall was recorded over several parts of the country. A comparison between the previous review (March 22-28) and the current preview period (March 29-April 4) indicates a significant increase in the rainfall amounts over most parts of the country. The ongoing heavy rainfall in the Coastal area caused floods on Monday, which eroded a section of Garissa-Garsen road. The heavy rains have caused floods across Bura plains. The Kenya National Highway Authority had mobilized its engineers and the contractor to assess the extent of the damage which affected the motorists applying the Garissa-Hola-Garsen road.