Education CS George Magoha has directed inspection of schools to ensure adherence to the prescribed Covid-19 safety protocols before reopening of the institutions on May 10. The CS ruled out the possibility of adjusting the school calendar, citing the flattening of Covid infections but reaffirmed that they would continue to observe and be guided with the Covid-19 infections curve. “We are scheduled to reopen schools for third term on May 10, 2021 for all classes except Grade Four and Form One,” Magoha said while releasing the 2020 KCPE exams. This is after a section of stakeholders expressed fears of a possible extension of the April holiday due to the ongoing third wave of the Covid-19. Magoha on Thursday said the health and education officials will be required to inspect schools to monitor if the Covid measures are in place before reopening. "We are hopeful that we will open as scheduled although we continue monitoring the country’s Covid-19 situation and the schools’ preparedness to adhere to all Ministry of Health guidelines of managing the virus," Magoha said. These will include installed hand washing points, availability of thermo guns at the entrance to capture and record temperatures of students and teaching staff and proper classroom and dormitory ventilation. Others measures to be observed are the use of masks upon reopening. School administrators are required to compile a list of students with pre-existing conditions whose risks of succumbing to Covid-19 are higher. However, the condition requiring schools to exercise social distancing still remains a major challenge. CS Magoha in January admitted public schools could not conform to the requirement, noting that the use of masks would be largely relied upon in preventing infections. However, educators and public health experts and many teachers agree on the core precautions necessary to open schools and the need to keep them open. On Thursday, CS Magoha said there was a decline in the Covid-19 infection cases. The number of Covid-19 infections has declined over the past two weeks with the positivity rate dropping to 11.8 per cent on Sunday from a high of 26.6 per cent on March 29. The Education ministry in November released the school schedule for the next three years that shortened terms and holidays. Grade Four, Standard Eight and Form Four learners resumed school in October while the rest returned on January 4. Edited by Henry Makori