Bitcoin traders all around the world are always looking forward to maximizing their profit by considering even minor aspects that could affect trading. As the bitcoin market has been under continuous examination by experts and professionals in order to stay updated on anything that affects the price. The investment in bitcoin is as huge as $ 1.5 billion and as small as $ 5. Those have who invested millions are more worried about its volatility and overall market environment. If something went wrong, the impact would vary as per the investment. Bitcoin trading holds great potential in attracting aggressive traders, as they are always looking forward to maximizing their profit by taking risks. Other cryptocurrencies like Ethereum and Litecoin are more stable compared to bitcoin but do not produce enough return that could be earned on bitcoin. Down below are some aspects mentioned that are important for beginners and professionals to take into account while playing the game of investment in bitcoin. Follow the news All financial markets are affected by the news one way or another. Like commodity market would be affected by the news of the dollar going up or down, as gold speculation have a connection with the US dollar. The forex market would be affected by the rate of inflation. The cryptocurrency market is also affected by the supply and demand of bitcoin. This also includes the increase or decrease in the mining cost. A number of cryptocurrencies exist in the market. Plus huge investments followed up by large multinational and National companies also bring a significant impact on bitcoin price and worth. Like, Tesla recently invested around $ 1.5 billion in bitcoin. Involvement of PayPal, and acceptance by bitcoin by different institutions and states. Bitcoin announcement regarding Islamic system. When the cryptocurrency-related news is followed thoroughly, the chances of uncertainty and loss fall, and profit potential rise. There are several websites and blogs through which traders could stay updated about the bitcoin market environment. Bitcoin and Other Virtual Currencies It would be wise if a trader spread its capital over other digital currencies as well, the final motive of every trader is profit. When the investment would be spread over other cryptocurrencies like Ethereum, Bitcoin, Litecoin, the profitability ratio is more likely to increase depending upon the size of the investment. Platforms Performance and Security There are several factors that impact the investment regarding the platform’s performance. The trader must make sure the "fund security” element in chosen platform. There were several trading platforms that went bankrupt and investor’s money was never regained. The trader should also look into the number of cryptocurrencies offered by the platform, and how good is that platform in guiding you to choose the most profitable virtual currency. Sources like bitcoin formula help traders to get updated with the new upcoming platforms in order to secure the investment more conveniently. Conclusion There is no rocket science in understanding the bitcoin market environment, it just requires observation of events affecting the bitcoin market. Secondly, diversification would enable the trader to get a grip over other cryptocurrencies as well. The selection of an appropriate platform for trading bitcoin is the most essential element to consider.