Antipas Nyanjwa, the deputy director of investigations and forensic services at the National Land Commission, will be buried on Friday at his home in Rongo, Migori. Nyanjwa died on April 19 after suffering a heart attack at a restaurant along Ngong' Road in Nairobi. It remains unclear what triggered the heart attack. Nyanjwa’s brother Kennedy said samples were picked up from his body for further tests and analysis to establish the cause of the attack. Nyanjwa was to meet, among others, an MP from Kisumu at the Soiree Gardens minutes before he died. Witnesses said Nyanjwa arrived at the premises and parked his car. He stayed in the vehicle for some time. A manager at the restaurant, Ann Githinji, said Nyanjwa took neither food nor water at the joint. “He stayed in his car for a while and later left for a short call but did not reach there (washrooms). He could not walk and held onto a rail before he sat on the ground complaining of breathing problems. He did not eat anything here,” Githinji said. The hotel staff rushed him to hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival. Nyanjwa had a history of heart-related complications and had apparently recovered from a Covid-19 attack. Officials at the NLC said Nyanjwa had been moved to Homa Bay and named the county coordinator but he had yet to report to his new station. He was moved there on July 20 last year but appealed against the decision. On April 7, 2021, acting NLC secretary Kabale Tache directed Nyanjwa to immediately report to his new posting. He was the deputy head of investigations at the commission since 2014 when he joined from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. He had served as the deputy head of document examination section of the forensic unit at the DCI. Nyanjwa had also served as an instructor at the DCI academy. Among others, Nyanjwa nailed key masterminds of the 1994 Rwandan genocide. He also nailed a number of criminals for fraud. His death came a month after the deputy director of communications at NLC Jennifer Wambua was murdered. Three suspects have since been arrested over Jennifer's death as probe continues.  Edited by P.O