Nation Media Group chief executive officer Stephen Gitagama is the new chairman of the Media Owners Association. He takes over from Royal Media Services managing director Wachira Waruru who has served in that capacity since April 2018. Waruru took over from magazine publisher Hanningtone Gaya, who had held the position since 2015. Radio Africa Group's chief operating officer Agnes Kalekye was elected vice chair. Standard Group CEO Orlando Lyomu was elected honorary treasurer. He had been serving as the association's secretary. Mediamax CEO Ken Ngaruiya was elected treasurer with Switch TV’s managing director Susan Ng’ong’a getting the organising secretary position. Gitagama said he aims to build strong and professional media institutions “especially during these challenging times.” “I will champion press freedom as a condition for democracy and development in our country. We aim to have economically independent media institutions that will transform to the new digital media world. Using our various media platforms, we will champion peace and unity,” he stated. Waruru thanked members for their support during his tenure and wished the new team the best. Gitagama, who was appointed during the annual general meeting held on Tuesday, holds an MBA and a Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting) from the University of Nairobi and is a Certified Public Accountant of Kenya. MOA is an umbrella body drawing membership from leading media houses and organisations in Kenya. The organisation lobbies for the advancement of media interests and coordinates with educational institutions on media training and development programmes. It also liaises and builds affiliations with other stakeholders, donors and international media organisations. MOA members are drawn from 15 media houses. They are Royal Media Services Limited, Standard Group PLC, Nation Media Group, Capital Group Limited, Ebru Africa Limited, Family Media Limited and Kass Media Group Limited. The others are Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, Media 7 Group, Mediamax Network Limited, Radio 44, Radio Africa Group, Switch TV, Three Stones Media Limited and TV 47. In April last year, the media houses came together and donated Sh150 million to help in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. They agreed to donate Sh10 million each in the form of advertisements to drive awareness campaigns. Waruru said the Kenyan media needs to be at the forefront of reporting about  Covid-19 and driving public awareness to curb the spread of the disease. MOA urged the government to categorise all media companies as essential services in view of the pandemic. The organisation said media houses needed to remain in operation to continue informing and educating the public on their safety and well-being.