Just a day after being dismissed from the Harambee Starlets technical bench, David Ouma has landed a key role with Football Kenya Federation Premier League side Sofapaka as sporting director and assistant team coach. Ouma and Sofapaka were emotionally reunited on Wednesday after being separated for six years. A visibly excited Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa revealed the new development while unveiling the coach at the club's training ground in Eastleigh, saying Ouma had returned exactly where his heart belongs. “Sofapaka Football Club is today pleased to announce the return of coach David Ouma. “Ouma is back with us. I knew he would eventually return where his heart really is. “During the five years he previously spent at our club in different capacities, he displayed great passion in what he did and that is why when he had the chance to work with him again, we didn't hesitate to bring him on board,” Kalekwa said. Ouma makes a grand return to the side he served as head coach for five good years until in 2015 when he landed the role of Harambee Starlets assistant coach. He said Sofapaka exposed him to the rest of the world by giving him the appropriate platform to showcase his expertise. “Let me first thank God for giving me another chance to work with Sofapaka. “This is where I was before I was appointed the assistant coach of national women's football team, Harambee Starlets," Ouma said. “Sofapaka enabled me to prove my abilities to the world and that's how I got an opportunity to work as national team coach. “It helped in my coaching transition and that is why I'm back since I want to give back after earning a lot of experience and knowledge in the last few years. “I look to assisting Sofapaka post good results this season as we give the title our best shot, ” said Ouma. At Sofapaka, Ouma will double up as the club's sports director and assistant coach of the senior team. Kalekwa said the current sports director Frank Okoth has consequently been redeployed as the club's new marketing manager to create room for Ouma. Ouma's job description entails spearheading the comprehensive youth development structures and recruitment of talented players. Sofapaka will be hoping to tap into Ouma's wealth of experience and knowledge to help them charge for their second top-flight title since 2009. Ouma's impressive track record with the Starlets lends credence to his exceptional abilities. He guided Starlets to the 2016 Africa Women Cup of Nations (Awcon) in Cameroon for the first time in history, and fired Harambee Starlets to their maiden 2019 Cecafa title at Chamazi Stadium in Tanzania. It was also the year that Starlets proved their mettle as a potential continental powerhouse in the qualifiers of the 2020 Olympic Games after stunning highly-rated Ghana 1-0 and seeing off Malawi 5-3, albeit eventually stumbling out after crushing 3-2 on aggregate to Zambia.