Wazito defender Johnston Omurwa believes coach Francis Kimanzi  is the right man to lead the club to the much coveted Football Kenya Premier League title. The money bags bankrolled by Ricardo Badoer have long yearned to be crowned the kings of Kenyan football and have spent a fortune trying to realise their owners dream. They have, however, fallen short and last year, they lost 11 of their 23 matches before the season was ended pre-maturely due to the Covid-19 pandemic finishing 13th overall. "We want to do better this year. Last season, we had a poor campaign overall and we want to improve on our placement in the league table. We have a coach (Francis Kimanzi) who is a good coach and understands the players and helps bring the best out of everyone. He also has the experience and knows how to put across his point," Omurwa stated. The big defender, who was among players who received their Covid-19 vaccine at  Kasarani over the weekend in anticipation a quick return to action, rued the decision to suspend  football at a time when  the federation and clubs had stuck to the Ministry of Health guidelines on containing the spread of  the deadly virus. "It has taken us backwards as a team.We had reached a certain level in our game and it will take time to switch on again.We are not feeling happy and it's the second time this has happened. The government should allow sports to continue because it's a source of income for many youths," he argued. Omurwa also took the opportunity to revisit his experience with the national team in last month's Afcon qualifier against Egypt where he was  dismissed in the second half for violent conduct. "Playing for Harambee Stars was a good feeling for us. The red card received was a learning moment and it will help me in the future not to get too carried away. It was a good experience," he explained. The defender has attracted interest across the continent with Angolan side Petro Atletico coming close to signing him last year. He believe time is still on his side to realise his dream of playing top level football outside Kenya. "I am one person who looks far. I intend to be in a better place in two years. I hope to one day play for (Real) Madrid. Petro wanted me and I am happy to have attracted the interest of such a team. I hope to continue playing well in the coming years," he concluded. Before the 2021 league season was suspended, Wazito were sitting in sixth place with 25 points—11  adrift of leaders Tusker.