Celebrations rocked Maseno Girls Boarding in Kisumu county that produced the second-best KCPE candidate in the country. Mureithi Angel Gakenia also emerged as the top candidate in the Nyanza region after scooping  432 marks in the examination. She tied with Nanzala Wesonga from Chogoria Girls Primary School. Gakenia, 13 attributed the good results to hard work, discipline to God. She noted that she got a lot of support from her teachers. " I was well prepared and expected the good results," she said. Nyanza's top candidate wants to be a neurosurgeon to help the patients. The school's headteacher Hellen Oginga attributed the results to hard work and determination from candidates, teachers and the board of management led by Chairman  Patrick Madanje. "We had 96 candidates. Last year with 98 candidates the school posted a mean score of 359. We expect a mean score of more than 359 this year," she said. "We have been really working hard for these results. It was like never before," Oginga said. The mother of the top candidate in the region, Beatrice Odanga who's a  teacher at Kisumu Day High School, said she was impressed with the results. According to her, the pupil had been enrolled on virtual exams countrywide and she would be in top three in those exams. Also posting sterling performance from the county included Lanisha Odhiambo Akoth of MM Shah who scored 425 marks. Her schoolmate Kelly Christine 420 marks while Irene Achieng from Xaverian primary school got 417 marks. Others from Xaverian who managed  400 and above marks included Okongo Irene Achieng with 417, Ochieng Jim Ian Otieno with 404 and Kenyatta Charles Geri who got 405 marks. Others from the school were Gwaka Clinton Ntabo (407), Ichoho Tryna Dorcas (402), Oloo Benard Ochieng (406), Brania Akinyi (409) and Catherine Ndemo with 400. The school's headteacher George Polo expressed satisfaction with the outcome. He attributed the school's exemplary performance in the  2020 KCPE  to God, hard work and commitment from the teachers and pupils. "I attribute these results to support and commitment from the parents and teachers. So far we have nine candidates with 400 and above. Last year the school had a mean score of 339.67," he said. Polo said more than 10 candidates scored over 400 marks. Castro Williams of  Crystal Hill Academy scored 431 marks to emerge as the best KCPE candidate in Kericho county. He said he wants to be a medical doctor. His father Willison Ongonga who is a teacher at Rae Girls told the Star that boy was always topped in his class since class one. "He was obedient, hardworking and God fearing. We invested everything in his education," he said Kisumu county Director of education  Issac Atebe commended the schools in the area  for posting good results. He also lauded teachers for the hard work and commitment in their work. Atebe said a total of 33, 407 candidates sat for KCPE in 2020. Out of the number, 16, 411 were boys and 16, 996 girls. There were 754 exam centres in the county.