Hundreds of residents on Monday protested against poor roads in Mlolongo, Machakos County. The protesters barricaded Biashara Street in Mlolongo market. They claimed the  protests were prompted by a woman’s mysterious death. They were dispersed by police officers who demanded that the protests be called off by their organizers with immediate effect. Mlolongo OCS Jackson Kangangi said the unidentified woman reportedly slipped while walking on the road last Friday. She was pronounced dead on arrival at a local clinic within Mlolongo town. Kangangi said the expectant woman was taken to the private health facility by good Samaritans. Her body was moved by the officers to Nairobi’s City mortuary. “There was a reported case of a woman who died after she slipped while walking along Mlolongo’s Biashara Street on Friday. Good Samaritans took her to a clinic where she was pronounced dead. She was bleeding from the mouth and ears,” Kangangi said. However, he said the cause of the woman’s death hadn’t been established until an autopsy is done on the body. The residents who included traders at the market blamed the death on the poor road demanding that it be repaired by the Machakos County Government. “We are calling on Machakos County Government to consider repairing roads in Mlolongo. We have been pleading with the government for the last four years with the situation claiming more than four lives now. Some have broken their legs because whenever it rains it becomes slippery," trader Shadrack Mutei said. Mutei addressed the press during the protests. He added, “We urge Governor Alfred Mutua and his administration to repair the roads. We don’t want to lose more lives. There is a woman who died on this road last Friday and police are aware of the incident." The residents said the woman died while she was rushing home minutes to curfew hours at around 7.30 pm. They vowed to hold the protests daily after a two weeks’ notice to the county government elapses. Mutei said as traders, they were losing a lot of clients leading to loses since potential customers avoid shopping at the market due to the poor road hence difficulty in access. He said landlords had lost tenants after majority moved from their houses due to the impassible roads. Mutei said the road had been in the same situation since 2018. Whenever it rains, it floods. The road links Mlolongo and Phase three estate. He said over 400 residents use the road in a single day including motorists. Biashara street chairman Wambua Musuma said they will continue with the protests until both the area MCA Daniel Mbevi and Mutua intervene. He said Machakos Senator Agnes Kavindu should intervene and ensure that the roads are done by the county government. The residents claimed some landlords pump raw sewerage into the road whenever it rains. “We pay for business licenses but don’t do business peacefully, we request that the county government should hear our plight and repair the roads,” Mary Mureithi said. Daniel Ndwiki said drainage was a major problem in Mlolongo. He said children play in raw sewerage discharges from houses after they are irresponsibly pumped on the road. Ndwiki said though residents pay lots of taxes, they don’t get value for their money. Hundreds of children and residents were sick as a result of environmental pollution. The residents blamed Mlolongo MCA Daniel Mbevi claiming he was sleeping on the job. Mbevi, in a quick rejoinder, distanced himself from the blames stating that it was true Machakos County Assembly allocated funds for the roads’ repair and maintenance in 2019/2020 financial year. He said he is in full support of the demonstrations and therefore the locals should continue demanding for their rights. “I was in support of the maandamano,” Mbevi said on phone.