Truecaller, a search engine and caller ID service, has introduced a new identity solution for businesses to bolster safety and eliminate fraud. The enterprise solution dubbed Truecaller Business Identity allows businesses to verify their identities using a green verified business badge, accurately presenting the name, photo and the logo of the organization. The new solution brings greater trust and efficiency in communication between businesses and clients as it gives confidence to consumers, knowing that the caller is a verified business by Truecaller. Apart from adding trust and reducing the possibility of fraud, a Verified Business badge can be a big boon for startups and businesses who are brand conscious and want to accurately present the name of their entity, logo and give their customers the satisfaction of knowing exactly who they are conducting business with. The new feature also allows businesses to drive efficiency in their communications while improving call-pickup rates for genuine and important calls. Apart from the green Caller ID and green Verified Business badge, a verified business on Truecaller gets a verified tick mark icon and can lock their brand name and profile photo. Importantly, consumers will continue to see the number of spam markings, and they retain the right to mark verified numbers as spam or block them completely. Africa is a growing market for Truecaller, with more of the population switching to smartphones, there is a pressing need to increase trust in communication as the rise in fraud and scams using spoofed identities is on the rise across the continent. “Fraud continues to be a major issue across Africa and as a company, Truecaller wanted to provide solutions on a business level as well as a personal level,” said Zakaria Hersi, Director of Business Development in Africa. Truecaller Enterprise has been set up with the strong intent of building solutions for businesses that will not just improve the efficiency of their communication but also provide significant value and safety to consumers in their day-to-day lives.