If she is selected as Kenya's next Chief Justice, Prof Patricia Mbote said she will tackle the issue of the Judicial Service Commission being underfunded which in her view has hindered the huge need of training judicial staff. Mbote said she will leverage her networks in the academia world and request her colleagues to teach judiciary staff without having to ask for pay. She believes the current budget set for JSC which is half a billion shillings is not sufficient. Prof Mbote will also reach out to her international network and tackle the issue of underfunding of JSC. Prof Mbote spoke on Tuesday as she faced the Judicial Service Commission panel on its second day of interviews. Prof Mbote is among 10 candidates shortlisted for the position of Chief Justice. Mbote told the JSC that having built different institutions and led in the academia world she is best suited to be the next CJ. She enlisted Strathmore Law School and organisations such as Women In Law in East as institutions she started from scratch. In the academia world, she said, she served as a dean at the University of Nairobi for an aggregate of five years leading the institution through difficult times. "I am not only a leader but also an institution builder," she said during the interview for the position of Chief Justice. Though leadership is not gendered, the Prof said she has an advantage being a woman because she will bring on board the gift of nurture. However, as a woman in leadership, she encountered a few challenges such as being snubbed or assumed not to be dean when she was with male colleagues going for a function. "I once went with the registrar who is a man for an event and given that I am not huge of built, the organizers welcomed the registrar as the dean and I said well proceed," she said. If appointed CJ, Prof Mbote said, she will also enrich the bench with her intellectual contributions have been in academia. She gave examples of the importance of academia contribution to court when the Supreme Court decided to open up to academia. Even though she has not done private practice, she assured Kenyans that she is up to the task having done some work with the Judiciary such as birthing a judiciary performance improvement document which she says has helped her have an in-depth understanding of the institution.