Leaders and parents from Kiambu county have urged the Ministry of Education to consider learners’ school of choice in Form 1 selection. Their choice has been limited for a few years. Learners list five or six schools in order of preference and they don't always get their first choice because of limited school space. Led by former Kiambu Woman Representative Ann Nyokabi, they asked Education CS George Magoha to be fair  nd not intransigent while allocating the Form 1 slots in secondary schools. Nyokabi spoke at Sheridan Academy in Kiganjo, Gatundu South subcounty, after meeting pupils who did well in their KCPE examinations. She said denying them the opportunity to join the schools of their choices, even after attaining the required marks, will demoralise them and undermine their performance in secondary school. Nyokabi urged Magoha to ensure all students with the requisite marks are not disappointed. “We are requesting the ministry to try and go as per the learners’ choice of their schools," she said. If a pupil selects Alliance High School and has the marks to enter, that child should go to Alliance and not elsewhere, she said. She said in the past the selection has been distressing for parents and pupils when children miss out on their deserved choices. Nyokabi also called on Magoha to consider pupils in Kiambu and ensure they join  schools within Kiambu. National schools in Kiambu include Alliance Boys, Alliance Girls, Mang’u High, Mary Hill Girls, Limuru Girls and Loreto High School. Extra county schools include Thika Boys High school, Chania Boys, Chania Girls, St Francis Girls and Kiambu High School. “Kiambu pupils who did well should be given the priority in the placement of Form 1 in the national and extra-county schools here,"Nyokabi said.” “Sending these pupils to other counties miles away from their homes is traumatising to both the parent and the pupil,” she said. Naomi Akoth, the Sheridan Academy headteacher, said pupils from public schools in the country had an exemplary performance. She urged the Education ministry to ensure  all pupils get equal opportunities in Form 1 slots. “They are all our children and should be given an equal opportunity to  join the schools of their choice, which they merit by their performance," Akoth said. Bosco Githinji, whose daughter, MaryAnn Njoki scored 417 marks, pleaded with the ministry to save parents the hassle of taking children to schools far from home. Njoki hopes to join  Mary Hill Girls High School in Thika and then study electrical engineering at the University of Nairobi. “The journey has been tough but with prayers and relentless support from able teachers and our parents, we have made it,” she said. Other candidates who excelled in their examinations include Dennis Karanja (416 marks), Eric Gitau (414), Claire Wambui (405 ) and Brian Njoroge who scored 402 marks. Edited by Kiilu Damaris