Evergreen striker Ezekiel Odera is unperturbed by the threat to his place in the Nairobi City Stars squad following the mid season arrival of Nicholas Kipkirui. The lethal marksman has fallen down the pecking order in the striking roster of the Kawangware outfit but remains nonplussed about his future at the club. " I am not worried at all about the signing of Kip or indeed any other player.I know when a new player comes in it is in order to improve the overall quality of the team so I will be putting myself under unnecessary pressure to start worrying about what the arrival of a new player in my position portends for my future," said Odera. The striker pointed out to the experience he had at Gor Mahia back in 2011 when he was the marquee acquisition brought in to fill the boots of fans favourite George 'Blackberry' Odhiambo who was on his way to Randers in Denmark after being crowned the KPL Footballer of the Year in 2010. "I put myself under immense pressure to replicate what Blackberry had done.I listened to what the fans wanted and lost the plot because we were two different players. That is the same situation at City Stars with Kip. We have different profiles as forwards and can compliment each other," explained Odera. Despite approaching the twilight of his career, Odera remains an integral part of City Stars long term plan to rule the roost in Kenya top tier football. Reports have suggested that Argentinian coach Adolfo Zapata, who was at AFC Leopards when Odera enjoyed a  season to remember when everything he touched turned to gold, wants him to join him at Rwandan side. "I am totally focused and committed to my current club City Stars. We have a good atmosphere right from the leadership to the technical bench and playing unit and we want to achieve great things together  and I have not contemplated leaving," said Odera. The player has also started to think about his life after football intimating that he sees himself in the technical bench when he calls time on his stellar career.