Kenyans living in the marginalized and hard to reach areas have a reason to smile after 406 community health nurses graduated on Tuesday. The 406 were among 7,509 other graduands who were conferred with certificates, diplomas and degrees during the Kenya Medical Training College 89th graduation ceremony held in Nairobi. The 406 enrolled community health nurses were drawn from vulnerable, marginalized arid and semi -arid communities and were fully sponsored by the World Bank through the Beyond Zero programme to undertake the training spearheaded by the First Lady Margaret Kenyatta. This cadre of nurses is expected to improve utilization and quality of primary healthcare services with a focus on reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent health services in the hard to reach areas in line with beyond zero initiative. The ceremony was graced by the First Lady, Health CAS Rashid Aman, KMTC board chair Phillip Kaloki, KMTC CEO Michael Kiptoo and representatives from various government entities and partners. This is the second time the college is holding a virtual graduation ceremony since adoption of the new normal of teaching and learning through online platforms, in line with government protocols on management of Covid-19. “This year’s ceremony comes at a time when Kenya and indeed the world at large is faced with the Covid-19 menace which has affected all aspects of life,” Kaloki said. “I am glad to report that even through these turbulent times, the College has been steadfast and resilient, in the delivery of its mandate,” he added. The CAS called on the elderly and those in the target groups in the country to come out and take the Covid-19 vaccine. The college has availed 44 facilities as vaccination centres and training for healthcare workers during the ongoing vaccination exercise. “The ministry wishes to thank all Kenyans of good will for doing their best for observing government protocols to mitigate against the spread of the disease and save lives,” Aman said. He added: “As we deal with this third wave of the virus, I urge all essential service providers and the elderly to take the vaccine to achieve herd immunity even as we aim at flattening the curve.” While in 2013, the college released 6,394 graduands, the number has been on an upward trajectory, with 11,623 graduating this Academic Year 2020/2021. Cumulatively, the College has released 66,499 graduates to the job market since 2014 to bridge the Human Resource for Health gaps in the country and beyond.