The spokesman of ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Kibisu Kabatesi, has claimed that the ODM leadership is plotting to derail the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) process. Kabatesi said recent statements issued by the party leadership are part of synchronised moves meant to derail the referendum. “The one man-one shilling-one-vote benefit to Mt Kenya is huge and at the expense of presumed ODM support areas. ODM reasons that Mt Kenya will unfairly get the lion's share of elected and nominated MPs and therefore more money,” he stated. On Wednesday, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong-who had earlier declared his unwavering support for the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020- said it is not a priority at the moment. The county boss opined the funds meant for the BBI exercise should be channelled to the COVID-19 relief fund to cushion Kenyans from the adverse effects of the pandemic. His remarks came after Kakamega Governor, Wycliffe Oparanya, gave up on the push for the BBI referendum arguing it was no longer tenable. Oparanya said all the available resources should be channelled to fighting the pandemic that has claimed the lives of over 2,100 Kenyans. However, ODM Raila Odinga has continued to rally his supporters to continue supporting the BBI. He affirmed that the party leadership is fully committed to the handshake spirit and the BBI process. The BBI secretariat co-chairpersons Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru have also dismissed claims that the BBI process is on the verge of collapse. Waweru said those peddling rumours of BBI collapse were opponents of the referendum push. On Thursday, Kabatesi said it had become obvious that the ODM Nyanza support base is also rebelling against the BBI. “None other than two governors have let the cat of the bag. ODM deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya of Kakamega and loyal Busia governor Sospeter Ojamong are categorical the referendum isn't a priority. They cited Covid-19 as the reason. But it's the location of new electoral areas that's the actual problem,” he explained. He added that the explanations by the two governors are “part of the camouflage to legitimise ODM intended jettisoning from the referendum.” “Fact is, ODM wants out of the referendum because it now smells a skunk. Unfortunately, it just doesn't know how to exit. The sooner it plays honest the better,” he added.