Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and 10 other persons on Tuesday pleaded guilty to flouting Covid-19 restrictions and were fined Sh15,000 each for five offences. If they fail to pay the fines, they will then be locked up in prison for  six months. The accused appeared before Kiambu Chief Magistrate Stella Atambo virtually and faced five counts, including consumption of alcohol while failing to maintain physical distance, not wearing face masks, contravening prohibition of gatherings and breaking the curfew. They were in Karuri police station where they took a plea. The court heard that on April 12, 2021 at about 9pm at Havilla Cornerstone Restaurant in Kiambaa sub-county, the 11 accused were found drinking beers and spirits in contravention of directives issued by Cabinet Secretary for Health on prevention and control or suppression of Covid-19. The second count read that the 11 accused jointly were found taking alcohol without maintaining social distance of not less than one metre from each other. On the third count, they were found without putting on a face mask to cover their nose and mouth. The fourth count said they were found having gathered 30 people at the Havilla Corner Ranch in contravention of the Covid-19 rules. They also faced a fifth charge that they were found at the ranch at 9pm in contravention of the curfew restriction order issued by the President of Kenya. The prosecution led by Donnes Ongira read out the facts that the DCIO Kiambaa received information that a group of political activists and campaigners had gathered at Havilla Cornerstone Ranch in Ruaka to strategise on how to clinch victory in the forthcoming Kiambaa constituency by-election. Ongira further told the court that the DCIO proceeded to the scene where they found 30 individuals holding a meeting while drinking. They were arrested and escorted to Karuri police station while some were booked at Kiambu police station. In the course of arrest the officers recovered assorted alcoholic drinks, which were the exhibits. The accused persons pleaded guilty and the prosecution told the court to treat them as first offenders. Defense counsel Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata asked the court to treat the accused as first offenders as they do not have any criminal record. He said the accused were remorseful and ready to abide by court directions. Kangata told the court that the offences the accused were charged with were misdemeanours and not felonies. "The circumstances of the case is they are doing it for the first time and they did not resist arrest and, under your powers, grant them unconditional discharge. The first accused person is a Member of Parliament and has done a good job for the people of Gatundu, which is in record and is a public servant and take it into account that the other accused persons work in his office," Kang'ata said. Atambo asked Kang'ata: "As a counsel you have said all nice things about the first accused person, what about the fact that he is a leader and should lead by example?" Kang'ata replied that Kuria was leading by example by not denying the facts and he was not wasting the court's time. All the accused persons had vowed not to repeat the offences, he said. Edited by Henry Makori