 Environmentalists in Lamu have made fresh calls for a total ban on single-use plastics across the country. They have raised the alarm over the increased dumping of plastic waste in the Indian Ocean and on the beaches in the region. Lamu Island has witnessed high plastic dumping in the ocean in recent times owing to the region's lack of well-defined garbage disposal mechanisms. In August 2017, the government banned the use of plastics in the country. There is an increase in plastic waste pileup on beaches and in the Indian Ocean in the region. Led by Ali Skanda of the famous Flipflopi, the first-ever dhow made entirely from recycled plastic waste, the environmentalists say such a ban would guarantee a reduction in the number of plastic waste being used. Speaking on Thursday, Skanda said there is a need for the local community to receive awareness of what plastic pollution does not just to the environment but also to the economy. “People need to know they can choose not to dump the plastic waste but recycle and make the world a better place. The issue here has been compounded by the poor or lack of waste disposal mechanisms. A total ban would work wonders," Skanda said. Many of the region’s beaches, national parks, forests and conservation areas are filled with plastic waste, mostly plastic water bottles, disposable plates and cups, cutlery and straws. Environmental activist Is’haq Khatib observed that single-use plastics and the resultant pollution remains one of the biggest challenges posing a threat to biodiversity. “We are concerned over the high plastic waste build-up on beaches, a major tourist attraction in the region, a situation that has reduced the number of tourists coming to Lamu. We are doing what we can at the community level but we need the government to come in and put a total ban on single-use plastics," Khatib said. They also raised concern over the increased content of fiberglass, a serious health hazard on the beaches. The environmentalists have urged the national government to formulate better and workable plastic waste disposal policies. They have equally challenged the National Environment Management Authority to look into increased fiberglass making especially on Lamu Island. “Fiberglass contributes to cancer yet the materials are scattered all over beaches in Lamu. The right to a clean and safe environment is not a favour, it’s a constitutional right,” said Ali Shebwan, an environmental activist.  Edited by Henry Makori