Kenya received Sh214 billion in loans and grants to fight Covid-19 between March and December last year. However, the government cannot give a coherent explanation how all this money was spent, several groups say in their own audit report. Most of the money came from the World Bank, while the rest came from the African Development Bank, Danida, IMF and the European Union. Out of these, counties only received Sh13.1 billion and the rest was distributed among the national government’s ministries, departments and agencies. A network of civil society groups that has been tracking the funds says it cannot tell how the money was spent. “There's only been two reports commissioned by the Senate ad hoc committee on Covid-19 and Senate Health Committee and the Kemsa report that came after the scandal,” says Evelyn Mathai, chair of Follow The Money- Kenya, which is taking part in the Covid-19 Transparency and Accountability Project. It also questioned if the voluntary salary reduction announced by the President, the Deputy President, governors and MPs was even effected. “It was very hard to identify whether the particular leaders, or pinpoint if they had actually taken the initiative and gone with it,” she said. The Covid-19 Transparency and Accountability Project used data from the Controller of Budget to track the funds, showing by December 2020, Sh52 billion had been unused. “The government mobilised approximately Sh214 billion from loans and grants, out of which Sh162.7 billion was received by National Treasury, disbursed to various MDAs and counties, and Sh52 billion unspent by December 2020,” the project report says. It says there is no breakdown of specific spending, because the CoB only reports on wholesome allocations. However, a huge chunk of the money appears to have gone to the economic stimulus package programme. The Sh53.7 billion ESP package comprised the Sh15 billion Kazi Mtaani programme for rehabilitation of access roads and footpaths at Sh10 billion and Sh5 billion respectively. Another Sh3 billion was given out as soft loans to hotels and related establishments to support renovation of facilities and restructuring. Under ESP, the Kenya Tourism Board got Sh1 billion for "aggressive post-Covid-19 tourism marketing strategy” to engage 5,500 community scouts, and Sh1 billion to support 160 community conservancies. The Covid-19 response in Kenya is being led by at least three committees, none of which has made any comprehensive report on spending. These are the National Emergency Response Committee on the Coronavirus, which is tasked with monitoring the risk and spread of the pandemic and advising the Ministry of Health. There is also the National Coordination Committee on Coronavirus and the Senate Ad hoc Committee on the Covid-19 situation. The CSOs widely mention the Kemsa as one agency that clearly squandered the money. A special report by the office of the Auditor General conducted between March and June 2020, also revealed that Kemsa failed to achieve statutory value for money, and contravened Public Finance Management and Procurements laws. “Procurement irregularities were exacerbated by the urgency to mitigate the impact of the pandemic, which ultimately ensured the breach of procurement procedures,” the CSOs says. Others taking part in the Covid-19 Transparency And Accountability Project are Transparency International, Kibera-based NGO Shofco, and  the Institute of Economic Affairs. -Edited by SKanyara