A 25-year-old Aeronautical Engineer from Technical University of Kenya (TUK), Vanne Hassenye was on Friday evening crowned the Miss Tourism Kenya Busia County queen, beating 11 other contestants during the finals held at Hotel Itoya in Busia town. Hassenye from Katelenyang village in Teso South Sub County emerged top in five categories including casual, professional, creative, cultural and dinners wears. The winner received Sh100,000, first runners up Sh75,000 and second runners up Sh50,000 Chief Judge Lilian Imbogo said besides catwalks, the judges looked into many issues including monitoring the candidates online and above all their character. Teso South also produced the second runners up with Maseno second-year Diploma student in Business Administration, Denisha Tess, 22, taking the position. She is the daughter of former Angorom MCA Solomon Onyango. Evalyne Omoto, 22, from Teso North, a second-year student from Kaimosi Friends University pursuing a degree in Criminology, took the first runners up position. Hassenye said she will endeavour to incorporate the ideas of all participants so as to have an impact in Busia County. "The 2016 Miss Tourism Kenya champion, Leah Osca Otsula is my role model. I will be close to her to enable me to discharge my duties diligently. Chief Officer ICT and Communication, Lydia Nabwire thanked the First Lady for patronizing the girls and Governor Sospeter Ojaamong for his goodwill in the event, urging the winners to be good ambassadors of the county. Chief Officer Culture and Sports, Maurice Odundo said the auditions started in February 2020 but had to be postponed due to Covid-19, noting that one participant dropped out after becoming pregnant. Chief Judge Ms Inbogo and, Busia First Lady, Judy Ojaamong and Director REEP raised a red flag on men who confuse the winners, thus tarnishing the name of the County. "The 2019 incident was shameful and very shameful, it should not be allowed to resurface this time around," "Imbogo said, telling the girls not to let life leave them. Busia County ODM youth league chairman, James Anyango thanked Hassenye and Tess for lifting Teso South Sub County, urging them to be good ambassadors nationally and internationally, and assist in identifying tourist sites to make Busia a tourist destination. Photo: Busia First Lady Judy Ojaamong crowns Vanne Hassenye as Miss Tourism Kenya Busia Champion. -Miss Tourism Kenya Busia Champion, Vanne Hassenye, First runners up Evalyne Omoto and second runners up Denisha Tess. - Miss Tourism Kenya Busia Champion, Vanne Hassenye.