 MPs have claimed there was an unholy alliance between the National Environment Management Authority and London Distiller Limited. The firm accused the lawmakers of receiving bribes to influence a committee report. The Implementation Committee has however brushed off the bribery claims terming it diversionary and designed to discredit the panel. Early this month, LDL wrote to Speaker Justin Muturi claiming several MPs in the 22-member committee received free houses from Erdemann Property Limited to influence the report. Erdermann which owns over 10,000 households in the neighbourhood, had petitioned Parliament complaining of toxic substances being emitted by the distiller. Committee chairman Moitalel ole Kenta (Narok North) yesterday dismissed the bribery claims saying the matter is now before the Powers and Privileges Committee chaired by Muturi. “LDL must prove what they asserted. We are not on anyone’s side,” Kenta said. Nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi who is also the committee vice-chair said their engagement was above board. “Committee of Implementation is not acting on its report and its role is very clear: to follow up on the resolutions of the House and determine the implementation status.” “We have been patient to all parties in the interest of pursuing justice for all and in line with report recommendations that the two parties co-exist,” he said. In a session yesterday, members of the committee accused Nema boss Mamo Mamo and Environment CAS Mohammed Elmi of siding with the distiller. The Kenta-led team said Nema which is charged with the mandate of ascertaining air quality was engaged in an open cover-up. They cited a case where the authority ignored the committee’s directive to involve all stakeholders in the testing but instead went ahead to identify a consultant and carried out pollution tests without the involvement of Erdermann. Mamo however accused Erdermann of pulling out after participating in the preliminary meetings. “EPL came up with protest letter after participating in the identification of sites. We didn’t exclude any party. It was out of their own volition,” Mamo told the committee. MPs also claimed that some Nema’s former staff are now working at LDK which was indicted in a 2018 report. “There is a feeling that Nema is in a cover-up,” Kenta said. Dagoretti North MP Simba Arati confronted Nema MD with claims of an exodus of his staff to LDL, a situation he noted is proof of a compromised authority. “We are seeing employees who were fired from Nema are now employees of LDK. This is a clear indication of conflict of interest and maybe the reason why we are being maligned,” Arati said. The MD also came under fire for non-involvement of Erdermann in the recent testing which cleared the distiller. Erdermann rejected the report presented before the committee yesterday. LDL for the second time snubbed a meeting with the committee insisting the panel has a predetermined outcome. In a letter dated April 20 to the Speaker, LDK chairman Mohan Galot said the company has cut any engagement with the committee and is now considering enlisting services of an investigator to expose MPs who received free or discounted house from the complainant. In the letter, Galot demanded a sales record from Erdermann including details of all its houses, buyers and bank accounts to institute a forensic audit. “Upon being furnished with the said information and documentation, we shall then commission an internationally renowned firm to carry out a forensic audit to establish the faces of all the beneficial owners of all the said residential flats,” Galot said. He also wants Erdermann proprietor Zeyun Yang to bear the costs of the investigation. LDK was indicted by a 2018 report of the Environment Committee which directed that it complies with some measures or be shut after six months in case of non-compliance.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris