Media personality Mzazi Willy Tuva says he first fell in love in Class 7. Narrating his story on 'Engage Talk', he opened up about his first love, who broke his heart and got married to a rich man. "I have experienced and gone through a lot for love. I fell in love when I was in class 7. There was a poetry competition in Lamu and I was a contestant and I was one of the finalists. The second runners-up caught my eye. She was pretty." Mzazi added that he started wooing her since then in vain. "I made attempts to get her to love me. She rejected me the entire trip to Mombasa and after that, every day after school, I stalked her on her way home but I never got her attention." Mzazi said he decided he was going to put his creative abilities to work to win her over. "After KCPE, I wrote her a long, beautiful letter. She took it tore it and threw it in my face. I spent so much time writing that letter using all the methalis I knew, sweet words, added poetic rhymes and she still did not read it. I gave it to her and she tore it up. She did not read it." Mzazi said he never gave up. "After joining Form 1, the first term, my cousin told me the girl missed me and was looking for me. It touched me that she asked for me. Meaning my efforts were paying off. My dream was for her to be my wife. The biggest challenge was for my family to accept her. She was Muslim and I’m Christian." He added that to make it work, he decided to ask his small sister to introduce her as her pal, but his mother later found out. "My mum asked me, ‘My son, you are in Form 3 and your dream is to be in media, and if she gets pregnant, do you think you can get achieve your dream?'" The two were separated again after Mzazi finished high school and went to college. His first love told him there was a man who had approached her parents asking for her hand in marriage and Mzazi should step up and marry her. "I was faithful to only her but there was an older man who was working and wanted her. I could not support her since I was in college. One day, I went home during the school holidays and found out she had gotten married." He was heartbroken but learnt to be patient. "That experience taught me not to get into another relationship. The experience was to teach me to love and to be loved. You can plan your life but God has his plans."