Kakamega Homeboyz first-choice custodian Geoffrey Oputi says the retirement of team captain Allan Wanga from the top-flight side will be a huge setback for the squad. The 35-year-old centre-forward announced on Wednesday he intended to retire at the end of the current season to concentrate on his job at the Kakamega County government. Oputi described Wanga as a great leader who possesses a big heart on the pitch. He said: “First of all, Allan is a leader. Personally, he helped me a lot to settle down in the team when I joined Homeboyz from Vihiga United and I do salute him a lot for that." “I believe we shall all miss him in the field given he is one person who doesn't like seeing any of the players downcast during a game. "He will keep on encouraging you to regain your confidence if he realises you have been deflated after committing a costly mistake, “He is also concerned about the well-being of his teammates away from the pitch. "He wouldn't want to see you doing anything that might impact negatively on your performance in a match. “He is always ready to share with you the challenges that come with pursuing a career in football and how to handle success when it comes," he added. “Apart from football, Allan will advise you on how to live a happy and good life with your family. As Homeboyz fraternity we will miss his experience and leadership skills. “However, we are taking consolation in the fact that he had prepared the young strikers to take over the mantle in his absence and I know they will do exactly what he had told them to do, but we will really miss him,” said Oputi. Oputi said the government's decision to ban sporting activities had put a strain on the income of footballers who mainly relied on match allowances to sustain themselves given salaries are not enough. “Although we are still getting our salaries as usual, we have to tighten our belts a little bit in the absence of allowances that came in handy when we didn't get our pay on time. Despite the lackadaisical performance exhibited by Homeboyz who secured a podium finish last season as runners up, Oputi is convinced they now have the best squad ever. “Yes it's true we have not been performing well but the reality is that we started off on a wrong footing. It happens sometimes. You may have a good squad and one of the best coaches who offers world class training but you may not be fortunate to win matches. “We actually gave all the matches our best shots only that we couldn't collect maximum points. And just when were finding our footing once more,  the government imposed a ban on sporting activities,” said Oputi. Oputi said he is determined to propel Homeboyz to a respectable finish in the league. “I'm satisfied with my individual performance so far this season. I can say without fear of contradiction my curve has been on the rise. I believe I now deserve a senior call-up." 