Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has lauded Radio Africa's the Star for its contribution towards the treatment of a woman burdened by a tumour. The Star in its headline on Apri 2 had highlighted the sad story of Beatrice Makhoka, a Bungoma woman who has lived with a 3kg facial growth for 21 years. She battled a rapidly growing tumour that constricted her right nostrils and covered her right eye. The Star led a fundraising campaign via pay bill 922379 account name The Star which has so far raised Sh1m which will go towards Beatrice's treatment and post-treatment expenses. Via Twitter on Friday, Sonko expressed gratitude to the Star for being the first to highlight Beatrice's condition and steps taken to help her get treatment. "Bravo to The Star and the entire Radio Africa Group," Sonko said. He spoke while at the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret where Beatrice was recuperating following her successful surgery. Although she lost her right eye, Beatrice can now heave a sigh in relief as her painful condition has finally been removed. “We removed a huge cystic growth on the right side of the face. The mass had 3 litres of dermoid fluid. The face successfully closed with dura patch and cranium mesh,” the hospital CEO, Dr Wilson Aruasa, said. The team of medics comprised of MTRH lead surgeon Dr Francis Thuku, who is a Maxillofacial surgeon, Dr Geoffrey Wasike (neurosurgeon), Dr Wabwile Machimoto (ophthalmologist) Dr Elisha  Kirwa (anaesthesiologists) and Dr Werunga Kituyi and Edward Avula (scrub nurse) “We will keep treating her until she heals well to be discharged perhaps after a week of hospital recuperation,” the CEO said. Her breathing was laboured as the tumour covered one nostril but Dr Aruasa said following the surgery, she will be able to breathe normally. “I can only breathe through one nostril. At night, I sleep on the right side because the left side of the swelling makes breathing worse," Beatrice had said. Her face began to swell in January 2000 accompanied by a sharp pain that would not go away. “It felt like my eye was being stabbed with a knife and I just couldn’t stop rubbing it. The rubbing would slowly get intense and vigorous until my eye turned red," she told the Star during an interview.