KCSE exams enter the final week on Monday, but the commencement of long rains season now sits as the newest obstacle to sailing smoothly to the end. Kenya National Examination Council field officers have reportedly called for the need of planning in the wake of the rains to avert delay in administering of the remaining exams. The details are part of the weekly submissions on the progress of the examination. The examination began on March 26 and ends on April 21. However, depending on the candidates choice of subjects, majority will write their final paper at the end on next week. According to the 2021 long rains weather outlook released on Friday by the Kenya Meteorological Department, onset of March-May long rains in the country will start in the second to third week of March. “The peak of the rains is expected to be in the month of April for most regions except over the coastal strip where the peak is expected during the month of May,” Kenya Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said. Rainfall will continue into June. Knec chief executive  Mercy Karogo said they have prepared adequately and alternative means of transport would be sought in case the rains cause logistic challenges. In its preparation brief released in January, Knec had announced that it would use air transport in case of a logistic hiccup. Heavy rains that begun this week are now threatening the ease of running the KCSE exams. Focus now will shift to the marking exercise expected to be concluded before July when the schools reopen. Markers have been urged to take the jab before beginning the exercise. In the last three examinations, Knec has been releasing the exam results in less than three weeks from the beginning of the marking exercise. It will involve 26,977 markers and about 20 national schools in Nairobi and environs acting as marking centres. The government pays the markers per script they attend to. In the 2020 KCSE, 752,933 candidates were registered to sit the exams in 10,437 centres. The examinations will be the fifth to be administered under the strict measures to prevent cheating adopted in 2016. Among the issues put into consideration is likely adverse weather as the exams will be conducted during the long rains season. The council also points to insecurity and flooding of major lakes and rivers in various parts of the country. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara