A bodyguard attached to Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi’s office died in a shooting incident alongside his wife, who was a traffic officer. Inspector-General of Police Hillary Mutyambai said preliminary investigations showed the General Service Unit (GSU) officer, Hudson Wakise, shot and killed his wife, Pauline Wakasa, before turning the gun on himself. Officers who visited the scene found the bodies in the sitting room. Mutyambai who mourned the incident said the couple may have had a domestic quarrel before the shooting incident. Wakise, who had been off duty since April 1, reported back to work on April 6 but left at 3 pm and went home outside the GSU camp in Ruaraka where the incident happened. They had argued over the move by Pauline to move out of the GSU camp. She apparently moved out to the new house on Saturday. Their two children aged five and two survived the tragic incident. Witnesses said Wakise arrived home at about 9 pm and found his wife taking supper and an argument over her decision to move out arose. He then left and went out before walking back and shot the woman in the chest eight times. He turned the gun on his chin bursting his head. Pauline was a traffic officer attached to the Kilimani division. She was still in her uniforms when the incident happened. Just like her husband, she had been on duty until late in the evening on Tuesday. The bodies were later moved to the mortuary. Matiang'i on Wednesday mourned the two officers terming their deaths a tragic incident. "I am deeply pained by the tragic incident involving PC Hudson Wakise and his wife PC Pauline Wakasa both young and vibrant Police officers with brilliant futures tragically ended in their shocking demise," the CS tweeted. "It's a rude awakening to psychosocial challenges amongst some of our young officers that we have no choice but to now pay greater attention to. My sincere condolences to their families and friends." Police turned the case to murder and suicide and declared it closed for now. Such murder and suicide incidents are on the rise in the service. They are blamed on work-related trauma.