There is no specific educational requirement to mine bitcoin, or there is no school in the world that offers programs that are specifically designed to learn the cryptocurrency market. Although, the concept and logic behind crypto mining are not that easy to understand for someone who has zero ideas about digital financial assets. Platforms like Bitcoin Equaliser could be of great help for such beginners. If you know about stock markets, forex, and commodity markets then it would not take much time for you to understand the procedure and functionality behind bitcoin mining. What skills and knowledge would be required in mining If you are looking forward to starting the crypto-mining process, before making an investment, keep yourself updated on regular basis regarding crypto market news. Do as much research as possible and deep dig inside to know the pros and cons of mining bitcoins. There are hundreds of free videos that could help you to understand minor stuff as well as major stuff regarding bitcoin mining. It matters a lot, which region of the world you belong to, whether the country has embraced bitcoin as an official virtual currency or not. What are the limitations? You must analytical skills to examine such queries? It is important to have computer skills if you do not know much about computers and their types, you need to learn about them. Bitcoin mining requires powerful computers and chips to solve complex mathematical computations. You must know how different computers and chips works, what type of instrument are used to mine bitcoin and how these instruments are best utilized. Energy consumption is an integral part of bitcoin mining, mining consumes plenty of electricity, you must have an understanding of how much electricity would be required. Equipment usage in bitcoin mining Bitcoin is mined all over the world at a small scale and as well as large scale, so the equipment needed to mine bitcoin depends on the scale at which one is willing to mine. For personal use, the GPU is the best hardware that makes use of a graphic processing unit to verify transactions through computing complex mathematical solutions, if you are a game lover then you might hear about it, GPU is not only used for bitcoin mining but also for altcoins mining. Those who are already in this business, always looking forward to such processing chipsets. “Antminers” is also the most commonly used bitcoin mining hardware that is said to be the most powerful mining hardware as compared to other mining hardware. Like GPU, “Antminers” is also not only used to mine bitcoin, different “Antminers” are used for different types of cryptocurrencies like Ethereum and Litecoin. GPU and "Antminers" are not specifically designed for bitcoin or altcoins mining, whereas an application-specific integrated circuit is miner is precisely made for mining purpose. ASIC miner is different for every cryptocurrency, that's why ASIC for bitcoin could not be used to mine altcoins. It would be better to mine bitcoin in cold places, as the heat generated in the process of mining warms up the place.