The trial of Lawrence Warunge, the main suspect in the murder of four of his family members and their farmhand, will start Thursday. Warunge will be expected to admit or deny killing the five who were found dead in their home in Karura, Kiambaa,  Kiambu county, on January 9. Kiambu chief magistrate Patricia Gichohi said the 22-year-old is now fit to stand trial after Mathari Mental Hospital gave a psychiatrist's report. In a virtual session on Wednesday, the psychiatrist said Warunge who has been undergoing treatment for induced psychosis has responded well to the medication and is now mentally stable. Gichohi closed the miscellaneous file which she had granted the police custodial orders of the suspect until he is fit to take a plea. “The miscellaneous file on custody is hereby closed. I order that the suspect is availed to take a plea on April 15,” she said. Warunge had been confined at the Nairobi Remand Home where he was undergoing treatment awaiting the start of the trial. The court had delayed his plea-taking after a mental assessment report showed that he was unfit to take a plea. In the previous report, the psychiatrist noted that Warunge’s treatment progress was on course although he still remained on medication. “Despite the second review of the suspect that was on March 12, 2021, Warunge is still not fit to take a plea,” the report said. An earlier mental assessment conducted on the suspect on January 26 revealed that Waruinge suffered from induced psychosis. According to the psychiatrist, psychosis is a serious mental disorder in which thoughts and emotions are so impaired that contact is lost with external reality. Following examination conducted at Mathari Mental Hospital, the suspect was said to have a history of drinking spirits and smoking marijuana, which resulted in paranoid delusions. On family history, the initial mental assessment report said Warunge had a frosty relationship with his father, whom he accused of sidelining him. Warunge, an IT student at Mount Kenya University, was suspected alongside his girlfriend of killing his father Nicholas Njoroge Warunge, mother Ann Wanjiku, his brother Christian Njenga Njoroge, cousin Maxwell Njenga and the family farmhand James Kinyanjui. The firstborn son of the slain parents was then arrested three days after the incident in connection to the gruesome killing. He confessed to killing the five and led directives to a home in Mahi Mahiu where he hid the killer weapon. The girlfriend, Sarah Muthoni, was acquitted after she agreed to help the state crack the case. Muthoni had been detained at Muthaiga police station for 15 days before her release in February. Her release came after an application by the prosecution, which sought to turn her into a state witness. Edited by Henry Makori