Nairobi County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo has condemned a section of ODM MCAs for dragging the name of President Uhuru Kenyatta into the county's 'negative' affairs. This comes after a section of ODM MCAs early this week accused their Jubilee counterparts of invoking Uhuru’s name to influence county operations at City Hall. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok had alleged that the president’s name was being used to interfere with recruitment processes at the executive. Speaking at the assembly during a special sitting on Friday, Guyo called on his counterparts to cease using the President's name to drive their personal agenda. “It has become a tendency for some few ODM MCAs to invoke the president’s name whenever they want to push for their own negative agenda in the assembly,” Guyo said. “I urge the Minority leader who is also my friend to ask his members who are making it a norm to misuse the president’s name to stop.” The Matopeni ward rep said the Jubilee side of the House has shown utmost respect to ODM Party leader Raila Odinga in the spirit of the 2018 Handshake. “As the Jubilee side, not at any given time has any member invoked the name of  ODM party leader and former Prime minister Raila Odinga in vain,” Guyo noted. Going ahead, the Majority Leader warned his counterparts against bashing Deputy Governor Ann Kananu and Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director-General Mohammed Badi. He questioned why the ODM MCAs failed to approach both Kananu and Badi to consult and air their grievances before reaching out to the media. “For a problem to be solved, you could have reached out to the officials before hitting out at the two entities which we are supposed to be supporting as an assembly," Guyo added. On Tuesday, Minority Leader Michael Ogada had faulted Badi and his team for only focusing on improving the Central Business District and selected informal settlements in the capital at the expense of other wards. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok gave DG Kananu seven days to realign her administration, alleging there was incompetence in the Nairobi County Public Service Board. He alleged external forces were influencing the process at the board especially on recruitment matters. “Kananu has seven days to bring changes in her cabinet to improve performance at the county government. Failure to which we will take stern action once normal business resumes in the assembly,” Imwatok said. But Guyo cautioned his colleagues to refrain from using their positions to intimidate senior county officials. “Let us not use positions to intimidate the executive thinking we are above everyone. Deputy Governor and her administration should be left to work freely,” he added.