Covid-19 patients in home-based care in Kisumu must observe all isolation guidelines or they will be charged, Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has said. The offending patients will first be transferred to county isolation centres and taken to court upon testing negative for the virus. Flouting isolation guidelines put other residents at risk. Nyong'o has further directed all county staff who don't offer essential services to work from home to reduce traffic in the offices at Prosperity House. All bars, restaurants and eateries will only be allowed to operate after being cleared by the county's director of public health. Public service vehicles will also be required to fit hand sanitising kits and carry 60 per cent of capacity. “We ask the media to help us tell the people of Kisumu that the Covid-19 pandemic is on a furious phase and is killing our people more than ever before,” Nyong'o said. Deputy Governor Mathews Owili read the speech on his behalf. Nyong'o said Kisumu has lost four people in the past week to Covid-19. He said the rising number of Covid-19 cases is worrying. The governor said Kisumu had recorded 2,606 cumulative cases from 28,705 samples. “Ninety-nine cases were diagnosed just last week alone, compared to 144 in the previous week," he said. Some 88 cases are in isolation at home, while 22 are in medical facilities. The governor said more than 2,000 cases are from community transmission. “The death toll stood at 75 by Monday. We recorded four deaths in the past one week alone," he said. Nyong'o said residents who violate protocols slow the fight against the virus. “Our people still cram matatus, crowd at funerals, bars, weddings and churches. We continue to walk and work in offices with our masks on our chins instead of covering our mouths and noses. Danger is lurking everywhere, all the time," he warned. To defeat the virus, Nyong'o said the Covid-19 response team will continue to enforce the guidelines with vigour. "All morgues are directed not to preserve dead bodies for a period not exceeding 48 hours. They are asked not to release any dead body after 10am. Burials must take place by 2 pm to avoid gatherings," he said. Funeral vigils are banned as is eating at the homes of the bereaved. All places of worship shall only admit one-third of their capacities. Kisumu has intensified the vaccination of eligible groups. By April 1, some 10,670 people had been vaccinated. Nyong'o said his administration had extended the vaccination to 34 centres in the subcounties. "Pre-registration of teachers, policemen, other uniformed officers and those aged above 58 years is ongoing through the Google link and community health volunteers for the rural setups. We target to vaccinate 70,000 people," he said. On Tuesday, the county moved the Covid-19 call centre to the Kisumu County Hospital from Maseno University City Campus. The number remains 0800 720 575. Those in need of ambulatory services will use the call centre to get services. The county has 21 ambulances based at the headquarters and subcounty hospitals. “The centre handles an average of 50 calls per day. Of importance is that some 781 expectant mothers have called the centre. Out of these, 584 were successfully located and helped,” Owili said.  (edited by o. owino)