Garissa residents have been advised to store and use water sparingly as Tana River, their main source of the commodity, is expected to flood soon. Residents living along the river have also been urged to move to higher and safer grounds to avoid loss of lives. The Meteorological Department has warned that the area will experience heavy rains in the coming days and this is likely to cause heavy flooding and disrupt water intake on the river. Water CEC Abdi Omar said significant mud and debris expected to flow into Tana River would increase turbidity levels, reducing the quantity of water produced at the Garissa Water and Sewerage Company treatment plant. Turbidity is a measure of water clarity in streams, rivers, lakes, and the ocean. He said when the turbidity of raw water is higher than 5,000 Nephelometric turbidity units it can cause operational problems for water treatment. “There will be potential spillovers from hydroelectric power generating dams upstream that would consequently raise water levels. This will further increase the sediments and silts in the river, posing a huge challenge in water works,” he said. “It would therefore be advisable for residents to store water and use it sparingly during this rainy season.” Omar said his department has created a proactive and essential emergency response to cater for water shortages in the affected areas. The CEC said the relevant departments, among them Gawasco, are closely monitoring water levels at the river. On Friday last week, the Kenya Red Cross issued a similar call to residents living along the river, asking them to move to higher and safer grounds before the water levels rise. Speaking to the press in Garissa town, Kenya Red Cross regional head Mohamed Abdikadir said all signs were pointing to the possibility of the water rising above normal levels. He said the floods are likely to have devastating effects, especially on communities residing along the river. “Our plea is that the communities residing along the river start moving out in earnest. They don’t have to wait for the water to submerge them because by then it will be too late. Chances of losing lives will also be high,” Abdikadir said. Edited by A.N  