Counties should set up the required structures to benefit from the Sh32.4 billion World Bank fund, the Council of Governors has said. The money is meant to cushion counties from the harsh impacts of climate change the country is facing. Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo who chairs the environment and climate change committee at the CoG said there are requirements counties must meet to benefit from the fund. They will have a special purpose bank account for climate change with the Central Bank where the funds will be monitored from. In addition, the counties will have to show commitment on climate change governance by apportioning part of their development budget to climate change. For that to be achieved, Ottichilo said counties are expected to come up with climate change legislations which will allow for the establishment of climate change governance structures. Ottichilo said the fund is mainly to address issues of climate change at the grass roots level countrywide. Speaking to the Star in his office, he said all 47 counties will benefit from the kitty as they are highly exposed to potential impacts of climate change. “Although the programme implementation unit at the National Treasury is still in negotiations with various players on how to disburse the funds, it is expected that those counties with well-established mechanisms for climate governance and the most affected by climate change will receive more funds,” he added. Ottichilo said there is a need to let people at the grassroots adapt to the current changes that are taking place globally. “For us to address this at the grassroots we must have structures that will help us mainstream this fund to the target areas,” he said. “Conditions are there to help us bar corruption on this fund that has remained a major blow to our country,” he said. He said only Makueni, Isiolo, Garissa, Wajir,Kitui and Vihiga have met the requirements. Kisii  county joined the group after Governor James Ongwae assented to the bill last week. Ottichilo said no county will be left out of this war on the devastating impacts of climate change. The governor said he has constituted a technical team at the Council of Governors head office in Nairobi led by Prof Innonda Mwanje to help other countries to meet the requirements. “For those counties that have not come up with climate change policies we are urging them to speed up to benefit from this kitty,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori