ODM has instructed its MPs to pass the BBI Bill in its entirety when the Bill comes before the House during the special sitting starting on Wednesday. ODM national chairman John Mbadi said all lawmakers should align themselves to the party position. He said the Bill has a number of benefits that should be embraced by all and not be lost in grandstanding over the allocation of the 70 proposed Constitution. "ODM stands in full support of the Bill and calls for its passage in its entirety," Mbadi said. The minority leader assured President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga of their support in seeing the Bill sail through. "You have enough troops both behind you and by your side to help you push this agenda through." "Do not be afraid. Do not be blackmailed. We are in this battle together." The National Assembly will hold special sittings on Wednesday and Thursday to debate the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Speaker Justin Muturi on Monday notified Members of Parliament of the scheduled sittings. MPs will debate the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill 2020 through all the stages – second reading, Committee of the Whole House, and third reading. The bill would require at least half of the members sitting for purposes of a vote to accept or reject the amendments during the second and third reading. Arrangements were being made to facilitate MPs to travel to the capital to take part in the vote on the second and third readings of the bill. “A Bill under this Article (257 of the Constitution of Kenya) is passed by Parliament if supported by a majority of the members of each House,” the law states. Being a bill under a popular initiative, the President is to request the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to conduct a referendum within 90 days. If supported by a majority of those who take part in the vote, the IEBC has to notify the President within 30 days for assent and publication. The country can thus hold a referendum by end of July, though legal hurdles remain in the face of the court ruling stopping the IEBC from conducting a referendum on the bill. MPs will also consider Senate amendments to the Division of Revenue Bill, 2021, and either adopt the same or take the bill through mediation.