The DCI sleuths based at Central Police Station are holding three errant law enforcement officers, who were arrested on Tuesday for conducting unwarranted arrests. The three suspects include Police Corporal Cliff Ombati, KDF Lance Corporal Ben Shiundu, and Prison Warder Eugine Shivachi. The three are said to have made a mockery of the multi-agency spirit in fighting crime, by uniting to commit crime instead of complimenting each other’s efforts in guaranteeing the public safety and security of Kenyans. The detectives said that Shiundu, who is from the 15 Kenya Army in Mariakani and Shivachi stationed at Wajir GK Prison, joined their Nairobi-based partner in crime Cpl Ombati stationed at Uhuru Camp and assigned themselves duties in the heart of Nairobi’s central business district. It is said that the three embarked on effecting the illegal arrest of boda boda riders on trumped-up charges and demanding bribes from them. They flagged down one Cyrus Mwangi, a boda boda rider along City Hallway, and took possession of his motorbike. They started harassing the rider demanding an Sh4,000 bribe to release the bike. A curious onlooker alerted uniformed police officers on patrol about the incident, whereby the two officers Reagan Akiko and Shukri Abdi, responded swiftly but were met by a hail of kicks and blows from the officers of the law turned criminals. It took the combined efforts of the officers on patrol and members of the public, to subdue the three miscreants who had left their places of duty hundreds of kilometers away. The two diligent officers sustained serious injuries from the ordeal but managed to recover two handcuffs from the suspects. Shiundu has since been handed over to military police for further action in accordance with military doctrines, while the remaining two suspects from APS and Prison services are in custody pending their arraignment on Thursday. They are expected to answer to charges of demanding by menace, impersonation, and being in possession of government stores.