Kazi Mtaani programme cohorts in Murang'a are implementing long-term initiatives they term 'legacy projects' to help residents. Among the initiatives is planting of trees and digging of pit latrines. Kiharu division assistant county commissioner Priscilla Kiluti said the programme, which was started by the government to cushion the youth from negative impacts of Covid-19, has now diversified into legacy projects. “Apart from clearing bushes, we are planting trees that will remain for long after the initiative has ended. This will have a lasting effect on the environment as well,” she said. She was speaking in Mjini, one of the largest informal settlements within Township ward, where tree planting and digging of pit latrines was ongoing. Kiluti said that in Murang’a county, the programme has provided jobs to over 3,000 young people, thus empowering them economically. “In Murang’a East, we have divided them into two groups, each with 645 members. They are mostly from Mjini and Kayole areas, which are informal settlements with the highest numbers of unemployed youth," she said. The cohorts have nurtured a tree nursery with over 2,500 seedlings at Mumbi Girls High School, Kongoini area and at the chief’s office in Township ward. They are currently transplanting these seedlings, relying on the ongoing rains. "Now that we are having adequate rainfall, the youth have transplanted the trees in various locations in Murang’a including Mumbi Girls High School, the compound at KWS offices and the county commissioner’s residence,” she said. Kiluti said they are also digging pit latrines for the most vulnerable families within Mjini area, where they are also reconstructing houses to make them habitable. Many of the recruits have different skills that have come in handy for the success of the Kazi Mtaani initiative. “We encourage them to use their skills, and we provide needed materials. Some are skilled in carpentry, others in soap-making, while others are qualified landscapers. We are exploiting all these skills in the programme.” Kiluti said the government plans to provide materials for the youth to make soap that will be distributed to vulnerable families and schools for proper handwashing to combat the spread of Covid-19. She said the cohorts will also be making masks. “Earlier, the youth in the Kazi Mtaani programme were involved in a major facelift of schools. We harnessed fences, cleared bushes and repaired classroom doors in Mjini, Mbiri, and Vidhu Ramji primary schools. The youth are grateful to the government for the programme and thus have come up with the initiatives to give back to society,” she said. Kiluti said since the initiative began, the crime rate has significantly reduced. “The youth are now actively engaged so crime and insecurity cases, especially in the informal settlement area of Mjini, have greatly reduced.” Programme coordinator Lennox Njoroge said the initiative has been of great reprieve to him as he is able to meet his daily needs and hone his leadership skills. "I graduated with a degree in Industrial Chemistry from Kimathi University. After searching for a job unsuccessfully, and with the effects of Covid-19, life was challenging. Thanks to this initiative, thousands of other youths and I have been cushioned from the pangs of joblessness and Covid-19,” he said. Njoroge appealed to the government to extend the programme, which is being implemented in 900 settlements across the country. The main objective is to improve and maintain sanitation in informal settlements, besides cushioning thousands of jobless youths.