Musalia Mudavadi’s ANC party is in the process of establishing branch election coordinating panels in every county in readiness for countrywide grassroots polls. The party is seeking to woo support at the grassroots and have a national outlook ahead of the 2022 General Elections. ANC has often been accused of having a tribal outlook in its national officials. Elections board chairman Salim Busaidy in a letter to party leader, chairman, elected members, executive director, committees and party organs said the process is being carried out virtually due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Due to the stringent restrictions and protocols and recent Office of the Registrar of Political Parties guidelines on the conduct of political activities, this process will be done virtually,” he said. Busaidy however pointed out that the process will still be carried out in accordance with the party constitution and rule book and more particularly Article 33.5, which mandates the board to establish election coordinating panels. “Kindly note that the election coordinating panels are not party branch officials and neither are they aspiring to vie for any political position,” he added. Last month, ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula said he would relinquish his position in the party to give room for expansion and allow the outfit to have a national outlook ahead of the 2022 General Elections. He said in the interest of the ANC, he would resign to give way for other regions to join and be part of the political outfit. On April 7, a section of ANC party supporters from North rift Region called on the party to conduct fresh elections of new officials from the grassroots to the national level. Supporters drawn from Uasin Gishu, Nandi, and Elgeyo Marakwet counties said it was only through the election of new officials that the party will have leadership with a national outlook. Juma Ryan Wango said there was no way Mudavadi will win the presidency with the current party officials still holding their positions. Pamela Rahunga observed that currently ANC has a tribal outlook in its national officials. She said the party lacks the face of Kenya at the national level noting that it was prudent to incorporate people from other regions in the leadership of the party. 