Jehaca Children School located in Mwiki, Kasarani Sub- County benefited from an International Non- Governmental Organisation based in Nairobi on Monday when they visited the school. The running of the institution largely relies on the well-wishers’ aid and support. The school was started in 2003 to assist children from poor backgrounds with a focus on the disabled. The children's school has 150 children, among them are 10 children with disability challenges, and nine volunteer teachers supported by IDN- Kenya on a monthly motivational stipend. The organisation, led by the program’s director Tonny Githingi also sensitized the locals and the school fraternity on the need to uphold and observe the government’s containment measures on Covid- 19 pandemic. During the event, the school received food supplies from Abandoned kids program director Madam Pauline. Speaking during the event, Githingi said that the country has lost loved ones, pupils, students, teachers, dependents and witnessed massive job redundancies and closure of businesses and private ran institutions due to the pandemic. "The year 2020- 2021 has been full of challenges within the school calendar and the nation at length- emanating from Covid- 19 pandemic ravages,” Githinji said. He added that the pandemic brought in stress, depression, and trauma within families and the entire workforce in the country. As we look forward to getting a lasting solution to the disease: Our humble appeal as IDN - Kenya to parents, teachers, and all essential service providers, let us not relent in observing and maintaining government containment protocol measures geared towards checking the spread of the virus; including going out to receive the free vaccine courtesy of the government.” Dennis Wendo, who is the founder and CEO of IDN- Kenya said that in partnership with like-minded organisations, IDN - Kenya will continue offering support to the vulnerable cadres in the society with the emphasis being on academics, talent search, and nurturing. Wendo said that the group will also focus on youth empowerment and advocacy towards shunning of drug and substance abuse, violent extremism, gender violence and youth’s radicalisation.