A team of African scientists, including some from Kenya, have protested the ‘takeover’ of Malaria research programmes on the continent by American NGOs. They particularly point at Path, the Seattle-based non-profit behind the malaria vaccine. They accuse donors of funding NGOs from Europe and US to work in Africa, yet many of them do not collaborate with local research institutions. The researchers say despite millions of dollars spent on malaria research in Africa every year, only one per cent of the funds remains on the continent. They cite the recent announcement of about Sh3 billion ($30 million) grant to Path by the US government’s President’s Malaria Initiative (PMI). The grant funded a consortium of seven institutions in the USA, the UK and Australia to support African countries in the improved use of data for decision-making in malaria control and elimination. “Not one African institution was named in the press release,” the scientists say in a 1,000-word protest letter published in the Nature Communications journal. They include Dr Catherine Kyobutungi who heads the Nairobi-based African Population Health Research Centre and Emelda Okiro of Kemri Wellcome Trust Research Programme. Others are Fredros Okumu of Ifakara Health Institute, Dar es Salaam; and Ngozi Erondu and AIfeyinwa Aniebo both of Aspen Institute, Washington. Path (formerly known as Programme for Appropriate Technology in Health) said it will collaborate with African institutions but did not name any. “With PMI’s guidance, we are excited to collaborate with national malaria programmes, in-country research institutions, and our consortium of partners to address key questions that countries grapple with as they work to reduce the burden of malaria and keep elimination efforts on track,” said Megan Littrell, a director at Path. The organisation also said in a separate statement: "Working with malaria programme leaders and researchers from malaria-endemic country institutions is core to PMI Inform's planned approach for prioritising, designing, implementing, and disseminating malaria evaluation and operational research. This includes clear alignment and collaboration with local stakeholders on research priorities." The African scientists rebuffed the funding model saying it perpetuates colonialism in global health. “Funding models such as that of the Path-led initiative are among the reasons that after several decades and billions of dollars spent, the control of diseases such as malaria is still heavily donor dependent,” they said. “We believe that there are many issues with this specific consortium focused on malaria, including the fact that there are strong African institutions with excellent capabilities this area, including some already actively engaged on the ground, such as the Kemri Wellcome Trust Information for Malaria initiative that began in 2014.” The scientists noted that in 2017, the USA, UK and Canada collectively spent Sh110 billion (US$ 1.1 billion) on malaria development aid in Africa. A closer analysis showed 81 per cent of the funding went back to support institutions in the funding country and 18 per cent went to NGOs based in high-income countries. “That leaves just one per cent of malaria funding available to local in-country research institutions,” they said. The researchers lauded the funding model applied by the New Partnerships Initiative from the USAID and the Alliance for Accelerating Excellence in Science in Africa as good examples of funding local institutions for impact. -Edited by SKanyara