The government has said the report on the Garissa University terrorist attack in 2015 is confidential and will not be released to the public, the court heard. In the case, Kituo Cha Sheria filed a case on behalf of the families of the students who were killed in the attack. The case was heard on Thursday afternoon by a three judge bench comprising of Justices Pauline Nyamweya, M. Thande J and David Kemei. The state has opposed the bid by the organisation to compel the court to order Independent Policing Oversight Authority to give them reports on how they handled the attack. Lawyer Festus Kinoti for IPOA told the court that the information held by the authority falls within the definition of national security as defined under section 6(1) on access to information act. “It is clear that the information that is contained in those reports is information that most gravely and directly affects national security,” Kinoti said. He says the reports contained information regarding ongoing security operations against al Shabaab terrorist and that information comes from interviews from national security agencies interviewed on strict confidential basis. “It also has confidential intelligence reports from the National Security Intelligence Service showing how they operate the process of information gathering and sharing between the securities forces,” he said. Kinoti told court that if this information is disclosed it would most directly and gravely imperil the lives of not only ordinary Kenyans who rely on the security officers for protection but the lives of our very security forces who are battling the against the terrorists. “It is therefore clear and does not require a lot of arguments to show that this nature of information containing our troop’s movements and operation is within parameters of national security and is exempted,” the court heard. Kinoti further submitted that even though IPOA recognises the untold suffering caused by terrorist attacks to the families of Kenyans who have lost their lives and those who have suffered serious injuries, the information being requested is confidential. When asked by court if they will allow only the judges to see the report to ascertain if they were of national security, Kinoti said that is not provided for in law to disclose the said information and so it will not be viable. Lawyer John Khaminwa representing Kituo Cha Sheria insisted that the reports should be released to them because it’s in public interest. “The court should step in and investigate the circumstances in which our children died in Garissa, may be they died because of corruption,” he said. Khamiwa argued that judges occupy the highest position in society and they have a right to look at the documents and tell court whether the information therein is confidential. “It’s possible that there is insecurity and our children have been killed because of some serious shortcomings among the police offices,” Khaminwa said. According to Khaminwa, the attack happened even though Garissa police station and army barracks were not far away and was within walking distance. “The children who died were from very poor families and we cannot ignore that they need justice because it’s clear that the bill of rights has been violated,” he said. The court will deliver the judgment for the case on June 24. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 