Jubilee Party SG Rapahel Tuju has written to the Political Parties Registrar on the dissolution of a 2018 partial coalition pact with PDR, now UDA. Last month, Deputy President William Ruto said that if Jubilee party crumbles, he will use the knowledge gained from the party to build UDA. Ruto said cases of elimination from the party had caused fear. In a letter dated April 19, Tuju said in the run up to thw 2017 elections, they had entered an arrangement of cooperation with PDR in the Counties of West Pokot, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa and Mandera. “That cooperation did not include any other county out of the specifically mentioned counties,” he said. They lodged a proposed Coalition Agreement with PDR in 2018 based on those specific objectives as captured in Article 3 of the agreement. “The Jubilee Party National Management Committee, after considering the prevailing political and legal hurdles facing the proposed coalition, have found it improper and untenable to complete the formulation of the Coalition,” he said. Tuju said the party has resolved that all PDR officials that were engaged in coalition discussions have been changed and the new officials have exhibited hostility by actively fielding candidates in areas outside the original areas covered by cooperation. “There being no harmonisation of our policy and vision we have found ourselves as strange bedfellows especially with the UDA use of their identity as “hustlers” which has negative dictionary meaning and connotation,” he said. “ This is also at complete variance with our motto of 'Tuko Pamoja' that seeks to unite Kenyans and not divide them along ethnic or class lines.” He said that apart from fielding candidates against Jubilee candidates some of their members have continued to refer to Jubilee Party in derogatory terms even in the public domain making it impossible to engage in any coalition building discourse. “The Party has therefore decided to pull out of any further negotiations intended to complete the coalition process ,” he said. “However and without prejudice, all members of the dissolved coalition holding leadership positions in the Assemblies shall continue serving as such.” Tuju asked the political parties registrar to put on record the revocation of the provisional coalition agreement lodged in their offices on the 6th of May 2018 that was never completed. Ruto said he will exit from Jubilee and strengthen the United Democratic Movement Alliance as an alternate vehicle to stir him towards his 2022 ambition. He noted that UDA is part of the parties that merged to form Jubilee Party in the 2017 general elections. At least three quarters of the 47 counties will get a national position in the United Democratic Alliance party. In an ambitious plan to give the new party associated with Ruto a national outlook, insiders have told the Star that the 39 national positions will be distributed fairly to most of the counties. Each of the county will be allocated one of the national positions. However, the holder of the office will not be handpicked but will be subject to competitive election. UDA will hold its grassroots elections on June 18 to elect ward, constituency and county officials while the national ones will be picked by members during a National Delegates Congress. n what appears to hint how a UDA government will look, the party constitution has created 18 positions to be occupied by secretaries. UDA, if it forms the next government, will merge some of the current dockets in President Uhuru Kenyatta administration.