Governor Mwangi Wa Iria has criticised the Senate Health Committee for sending away a team of Murang'a officials he sent to answer queries on use of Covid-19 funds. On Monday, the county government sent Health and Finance executives to attend the session that sought to clarify issues raised by the auditor general. The team including officers in charge of procurement and IT and health chief officer was turned away after it informed the senators that Wa Iria was not available. Health CEC Joseph Mbai said Wa Iria had not dishonoured the summons but he had attended another meeting after filing all the required responses. Michael Mbito, the committee chairperson, said that the governor was not taking the matter seriously. He ordered the meeting postponed. Speaking to the Star, the governor wondered why the team was sent away yet it had all the answers. He said the notice of sittings publicised by the committee said it required all the county executives to acknowledge receipt of the summons and file responses with supporting documents. “The executive sat down and decided to send the team because we felt they were best suited to answer the questions since they are directly in charge of the dockets,” he said. He wondered why the committee did not object when the county secretary wrote to them indicating that the team would appear before the committee. “The Covid-19 funds were sent to the county treasury which is coming to account, but the senators say they want the governor to account,” he added. The governor wondered why the committee wants him to appear in person if there are other people better placed to answer the questions raised. “The senators are playing politics. When the executive you asked for presents itself and you throw them out then you are playing politics,” the governor said. He also wondered what Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata was doing in the session yet he is not a member of the committee. Mbai said the county government received Sh112 million meant for  personal protective equipment, Sh63 million for health workers’ allowances while the county government contributed Sh30 million to the fight against Covid-19. He said the auditor general however raised issues on the budgeting and procurement processes and wanted the county government to account for the donations received. Mbai said when the pandemic hit, the county had already concluded its budgeting processes, adding that it is ready to provide all the required answers. “Covid-19 came as an emergency. We don’t understand why the senators chased us away yet we belong to the county executive as well,” he said. He said the county government has no plans to antagonise the oversight work of the Senate but wondered why the senators insisted on the physical presence of the governor. On Tuesday morning, county secretary Patrick Mukuria wrote to the committee reiterating the county government’s commitment to provide the necessary answers. He said the officers have been given a full mandate to make presentations to the committee saying they are the ones who interacted with the auditors on the issues raised. “The county government is still ready and requests for a virtual meeting on Wednesday, April 28,” the letter read.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris