North Rift counties target increased uptake of the Covid-19 vaccine, with more than 45,000 people already inoculated, including about 15,000 medics. Governors from the region have directed that the exercise be taken to the subcounties to reach health workers in rural facilities. Most health workers have yet to go for the jab. They have raised safety concerns. However, they have been told that the AstraZeneca vaccine is safe. “The vaccine has been tested and approved worldwide and is in use all over the world. It has been developed by experts at reputed universities like Oxford and we have no reason to doubt its safety,” Uasin Gishu Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said. Chemno cautioned Kenyans against being misled about the jab by those hell-bent on perpetuating lies. “In fact it is the most effective way we have currently to deal with Covid-19. I urge health workers and other Kenyans to ignore rumours and unfounded lies about the vaccine,” he said. Chemno spoke after a meeting of the multi-agency team dealing with Covid-19 in Uasin Gishu. In Nandi, Governor Stephen Sang, who took the jab recently, has urged residents, including medical workers, to go for vaccination. Trans Nzoia county officials have also expressed worries about the low uptake of the Covid-19 vaccine among health workers. Health executive Clare Wanyama said the majority of health workers had yet to go for the jab because of unfounded fears over its safety and claims that there are no stocks. Wanyama said they have rolled out the drive to the subcounties to reach all healthcare workers. In Elgeyo Marakwet, only about 3,000 health workers have been vaccinated. Uasin Gishu leads the region, with more than 24,000 people having received the jab so far. Meanwhile, the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry has urged the business community in Eldoret  to adhere to all Covid-19 control protocols following quick spread of the disease in the town. Uasin Gishu branch chairman Willy Kenei said the business community should stop defying the measures otherwise they will bear the brunt of the virus if a lockdown is imposed to help control the disease. Kenei said the traders, especially owners of bars, hotels and supermarkets, should ensure social distancing and handwashing, among other measures set by the Ministry of Health.  Edited by F'Orieny