Boxing Federation of Kenya communications director Duncan Kuria ‘Sugar Ray’ has expressed gratitude to LG and SJAK for giving Kenyan boxers the honour they deserve by recognising their achievements on the international stage. BFK was tickled pink after ‘Hit Squad’ member Elly Ajowi received the LG/SJAK Sports Personality for the Month of March award during a colourful ceremony. “I wish to thank the organisers of the awards for recognising our efforts. We had been left out in the cold for a very long time. We usually get nominations to various awards such as Soya awards. But this time round we got to the finishing line," said Kuria. Ajowi was recognised for his exceptional exploits at the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championship in Kinshasa last month,where he pulled the rabbit out of the hat by stunning African Champion Maxime Yegnong Njieyo from Cameroon won to bag a gold medal in the heavyweight category. Kuria's sentiments come at a time the federation is celebrating the achievements of a former boxing coach Eddie Musi who nurtured some of the country's most celebrated boxers. "Today we remember his journey and his impact in Kenya Amateur Boxing," read a statement from BFK. Born in Soweto-Joburg, South Africa in 1952, Musi joined Orlando High School, Soweto and later enrolled to train as a secondary school teacher. Musi started boxing at the Nelson Mandela Boxing at Donaldson Centre, Soweto. In 1967, he fled from the pangs of apartheid in South Africa.and arrived in Kenya as a refugee. Musi settled in Kariobangi and it wasn't long before he started teaching at Guru Nanak High. He single-handedly founded Kariobangi "Bangladesh" Boxing Club in 1982 and went as far as introducing girls’ boxing in the country. He would later coach Nairobi City BC “Shujaa Squad” during Inter-Cities Championships against Kampala City Council Boxing Club. He was appointed  executive member of Boxing Association of Kenya as well as the Nairobi BAK branch Competitions Secretary. Among some of his most notable proteges include Dick Felix (1972 Olympian), Felix Maina (1972 Olympian),George Oduori (1973 All Africa Games), Isaac Maina (1974 Africa Championship ), Stephen Moi (1978 All Africa Games),  Stephen Mwema (1987 All Africa Games),  Crispin Odera (1987 All Africa Games), George Onyango (1990 Commonwealth Games). At Kariobangi's Bangladesh, he nurtured Albert Matito (BFK technical delegate), Joseph Onyango Imbaya, Douglas Maina, Daniel “Monzon” Onyango, Gerald “Baba” Otieno, Dalmas Juma, George Okoth Akura, John Bosco Oduori, Nickson Abaka, Kenneth Barasa Oduori, John “Mzito” Otieno, Athanas Nzau, Ben Addo, Juma “Eldorado” Masibo and Stephen Njogu. 'Paps' died on September 8, 2011 and was laid to rest at the Lang’ata cemetery,Nairobi. He was 72 years, 4 months and 22 days old.