The idea of moving to the next level is sexy, but the process is not. Let’s face it: every change involves a measure of pain. If your dream is to have a beach body for the summer and you sign up to a gym, you will have to deal with weeks of pressure, body aches, and unfamiliar discipline. Change is uncomfortable – that is a fact. However, you can successfully achieve your dream if you can mentally prepare for the tough, messy, and painful path to your goal. Here are four principles to help your journey. Don’t Expect Easy: In the change process, it is silly to expect easy. Think like an athlete or soldier – these guys do not expect an easy journey. The athlete understands that Olympic preparations are no joke, so they are mentally ready for the brutal daily training, and you will find the same attitude with marines. They erase the idea of ease from their minds. It gives them the mental poise required to achieve their dreams. Find Support System: As you embark on the change journey, it is vital to have a support system. The process of moving to the next level is challenging with the lone-ranger mentality; you need people’s support. At different points, you will need help. So, who can support you in your change effort? How do you want them to help you? Be clear about your support system in your change journey. Recognise Low Points: This is huge. You must pay attention to your change process, recognise low points, and prepare for them. What gets you down in your journey? What emotions do you feel at low points? What is your bounce-back plan? What works or doesn’t? Be aware of low points and develop a strategy to go through them. Once you master low points, your chances of achieving your dreams increases. Celebrate Small Wins: Every dream happens step by step – each small step is important and should be celebrated. Often, people wait for the big win to celebrate, but the small wins serve as fuel for your journey. Small wins are signposts on your way that assure you that you’re on track. Don't take them for granted because the big win is a sum of all the small ones. So, prepare for small wins, plan how to celebrate when a small step is achieved. These small moments of joy give you energy for tough times. Furthermore, they thrust you across the finish line. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com