There is no doubt that security is a major factor that many people consider while moving into a developing or entirely new area. As such, there is need for the government to establish more modern security centres in developing regions now more than ever considering our population growth as well as technology advancements. Over the last two decades, the government has made tremendous effort in establishing a number of police centres. But these are different from security centres which have departments that analyse, develop, and offer residents quick solutions to complex challenges such as cybercrime. In light of the development of technology and innovation across the world, these centres are more beneficial now to counter technology-related crimes and other security matters that cannot be handled, or may take time when handled in the traditional way. Using the recently established ultra-modern security command centre at the Konza Technopolis as an example, I must say that setting up such centres in developing areas will be an added advantage for both citizens and the government. With adequate security systems in developing areas, chances are higher that investors and residents will settle in a place, hence, boosting the pace of development. Once this happens, the development of facilities such as schools and shopping centres will create room for more opportunities for the people living in the areas as well as those from outside. This will result in additional revenue for businesses, a factor that can spur more development. With security centres in place, the enforcement of some policies in these areas will also become easier, thus lowering management costs and in the process build confidence in the country’s security status and investment opportunities. For instance in areas such as Konza City or Tatu City, such centres will ensure that investors properties are safe, in the process creating a conducive environment for growth. However, as the government pursues the establishment of these security centres, the relevant authorities should also establish a good relationship between the security officers and the residents or inhabitants of the areas. This will boost security in such areas and also deepen relations between members of the public and security officers. Additionally, relevant authorities can explore if such centres can offer other services related to security matters like live monitoring of traffic and management of city operations. 