Two police officers and three civilians on Monday night were injured when a lorry rammed a Covid curfew roadblock along Thika Road, Nairobi. The roadblock, which included a police vehicle, had  been mounted in Roasters area to enable police implement Covid containment measures, especially the curfew, mask wearing and limiting  passengers. Witnesses and police said a speeding lorry heading to the CBD crashed into the  police truck  forming part of the barricade to stop vehicles and allow searches. Police have been deployed on major routes to implement the measures to contain the spread of the disease. The crash occurred in Roasters area at 10.40pm. One police officer had head injuries, the other a dislocated arm. Both were hospitalised in stable condition. Three people in the lorry that caused the accident were also injured. One had head injuries, two had leg injuries. All were in stable condition. The driver of the lorry was arrested and told police he lost control as he approached the roadblock. The crash came a day after Pangani OCS Samir Yunus also suffered head injuries as he manned a roadblock along Dr Griffins Road. A speeding motorcycle knocked him over. He was admitted to hospital. The motorcycle rider was arrested and his bike impounded. The cyclist told officers he lost control as he sped home to beat curfew, but the accident occurred at 8.30pm and curfew begins at 8pm. A curfew and partial lockdown were introduced in Nairobi and four other counties to contain the spread of the disease. For the third day, motorists were detained at various sites for violating curfew. On Saturday night, it took two hours before police finally allowed motorists using the routes to drive through the blockages past 11pm. Hundreds of Nairobi residents were stuck on busy routes. The latest victims were Form 4 students who had finished their exams earlier on Monday. Some teachers and students had sought refuge at Uhuru Park as night fell. They said they arrived late after travelling from different areas and encountering heavy traffic jams. They were accommodated in a church. A spot check showed scores of students from  schools across the country huddled in the park, unsure of how and when they would get home. The Ministry of Education had directed all schools to plan how students would travel into and out of the five counties under lockdown. Students in transit must wear full school uniforms and have a letter of introduction from respective schools. Some of those stranded took to social media, saying they had been informed they would stay at the sites until 4am. Nairobi regional commissioner James Kianda said a review and assessment of protocols showed compliance in the Nairobi Metropolitan Area is less than 50 per cent. “We  note with concern that there is willful violation of these protocols in estates, especially the prohibition of large in-person gatherings and compliance with curfew restrictions and other health protocols,” he said. The 8pm to 4am curfew in the five counties will run until May 29, according to a revised Kenya Gazette notice. The counties are Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Kiambu and Nakuru. In the rest of the country, the curfew is from 10pm to 4am. The order says there shall be no public gatherings, processions or movement either alone or as a group during curfew except as permitted, in writing, by a police officer in charge of the police in a county or a police officer in charge of the police in a division/subcounty. (Edited by V. Graham)