In a bid to try and solve the wrangles at the Nyamira county assembly, Governor Amos Nyaribo will hold a kamukunji with the MCAs on Friday. Nyaribo said despite all the other 'forces' that are behind the wrangles, a solution must be found. Nyaribo addressed journalists in his office in Nyamira town on Wednesday. “As a governor, my role is to appeal to the assembly to maintain peace and harmony since as the executive we cannot interfere much with the assembly being a separate organ, but I am going to have a kamukunji on Friday to try and iron out various issues that might be behind the wrangles at the assembly,” Nyaribo told journalists. Nyaribo however condemned a section of MPs whom he said have been hosting some MCAs to incite them to destabilize the business at the assembly, saying they are elements of failure of leadership. “We are fully aware that a section of MCAs from the county assembly met with two members of Parliament in Naivasha recently and we know that all they discussed was how they would incite other members so that they can bring to halt very important businesses that the assembly had planned to execute,” said Nyaribo. Nyamira county assembly has in the recent past experienced wrangles leading to chaotic scenes as MCAs clashed over various issues including the approval of a CEC, expulsion of some of them from committees and the alleged division of members by a section of the assembly’s top leadership including speaker Moffat Teya. Political Parties Liaison Committee (PPLC) chairman Evans Misati has termed the wrangles and wars being witnessed in Nyamira’s county assembly as a shame to the Gusii community and a sign of immaturity among the leaders involved. Addressing journalists in Nyamira town recently, Misati who unsuccessfully ran for the County’s gubernatorial seat in 2013, warned the Members of County Assembly that the electorate were closely watching the events taking place and that it will be too late if they let them march and lock up the assembly. “I want to urge all Nyamira County residents, both young and the old to raise up to the occasion and protect our county from such leaders who don’t mind them.