A top traffic police officer has urged Lari boda boda riders to desist from rushing away from the scene with their motorcycles whenever they are involved in an accident. Lari deputy traffic police boss Lydia Jeruto said the wreckages of the motorcycles and the layout of the accident scenes help with investigations. She spoke on Tuesday when she met Uplands boda boda riders and their officials. Jeruto told the riders to respect customers, the community and ensure their protective clothing are clean and in good condition. She told riders to carry a driving license, wear helmets and reflective jackets and ensure their insurance covers are valid. “You are working in all areas, rural, urban and semi-urban areas. The challenge most of you have is lacking the proper documents. We shall arrest you if we find you without [them],” Jeruto said. She said the road safety checkups will continue until the riders accept and follow the law and conduct themselves well. Some of the riders abuse bhang, alcohol and use vulgar language to other riders as well as the community, she said. Gitithia boda boda chairman Joseph Macharia said some parents were buying motorcycles for their sons before they were certified to ride by the National Transport and Safety Authority. They then take the motorbikes to trading centres to begin running the business without learning the traffic rules. Macharia said the youths lack information about their rights and road rules so run away whenever they see the police. “The main challenge the boda boda trade faces is how the riders are and have been joining the bus stops and starting the business,” he said. Boda bodas remain one of the most popular means of transport in both rural and urban areas. According to the police, the riders have evolved to be like a movement that does not want to follow the rule of law. They do everything to please their customers and some find themselves being involved in or causing accidents that leave them dead, injured or maimed. A recent NTSA report showed that motorcycles cause more accidents than vehicles. Most riders run away after causing an accident or carry the motorcycle away from the scene to avoid court cases.   (edited by o. owino)