It was a bad day in the Senate for Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo. He was quizzed about lack of procurement plans and the county emergency response committee's decision to award themselves 'excess' allowance. The governor was questioned by the Senate Health committee on his administration’s spending of Sh135.37 million sent to the county to fight the contagion. Ottichilo was taken to task to explain why his administration spent Sh90.80 million without an approved work plan, procurement and training plans. He was questioned about the findings of a special audit on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. The county violated Section 107(2) of the County Governments Act, 2012 and Section 53 (2) and (5) of the Public Procurement and Assets Disposal Act, which mandates  preparation of plans to guide expenditures. The money was a conditional grant from the national government and the Kenya Devolution Support Programme to handle the pandemic. The governor told the nine-member committee that out of the Sh90.80 million flagged by the auditor, the county had budgeted for Sh60 million to toward Covid-19. The funds were captured in a supplementary budget and reflected in the procurement plans in the Health department, he said. “The activities planned under this grant did not involve any training, thus, the absence of a training plan,” he said. The remaining Sh30 million, he explained, the county projected to receive from KDSP but this did not materialise until until toward the end of 2019-20. He said the work plans for the funds, which includes Sh11 million for Covid-19 interventions, were prepared. But members of the committee, chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito, took issue with the response. Auditors had said the county prepared consolidated plans instead of disaggregating to distinguish those meant for Covid interventions. “Why did you have a consolidated plan instead of a plan contingent with funds given by the government?” Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri asked. The county boss said the county had separate plans but could not utilise the funds during the year it was budgeted for as the funds arrived late. Ottichilo was also at pains to explain why members of the Vihiga County Covid-19 Emergency Response Committee defied a circular by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission and awarded themselves hefty allowances. According to the audit report, each of the 30 members of the Covid-19 team earned Sh5,000 in allowances for a sensitisation meeting held in a hotel in Luanda town. This violated the circular that required that members of such a committee get Sh4,000 each. In addition, the meeting also violated the circular and paid MCAs who had attended the meetingSh,000 each with the leadership pocketing Sh10,000 each. “The county did not provide any approvals or guidelines to support payment of allowances other than the SRC approved rates for the Vihiga county elected leaders,” the audit report reads. The governor  said committee members resolved to pay themselves during a meeting on April 8, 2020. “The sensitisation programme was done outside the work station, thus, differences in allowances to the respective officers,” he said. Senators demanded to know how the committee was had powers to determine allowances for members. “Furnish us with the names of members of the Covid-19 committee who attended the meeting and show us where the committee got the powers to fix these allowances,” Mbito directed. The governor was forced to withdraw his response to a statement that his administration had failed to raise Sh13.5 million to fund Covid-19 activities. According to the report, the county had planned to raise Sh24.5 million from its local revenue to support Covid- 19 interventions but fell short by Sh13.5 million. Ottichilo attributed the shortfall to delays by the National Treasury to release funds due to the county government. But Senators Ledama Olekina  and Ongeri trashed the response, saying the county had planned to raise the cash from its own local collections. The county chief revised his answers, explaining that while the county planned to raise the cash, Covid-19 interruptions made that impossible. He said main revenue sources such as markets were closed and tax relief was extended to businesses, reducing revenue collection. The committee ordered him to provide documentation showing revenue collection performance in the county for the period. (Edited by V. Graham)