Athletics Kenya have outlined a rigorous two-week training programme to prepare Team Kenya for the upcoming World Relay Championships in Silesia, Poland on May 1-2. AK president Jack Tuwei said the team, which was named on Friday, will resume their bubble camp training at Moi Stadium, Kasarani as the federation works at the travel arrangements and other logistics. "We submitted the name of the entire contingent on Monday as this was the deadline for entries into the competition. The athletes will now report to camp to continue training as we continue handling logistical issues, such as securing visas and passports. Time is quite little with only have about two weeks to Selesia," Tuwei said. Tuwei admitted the latest wave of coronavirus cases in the country had unavoidably disrupted many of the plans AK had for the team, including trials, initially slated for March 27. The federation also failed to name a team for the 4x400m (men) and 4x100m as the two races required a qualification race involving three-member federations. However, Tuwei expects sprinters in the respective relay teams to gel with one another and perform better than the last edition in Yokohama, Japan in 2019. "Relays are a team effort, a team sport, which involves a lot of technicalities. That is why they are in camp. We want to bring them together, work on these technical aspects and improve on their teamwork so that they may run as one when they go to the international stage," he said. "Anything involving a world championship cannot be taken for granted and we want to prepare well so that our athletes do not have any problems while in Poland." He further thanked the disciplined forces for allowing some of their athletes to join the bubble training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, which began almost two months ago. "We are grateful that they agreed to release their athletes who they had only just recruited recently to join others in the camp in preparation for the World Relay Championships. They were kind enough to agree to our request," he said. The World Relay squad to Selesia includes the likes of national 100m record holder Mark Otieno in the 4x200m men's team alongside Mike Mokamba, Elijah Matayo, Dan Kiviasi and Hesbon Ochieng. Africa 400m women's champion at the Under-20 level, Mary Moraa, will be trusted with leading Kenya's charge for a 4x400m medal alongside Hellen Syombua, Gladys Musyoki, Joan Cherono and Veronicah Mutua. Commonwealth 800m men's champion Wycliffe Kinyamal and world 800m bronze medalist Ferguson Rotich will team up together with Naomi Korir and Emily Cherotich in the 2x2x400m.