A Milimani court on Thursday gave the prosecution more time to file a report on investigations into the death of a key witness in a Sh122 million fraud case. Jennifer Wambua, an NLC official, was murdered and her body dumped in a thicket in Ngong last month. The matter had come up for mention to confirm the investigations being conducted by the police into her death. The prosecution told chief magistrate Martha Mutuku that investigations were ongoing and sought more time to avail the report. The magistrate directed the case to be mentioned on May 24 for the prosecution to update the court on the status of the investigations. Last month, chief magistrate Francis Andayi said that Wambua had given important evidence in the case where Lugari MP Ayub Savula and former Principal Secretary Sammy Itemere are charged alongside 16 others with conspiring to defraud the state of Sh122.3 million. Andayi said he had noted that after being stood down for cross-examination on February 18, Wambua was said to be sick and had vomited that morning while in court. The second time, the magistrate said, she had been involved in an accident and was in hospital. The Director of Public Prosecutions, through prosecution counsel Henry Kinyanjui, said they were saddened by the incident and to avoid speculation, he has asked the Inspector General to do thorough investigations into the murder and file a report for review. “Your honour, we have not established whether her death is related to the case. However, the DPP is aware that her death has caused anxiety among members of the public and it is important to know the cause,” Kinyanjui told the court. The prosecution added that once investigations are completed, the DPP will review the file and ensure the culprits are brought to book. Defence lawyers also said they were saddened and shocked over Wambua's death. Lawyer Kiraithe Wandugi said because of the sensitivity of the matter, the defence agreed with the DPP that they condole with the family. “The defence had come at the time to cross-examine her and we all agree with the DPP that the incident be investigated so that there is no suspicion on our side,” the defence said. “We would like the police to carry out independent investigations into the death of Jennifer as life is sacred. It saddens all of us that we lost her after seeing her last month. We all need justice so that Kenyans and the court know the truth” Wandugi said.  Edited by Henry Makori