Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has accused unnamed politicians of derailing the BBI process. He said some politicians were busy realigning themselves for next year's general election while pushing BBI and the planned referendum to the back-burner. Atwoli spoke in Kisumu on Friday after he was reelected Cotu secretary general unopposed for the fifth time. His sentiments came weeks after Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya suggested that funds meant for BBI be reallocated to the Covid-19 fight. His Busia counterpart Sospeter Ojamoong' also said the Building Bridges Initiative was no longer a priority. The two western leaders are allies of ODM party leader Raila Odinga. They were at the forefront in drumming up support for the reforms initiative last year. Atwoli, who spoke at the Tom Mboya Labour College in Kisumu, said Kenyans must be given a chance to vote on the changes proposed by the BBI in a referendum He said the process will  address gaps in governance and challenges experienced every election cycle. The labour movement, Atwoli said, was keeping track of the BBI process and would mount pressure on all concerned parties to ensure the document is passed. He said workers stood to reap more benefits since the document guarantees equality and peaceful elections, which are key in safeguarding the work environment. Atwoli said workers are the worst affected every election year due to post-election violence and BBI was the only solution. “This BBI is our baby and we are not ready to abandon it. Even if the politicians abandon it we shall push it to the end,” he said. The unionist asked the government to spend borrowed funds wisely to grow the economy and safeguard Kenyans against the negative effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Atwoli suggested that the recent facility secured by the government from the International Monetary Fund be injected in once profitable state corporations to generate revenue and keep workers from being laid off. “We want all relevant government agencies to ensure that no single cent is lost in order to cushion Kenyans against the negative economic effects of Covid-19,” he said. Atwoli told workers that he will continue to fight for their rights to ensure a stable and secure work environment. During the elections presided over by acting Labour commissioner Hellen Apiyo, Rajab Mwondi was elected Cotu chairman, with Joel Chebii and Francis Murage as first and second vice chairman. Ernest Nadome was elected first assistant secretary general, Benson Okwaro as Atwoli's deputy while Rebecca Nyathoga clinched the treasurer position. Francis Wangara, Joseph Onchonga and Nelson Mwaniki were elected Cotu trustees. Seth Panyako, the Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general, had expressed interest in the secretary general post but was not at the venue. He reportedly had a court order that sought to stop the elections. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya