A splinter group of the council of Law Society of Kenya has nominated lawyer Dorothy Jemator to be part of the IEBC selection panel. The group comprises eight council members and are in sharp opposition to the one allied to President Nelson Havi. Havi had on Tuesday nominated Morris Mutua to the panel. However, the society's CEO Mercy Wambua-who is allied to the anti-Havi faction-had dismissed Havi's nomination as "dubious, illegal and dead on arrival", saying that it had violated it's 2020 regulations. Wambua said the society had advertised the slot on April 16 for interested members to apply and that the deadline was April 20. She said the society received numerous applications and the council sat on Wednesday to sift through them and settle on the nominee to forward for appointment into the panel. Jemator has been an advocate of the High Court since 2010. The deadline for submission of the nominees was Wednesday. Wambua said the council was not aware of the nomination by Havi and that "the nominee is going no where," explaining that her position was anchored on LSK regulations 2020. Article 87 of the society's general regulations 2020 provides that whenever a vacancy arises in any public, statutory or constitutional body that require LSK to nominate a representative, the secretary is required to advertise the said vacancy for members to apply, shortlisting done and a final nomination by the council made. “If the Society is required by legislation or otherwise to nominate a member to serve on an organ of a constitutional, statutory or other public body, the secretary shall issue notice of the vacancy and shall at the same time invite interested qualified members to apply to be considered for that position," the regulation reads. Section 87((2) provides that “The Council shall consider all applications received and shall make a decision on the qualified person for nomination to a relevant office.." It is not the first time the majority in the council objected to what they term a unilateral action by Havi without following the law and regulations. In March this year, the council revoked several appointments Havi had made in October last year on the grounds that he did not follow the said regulations. Efforts to get Havi for a comment were unsuccessful as he did not answer our calls.