ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has defended the One Kenya Alliance over claims that the formation is a project of the state. He said rivals who were beginning to sense defeat had resorted to calling them a project upon realising that their dreams of succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta were slowly fading away. “If you take a closer look, you will realise that those who are calling us a project are the people who are currently working very closely with the government. They are far much closer to the government than us,” Mudavadi said. The ANC leader is part of the One Kenya Alliance, which comprises Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). The formation has detached itself from ODM leader Raila Odinga, the National Super Alliance chief, and is getting ready to face him and Deputy President William Ruto in the 2022 General Election. The One Kenya Alliance quartet has each announced presidential interests and is said to be banking on Uhuru to endorse their line-up as he prepares to leave office. Mudavadi and Gideon have been singled out as those being favoured by some State House operatives to succeed Uhuru next year. The two are also believed to have the ears of the Kenyatta family. Some reports have however indicated that the Kenyatta family is keen to return the favour and have Gideon succeed Uhuru. Speaking to Egesa FM on Wednesday morning, Mudavadi said claims that the One Kenya Alliance is a state project are sheer propaganda. “We should tell Kenyans what we intend to change in their lives if they elect us and then leave it up to them to decide who the next President will be,” he said. Mudavadi said Raila was not being branded a government project when he agreed to a handshake with Uhuru after a period of animosity. “You cannot say ODM is a project because of the handshake deal,” the ANC leader said. Last month, ODM said that unlike ANC, it is not expecting the President to say 'Raila Odinga Tosha' in 2022 for the ODM leader to ascend to power. “Even in 2013, Mudavadi was said to be a preferred successor of retired President Mwai Kibaki but he failed,” ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said. ANC national chairman Kelvin Lunani stated that endorsements are a legitimate part of political mobilisation. During the radio interview, Mudavadi said the One Kenya Alliance is open to all politicians who share their ideologies. “Our doors are open to all Kenyans who share our dreams. If your vision is to fight corruption and grow the economy among other things, you are welcome to join us.” He said for an alliance to grow, there should be trust and faith among its leaders. “As we head to 2022, you should expect new alliances and coalitions to come up. We may not have those that were formed in the run-up to 2017 polls,” Mudavadi said. All parties in the One Kenya Alliance have since announced plans to conduct grassroots elections to solidify their support bases. Gideon has an elaborate plan to revamp and rebrand Kanu ahead of next year's polls. The party has lined up a series of political activities aimed at rejuvenating the independence party. The activities include meetings with delegates across the country as part of the wider plan to make the ‘Jogoo party great again.’  Edited by A.N