Deputy President William Ruto has congratulated Chief Justice nominee Martha Koome. In a phone call, the DP expressed his best wishes to Koome. Ruto told Koome that her nomination shows Kenyans' faith in women leadership and will an inspiration to young girls across the country. The DP wished her success in the approval process that is now before the National Assembly. "This nomination confirms that women have come of age and are breaking the ceiling and this is an inspiration for the country and every girl," Ruto told Koome during the phone conversation. She beat nine other applicants to the Chief Justice post and was unveiled by the JSC on Tuesday as the first woman CJ nominee after vigorous interviews. The National Assembly is set to begin the vetting and approval for appointment the nomination. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday communicated to the House, Justice Koome’s nomination for CJ and President of the Supreme Court. He presented the certificate of presidential nomination, the judge’s CV, testimonials and recommendation of the Judicial Service Commission on the recruitment and selection process for the Chief Justice. The law provides that the President shall appoint the Chief Justice and deputy chief justice in accordance with the JSC recommendations and subject to the approval of the National Assembly. “The president therefore seeks the approval of the National Assembly on the said nomination,” Speaker Justin Muturi informed members on Wednesday. He directed the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chaired by Kangema MP Muturi Kigano to conduct the vetting and report the findings to the House within 28 days. Muturi asked the committee to notify the nominee and the general public – immediately - of the date and place of the approval hearings. “The committee should thereafter commence the necessary approval hearings and submit a report on or before May 25 for debate and decision by the House.” Muturi said that although the committee has 28 days to provide a report, the team was requested to consider the nomination on a priority basis. “The committee is requested to consider the nomination on a priority basis,” he said.