Getting a homemade meal on the table takes time, planning and a trip to the grocery store if you cannot find the ingredients and great meal kit delivery services help you cut corners where it counts. Blue Apron one of the meal kit delivery services helps home cooks streamline the process of meal preparation with success. When creating an account with Blue Apron, it quizzes you briefly on dietary preferences such as if you are vegetarian or which types of meat you eat. After signing up, you can click on your first four deliveries to see what is coming your way. You can also change recipes or skip weeks if nothing appeals to you. Each recipe indicates what kind of kitchen tools one needs to make the meal like a rolling pin or skillet. Its online market conveniently sells aprons, knives, cutting boards and peelers. Blue Apron posts weekly menus on its website where you can browse what is on order. There is a good amount of variety aside from not having many ways in the vegan, paleo or keto meals. If you are in the mood for something simple like pasta, you will be able to put it in your weekly box. You will get premium recipes that will cost you more giving you the option of adding a little luxury to your homemade food. It uses some rigid plastic containers that you can reuse and those same containers are recyclable. Other than small plastic bags filled with small amounts of ingredients specific to each recipe, it packs all ingredients together. Blue Apron’s website includes instructions for recycling all the materials used for shipping. It uses frozen gel packs as a common meal kit delivery and you can dump the contents of its freezer pack down the drain. This meal kit delivery service includes large easy to follow recipe cards and pictures accompany each step to show details such as how small to chop the vegetables. It has clear instructional videos that teach everything from how to season to taste or add salt to the cooking water. Sometimes it also has information on individual ingredients. It is very easy to change plans, select recipes and skip weeks on this meal kit delivery service app. You will not need to go to settings but what you can do is change the date by simply choosing a different day instead of having to skip a week. You are also able to go into your profile and select your protein preference. Canceling an order completely requires you to email customer care for instructions which is not as simple as clicking a button. Once you get the instructions, you will have to get the edit button in your account settings to be able to cancel completely.