The Kenya Editors’ Guild has criticised Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti for summoning the editorial leadership of Royal Media Services over an exposé the company broadcast showing how police hired out guns to criminals. In a statement on Wednesday, Kenya Editors Guilt president Churchill Otieno said that the summonses that Kinoti issued to Royal Media Service following an investigative feature ‘Silaha Mtaani’/ ‘Guns Galore’ that was aired by Citizen TV on April 18, 2021 are illegal. “As far as we can tell, there is no criminal investigation against Royal Media Services’ editors and reporters over the production. The Police Service should therefore expend its energy, time and resources to investigating possible criminal activities within its ranks and ensuring that the culprits are brought to justice,” Otieno said. The guild has advised Royal Media Services to ignore the summonses and to limit engagement with the Police Service and only hand over any police stores it may have procured in the course of investigations. It added that if the Police Service is unable or unwilling to probe itself, it will consider urging the Independent Policing Oversight Authority (IPOA) to take up the matter, or appoint an independent external investigator. The organisation said that media cannot be held criminally liable for anything done in keeping with its role as a public watchdog. “…neither can it be compelled to betray its sources, provide advance information to any government agency on ongoing assignments, or seek permission to carry out its work.” The investigative feature exposed the illegal sale and renting of firearms, uniform, and handcuffs by members of the National Police Service (NPS) and other security agencies to criminal elements. This comes a day after the Media Council of Kenya condemned Kinoti following his statement hitting out at Citizen TV. In a statement on Tuesday, MCK said,"While the council recoginises the role of the DCI, it expects that the process is geared towards investigating the matter and not violating freedom of expression, press freedom and access to information as provided for in the Constitution." Kinoti earlier held a live demonstration broadcast on TV in a bid to save his neck and said the exposé was malicious.