Kenyan international Joseph Okumu has shown the clearest signs yet he could be well on his way to the Scottish Premier League this summer. It’s stated Glasgow Rangers are intent on luring the Elfsborg ace over to Ibrox after putting tabs on his performance for a while now and are reportedly offering up to $2 million for his services. The Rangers' technical bench, led by Liverpool legend Steven Gerrard, believe the 23-year-old could be a perfect replacement for Filip Helander, who has been linked with a move away at the end of the season. Both Aston Villa and Leicester City have expressed interest in Helander. The 6ft 4in, Okumu said he was sure of decamping soon although he was coy in divulging the exact time he would execute the move, pointing out he has eyes set on one of the top five European leagues. “Before making such a big decision, it's always important to consider the bigger picture," he said. “I'm certainly going to pen a new deal when the right time comes and that won't be long. We shall come to an agreement with Elfsborg and if we shall all feel it’s not the right time, then I’ll stay." “As of now, I can't surely say I'll be moving to any specific country or league. It all depends on who presents the first bid. It's only then that I will have an opportunity to decide what is best for me. I hope to feature in one of the top five leagues in Europe,” he added. Okumu will be joining a packed Rangers defence that already boasts of a host of centre backs including Leon Balogun, Connor Goldson as well as new signing Jack Simpson. Nikola Katic is set to return from injury while George Edmundson is expected back at the end of his loan spell at Derby County. Okumu featured for Chemelil Sugar in the Kenyan Premier League before linking up with Real Monarchs in the United States and then Elfsborg in 2019. The towering defender singled out the Brazilian duo of David Luiz and Thiago Silva as his two biggest influences on his style of play. “When I grew up, I looked up to many different players for inspiration, but above all, I looked up to David Luiz and Thiago Silva, both of whom have greatly shaped my style of play,” said Okumu. If the deal comes through, Okumu, 23, will follow in the footsteps of compatriot Victor Wanyama who penned a four-year contract with Celtic in 2011 from Belgian club Germinal Beerschot.