Kanu officials want Gideon Moi to fly the One Kenya Alliance ticket on account of its vast networks across the country. The Star has established that the party has laid a multi-pronged strategy to position its chairman and Baringo senator to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. The newly formed One Kenya Alliance seen to largely enjoy the backing of President Uhuru Kenyatta brings together Gideon, Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya). Both Mudavadi and Kalonzo have declared that they will take nothing less than the top seat. Officials of the independence party also say the outfit has consistently supported other presidential candidates and their governments in the previous elections and other parties should in turn support Gideon. Kanu has not been in power since Mzee Moi exited in 2002, however, its scions including Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto are now in power giving life to Moi’s famous saying that “Kanu will rule for 100 years”. Kanu secretary general Nick Salat said they have activated all networks across the country and will play a crucial role during the determination of their flag bearer. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, Salat said Gideon has all that it takes to be the next president. “We have been meeting as Kanu and we have mapped the country and have seen that Gideon has the best chances. There is no other party with structures across the country like Kanu,” he said. He added, “At the point of negation, you will be asked what you have? What are you bringing to the table? Gideon is not a hard sell. In the shortest time he had started touring parts of the country before public rallies were stopped, he was being received well.” Salat said his party fully supports the BBI which has proposed amending the 2010 Constitution to among other things expand the Executive and Parliament by re-introducing the office of the prime minister and two deputies. “The creation of the extra positions will diffuse the tensions and fights associated with the presidency. It will address the winner takes it all and ensure Kenyans feel represented,” he said. Kanu is also banking on the goodwill it enjoys in the First family which is said to be pressuring Uhuru to “return the power to the Moi family”. It is widely believed that history could repeat itself in next year’s presidential election with Uhuru settling on Gideon as Moi senior did to him. In the run-up to the 2002 General Election, Mzee Moi picked then 41-year old Uhuru as his heir apparent leaving out his Vice President George Saitoti who had served in the position for 13 years. Others who were anticipating that Moi would hand over the mantle of leadership to them were Raila Odinga then leader of the Liberal Democratic Party and Cabinet Minister Kalonzo Musyoka. In 2002 Kanu delegates conference at Kasarani stadium, Moi announced that “I saw and realised that Uhuru is the one that can hold this country together”. Moi’s project cwould be defeated by Mwai Kibaki who was supported by Kanu defects such as Kalonzo, Raila and Saitoti among others. In what was seen as a clear indication of following the footsteps of what Moi did to him, last year in May, Uhuru oversaw a post-election agreement signed between the ruling Jubilee party and Kanu bringing Gideon to the heart of government. Since then, the Baringo senator has become influential in the Jubilee administration with his allies being the beneficiaries of government appointments. Baringo Woman Representative Gladys Cheruiyot said “Gideon is ripe and is the right man to steer the country after Uhuru.” She described Gideon as none divisive and with an untainted image. “Kanu will present Gideon as our presidential candidate and we hope that he will also be the best pick for the One Alliance. He has been patient enough and 2022 is his time,” she told the Star. However, ANC deputy party leader and Lugari MP Ayub Savula said Gideon is junior and Mudavadi is best placed to fly the One Kenya Alliance ticket saying he has the number as he controls several counties. “Musalia has the numbers. He has support in Trans Nzoia, Bungoma, Vihiga, Kakamega, Busia, and Nairobi. We should go by county. Gideon does not control any county. Rift Valley is controlled by Deputy President William Ruto. So in pecking order Musalia comes first followed by Kalozo then Wetangula and Gideon tying at position three,” he said. He said ANC lawmakers met on Wednesday night at a home in Runda, Nairobi where Musalia assured them that he will not take any other position other than the president. Another critic of Gideon, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro said Kanu forming the next government rekindles the past days where the economy was at its lowest. “Mt Kenya suffered a lot under Kanu. Our people were tortured and we will not go back to Kanu. The past three years of Jubilee in the second term has been no less than the Kanu regime. We will do everything no to go that direction again,” Nyoro said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris