Learning a new language is advantageous since some of the jobs in different countries require you to at least be able to speak their native language. This has led to the emergence and introduction of language learning applications. Duolingo is one of the best free app for learning a language. It is excellent for podcasts for Spanish and French, has a clear structure, lets you test out of lessons that are too easy, and offers many languages. It has courses in around 34 languages and that is only counting those that use English as the language of instruction. When you first get started with the application depending on the language, there will be a placement test if you already have some knowledge of the languages. If you take the placement tests, you will be able to skip some of the more elementary lessons like learning simple words and verb conjugations. This application is highly organised and structured with the app’s home screen displaying a list of modules in order. Each module contains multiple lessons that you have to pass to unlock the next set of modules. On average, each lesson takes three to four minutes to complete. It has its series of podcasts that one can access through the website or download to a podcasting app such as Google Podcast. One of the benefits of listening via Duolingo website is that the transcripts are there. In addition to podcasts, stories also work your listening and comprehension skills a bit more than the core exercises. These interactive stories have you listen to and read a short story while answering questions about what you have heard and read. They are only available in select languages like Spanish, French, German and Portuguese. Memrise is another Language learning application. It is a strong language study content for beginners, has good customization options in settings and it is high quality. This application looks polished and has a clear structure. The structure is great for beginners and more experienced users can choose programs that are more advanced although there are no placement tests for finding out ahead of time where is the best place to start. It teaches you material by first showing you a few words, characters, or concepts depending on what you are studying and then quizzing you on them. For learning languages, it uses both written and audio material. It has speed quizzes that let you test what you have learned so far in a timed environment. Setting up a Memrise account costs nothing at all. You can use it to learn vocabulary and characters of different languages as well as basic phrases and sentences. You can also learn more with this application on subjects like history, geography, math and science.