Elders seeking refuge at the Kaya Godoma rescue centre in Ganze are in dire need of food and water. The elders who escaped lynching in their homes following accusations of practising witchcraft are also in need of medical services. Speaking at the shrine on Saturday, Kaya Godoma rescue centre chairman Emmanuel Katana said the facility depends on well-wishers to support the elderly, but the support drastically reduced since the outbreak of coronavirus in Kenya. “Food is a big challenge here. The county government is aware of this rescue centre but it has neglected us. We expected more support during this pandemic. Sometimes they go for three days without food,” said Katana. Due to the ongoing drought in the area, water scarcity has also hit the centre. The elderly are forced to walk two kilometres to get water. “We have a big water tank here but it has no water. We get the water from outside the centre and the elders have to walk to the water pans, which are not very near. For those who are not able to walk to the water pan they pay someone to fetch water for them,” he added. Some of the elders are also in need of medical services. Kazungu Ponda, 80, said most of them need medical attention as they cannot walk to the nearest health facility. “We need medical check-ups here. I am suffering from hydrocele and I cannot walk to get water. I have to send someone and pay him Sh50. There is another elderly man in that house who is older than me and he is sick. When he goes to look for water he falls and he is assisted by good Samaritans. There are other elders  with different ailments,” said Ponda. Some elders have been enrolled in the National Hospital Insurance Fund programme while others have not. The elders also lack proper housing. According to Katana, the houses are not enough and they are in bad shape. “This centre needs between 15 and 20 houses. Currently, we have 10 houses, but two are not meant for people to sleep in but because we do not have enough houses we have allowed some elders to sleep in the two houses. “They are meant for the elders to sit in while making their deliberations.  We have 11 elders here, two are women and the rest are male. From inception in 2008, we have rescued 110 elderly people. We have reunited most of them with their families,” said Katana. Katana is worried that during the rainy season, the elders will have no place to sleep as the houses will be leaking. The rescue centre, which is also a shrine, uses traditional houses which they say if well maintained can shelter the elders. Edited by Henry Makori