Kenyans have been urged to plant trees to help in dealing with the harsh impacts of climate change. Assistant Chief Conservator of Forests James Mwang’ombe said choosing the right type of trees to plant could also play a part in growing other aspects of the economy that are dependent on forest products. He was speaking on Thursday during a Mount Kenya University function to mark this year’s Earth Day. Suggested trees include commercial wood and non-wood products that can be sustainably harvested from forests. The KFC official advised Kenyans to start their own private forests. KFS said it has recently started a programme where they help private sector players in developing their own forests or botanical gardens. “KFS supports and encourages private entities such as universities and individuals to develop private forests and other conservation mechanisms,” Mwang’ombe said. “The KFS has an extension division known as Farm Forests and Drylands Division, which supports private citizens and community members in growing and managing trees and private forests for their benefit. The private forests greatly contribute to the availability of wood and non-wood products as well as ecosystem services thus reducing pressure on natural forests many of which serve as water towers while supporting livelihoods," he added. He said the government had revised the dates by which it expects to achieve a 10 per cent forest cover, buoyed by the achievements that have been made. He explained that KFS aims to increase area under forest cover to 10 per cent by 2022 and not by 2030 as it had been planned. "This can only be achieved when all citizens participate not only in planting but also sustainably managing the available forest resources,” Mwang'ombe said. MKU is among the private sector players which have set up a botanical garden. This rainy season, the university has facilitated the planting of 3,000 tree seedlings of indigenous species at the botanical garden as well as giving communities seedlings to plant. “When we started the institution, the place (botanical garden) was very dry and hot. As a start, we instructed the estate department to embark on an aggressive tree-planting campaign which they jointly did with the Pharmacy Department at MKU,” said MKU founder and chairman Simon Gicharu. “This has completely transformed this place from a dry to a cool and serene environment," he said. He added that the botanical garden is now ripe for other activities including income-generating ventures. The garden is made of plants that have medicinal value, which Gicharu noted can be used for research. “I urge the School of Pharmacy and Directorate of Research and Innovation to explore ways of exploiting this botanical garden for grant applications and income-generating activities such as establishing a seedlings nursery, community training outreach activities including the training of botanists from various counties,” he said. “A seedlings nursery can serve both as an income-generating activity and in addition, provide a constant supply of seedlings for improving the plant biodiversity of this botanical garden and to share with other environmental enthusiasts in the country,” he added. During the occasion, the university paid tribute to Nobel Laureate the late Wangari Maathai, who noted that “we owe it to ourselves and to the next generation to conserve the environment so that we can bequeath our children a sustainable world that benefits all". During the occasion, the university called on Kenyans in their individual capacities to plant more trees. “As a university, we need to have a high target of the number of trees we need to have planted by end of next year, ensure they are watered and protected,” said  MKU Vice Chancellor Prof Deogratious Jaganyi “I would also like to urge us to continue to encourage this spirit to ensure every Kenyan plant at least 20 trees by end of next year. We should all be part of this great initiative on a continuous basis.” -Edited by SKanyara