Maize farmers in Uasin Gishu county fear running into losses due to delay in the start of the long rains. Most of them had prepared their land and planted, expecting that the rains would start as usual by mid-March. The Kenya Meteorological Department had issued an alert to farmers that the region was expected to receive enough rainfall during this year’s planting season. But most parts of the county are yet to receive adequate rainfall to sustain the development of the already germinated crops. Speaking in Moiben and Soy constituencies, the farmers expressed fears, saying most of them had planted their maize earlier with hopes of rain but till now there are no signs of rainfall yet. Paul Malel said they have invested a lot in farm inputs and urged the government to intervene by subsidising the prices of farm inputs in case they are forced to replant. Another farmer, Aaron Kibiwott, from Soy constituency said in the previous years the rainy season used to begin by mid-March or in early April and by mid-April, the maize would have grown some centimeters off the ground, unlike this year. "Previously, we used to receive rainfall from March and our crops used to perform very well because by April our crops would have already germinated and grown significantly,” Cheruiyot said. He observed that the prolonged drought could be a result of climate change and the general destruction of the environment. “These days there are fewer trees. If you look around, you will see most trees have been cut down and this might be contributing to this situation,” the farmer said. Meanwhile, farmers in the region have been advised to practice crop diversification instead of relying solely on maize and wheat. Kenya National Farmers Federation chairperson Ruth Maraba said due to unpredictable rain patterns in the country, the only way farmers will cushion themselves from the effects of climate change is to plant short-term crops which will help them to solve the problem of food insecurity.  Edited by Henry Makori