Deputy President William Ruto has maintained the boss is always right and he therefore has no issue with President Uhuru Kenyatta choosing Interior CS Fred Matiang'i over him to lead key government functions. "It's his prerogative," Ruto said. "The style changed and it is the prerogative of the President being the boss…Because of change of style, priorities changed. Big 4 Agenda slowed down. My space was taken up by other people... It became urgent to change the constitution.” He spoke during an interview with Citizen TV on Thursday night. Matiang'i has been seen as a 'super CS' since he took charge of weekly Cabinet meetings in 2019. Ruto also said he has no problem with the opposition being involved in the running of the government including through inspecting Jubilee projects. This is after ODM leader Raila Odinga inspected projects with Uhuru early this month. Uhuru and Raila inspected Green Park Bus Terminus on April 1. Ruto said he has never changed his leadership style, and in fact that is what made Uhuru pick him as a running mate. He was responding to Uhuru's previous analogy of Ruto's ambition for the country's top seat where he likened the DP to a runner in a relay race who takes the baton and runs in the opposite direction. “There is absolutely nothing I have done differently from 2013 to now…I inspected government projects from 2013-2017 and no one complained, but after 2017, it became problematic to some people…I haven’t changed the style of my politics… ” Ruto maintained, "I know my place." The DP said he has never given Uhuru a condition that he had to support him in 2022. "Nobody should expect to be given the presidency by anyone. It is the people of Kenya who will decide," Ruto said. The DP said it is Uhuru who made the statement on his being in power for 10 years and passing the baton to him, not him. "The President is an adult and he is entitled to change his mind." "The President remains my friend, whether he supports me or not." Ruto took a swipe at officials in Jubilee party who are out to kick him out. " have tried all I could to see if we could work all this out in Jubilee…Unfortunately, those who call the shots are hardly sober. They appear on national TV drunk…That is the level of impunity..." he said. Ruto said he will not be bullied out of Jubilee. "I am not yet at the point where I want to resign...There are people who believe they can push me to resign but I want to remind them that I was elected. I am not going to give them the opportunity to celebrate their effort to push me out of government," he said.