A police station, dispensary, supermarket and restaurant will be provided at the new Green Park bus terminus. The terminus located at Railways Club will be the drop-off and pick-up point for  matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes once the Nairobi Metropolitan Services starts implementing decongestion plans in the Central Business District. Despite being a matatu terminus, amenities will be available to the commuters and PSV staff. A sitting bay has been set up on the right side as one enters the terminus, where commuters can rest as they wait for matatus. They are coloured grey and blue to shelter commuters from sun and rain. As muggers and pickpockets always hide among the crowds, a police post has been built at the terminus to provide a safe environment for commuters and matatu operators . People will not be required to walk to Central Police station to report crimes as the police post will look into security issues within the terminus. To respond to emergencies, a small dispensary has been set up. Staffed and fitted with equipment, the dispensary is on the left side of the terminus. It has been operating for two months. Phase two of the Green Park terminus includes a  Business Centre with a restaurant near the entrance of the terminus. Commuters will also be able to purchase items from traders at the terminus. NMS on Tuesday said traders who had been displaced to make way for the terminus will be given first priority to occupy the Business Centre. A small supermarket will be opened. Two ablution blocks already have been  up, one at the drop-off point and another at the pick-up area. They are hygienic and user-friendly to children and people living with disabilities. It is not whether or not people will have to pay to use the facilities. On Tuesday, the terminus was opened to the public and matatus for the first time as the Nairobi Metropolitan Service conducted a three-hour test run for dropping off commuters. It's not operating until further notice. otg (Edited by V. Graham)