The Muslim community in Mombasa face a possible closure of mosques during this Holy month of Ramadhan as the faithful continue to ignore Covid-19 protocols. The Muslim leadership in the region has warned that the government might order closure of all places of worship as cases continue to soar. In April last year, when the country had banned all religious congregations, Mombasa had only 127 cases of Covid-19. However, this April, cases had surpassed 975 as of Sunday. Last year, Muslim faithful across the country had to observe the Ramadhan under strict regulations after the national government ordered closure of all worship places. On Monday, Muslim clerics met with Governor Hassan Joho for an emergency meeting to discuss ways to curb rising cases. Led by Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council chair Sheikh Juma Ngao, the clerics warned the faithful against breaking fast together at the mosques. They also asked congregants to ensure physical distancing during prayers. “I call upon fellow Muslims to avoid breaking fast together. We are at extraordinary times and we need to be disciplined to protect each other. Do not give the government a reason to close our mosques,” Ngao said. During the Ramadhan month, Muslims observe dawn-to-dusk fast and usually meet in mosques in the evening or visit each another at home to break the fast together (eat Iftar). The pandemic has, however, disrupted the norm. This April, there has been an upsurge in the number of Covid cases in Mombasa county, with the numbers expected to surpass the 1,000 mark. However, it has been noted with concern that most mosques do not adhere to the one-third capacity rule during prayers. They allow congregants to converge to full capacity without observing physical distancing. The clerics also called on all imams and mosque committees to take charge and ensure all guidelines are adhered to. Ngao said a number of worshippers fail to wear face masks during prayers. Governor Joho cautioned residents against taking advantage of the Ramadhan to break protocols, warning that violations will attract stringent measures from the government. “My humble appeal to residents, especially my Muslim brothers and sisters, is let us follow the Ministry of Health rules. Ramadhan should not be used as an excuse for people to ignore the rules that are meant to protect us,” he said. So far, Mombasa has received 24,000 doses of Oxford AstraZeneca vaccine. According to data from the county Health department, more than 19,657 people had been vaccinated as of April 22.  -Edited by SKanyara