Youths employed under the National Hygiene Programme otherwise known as Kazi Mtaani in Narok have planted over 10,000 tree seedlings in government institutions. The trees include acacia, pine and gravellia species given by Kenya Forest Service and Narok Huduma Centre. The youths led by Stephen Tikani planted 2,000 seedlings at Maasai Mara University, 3,500 seedlings at the Narok Teachers College and 1,000 seedlings at the Narok law courts among other institutions. Tikani observed that they will continue planting trees in various institutions in a bid to attain the 10 per cent tree cover in the county and asked institutions that had benefited to take care of the trees. He lauded the government for giving them a chance to serve Kenyans and earn money and pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to extend their time of service. “We are grateful that we have been given a chance to serve Kenyans. I plead with the government to extend the programme as it has continued benefiting our families,” said Tikani. The youth leader called on the county government to help in sourcing for more seedlings as they have exhausted those in the government seedbeds. “We are yet to plant seedlings along the streets of Narok town and roads within the town. However, we have exhausted the seedbeds from which we were getting seedlings, so we request the county government to chip in and help in providing seedlings,” he said. Other works that the youth engage in include cleaning trading centres and public areas like police stations, hospitals, markets and schools. About 3,200 youth from the county benefited from the programme where each youth gets Sh455 per day while their supervisors get Sh 500. The beneficiaries were selected by the Nyumba Kumi elders who gave the first priority to the vulnerable families in the slums. The first phase of Kazi Mtaani was launched in April 2020 and the second in June 2020 with the aim of improving the livelihoods of youths who are facing tough economic time due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The third phase of the programme was launched in March 2021. Edited by Henry Makori