 The Kisumu government has distributed 45 more dairy cows to farmers to boost milk production in the county. The distribution to smallholder farmers was overseen by Agriculture executive Gilchrist Okuom on Tuesday. Some 454 dairy cows have been distributed to farmers since 2017. "Agribusiness being key in Governor Anyang Nyong'o's manifesto, the livestock directorate has endeavoured to empower the farmers to upgrade from cattle herders to dairy farmers where there are high returns depending on the effort put in production," Okuom said. The livestock directorate spent Sh6.75 million from the ward development allocation to purchase the dairy cows. Masogo Nyang'oma ward got 12 cows, North Nyakach eight, South East Nyakach 16, South West Nyakach seven. Seme and Kajulu wards got one each. Okuom said the directorate was applying various strategies including artificial insemination to improve and sustain dairy production. He said farmers were being supplied with heifers for a superior breed in terms of genetic composition and for better production of both meat and milk. "Tapping into the business opportunities across the entire dairy value chain, the department plans to work closely with the department of cooperatives and marketing in strengthening the societies to upscale value addition," he said. The CEC said milk production in the county is still not performing to its full capacity. Osiepe dairy centre in Muhoroni for example is unable to meet the capacity despite owning a 10,000-litre cooler plant. "We envisage to work at optimum to improve the nutritional status of our people, reduce milk importation and to improve access hence reducing the cost of milk within the county," Okuom said. He also urged the farmers to take good care of the cows as they are expected to pass on the calves to other members of their group. He however put on notice farmers who will not heed the requirements that the animals can be repossessed and given to another member. Okuom said the cows were like a conditional grant. County director of livestock Charles Kakuku noted that the mortality rate of the animals is minimal. He said the directorate had trained farmers on the best dairy practices such as carrying out routine tick control. Extension officers have also been deployed closer to the farmers. "We are giving cows to farmers who meet the requirements and encouraging them to use the call centre to access timely required services," he said. Of the 45 cows, one has already calved and the rest are expected to calve in the next three months, Kakuku said. The farmers who benefited from the initiative pledged to take care of the animals by forming groups to share ideas and best practices.  Edited by P.O