The newly appointed Harambee Starlets head coach, Charles Okere, says he is mentally prepared to grapple with the arduous task ahead. Okere inherited the mantle from David Ouma who quit in a huff, barely a day after Football Kenya Federation had reappointed him to take charge. FKF communicated their decision through a terse press release a fortnight ago, saying Ouma had 'agreed to leave on mutual consent.' Okere will be assisted by Godfrey Oduor and Mildred Cheche, who both served as assistant coach and intern coach at FKF-PL side KCB respectively. Okere said he was aware of the huge responsibility placed on his shoulders but assured football lovers he was willing to go a step further to steer the Starlets to unexplored heights. “I really feel honoured and privileged to be given this opportunity to serve the nation. It is always a huge achievement for anyone, be it a player or a coach to be handed a responsibility with the national team and I feel elated.” “This is a big challenge and one that I am ready for. It is an opportunity for me to continue learning and growing as a coach and I am willing to give my best to my country just as I have been doing for my club,” said Okere. He was full of praise for FKF Premier League side, Tusker, saying they had afforded him a rare opportunity to showcase his potential to the rest of the world. Okere was appointed to the Brewers' technical bench to deputise veteran tactician Robert Matano, and their efforts have seen Tusker maintain an impressive run this season. They are currently placed at the summit of the top-flight log on 36 points—six clear of second placed KCB. “I want to thank Tusker for the platform they have given me to work and be noticed. It is because of them that I am here today,” Okere stated. Reacting to Okere’s appointment, Tusker FC chairman Daniel Aduda said they were elated as a club with the news and wished their assistant coach well in his new role. “Congratulations to Okere on his new appointment. We are delighted and proud of him and we want to wish him all the best with his new role,” Aduda said. The brewers' CEO Charles Obiny was equally ecstatic: “We are proud of Okere and we hope he will continue with the good work at the national team and we pray for success for him.”