A section of nurses have vowed to fight what they term self-imposed leadership of Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako and his group. Led by Halima Adan, Panyako’s rival for the secretary general post, the group said it did not recognise him and all union officials elected on February 26. “The procedure for conducting union elections was grossly violated by Seth Panyako who introduced new rules extracted from the controversial constitution whose case is live in the Employment and Labour Relations Court,”  she said. Adan spoke on Wednesday during a press conference at the Kitui Multipurpose Development and Training Institute. She announced that her team will not tire of seeking justice and accountability until proper polls are held to instal the right leaders. Adan at the same time accused the registrar of trade unions of erring by recognising the union official. “Numerous petitions, done to the same office of the registrar among other offices in the ministry in charge of labour on how this purported election was arranged and conducted, remain unanswered,” she said. Adan disclosed that her team was in Kitui to launch the collection of signatures from nurses for a petition that will be launched in court to seek deregistration of Panyako’s team order fresh polls. She said it was time the union got new leadership to handle things more amicably away from Panyako’s style that has left the union membership in more problems and suffering. Adan said should her team be elected, it intends to engage the government soberly to reap gains for the members as it prioritises mending broken bridges and saving the suffering members. “We intend to lobby and dialogue and stop the emotional outbursts from the current regime and on this, we believe this noble profession must be assisted to get back and have a proper representation,” she said. However, speaking on the phone, Kitui branch deputy secretary John Kimanzi, who is Panyako's right-hand man, dismissed those who issued the statement as people with no mandate to address union matters. He said his boss Panyako would issue an extensive statement on the issue. But reached on the phone on Thursday, Panyako said he was not ready to engage the rival group on the issue. He said some of them were before court and he could not thus discuss them with the media.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris