The woes of Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology are far from over after a court nullified the appointment of council members, crippling its operations. Justice Stephen Radido of the Employment and Labour Relations Court ruled that five out of the six council members are in office illegally. In a judgment delivered on April 7, Radido declared that the decision by Education CS George Magoha to gazette and consequently appoint Dr Jane Musangi as the council chairperson and Stephen Mutoro, Connie Mogaka, Joshua Ogango and Githu Kiragu as members on March 20, 2020, contravened the Constitution. He declared the appointments null and void. "An order of certiorari be and is hereby issued to quash Gazette Notice No 2365 whose import was to purport to gazette 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th as chairperson and members of the Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology council respectively," the judgment reads. Bungoma-based activist Moses Lukoye had moved to court in the interest of the public to challenge the legality of the appointment of the five. He argued that the action breached national values and principles under articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution. Lukoye argued that the process was not open or competitive as required by law as the five were not on the shortlist of applicants. He said Musangi and Kiragu's appointments were gazetted before the publication of the shortlisted applicants. Lukoye sought orders squashing the gazettement of the five and a declaration that all decisions and actions by the five are null and void. He also prayed for the court to issue orders compelling Musangi, Mutoro, Ogango and Kiragu to refund allowances and cash handled by them from March 10, 2020. Prof Magoha and Attorney General Kihara Kariuki, in their submissions, defended the appointments, arguing that the Covid-19 crisis had interfered with the recruitment process and face-to-face interviews could not be conducted. They argued that they resorted to a database of those who had earlier served as members of university councils and were eligible for reappointment, hence there was no need to conduct competitive recruitment. They also argued that it was necessary to avoid a vacuum in the council to allow university operations to continue uninterrupted. They challenged the competency of the petition on the grounds that it did not meet the threshold set by precedence. But Radido said Magoha contradicted himself in his affidavit by admitting that interviews were conducted virtually while failing to explain what became of them (interviews). He said failure by the ministry to release the results of the interviews violated the values and principles of transparency and accountability, which permeate the public service. Radido said the explanation by the CS that the decision was based on the Covid-19 pandemic could not hold water because the interviews were conducted virtually. He ruled that there was no statutory or other legal basis given by the ministry for appointing persons who had not applied or been shortlisted and interviewed for the position of council member. "It was not open to the Cabinet Secretary to revert to the ministry's database and purport to appoint persons as members of the council as such course of action made meaningless and mockery the very reason why the positions had been advertised only weeks before," the judgment read. The council has since appealed against the judgment but has yet to be issued with orders staying it. It has suspended the fifth regular academics, research and students’ affairs committee meeting that had been slated for Friday. The status of affairs leaves the council completely crippled, with only one member, Dr Ahmed Diriye, who served in the former council and whose term of office has yet to end. This is the second time the appointment of the council chair has been contested in court. Kenya Universities Staff Union (Kusu) moved to court in 2019 after then-council chairman Jeremy Bundi was transferred to Pwani University to swap places with Musangi before the expiry of his term. The court overturned the decision. The university has remained without substantive leadership for 29 months now.  Vice chancellor Solomon Shibairo and all three DVCs are holding offices in an acting capacity. Kusu obtained orders in March barring the Public Service Commission from recruiting a substantive vice chancellor. The union argued that PSC had advertised, interviewed and shortlisted individuals for the positions in August 2018 and submitted names of successful applicants to Magoha. Kusu said restarting the process would be a waste of public resources and engaging in unfair labour practices. The petitioners want the university leadership picked from among the submitted names as no court has invalidated the recruitment process. The union sued the PSC, the university council, Magoha and the Attorney General. The matter will be determined on May 13. Edited by A.N