World Relay 4x400m sprinter Eglay Nalianya believes Kenya can clinch a medal in the race at the upcoming World Relay Championships at Selesia, Poland, thanks to the exploits of teammates Mary Moraa, Aaron Koech, Hellen Syombua, Stanley Kieti, Emmanuel Korir and Sylvia Chesebe. Nalianya said each of the athletes in team will bring their A-game to ensure the country stamps its authority in the race, which will be featuring for the second time ever at the global showpiece. "We have a good chance of winning the race or even setting a record in it. This is the second time the race will be featuring at the world stage and so far there is no favourite nation in this category. This is the best team we could have in this race because each of the athletes have excelled in their individual categories. My teammates are hungry for medals and this will push us to give our all in Poland," Nalianya said. They have been checking up and encouraging one another ever since they learnt that they would be teammates, which Nalianya believes has helped maintain their focus in their individual training. "Although we have not met since last Friday, we have been encouraging one another to keep working hard in train and not to lose sight of the prize. I am not worried about us being apart from one another for a while due to the corona restrictions. We may be a bit rusty but now that we are entering bubble camp training, I believe it will only take a matter of days before we are at our peak level and working as a team," she said. The 800m specialist, who was also part of the Kenyan team at the 2019 edition in Yokohama, Japan, attributed her inclusion in the team to her record of good performances on the global stage. However, her medal drought, which goes back to her junior running days in 2012, worries her. Nalianya, nonetheless, believes she is destined for her first career medal in 2021 after improving on her speed, which was previously her achilles heel. "Although the qualifying standards are high, I am hopeful of qualifying for Tokyo in the 800m. The high standards don't bother me so long as there are many opportunities for me to compete for a ticket. My training has changed so much to focus a lot on speed-work. I am now speedier than before and I can't wait to implement what I have learnt on the track." 