Residents of semi-arid Kitui county have been advised to harvest and store rainwater for use during the dry season. Kitui West deputy county commissioner John Waithaka said 70 per cent of residents suffer serious water scarcity while millions of gallons of the vital commodity go to waste each year. “This is either out of sheer ignorance or lack of the right information on how to harvest roof water. If the roof catchment water can be harnessed, the water problems our people are facing would be a thing of the past,” Waithaka said. Speaking to the media in his office on Monday, Waithaka said if every household could acquire a water storage tank to collect rainwater from their roofs, they would have more than enough water for domestic use. “It bothers me a lot when I come across residents leading a number of donkeys laden with jerry cans of water even when it has rained cats and dogs. The irony is that these people have houses that are roofed with iron sheets that can harvest a lot of water,” the administrator said.  Waithaka said he will carry out a sensitisation campaign across the region to encourage each household to install a water tank. “We have easy, clean and cheap water in plenty at our homes. It is better than the contaminated water from earth dams and water pans that are most often soiled with animal droppings. We are ready to work with the people to ensure they conserve and utilise rainwater,” he said. Residents should stop relying on boreholes, water pans and piped water located far from their homes, he said. “We need to tap rainwater because we have iron roofs all over in offices, schools and homes. A lot of water is unnecessarily going to waste.” The official lamented that during the rainy season, locals struggle with floods but shortly thereafter they face a debilitating water shortage. “Water can be tapped from the roofs and used economically. Roof harvested water is a resource that reduces water bills and the savings can be used in other projects,” Waithaka said.  Edited by Henry Makori