Health official are warning of a possible lockdown of Uasin Gishu county which has recorded high infection rate of Covid-19 in the last two weeks. Crowding in churches, matatus and bars has been blamed for the high rate of the infections in the county where most residents have abandoned control measures. Health Executive Evelyne Rotich said the county is recording more than 60 infections daily with many residents defying Ministry of Health control protocols. She said unless residents adhere to the protocols, the county risks having a lockdown imposed to control the spread. “Our people must revert back to measures including social distancing, use of masks and regular hand washing. Unless they do so, the numbers we are seeing could worsen,” said Rotich. ICU beds and other Covid-19 facilities are full to capacity due to high admissions in the region. Rotich said the county will crackdown on hotels, bars and other institutions openly defying the control measures. “We will withdraw licences for bars operating outside stipulated hours and without adhering to the measures in place,” said Rotich. However residents complained that some bar owners and matatu operators had been bragging that they pay bribes to county and security officers so that they are allowed to operate without following the protocols. Many bars in Eldoret operate overnight despite the curfew being in place. Most churches have also resumed full attendance instead of the one third outlined by the government. More than 40,000 people have so far been vaccinated in the North Rift counties which are at the same time recording increased cases of Covid-19. Rotich said the county, which leads in infections in the region, has so far vaccinated 19,000 front line workers. At the same time more than 15 street children in Eldoret have so far died of Covid-19 since the disease hit the country in March last year. Street families’ rehabilitation project coordinator James Juma says another 15 children are also admitted at various hospitals suffering from Covid-19 related conditions. Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich wants the government to ensure the street families also benefit from the ongoing vaccinations against Covid-19. The street families are considered super spreaders of the virus. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara