Delayed disbursement of the county cash by the National Treasury has continued to disrupt services and weakened the fight against Covid-19, Governors have warned. The Council of Governors said on Tuesday that county governments are currently operating on overdrafts as the Treasury is yet to release equitable share for three months. As a result, the devolved use bank overdrafts to pay staff and finance other day to today operations. “In light of the delay, counties are unable to pay the statutory deductions as required by law on the 9th of every month,” CoG chairman Martin Wambora is a statement on Tuesday. “In this regard, KRA needs to take cognizance of the prevailing situation as this has not only affected statutory remittances but also payment of contractors and allowances for Members of County Assemblies.” Wambora called on the County Assemblies to join the executives in engaging the National Treasury to release the funds to counties. “The council will convene a meeting with the Commissioner-General, Kenya Revenue Authority to find an amicable solution to the issue as we are aware that non-remittance of statutory deductions affects the collection of taxes,” the governor added. The 47 county governments are central to the fight against the pandemic since they are in charge of health services. Wambora said the counties are struggling to supplement the current oxygen and ICU bed capacity. In the wake of the third wave of Covid-19 pandemic, the counties argue they are currently spending huge resources in isolation facilities for healthcare workers to cater for their accommodation and food during the 14-day quarantine period. “A case in point is Kakamega County who is spending Sh8 million per month which is not factored in the current budget. We further note that resources are given to County Governments of Sh5 billion during the 1st wave was specifically for the procurement of isolation and ICU beds,” the council observed. “In this regard, the council requests the National Government to extend additional support to the County Governments to enable them to enhance their response measures in light of the current wave.” Wambora lamented that as devolved units continue to be on the frontline in the fight against the spread of the virus, they are however concerned about an increase in Covid-19 infections in the counties, which is aggravated by their inability to conduct testing due to lack of testing kits. “This is a major challenge as the virus is spreading rapidly and is overwhelming counties,” the statement said. According to the council, they will fast-track engagements with the Ministry of Health to finalize the arrangements with the willing development partners to avail free rapid testing kits and PCR Covid-19 testing equipment to all counties.