Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire has said more primary schools should be built in Kilifi county to address the problem of overage pupils in primary schools. Speaking at Dida after the groundbreaking of four classrooms for Dida Secondary school, Mwambire said in some areas of Kilifi the schools and so children cannot walk the long distances while they are very young. “In Ganze, for example, you will find places where the schools are over five kilometres away. Walking such a distance can be challenging to children who are five years and below. This means such children will start school when they are seven years and above. Definitely, they will complete primary school when their age has advanced,” said Mwambire. When he announced the KCPE results on Thursday, Education CS George Magoha listed Kilifi as the county with the highest entry for candidates who were 19 years and above. Kilifi had 3, 672, Turkana 3, 062, Kwale 2, 441, Busia 1, 692 and Garissa 1680. Mwambire also said some schools still force students to repeat classes. “The only way to resolve this problem is to make sure schools are closer to people so that students do not walk long distances to school," he said. Mwambire said he has lined up several schools for renovation and establishment of new ones. “I am working towards reducing the distance by putting up new schools and renovating those in a sorry state,” he added. County Devolution executive Prof Gabriel Katana said older students do not participate in class. Katana who served as the CEC for Education and as a member of the Task Force on the Competence Based Curriculum Development said such students perform dismally in class. “When they don’t get to school at the recommended age they perform other duties like herding animals at home until the parents are convinced they are old enough to walk to school. Because they are older, they tend to feel out of place in class because other students are younger, hence they feel shy,” he said. Kilifi county retired education officer Nelson Charo blamed poverty for the problem. Charo said sometimes parents are unable to provide basic learning items to their children, hence they decide to let them stay at home. “The poverty index in this area is high. Parents are sometimes caught between buying food or buying books and paying fees. It is common knowledge that food will be given priority. If we address the poverty problem then everything will fall into shape and our children will go to school at the right age,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori