African airlines are set to benefit from newly signed agreement that will address safe, secure, seamless, environmentally-friendly and affordable air travel, among others The deal is between the African Airline Association (AFRAA) and Airports Council International Africa (ACI Africa). AFRAA and ACI Africa will align their actions and work jointly on promotion and sharing of new guidelines to foster more productive engagement between airport operators and air carriers. The MoU was signed by Abderahmane Berthé, AFRAA’s Secretary General and Ali Tounsi, ACI Africa’s Secretary General. “The high cost of airline operations in Africa negatively impacts the viability of African airlines and hinders sustainable growth of air transport industry, one of the constituents of these high costs is the high aviation-related taxes in the region,” noted Berthé . They will also carry out safety enhancement initiatives in line with the Abuja Safety targets while promoting new technologies in air travel. Kenya has established a multi-sectoral committee to reinforce the efficiency and security of its international air services as it positions itself as a regional hub. The country's Jomo Kenyatta International Airport is a major hub for passengers connecting to Europe, US and even the Middle East. Refurbishment of the terminals 1B and C at JKIA are ongoing to  improve the check-in activity and enhance passenger lounge experience for travellers. The MoU will also see the formation of a focused think tank group led by AFRAA and ACI Africa and comprising  experts in airports and airlines, to exchange views, steer constructive dialogues and address matters of prime importance and interest for the air transport industry on Africa. They will also host joint events on how to render air travel more affordable in Africa. “The development of a safe, secure, and financially viable and sustainable air transport industry in Africa cannot be undertaken without a strong and enhanced collaboration between airports and airlines,” said ACI Africa’s Secretary General, Ali Tounsi. Twenty four million people in Africa depend on the travel and tourism industry with over six million jobs supported directly by the aviation industry, according to the International Air Transport Association.