An influential politician who has been running a car wash and carpet-cleaning operation on land said to have been irregularly acquired from Kenya Railways is a disappointed man. The public servant (Parliament Buildings pictured) could be counting huge losses with his businesses facing imminent demolition. A small bird whispers to Corridors of Power the politician had failed to thwart the latest bid by the agency to evict him. It is only a matter of time before the structures are brought down as they are on a railway reserve. *** We recently told you of a critical department in the security sector whose staff has been running roughshod over investigations. It has now emerged the head of the department could be planning radical surgery targeting long-serving officers at the headquarters. The shakeup, set to kick in within a month, will also demote staff accused of holding brief for some county officers. There have been claims of a coordinated approach by the well-connected officers to shield some county officers from investigations. However, while the reorganisation is welcome, many observers see this as part of a cover-up after a bungled probe of a county from Nyanza. Some officers are said to have pocketed 'facilitation' that was airlifted to Nairobi. *** Still on matters MPs, a disgruntled aspirant in an upcoming by-election is crying foul over a deal gone sour. The politician claims he has yet to receive his share of a negotiated deal in which he withdrew from the contest. He says his decision to quit the race was supposed to be appreciated, at least somehow. However, a key leader who promised him heaven has so far delivered nothing. The politician was overhead regretting and ranting to friends at a city hotel how he was coerced. It is not clear if he had a clear chance of winning. *** A group of lawyers are in a rush to join an online porn group where other learned friends freely post and discuss adult content. Sources indicate the  administrator, himself a lawyer, has been offered money by a section of lawyers who want to be added into the high-voltage group so that they too can partake of its pleasures. The group currently has 138 members – although it is seeking 200 members before freezing admission. The lawyers are fighting tooth and nail to make the cut; vetting is said to be rigorous. The group is said to be a playground for very senior members of society who are seen as 'influencers'. However, in the group, they gleefully share dirty stories and porn clips are freely circulated.