More than 20,000 smallholder fish farmers in 34 counties are learning how to produce cheap, high-quality floatable fish feeds with minimal pollutants. Aquaculture Association of Kenya CEO Stanley Mworia said members are being encouraged to manufacture or buy quality commercial feeds that are non-polluting. The association discourages using traditional feeds like avocadoes and arrowroot, which increase water pollution. Correct feeds, he said, will help preserve water bodies including Lake Victoria into which major rivers drain. Four years ago, the Kenyan government banned manufacture, importation, supply, distribution and use of non-woven polypropylene, popularly known as thin plastics. They are still used illegally and smuggled into the country. Plastic continues to be used for bottling liquids, mostly water and soft drinks, as well as other forms of packaging. This has contributed to the marine environmental hazards, including  untreated effluent from factories and agricultural chemicals leading to fish die-offs and algal blooms. Counties bordering the lake have reported fish deaths especially of Nile perch, or mbuta, but experts say they are normal periodic occurrences. Dr Chrisphine Nyamweya of the Kenya Marine and and Fisheries Institute said with dwindling capture, innovative methods of fish production like fish cages and ponds will help meet the rising demand for fish. He is assistant director for the study of fresh water and fresh water fish. Nyamweya said as Lake Victoria accounts for 80 per cent of all fish produced in the country, cage fish farmers are encouraged to practice quality production. It includes quality feed that must be floatable and all must be consumed. He said the ban on plastics reduced plastic pollutants, which degrade into microplastics that end up in fish. Their impact on humans is not yet known. “We need to improve the marine ecosystem as more communities shift to fish and the aquaculture industry expands," Dr Paul Orina said. He is the  assistant director for fresh water aquaculture. He said fish consumption in Kenya has increased from 25,000 and 35,000 tons a year to the current 100,000 tons. All the more reason for zero pollution in the blue economy, he said. (Edited by V. Graham)