One in three children in rural areas is stunted compared to approximately one in five in urban areas, a report shows. The report further shows the boy has a higher proportion of stunting, with 29.7 per cent being stunted compared to 24 per cent of girls. The 'An analysis of the national progress and household characteristics associated with stunting’ report was released by the National Information Platform for Food Security and Nutrition project team operating under the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics and the Kenya Institute of Public Policy Research and Analysis on Monday. Of greater concern, however, is that Kenya is unlikely to meet the national Big Four agenda target of reducing stunting to 19 per cent or the global World Health Assembly stunting target of 12.6 per cent by 2025. Though the stunting trends depict a downward trajectory with an average annual rate of reduction of 1.6 per cent, there is need to review key drivers of stunting reduction in the country, the report says. For instance, there was a 13.8 per cent drop in terms of the national proportion of stunted children between 1993 and 2014. “If this rate of reduction is sustained, the national stunting rate in 2025 and 2030 will be 23.8 per cent and 22.0 per cent, respectively,” the report states. According to the report, children residing in households with seven or more members had 50 per cent increased chances of being stunted thus requiring a set of health messages at community-level such as birth planning and control. “A higher proportion of stunted children were male, and being male increased the odds of a child being stunted by 33 per cent," the report states. In terms of age, the report shows out of all the children aged 18-23 months, 37.6 per cent were stunted. A child aged 18-23 months was 3.5 times more likely to be stunted than a child aged 6 to 8 months. “This implies that certain vulnerabilities are at play as children reach the stage of interacting with their environment independently,” the study finds. . “Given the strength of association between sex and age of a child with stunting, interventions that emphasise care giving practices, optimal feeding and other vulnerabilities associated with a child that is increasingly interacting with their environment would have a significant impact on stunting.” The report further shows children based in households that experienced drought/floods as a recent shock had 16 per cent reduced chances of being stunted. This is associated with consistent interventions carried out within regions that experience adverse weather conditions such as hunger safety nets, livestock destocking, resilient livelihood initiatives and climate adaptation initiatives. Similarly, a child whose mother had tertiary education was 48 per cent less likely to be stunted than a child whose mother had no education. “This implies that initiatives aimed at increasing the education level of girls need to aim for higher education as the attainment of such a goal is likely to have multiple outcomes,” the report says. According to the report, mother’s working pattern also increased the chances of a child being stunted, with a mother in seasonal employment having 26 per cent increased chances of having a stunted child compared to a mother in full time employment. This could imply that mothers in seasonal or casual employment have less predictable livelihoods, and this could affect the quality and quantity of diets administered to children. The report uses data from Kenya Demographic Health Surveys from 1993 to 2014 and sought to find out the national progress in stunting reduction between 1993 and 2014 for children aged 0-59 months. The second aim was to find out if Kenya will achieve its national and global targets for 2022 and 2025 if the current stunting performance is sustained. The project was funded by the European Union, the Foreign, commonwealth & Development Office and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.