There is a Facebook preacher who has really been hurting people’s feelings. I know because some of my Facebook friends usually engage in heated arguments in his comment section and you know Facebook algorithms, it is usually on my timeline as a suggested page. You also see so and so commented on this post. Clearly, Facebook is looking for my mouth (direct translation) because I find myself reading one comment then it is midnight and I have stalked half the people agreeing or disagreeing with him. Let me say this first. If God could do something about divorce, if he wanted us to stay married, if there was the one person who had your rib or whose rib you had, you would not meet narcissists. Domestic violence would be non-existent. We would not have to even search for our mates. We would find each other and live happily ever after. Since He cannot or will not, I guess hating it is the only thing He is going to do about it. Which has no bearing on human beings. It will happen, but that is just it. People, whichever way they like to be addressed, pastor, teacher, sheep, should not shame you for not being able to stay married. Hell, (pun) God could not keep you together! There are wretched people who have made it their life’s mission to try and make life difficult for people who have chosen not to stay married. Listen, staying in a marriage does not equal a happy marriage. So we are not moved by your testimonies of staying married for 30 years with God at the centre, because we know if God was really at the centre, you would not be asking women for nudes or hitting your wife or helping girls procure abortions. We know your type, please. (Not the Facebook guy, I do not know that one from a can of paint. In general, the ones who peddle his callous doctrine.) So let people breathe please, just as you have been let to live your lie, let others live their truth in peace. We need to stop touting lies and giving human beings rules that do not make sense. Oh, you cannot remarry unless the other party dies. At this rate, it is easier to kill the other party and ask for forgiveness. You know God forgives and has a sea of forgetfulness where He will throw your sin. Unless of course, it was divorce. There is no coming back from that one. You will spend the rest of your life paying for it. For one, you must be alone. In some churches, you may never participate in rituals that are important to you. Yes, many things are written in the Bible (I will single out this religious script, Bible, because I was raised, Christian). For example, Leviticus 24:16, Whoever utters the name of the Lord must be put to death. The whole community must stone him whether alien or native. If he utters the name, he must be put to death. Do you know how many people I would stone at work alone? “Jehovah is my witness” “God is my witness” “Jesus will vindicate me” Unless I do not know what ‘Lord’ they are talking about. I know there are those who want to say that is the Old Testament and the new one is in play. Well. Slaves, obey your earthly masters with deep respect and fear. Serve them sincerely as you would serve Christ. Ephesians 6:5 There are so many more verses, each more ridiculous than the last. Yet we find ways to work around them because granted, the world is changing and people no longer crucify criminals nor cross seas on foot. Why then can’t you allow someone to choose in many cases, happier, safer and healthier life through a divorce? No one should dictate to anyone how they should live their lives after living through hell. You decide. Remarry if you like. Don’t if you like. You are an adult. Believe me, God has more serious things to worry about than you trying to make the best of your life. Anyone condemning you for managing your life knows they are in trouble and it is easier to attack those braver than they are for doing what many cannot do. fellyoyuga@gmail.com