The big news this week concerns full backs. With Real Madrid’s Raphael Verane no closer to agreeing a new contract to replace the one which expires in 2022, I understand that Chelsea have now entered the race to explore signing him. Initially, Manchester United were leading the race for the player’s signature but the Blues have indicated that a fee of £61 million is within their spending power this summer. Chelsea are also looking at Bayern Munich’s Niklas Suze, who would cost them half that price. United have now completed and signed a new three-year contract for 27-year-old full back Eric Bailly and then there is the mouth-watering prospect that Madrid’s Sergio Ramos might finish his career in the Premier League which he has always admired and United definitely interests him. Verane is keen on moving and he is also aware that Bayern Munich’s David Alaba will be arriving at the Bernabeu Stadium on a free transfer which is what Real want at the moment given their perilous financial position. The chance to sell Verane and get Alaba through the door has obvious financial advantages. Arteta is losing the faith of his top players I am receiving reports that all is not well in the Arsenal dressing room. Senior players are upset at being blamed for poor results. Arteta keeps talking about the players being responsible for a lack of advancement for the team. Currently, Arsenal are mid-table in 10th place and 11 points behind West Ham who can qualify for a Europa League place next  season. Following a poor performance in the Europa League against Slavia Prague, Arteta’s tactics were criticised in many quarters and he only made changes in the 75th minute which was too late. Many of the players are unhappy with Arteta’s habit of leaving a senior player out of the team as a punishment and his treatment of Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang has upset many. New summer signing Thomas Partey is known to be unhappy with Arteta’s tactics not allowing him to play to his strengths in midfield and he too is frustrated. Fans have taken to social media claiming that Arteta is still living on his achievements with Pep Guardiola at Manchester City and he is not capable of running a top team on his own. The fact is that although Arteta is supposed to be rebuilding the Gunners his record so far is inferior to his predecessor Unai Emery however even with a disappointing season I am told that the board of directors will allow him next season to get things right. Watford back in the Premier League Alongside Norwich, we welcome back Watford next season as both have qualified for automatic promotion. Xisco Munoz surprised everyone when he took up the managerial role at Watford but his former club, Spanish side Valencia, knew he would succeed. His calm approach to football and switch to a 4-3-3 style has brought out the best in Ismaila Sarr, Jao Pedro, Ken Sema and Willl Hughes who will all thrill the Premier League next season. Believe it or not, Xisco now has to get the relevant coaching qualification to work in the Premier League and the Pozzo family owners have to stick with the Spaniard and not sack him if results do not go well at the beginning. Liverpool vs United in pre-season friendlies Liverpool and Manchester United are negotiating to play two pre-season friendlies at Old Trafford and Anfield during the summer. The idea is aimed to gradually bring fans back to the big stadiums after Covid-19. All restrictions are currently expected to be lifted on June 21st. I have learned that Liverpool are not planning a pre-season tour this year but will train in both Austria and France. Premier League Hall of Fame The Premier League has introduced its “Hall of Fame” and selected its first two legends. Alan Shearer, who holds the PL record as all-time top scorer hit the back of the net an incredible 260 times and won the league title with Blackburn. Thierry Henri was a leading member of the Arsenal Invincibles during and unbeaten run of games in 2003-4. Shearer said, “When you look at some of the unbelievable players to have graced the Premier League, I feel very honoured.” Henri said, “When I was young, I was just trying to make sure I could get a pair of boots and now we’re talking about the Hall of Fame.” Maitland-Niles wants to be accepted as a midfield player Talking to Arsenal’s wing-back Ainsley Maitland-Niles, it is obvious that he wants to be seen and accepted as a midfielder who is able to dictate a game and defend and push forward from the centre. Gunners’ boss Mikel Arteta never appreciated the talent he had at his disposal with Ainsley and gave him few opportunities to prove himself. A loan period with West Bromwich to gain more game time has worked out brilliantly for the 23-year-old. West Brom manager Sam Allardyce has told Arsenal he wants to keep Ainsley although several clubs are lining up for his signature. Leeds, Monaco in the French league and Wolves have all made their interest known. Mikel Arteta wants to rebuild the Arsenal squad this summer and has said Ainsley has a part to play. However, the player has indicated that he will probably move away. Leicester could be as good as Manchester City Leicester City manager Brendan Rodgers was asked this week what it would take to lift his team to the dizzy heights of Manchester City. He replied, “If you can get me £500 million, we might not be too far off it.“ Vardy’s secret? I think I have discovered the secret to 32-year-old Jamie Vardy’s energy and prolific goal-scoring performances. Before each game, he drinks two cans of Red Bull and runs around like a 20-year-old! Coutinho back on the market Philippe Coutinho might have played his last game for Barcelona following knee surgery. Coutinho, at 28 years-of-age, has appeared just 14 times for Barca this season having ruptured his meniscus which is a piece of cartilage in the knee and acts like a cushion between the bones. He has undergone surgery in his native Brazil for the second time and is unlikely play again this season. Barca still owe Liverpool a large part of Coutinho’s £142million transfer fee dating back to January 2018 and they are anxious to get him off their payroll. Fofana plays on empty stomach If your side needs an example of commitment then look no further than Leicester’s Wesley Fofana. Manager Brendan Rodgers hailed him as “remarkable” for playing well during the match against West Bromwich Albion. Wesley had fasted during Ramadan for 15 hours and not eaten a thing and then played for a full 60 minutes. Impressive! Leeds eye Ajax Hartman For a large part of the season, Leeds manager Marcelo Bielsa has been using Ezgjan Alioski and Stuart Dallas as cover for left-back after failing to sign a new player for that position in July last year. Alioski ’s contract ends in two months and he is tipped to leave Elland Road. Bielsa’s scouts have earmarked Ajax defender Nicolas Tagliafico as the perfect fit. The Argentine Hartman is 28 years-of-age and has a tough reputation with 41 yellow cards and two reds in three years for Ajax and Argentina. In a warning to Premier League strikers and forwards he said, “I am the kind of player who can show his skills. But I am also the kind of man who has learnt other strategies which I need to use when it is not possible to win with skills!” You have been warned! Decision time over Lingard Jess Lingard’s incredibly hot streak of form at West Ham has given both Ole Gunner Solskjaer and David Moyes headaches. The Man United and West Ham bosses have to decide what to do in the upcoming summer transfer season. Lingard has hit eight goals in nine games and made plenty of assists. Solskjaer has been watching very carefully and Lingard’s form has increased his value and earned him an England international recall. Now the two clubs are talking to see if there is a way of swapping Lingard plus cash for West Ham’s Declan Rice as Solskjaer looks to boost his ageing midfield set up. Rice, who is currently on the injured list with a knee problem, is rated by David Moyes at over £100m and Lingard is one of the hottest properties in the Premier League on current form. Moyes does not want to sell Rice but he knows that the big six all rate the 26-year-old and bids will arrive for the transfer period in June. Lingard’s United contract expires in 2022 so United will be anxious to make a decision to either keep him or sell him. Noble and Lingard out on the town West Ham club captain Mark Noble owes Jesse Lingard a night out in the town. When Jesse joined the Hammers, Mark told him he would pay for them both to have a night out and stay at the top class five-star Corinthia Hotel in London if Jesse scored eight goals or more during their quest for a top four place in the league. Jesse has achieved that already!