Commuters on the Lamu-Garsen road have appealed to the government to hasten the completion of major sections of the road. There are concerns that the rainy seasons might cause damage to such parts of the road. Terror-prone sections of the road like Milihoi, Mkunumbi, Koreni, Kibaoni and Witu areas are still dilapidated. There have been numerous calls for the government to compel the contractor to speed up works to boost security and enhance the movement of passengers and security vehicles. Construction of the 135km road is being undertaken by the H-Young Company in collaboration with GIBB Africa Limited, having won the Sh10.8 billion tender in 2017. Currently, about 85 per cent of the road has been tarmacked. Driver Musa Khalif said it has become difficult to navigate the incomplete sections of the road due to the rainy weather. “We are however worried about the incomplete sections of the road such as Milihoi and Witu. It's the rainy season and we fear they might be swept away by floods. We urge the contractor to speed up the works to enable smooth and safe operations," Khalif said. Cargo transporter Mohamed Salaam said Ramadhan period will attract many people to the region and as such there is a need for the road to be in perfect condition as there will be more vehicles plying it. Travellers between Mombasa and Lamu have been spending extra time on the road as drivers are forced to slow down to avoid accidents. “These particular sections flood whenever it rains. Moving past them is really a gamble and despite my experience as a driver, I break a sweat," Salaam said. Areas like Milihoi and Mambo Sasa have in the previous years witnessed the most gruesome al Shabaab attacks that left many civilians and security officers dead. The most notable death was that of former PS Mariam El-Maawy whose entourage was attacked by militants at Milihoi area. Everyone died except the PS who later succumbed to her injuries at a South African hospital. There has been some level of confidence among travellers and a sense of improved security since the construction of the road started in 2017. Many, however, still feel the incomplete sections might give the enemy leeway in case of an attack. "The strategy employed by the contractor is working on some sections and not others is not really favourable, if you ask me. It’s still very easy for terrorists to ambush you and you wouldn't even notice until they are already on you," said elder Musa Muzdalifa. In his response, Kenya National Highway Authority head of communications Charles Njogu said their target is to have the road project delivered before the end of the year. He said the upgrading of the road will enhance peace and security in the frontier region. Edited by Henry Makori