After intense research on what investment opportunity would bring him good returns, Victor Kipngetich, 24, ventured into amaranth farming. His initiative has turned the Kazi Mtaani supervisor from Ainamoi in Kericho county into an inspiration for many youths. “Here in Ainamoi, leasing land is very affordable. I pay Sh2,000 per year for a 50 by 100 piece of land where I am able to plant amaranth seeds,” Kipngetich said. Amaranth, popularly referred to as terere or mchicha, is highly nutritious as it is rich in proteins, vitamins and dietary fibre. His quarter-acre farm produces anything between 100kg and 200kg of amaranth seeds every three months. The average price per kilo is Sh800. Kipngetich revealed that he earned over Sh120,000 from the last harvest and expects to reap even more at the end of May when he will harvest next. “As a Kazi Mtaani supervisor, I earn Sh5,555 every 11 days and since last year I saved that money and was able to start my farming project. I have been able to even assist my fellow youths who did not qualify for Kazi Mtaani. I have employed them as casual labourers in my project,” he said. Before joining Kazi Mtaani, Kipngetich was a recruit at the National Youth Service but dropped out at the height of Covid-19 pandemic last year to take care of his ailing father. “I hope to continue with agribusiness projects including poultry farming, which I intend to start later this year. I will continue with Kazi Mtaani and I urge the government to extend the initiative,” he said. The National Hygiene Programme popularly known as Kazi Mtaani has transformed the lives of thousands of youth in Kericho county most of whom had been rendered jobless due to the effects of Covid-19. The decision to extend the initiative for the next six months has been a reason to smile for many young people who can testify to the transformative impact of the programme. Kericho county commissioner Kamau Karung’o expressed satisfaction with the positive impact of the Kazi Mtaani initiative, which has greatly improved the lives of the youth in Kericho. He hoped that the Kazi Mtaani extension to June will keep the youth in Kericho busy as they earn a decent living and invest in income generating projects. Some of the activities of the Kazi Mtaani programme include garbage collection and street cleaning, fumigation and unclogging of drainages, and rehabilitation of public facilities such as buildings, access roads and walkways. Edited by Henry Makori