It was initially praised as an example of family democracy but it looks like a family feud. The Koinange family announced last week that it had settled on Lenah Koinange as its choice for the Kiambaa by-election in Kiambu county. The date is yet to be announced. Lenah is former Cabinet minister Mbiyu Koinange's daughter. But former Kiambu Woman Representative aspirant and Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange's wife June on Monday declared interest in succeeding her husband. This comes a week after the family of the deceased MP settled on his cousin, Lenah Koinange, for the by-election. Paul was the son of Charles Karuga Koinange, a former powerful provincial commissioner and scion of senior pre-Independence chief Koinange wa Mbiyu. June who ran for Kiambu Woman Representative in the 2013 and 2017 General Elections, declared she will throw her hat in the ring to succeed the father of her children. This would raise the stakes in the battle for the Jubilee ticket. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is yet to declare the seat vacant and set the stage for the IEBC to set the date for the by-election. Popularly referred to as Maitu June, she said that after mourning her husband it was time for her to declare her interest. She said her decision to run for the Kiambaa seat came as a response to her children, family members, Kiambaa residents, voters' pressure, the national agenda and prayerful considerations. “There have been many discussions in Kiambaa that have brought together voters as well as thought and opinion leaders. The people have agreed that they need a strong personality to complete projects started and initiated by the late Hon Paul Koinange," the widow said in a statement. She said  Kiambaa voters and stakeholders as well as the political class have been consulting to identify candidates ahead of the Kiambaa by election that fell vacant upon the death of the former National Security Committee chairperson. "They also need a personality who can defend President Uhuru Kenyatta’s agenda at the national level. The people have identified me,’’ she said. The professional psychologist said her strong understanding of the CDF projects and constituency needs gives her an advantage in the by-election. “I have a solid understanding of Kiambaa development needs because I interact with the people on a regular basis. I am ready and willing to continue with Paul’s agenda at the national and constituency levels,” she added. She went on : “Honourable Koinange was a key player at the national level where he protected and fought for President Kenyatta’s interests. He was a key BBI player. His replacement must have similar or same characteristics.” The TNA aspirant in the 2013 General Election said she will now embark on a door-to-door campaign to deliver her message. “We will run a campaign consistent with Covid-19  protocols. Our campaign will be anchored on Kiambaa interests “she said. Last week, the family of Paul Koinange said it had picked Lenah to vie for the Kiambaa seat on the Jubilee ticket. Through spokesman Leonard Karuga, they said 10 family members were interested in the seat but they had agreed to support Lenah. “It was a tough decision but we all agreed to support Lenah who is Koinange’s last born,” Karuga said. (Edited by V. Graham)