More than 3,000 residents in South West Nyakach are set to benefit from a Sh2.3 million water project commissioned by the Kisumu county government. Deputy Governor Dr Matthews Owili on Friday led a team of county government officials during the groundbreaking ceremony for the construction of Obura/NK Ngala water project. Locals from South West Nyakach have been in the past hit with acute water shortage. Owili lauded the project, terming it a gift and reprieve to the community members who have been walking over long distance on such of clean and safe water for domestic use. He was accompanied by county water executive Salmon Orimba and South West Nyakach MCA Gard Olima, Muhoroni Koru MCA Maurice Genga among other county government officials and representatives from Living Water.  The water project is being implemented in a partnership between Living Water Service Center and the County Goverment of Kisumu. The project will entail pipeline extensions of about 2.7km, provision of standard water kiosks with installed storage capacity of five cubic  meters. Upon completion, Owili said the project will supply clean water to thousands of community members including learning institutions. "The community members will also benefit from hygiene promotion, capacity building among other corporate social responsibility activities," he added. The DG also inspected the ongoing works at the modern market being constructed at Katito, which was recently upgraded to town status. Orimba said the county government remains committed to ensure locals access clean and safe water supply across the county. He noted that various water projects have been completed and operational in subcounties with some ongoing to enable the county realise on adequate water provision. "We target to have our people access water supply without any struggle. This is the agenda of Governor Anyang Nyong'o and his entire county team," Orimba said. Olima commended the project saying it will massively boost water supply to residents. In the past, he has been a sharp critic of county government on matters development saying Nyakach subcounty had been sidelined on projects implementation. Genga also praised the water project and urged locals to work closely with for the success of the ongoing development projects. Last year, the county government partnered with Living Water International to build a Sh64 million water project in Nyakach subcounty. The project is expected to be completed this year. Owili said the county and the partner have each contributed Sh32 million towards the project. More than 20,000 residents in Central Nyakach will receive clean, safe and affordable drinking water after completion. We expect to complete the project in the first quarter of 2021. This is in line with our agenda to increase water coverage, which currently stands at 57 percent,” he said. Owili said residents have grappled with acute water shortage for years. “We are going to tap the water from Nyabondo Plateau before distributing it to the population downstream,” he said. The county government, he said, is committed to realising 90 percent water coverage in 10 years.