Lawrence Warunge, the main suspect in the murder of four family members and their farmhand, is fit to stand trial, his maternal uncle has said. Dan Njeru, the brother of Warunge's mother, said they have seen a mental assessment report expected to be presented in court on Wednesday. This means Warunge, the main suspect in the murder of his father, mother, brother, cousin and a farmhand, can now take plea. Kiambu magistrate Patricia Gichohi had set a hearing for April 14 to find out if Warunge is fit to take plea. She can now set a trial date. A psychiatrist at Mathari Mental Hospital had told the court that the suspect was still unfit to take a plea. It was the third mental assessment. The psychiatrist said in his report that Warunge was responding well to treatment although he remained on medication. “Despite the second review of the suspect that was on March 12, 2021, Warunge is still not fit to take plea,” the report said. Warunge is being held at the Nairobi Remand Home awaiting the start of the trial. A January 26 mental assessment showed that Warunge suffered from induced psychosis. The mental disorder causes thoughts and emotions to be so impaired that contact is lost with reality. An examination conducted at Mathari Mental Hospital found that Warunge drunk spirits and smoked marijuana, which caused him paranoid delusions. The investigating officer asked the court to adjourn the case as the suspect had been quarantined at the remand facility. He could not appear before the court physically. The prosecution team led by Christine Mbevi advised the court to set the matter after April 12, a month after the mental review. The initial mental assessment report said Warunge had a frosty relationship with his father, whom he accused of side-lining him. Warunge an IT student at Mount Kenya University, was suspected alongside his girlfriend of killing his father, Nicholas Njoroge Warunge, mother Ann Wanjiku, his brother Christian Njenga Njoroge, cousin Maxwell Njenga and farmhand James Kinyanjui. His girlfriend, Sarah Muthoni, had charges against her dropped after she agreed to help the state crack the case. Muthoni had been detained at Muthaiga police station for 15 days before her release in February. The prosecution applied to have her as a state witness. A murder suspect cannot take a plea if they are not mentally competent to stand trial. The court during trial will consider the possibility of the guilty mind, commonly referred to as the mens rea, presumption of innocence, and fair trial. In cases where it is established that a suspect had a mental disorder, the courts have delivered a special finding of ‘guilty but insane’. In such cases, suspects may be detained awaiting the President’s order, which may include an order to be detained in a mental hospital, prison or other suitable places of safe custody. This ensures offenders of unsound mind, who are found to be a potential threat to the security of other members of society, are placed at bay.   (edited by o. owino)