The body of Keziah Obama, stepmother to former US President Barack Obama is expected back in the country on Tuesday. Her son Malik Obama confirmed on Friday morning. He however declined to provide details of the repatriation saying only tentative dates are available at this time. However, sources from the family that sought anonymity told the Star that the body is expected on Tuesday morning and upon arrival at the JKIA from the UK, it will be flown to Kisumu International Airport. It will then be collected by the family representative and a few relatives and moved by road to Nyang’oma Kogelo village in Siaya for an overnight stay. She will be laid to rest the following day.” Last week Saturday, Malik said plans to bring her body back to the country were on top gear. Keziah died at a London hospital on April 13, aged 81. According to Malik, a  small committee had been formed in the UK to spearhead the process. “We're looking at repatriation with different funeral companies and comparing prices. A small committee has been formed,” he said. Malik said the committee was working to get the death certificate issued so the body can be brought back to Kenya. “The death certificate has not been issued. The hospital updated that it may be issued on Monday or Tuesday next week,” he said then. He said every move depends on the issuance of the certificate. Malik, a step-brother of former US President, thanked everyone who has been part of bringing his mother’s body back home. He said every country has its own repatriation rules.“We have to follow the law. No shortcuts. We will update you as plans unfold,” Malik said. Back in Kogelo village, Siaya county, where the family is planning to bury Kezia,  a funds drive was launched. According to Said Obama, the fundraiser was meant to help the family feed guests who have been visiting to condole with them. He said the appeal was targeting only those willing to contribute towards the funeral expenses. “There's a perception that because we're associated with the former US president, we should not behave like other families. I think this is unfair,” he said. He said there's nothing wrong with members of the public contributing if they are willing to do so. The family also created a WhatsApp group to coordinate fundraising activities. The Star was unable to establish how much has been raised so far as Malik did not comment about the issue. Said, is the son of Mama Sarah Obama who died last month and uncle to Malik, Auma and Abo. Kezia was one of the two wives of Barack Obama Snr, the father of the former US President. She is the mother of Malik, Auma and Mustapha Abo. Kezia has lived been in the UK for over a decade. She skipped the burial of Mama Sarah on March 30, due to illness. Her children had earlier written to the Foreign Affairs ministry seeking special permits to allow the transportation of the body. “We hope the government will intervene. We need to bury our mum home,”  Malik said at the time.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris