I do not need English to be a good politician, Bonchari by-election candidate Teresa Bitutu has told her detractors. The UDA candidate, who is the widow of former MP Oroo Oyioka, has been criticised by some of her opponents for her poor grasp of the English language. Speaking in an interview on Getembe TV on Thursday, Bitutu said if English is all that is needed to be a successful politician she can hire an interpreter or Parliament can get one for her. “For those who say I don’t know  English, and that I don’t know what I'm going to talk there [Parliament], let them be ashamed,” she said. Bitutu said much of the social media war being waged against her was orchestrated by the men in the race. She said women in the race have been unfairly targeted. There are two other women beside Bitutu, Mary Otara of United Green Party and Mary Nyabuto of Maendeleo  Chapchap. The other candidates are Zebedeo Opore (Jubilee ), Pavel Oimeke (ODM), Jonah Onkendi (New Democrats), Erick Oigo (National Reconstruction Party), Paul Mogiti (Mwangaza Party), Victor Omanwa (Party of Economic Democracy) , Charles Ndege (Progressive Party of Kenya), David Ogega (Kenya Social Congress) and Kevin Mosomi. The Bonchari by-election is set for May 18. The seat fell vacant following Oyioka's death on February 15. His widow Bitutu said male candidates had been urging her to drop her bid because she does not know where Nairobi is. “That is no problem, I will tell someone to direct me there,” she said. Bitutu told her detractors to sell their agenda instead. “They have rolled up their sleeves to fight me, a mere woman. They must be scared, they ought to be ashamed of it,” she said. “They are claiming to know English , but do wananchi care? Do I even need it to talk with them [wananchi]? Leave me alone and concentrate on [your] battles.” Bitutu said every political leader has small beginnings before growing in stature. “Surely you don’t necessarily need English to reach there,” she said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya