Migori Governor Okoth Obado has mounted a massive membership recruitment drive for the People Democratic Party weeks after announcing he will ditch Raila Odinga-led ODM. The listing exercise, which started last month, is expected to run up to the end of the year. Migori, according to 2017 IEBC register, has 388,633 registered voters spread across eight constituencies — Rongo, Kuria West and East, Suna West and East, Uriri, Awendo and Nyatike Constituencies. Insiders who spoke to the Star in confidence said the governor is not only pushing to lock ODM out of Migori but wants PDP, whose ticket he won the governor seat on in 2013, to grab all the elective positions in the county to increase his national political stake. An expansive office that he initially offered to ODM in the run-up to 2017 election has now been converted to PDP’s operation headquarters, where the ongoing recruitment is coordinated from. The office, which was once christened Orange House 044 has been repainted from orange (ODM colours) to grey, indicating all is not rosy between the governor and Raila's party. Obado's point men have rolled out registration and membership drive across the county manually and digitally. The governor, who is serving his second and last term in office, has also roped in members of the rival faction of Luo Council of Elders led by Nyandiko Ongadi in his bid to have an alternative political voice away from ODM. He has met the elders at his Rapogi home in Uriri constituency, PDP and next year's election plans were discussed. Obado’s grassroots mobilisation for the little-known PDP has already met resistance from ODM leaders in the county. While meeting the elders last week, Obado said several governors and leaders have other parties in other regions and called on Nyanza people to be tolerant with him. He said, "Don't step on me as I move forward to popularise my party. I want to give democratic voice to people.’ Raila’s men from the county led by Senator Ochillo Ayako have dismissed Obado’s move as an exercise in futility. “Obado is like a man who has scooped his own feaces in his hands by challenging ODM in the area. He will walk around with stinking hands and should not blame anybody,” Ochillo, his key rival and critic, said. Speaking at Migori South SDA Church on Saturday, Suna West MP Peter Masara said everybody in Migori is a diehard Raila supporter and that Obado’s move is disastrous. “When he will be out to campaign with the PDP ticket as a candidate in any preferred seat and support his political friends, we will put him to task to explain how billions of devolved funds have been used,” Masara said. He termed Obado's development record as a disaster, saying he is better off safeguarding his legacy for his two terms in office instead of antagonising ODM in Migori, a mission he said was impossible. Odege said since becoming governor in 2013 on the PDP ticket, Obado became an overnight millionaire together with his cronies at the detriment of residents who lack any proven development record to show. “We have been uncomfortable with him in the ODM party, even when he defected back. By publicly coming out with this outfit, we will be able to handle him easily politically,” he said. North Kanyamkago MCA George Omamba, South Kanyamkago ward rep Graham Kagali and their Muhuru Bay counterpart Hevron Maira in separate interviews termed Obado’s PDP dead on arrival. “We call on Obado to go ahead and officially resign from ODM and concentrate on leaving a legacy with his development agenda, which is wanting across the county,” Maira said. Kagali called on Chungwa House to officially expel the governor from the party and fill any existing vacuum he may leave ahead of  next year's polls. Obado had been having run-ins with Raila and ODM since trouncing the party candidate candidate and winning the gubernatorial seat in 2013 on PDP. In 2017, Obado opted to defend his seat on the ODM ticket after mending fences with the party leader. Edited by EKibii