The Covid-19 pandemic has caused a firewood shortage at the Kariokor crematorium for Asians and the community is appealing for urgent donations of dry wood. Blue gum is best. The facility is the only crematorium for Nairobi's Asian community. Elderly members of the community have been among the worst hit by the virus. Hindus cremate their dead. The appeal aims to ensure as many people as possible are able to cremate their loved ones. "Last week, we appealed to all Indian community members to donate firewood as our crematorium has run out of firewood," a member of the community belonging to a number of Chuti groups said. An undertaker at the crematorium, Harish Dariabhai, told the Star blue gum works best but it is in short supply. He has had to seek help with friends to keep up with huge demand. The facility can cremate eight to 10 bodies at a time but currently, only two bodies at most can be cremated in a day. The shortage persisted for two or three weeks, but the situation is improving as supplies are beginning to come in," Dariabhai said. Covid, however, continues to claim more victims. "Urgently needed! Due to the current situation of Covid-19, lots of deaths are happening, therefore, we are urgently in need of logs (wood) at our Shamsan Bhumi. "A humble request to all members to help," an appeal on social media said. "It's really essential. Dear Hindu community, your family members need your assistance. Please help and forward this to as many groups as you can." Besides the high number of Covid-19 deaths in the community, the undertaker said, the pressure has intensified because Kariokor is the only facility serving Nairobi's Asian community. "Imagine, in the entire Nairobi, this is the only crematorium serving the Asians. So the pressure from increased numbers is real," Dariabhai said. He said he has had to rely on friends to get dried blue gum wood. The alternatives are still raw and take longer to burn, in spite of added fuel. "You, the family members, wait to the end of the process to carry the ashes home. Raw wood makes the process tedious," Dariabhai said. (Edited by V. Graham) 