Vivian Nyaboke is one of the 40 candidates who sat their 2020 KCPE exam at New Riverstar Academy in Soweto slum, Kayole Estate, Nairobi. The 13-year-old girl was among the 645 pupils admitted to the school by director Lul Bilow. She scored 411 marks in the exam, emerging top at the institution which had a mean score of 371. Four other candidates of New Riverstar Academy scored over 400 marks in a class of 40 pupils. They are Misky Hussein, 13, who scored 408 marks, Abdikadir Farah (13) who got 405 marks, Robert Kimanthi, 14, scored 405, while Favor Anyosa (13) had 401 marks. Nyaboke hopes to Kenya High School, while Kimanthi’s dream school is Machakos Boys High. Anyosa also wants to accompany Nyaboke at Kenya High School, Nairobi. Nyaboke said dreams of children in slums are valid too just like their counterparts from the well-off families and backgrounds. She aspires to become a doctor, while Hussein wants to be a lawyer. Kimanthi wants to be a doctor and Anyosa dreams of becoming a pilot. Excited a proud of her performance in the KCPE exam, Nyaboke said with hard work, discipline and God’s grace, she is confident that she would achieve her dreams. “Education is the equaliser in life hence the need for supporting children from humble backgrounds like us through their education. We have endured a lot of challenges within the slums to get through our primary education,” Nyaboke said. She said the challenges ranged from inability to access the basic needs due to poverty, insecurity within the slums, and Covid-19 that led to interruption of the country's education calendar. They spoke to reporters during the celebrations at the school compound on Saturday. All the children said the school offered them conducive environment and support hence the good results. Billow has admitted 100 children to her school. Most of them come from humble backgrounds. The director said having the children in school goes a long way in improving security in the area, adding that such children would easily turn to crime to eke a living. New Riverstar Academy is run by Billow’s family. She said her family resorted to supporting the children so they can have a brighter future. With proper education, they will change their families fortunes and inspire other members of society. "The school supplies free water to residents as a corporate social responsibility,” Billow said. She said their contributions have improved security in the slums. “We are contented with what we do since our contribution helps in retaining children in schools. By so doing, they don’t loiter around or engage in crime and drugs,” Billow said. The slums include Soweto, Kayole, Mathare, Mukuru Kwa Njenga and Dandora. It also has a secondary wing called New River Star Secondary. School head teacher Morphat Nyakundi said, “We have consistently continued to register academic progress in our KCPE exams results. Our first class was in 2015 when our best candidate scored 320 marks, in 2019 we had two candidates scoring over 400, and one had 411 while the other 400.” “This time, five candidates scored over 400 marks. This is impressive given that we are just a young school in the slums.” The school was founded in 2010 to support needy children. He said they had worked hard despite adverse effects of Covid-19 in their operations. “We worked hard, pupils revised day and night including weekends. We appreciate teachers and all the candidates for what they have done,” Nyakundi said.                        