 The government has released an additional Sh3.14 billion for the carpeting of Kibwezi-Mutomo-Kitui-Kabati-Migwani-Mbondoni road. The project was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2016 but works stalled last year. The Sh18.4 billion project was to be completed in February this year. Mwingi West MP Charles Nguna on Saturday said the government released the additional funds and subsequently approved a variation of a contract to upgrade the road. The contractor was given time extension to complete the works. Nguna said the project had been met with challenges before it stalled. The challenges included lack of funds. The MP spoke in Migwani in his contituency during the burial of Joseph Kimanzi Kiberiti. Kiberiti was the officer-in-charge of Waita GK Prison in Mwingi Central. Nguna said the government released the additional amount, thereby revising the total contract sum from Sh18.4 billion to Sh21.5 billion for an execution period of 12 months. He said Kenya National Highways Authority had informed the Chinese contractor Sinohydro Corporation of the new development and about the revision of the contract expiry from February 15 to August 19 this year. In his letter, Kenha director-general Peter Mundinia told the contractor to ensure the performance bond and insurance cover are extended accordingly. The road passes through Nguna's constituency. The MP said it has been a challenging task to fight for the resumption of the works after the upgrading stalled last year and the contractor pulled out. “It has not been a walk in the pack in harmonising some challenges here and there to make the project a reality and for the people to reap the fruits of devolution.  Personally, I am humbled in thanking the government for honouring me and the constituents to offer to complete the road during my tenure,” Nguna said. The road will join the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport corridor, creating a link between the country’s coastal region and the Northern Corridor, and boosting businesses along the route. It is part of the Vision 2030 projects. Nguna said the highway holds the key to unlocking the economic potential for the three Ukambani counties and beyond. When complete, the road is expected to provide an easy link to Tana River county and help boost tourism, mineral exploitation, and transportation of agricultural produce. It will also link the region to the Port of Mombasa.  Edited by P.O