Homa Bay Governor Cyprian Awiti has called on the residents to ignore misinformation surrounding the ongoing vaccination against the Covid-19 pandemic. Awiti said the third wave which Kenyans are experiencing is dangerous and should not be given room to spread. The governor instead asked residents to turn up for the jab and not fall for misconceptions being said about the vaccine. The Ministry Of Health has come out and clarified that the AstraZeneca vaccine is safe. According to statistics by the county health department,  only 5,465 people had been vaccinated by the end of Thursday. Those vaccinated include 2,067 health workers, 1,158 teachers, 267 security officers and 1,973 elderly persons. The county had received 9,000 doses of AstraZeneca vaccine. “I want our people to ignore rumours about the vaccine and instead get the jab. The Ministry of Health trusts and has approved the vaccine,” Awiti said. Speaking on Friday when he received the vaccination in his office, Awiti said nobody should fear getting the jab as it is safe and the exercise is being undertaken by trained medical officers. Awiti was in company by Health executive Richard Muga, the county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Finance executive and chief of staff Eliud Otieno. The vaccine has been distributed to all eight sub county health facilities for easy accessibility by residents. Awiti said vaccination boosts human immune system and reduces severity of the virus should one contract Covid-19. “Let’s not fear getting vaccinated because I have also done it. I also appeal to county officers to get it done,” he added. Ogwe and staffers at various offices including the governor’s office received the vaccination. “We’re now walking the talk. The number of people getting vaccinated is impressing but we can adjust it,” Awiti said. Muga urged residents to continue complying with the laid-down regulations to prevent spread of Covid-19. “Let’s not get tired of adhering to the protocols. We’ll remain susceptible to the disease if we don’t comply with the rules,” Muga said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 