Kenyan motorsport legend Carl 'Flash' Tundo is all smiles after he was selected to drive one of the seven R5 supercars at this weekend's FIA ARC Equator Rally. Tundo, who has been running a Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution 10-R4, will now drive the VW Polo R5 car, which was initially set to be driven by Oman-based British driver Pratul Ghose. "It's a big task as we have got only four days to the event. It's a great left-hand drive machine. I have not seen it but I hope it's going to be a fun weekend even though I have no idea how it will handle our terrain, " Tundo said. Ghose opted out due to logistical challenges occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. "With the prevailing global Covid-19 pandemic, Minti Motorsport, a team made up of members from across the world are finding it difficult to ‘assemble’ in Kenya for the forthcoming ARC and WRC Safari rallies. Restrictions both from home countries like Oman and the United Kingdom, to name a few, and the uncertainty are causing havoc logistically," Ghose said. The rally driver, however, expressed optimism that Tundo will do justice to the car by posting great results. "We would like to thank Kenya Motor Sport Fédération for their support in assisting our team. The crew change remains pending FIA approval. Minti Motorsport will have two cars running in Kenya this season, the historic Nissan 240RS which will be driven by Ian Duncan and the VW Polo R5 which will now be driven by Flash Tundo," he said. Tundo has won the Safari five times in the ARC days while Duncan emerged the winner in the WRC Kenyan edition of the event in 1994, navigated by Dave Williamson from Mombasa. Equator extravaganza will use six stages from the gruelling WRC Safari route itinerary. The six are Elementaita, Soysambu, Sleeping Warrior, Loldia, Malewa and Kedong. Clerk of the course, Gurvir Bhabra explained that they chose the route with the mileage of the drivers in mind. "Being a two-day event, we really don't have so much mileage to exhaust the Safari Rally route. We will run a qualifying stage on Friday, which will give us the starters for Day One on Saturday. Friday's program begins at 8 a.m. with free practise and qualifying at Ntulele, Naivasha." "At 12.37 p.m, the first car will go into Parc Ferme after qualifying at KWSTI, Naivasha. From 3.30 p.m onwards, the cars head  to the Start Parc Ferme at KWSTI, Naivasha." 