The national government has suspended the crackdown on illegal fishing gear in Lamu over Ramadhan. It is a relief for the over 7,000 fishermen in the region, many of whom had quit fishing citing frustrations. The crackdown has been ongoing for the last two weeks with at least 20 fishermen being arraigned for using illegal fishing gear among them monofilament nets and beach seine nets. Early this week, Lamu reported a shortage of fish, a common delicacy and meal accompaniment in Swahili households. The shortage had been attributed to the myriad of stringent regulations imposed on the fishing sector in the region among them, the ban on night fishing and most recently, the crackdown on fishermen using prohibited gear in the Indian Ocean. Various players in the sector have complained of a sharp decline in production in a region once renowned for its surplus fish. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia said the government gave fishermen a 30-day grace period to enable them to fend for their families during Ramadhan. He spoke in Lamu Island. He said the crackdown had been postponed but would resume immediately after Ramadhan. The commissioner said the grace period would also be used to measure whether Lamu fishermen can adhere to the law without being supervised by security agencies. “We understand how important Ramadhan is to the people of Lamu and that is why we are offering the 30-day grace period to our fishermen. Use it wisely and prove to us that we do not need to chase you around so you can follow the law," said Macharia. Lamu deputy governor Abdulhakim Aboud who also doubles as the executive for Fisheries said the county was in the process of procuring the appropriate gear to be distributed to all fishermen in the near future. “We are working with a number of NGOs on a sensitisation programme before we conduct a fishing gear exchange plan. The fishermen will bring us the illegal gear and we shall in turn issue them with the appropriate one," said Aboud. The fishermen however, said the move wasn’t enough and asked that they be allowed to freely carry out their trade without restrictions.  -Edited by SKanyara