United States of America-based guard Victoria Wanjara is ready to help Kenya reclaim her position as a top team in Africa. The 23-year-old forward said she want to emulate her father 'Big' Ben Wanjara by playing for the national team at the Fiba AfroBasket championships. Victoria was on Monday named in a provisional squad alongside 22 other players to assemble at Nyayo Stadium gymnasium on May 1 to start training for the continental championships. "I feel honoured and blessed. I’m very grateful to have been selected and have the opportunity to represent Team Kenya," she said from her base in the US. "I have watched the team play over the years. They have potential and I am more than ready to help Kenya become a giant basketball nation in Africa once again." On having an opportunity to join her dad as a national team player, an excited Victoria said: "It’s a crazy thought. I don’t think anyone would have imagined 28 years later 'Big Ben's' daughter would be playing for Kenya, vying for the same respect the men’s team earned in 1993." "I’ve heard a lot of great things about my dad and the notorious 1993 team. I am ready and excited for the team and myself to live up to those standards." Victoria was in the country in 2019 and even had a day’s training session with the team that went to Dakar, Senegal for the AfroBasket championship. "It was exciting. I wasn’t sure what to expect but nonetheless, I enjoyed getting to know some of the women briefly and having the opportunity to practice with them. Getting back to work with the team has definitely been something that I am looking forward to," she added. Her father was a key member of the Kenyan team that featured in the Fiba AfroBasket show in Nairobi 28 years ago, finishing fourth — the team's best placing ever. "This is something that she has always wanted to do even when she was in school. I believe that if it lines out well, she should be able to make it," Wanjara commented of her daughter. He said Victoria, a Master’s student at University of Maryland, had professional offers from clubs in France, Ireland, Ukraine, UK and Cyprus but turned them down to continue with her studies. Uganda-based coach George Mayienga will handle the team assisted by Tony Ochieng, Mike Opel and Eunice Ouma for the Fiba Zone Five championships slated for Egypt in July where Kenya will battle Rwanda, Uganda, Burundi, Tanzania, Somalia, South Sudan and hosts Egypt.