The government and its agencies have yet to pay off more than Sh18 billion owed to the National Cereals and Produce Board. NCPB chief executive officer Joseph Kimote says they have effected internal changes and measures to survive owing to financial challenges. “We have optimised our revenue generation through efficient automation processes, cost containment measures and pursuing debtors through debt collectors and electioneering services,” he said. He said following the measures, the board is able to pay its financial commitments and bills, including salaries to enable it to continue operating effectively. The NCPB has 741-member staff and Kimote said they had automated most of their operations to reduce wastage and ensured efficient contract management and negotiations. “We have also put in place proper mechanisms for risk management approach and ensure value-based expenditures along with strengthening synergies amongst functions and operations,” he told the Star on the phone. Kimote said even though they were still in talks with the government agencies over the debts, there has been no movement towards having the money cleared. The NCPB debts accrued from the purchase of subsidy maize and fertiliser. Kimote said some government institutions and agencies have yet to pay for grain management and purchase of fertiliser that the board did on their behalf. "The Devolution ministry owes us about Sh974 million and we have some counties that bought maize from our depots," he said. Kimote, however, said negotiations would proceed with the government to have the debts paid so that they can be financially afloat. The board had early this year planned to buy about three million bags of maize from farmers but terminated the purchase for lack of cash. The board has bought about 300,000 bags only. The termination of purchase caused maize prices to drop drastically from Sh2,750 a 90kg bag to about Sh2,200 in most areas in Rift Valley and Western partly because of an influx of imports from Uganda and Tanzania. However, the state moved in and stopped the imports and the maize prices went up again and have now stabilised at about Sh2,800 a bag. “As local farmers, we are happy that the government has ensured that there are no maize imports and that means we will make better returns by selling our produce in the open markets at good prices,” said Jacob Kiptanui, a farmer in Moiben area of Uasin Gishu. Millers have warned of possible shortages in the next few months, but the government says there is no cause for concern. Many farmers in the grain basket areas of the North Rift are still holding on to adequate stocks. Kiptanui said they anticipate a slight increase in prices to above Sh3,000 per bag. Farmers last year harvested more than 40 million bags of maize and agriculture officials in counties in the region say the harvest could go higher this year because of expected good rains and the use of quality seeds and fertiliser.