In a unique gesture of kindness and patriotism, tens of boda boda operators in Nakuru congregated at the Rift Valley Regional Blood Transfusion Center to donate blood and replenish the depleted blood banks in the country. They joined their colleagues who are mobilising a national blood drive and lead from the front by donating in large numbers. The rare gesture comes as the country suffers acute blood shortage with blood appeals flooding the social media pages. Although national and regional blood banks have never been sufficient, the situation deteriorated in September 2017 after the United States of America through the President’s Emergency Plan for Aids Relief (Pepfar) cut its funding. The move to cut Pepfar funds led to the stoppage of supplies and equipment for the blood supply program. The county Boda Boda chairperson Samuel Kaguithia said he expected close to 60,000 riders to participate in the drive. He said the riders made the decision after realising that their colleagues and customers were among the people who required blood after road accidents. “Our colleagues have experienced the pain of acute blood shortage in our country and that is why we decided to do something to replenish our banks,” Kaguithia said. He observed that despite helping others in need such as cancer patients, newborns, and people living with HIV, boda boda riders will also benefit from the blood reservoirs. “Even our members are in need of blood and that’s why we chose to donate blood, boda boda operators we can save other people’s lives even as they save theirs’,” he said. The four-day blood drive started at the Regional Blood Transfusion Centre which is within the Nakuru County Teaching and Referral Hospital on Monday and going on today at the same venue before moving to Masai Market at the heart of the town. A rider, Simon Njoroge said it felt great to be doing something that would help a person in need and the government in general. The youthful rider said he was contemplating becoming a regular blood donor. Mark Kinyua who spoke on behalf of Honda Kenya said they targeted more than 2, 000 boda boda operators and riders to donate blood during the drive.