The multi-million upgrade of the giant Kibuye open-air market is right on course, acting Kisumu City manager Abala Wanga has said. Wanga said phase one of the complex project will cost Sh315 million and expected to be completed in six months. The contract was awarded to Nicol Limited. The market which is set to undergo a major facelift will be one of the most beautiful ones in the East and Central Africa region. Wanga said phase one will have four ablution blocks, a boundary wall (Masonry and Steel Grating), roads, walkways, foul water drainage, offloading, and customer front parking. “When complete, phase one will accommodate 3,500 traders,” he said. The upgrade of the market was commissioned last year by Governor Anyang Nyong’o. Wanga said that despite the delays, the construction works are progressing well. “There was a bit of delay to enable consensus on drawing and design of the project between the county government and the contractor,” he said. He was accompanied by MCAs Seth Adui (Market/Milimani) and Priscah Miscahi (Kaloleni Shaurimoyo) and Kenya Urban Support Programme coordinator Charles Omollo in touring various ongoing development projects within the City. They lauded the contractor for the progress made so far and thanked the traders for their perseverance during this process. “We want to urge traders who were displaced by the project to remain patient. They will reap the fruit when the project is completed,” Wanga said. He said other expected facilities will include shades and a warehouse for the wholesale market and stormwater drainage. Other facilities will include an elevated water storage tank and reticulation, floodlights and street lighting 630 KVA transformer, and an electricity connection. Wanga said the county government will ensure only genuine traders are allocated spaces through the biometric registration recently launched by Governor Nyong’o. Project manager Erick Oginga expressed confidence that they will complete phase one of the Kibuye market within the stipulated time. “We have already dug the foundation and work is on. We are committed to quality and standard construction,” he said. Adui urged the contractor to complete the project within the time frame. “We want our traders to start enjoying the project once completed,” he said. He noted that the county was committed to implementing the projects the governor pledged to residents. On her part, Misachi asked traders to be patient as the project is progressing well. She said that the traders who were affected by Kibuye will be given first priority. They also inspected the Sh63 million refurbished Mama Grace Onyango Hall formerly Social Hall. It was closed temporarily for minor renovations and infrastructural improvements at the facility. Wanga led the team to tour the ongoing construction of the Sh 350 million Rotary Youth Innovation Centre by Pinnie Agency Limited. The center will be a hub for innovation in learning and technology and will be the first of its kind in the entire Western region. Last year, Nyong’o said the county is working closely with the industries through incubation and innovation centers to link graduates with the job market. The centers will be used to encourage innovation as well as tap potential youth talents that have been ignored for far too long “With initiatives such as the Kisumu Talent Search, we hope to nurture the talents in our young people and incubate them in a way that they can make a living out of arts,” Nyong’o said. Site manager Abdulahi Yusuf said the work is complete for handing over next week. “We are only doing some final touches,” he said.