The county government is banking on restructuring of its Sh76.9 billion debt to avoid lawsuits and the likelihood of its bank accounts being frozen. According to Nairobi County Medium Term Debt Strategy Paper for the financial year ending June 30, 2022, the Ann Kananu-led administration is facing a huge debt that had ballooned by Sh20.4 billion in the last three years. A debt swap with NSSF is already being implemented with rates due from the public insurer's properties cancelled against the county debt due to the state corporation. To avoid litigation and services disruption, City Hall wants the payment of Sh6.7 billion owed to suppliers spread out. The county has pledged to start payment of current creditors to avoid accruing debts in the future as well as pay off Sh173 million terminal benefits owed to its employees. City Hall intends to swap its Sh692 million electricity debt with Kenya Power as well as seek exemption for water bills for county facilities. “The county is in negotiation with Kenya Power to swap its Sh856 million wayleave debt owed to the county with electricity bills which currently stand at Sh692 million,” the document reads. The county government also wants to negotiate its Sh4.1 billion outstanding legal fees by having the payments spread out. Another hole in the county coffers is the KCB bank loan of Sh4.4 billion, which City Hall wants to negotiate with the bank to restructure repayment by installment of Sh55 million monthly for eight years. “The main objective of debt restructuring is to spread the repayment of the loan over a number of years and negotiate on capitalization on interest so that it is not compounded,” reads the document in part. Another huge debt facing comes from book debts (unverified from the defunct Nairobi City Council) amounting to Sh21.8 billion, which the county government wants to be written off once they get a go-ahead from the county assembly. In order to have enough funds to pay the debts, the county government is looking forward to enacting a new Finance Bill with revised levies and charges with the aim of raising revenue by Sh2.2 billion while mapping of revenue streams will increase the revenue base by Sh4 billion. The authorities also want to increase the number of registered businesses to 500,000 from the current 188,000 with the aim of raising revenue collection to Sh5 billion from Sh2 billion. On top of that, a new valuation roll will increase land rates from the current Sh2.8 billion to about Sh6 billion. City Hall is looking at raising its own source revenue base by Sh12.4 billion that will help service the debts. Edited by Henry Makori