Several parts of the country face a soggy weekend with the Meteorological department predicting heavy rains in the next three days. Temperatures are also expected to drop slightly, Meteorological services director Stella Aura has said. The rains also raise the possibility of mudslides in vulnerable areas such as West Pokot and Murang’a. “Isolated storms are likely to occur over the Lake Victoria basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley, the highlands east of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi county), the south-eastern lowlands and North-eastern Kenya,” Aura said in a statement. However, the rains are still depressed compared to last year, raising the possibility that millions of Kenyans will still be facing a food shortage. According to an assessment carried out by the Kenya Food Security Steering Group, some 1.4 million Kenyans are currently facing hunger and the crisis will continue past the long rains season. According to the Met department, the long rains season will peak this month and wane next month across the country except in areas around Lake Victoria. Experts fear this might not be enough to end the current food shortage. The KFSSG assessment, released this month, shows that the number of people facing acute food insecurity is about 1.4 million, an increase from 739,000 reported during last year's long rains assessment and therefore requiring food assistance. “Out of 1.4 million, it is estimated that 238,000 people spread across Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Marsabit, Samburu, Turkana and Isiolo counties are in the emergency phase. The rest are in the crisis phase." The report attributes the increase in numbers to below normal performance of the short rains last year, thus worsening the already fragile food security situation in the ASALs. “Moreover, the situation is expected to further deteriorate during the March-May long rains season with an estimated two million people likely to experience acute food insecurity,” it reads. It states that the pastoral counties experienced a deterioration in food security situation owing to the lingering impact of the desert locusts and Covid-19 control measures alongside below-average short rains. In February, the National Drought Management Authority warned of a drought situation in Baringo, Isiolo, Kilifi, Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir and Turkana counties. According to the National Drought Early Warning for February the drought situation is worsening in Garissa, Lamu, Tana River, Samburu, West Pokot, Kitui, Laikipia and Kieni in Nyeri. NDMA attributed the declining trend to the poor rainfall performance observed during the October-November-December 2020 short rains season in the affected areas. -Edited by SKanyara