The Kwale government has raised the alarm over increasing cases of poor work ethic in its departments. Governor Salim Mvurya said despite the county allocating a lot of resources and making timely payment to its workers, the majority sleep on the job. Mvurya told his employees, especially county executives and chief officers, to shape up or get fired. "It would be so unfortunate that we came a long way only to lose your work because you have decided to be incompetent. Change or blame yourselves, " he said. Mvurya together with his deputy Fatuma Achani pointed out that the county was dirty, with garbage becoming an eyesore. They said major towns of Diani and Kwale have mountains of waste dumped recklessly yet they pay people to do the cleaning. Areas like Diani sometimes flood due to poor drainage systems blocked by uncollected trash during heavy rains. The governor said the unacceptable behaviour threatens the reputation of Diani since it is the hub for tourism. The area has many times received awards as one of the best beach destinations in Kenya and Africa. Mvurya said some county public hospitals are in a pathetic condition. He said Kwale subcounty hospital is one of them. The governor said it's a situation that endangers patients’ lives. "If public health facilities are surrounded by bushes and trash it means more malaria and cholera to our people, " he said. Mvurya said public health was a very sensitive area, advising county executive for health Francis Gwama to work on the issue. The county chief said he won't entertain further laziness and was only ready to work with those who can deliver services to the electorate fairly and diligently. There have been cases where the county suffered losses after chicks and hybrid cattle bought to spur agribusiness died due to negligence by livestock officers. Last year, the county government elevated some towns to municipalities and a municipal board was formed to oversee the transformation of Kwale. Diani and Kwale municipalities were established with Kinango and Lunga-Lunga are to follow. The board was to ensure massive development, beautification and increased revenue collections in rural and urban centres. Mvurya this year, flagged off and commissioned various development projects including road construction, strengthening water pumping and drainage systems and installation of streetlights.