Kitui county assembly on Wednesday approved the appointment of two nominees to the County Public Service Board who had initially been rejected. They were approved alongside four others, bringing the total number to six. In a vetting report of six nominees presented to the committee by Governor Charity Ngilu and moved for debate by Minority leader Alex Nganga, the committee had approved the other four but rejected Joseph Kyavoa and David Munyao. However, during the debate, Mutitu/ Kaliku, MCA Annastacia Mwathi introduced an amendment to delete the rejection clause in the vetting committee report. She proposed the insertion of the phrase approving to accept all the six nominees as presented to the assembly for vetting. The changes were seconded by Wiper nominated MCA Waziri Bakari. When speaker George Ndotto put the question on whether or not the house supported the amendment, members voted in support, hence approving all nominees. Florence Mwanzia-Makindi was appointed as the Kitui CPSB chairperson. Five members are Francis Kiliku, Winfred Tumbo, Mohamed Mutubwa, Kyavoa and Munyao. Kitui has been without a CPSB board since former team, which took charge during Governor Julius Malombe's reign, left office in July 2019 on the expiry of their six-year contract. On Tuesday afternoon, Nganga presented the reports on the vetting that stated that Kyavoa and Munyao had not been found fit for the CPSB jobs. The reports proposed the approval of the rejection of the duo even as the four other nominees were approved to start work. Speaking to Journalists after presenting the report to the assembly, Nganga said although the vetting committee had disapproved the appointment of two nominees and approved four others the final say rested with the entire assembly. “The assembly can choose to adopt all the names in totality or reject all the names in totality, or even accept some nominees who have not been recommended or reject others who have been recommended by the committee,”  Nganga said. He said since the final authority lay with the full assembly, considering that the vetting committee only made recommendations, all the six nominees be installed to start work. Last May, Ngilu presented the names of Kyavoa, Kiliku and Munyalo to the assembly for appointment as members of the Kitui CPSB alongside three others, but they were rejected. However, when the positions were readvertised in February, the three reapplied.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris