In less than a week from now, the Judicial Service Commission will embark on the exercise of getting the new Chief Justice and magistrates and judges now want a man of integrity selected for the post. Speaking to the press in Nairobi on Friday, Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association secretary general Derrick Kuto urged the JSC to get the country the best chief justice who will abide by the law. Kuto said the next CJ needs to be a man who will defend the rule of law to the letter. "The country needs a man or woman who is not timid. A person who will defend the rule of law and Constitution. A charismatic person who will command the respect of this nation and the International community," said Kuto. He said that the next CJ need to be a man who will listen to the KMJA members before making his decision "As an Association, we look forward to a CJ who will listen to the needs of our members. There are issues to do with salaries, promotions and discipline. They directly affect the work of our members," Kuto added. Kuto cited previous occasions where judges and magistrates have been suspended without a fare hearing. "The CJ must be alive to this. I said the CJ is very powerful. By a stroke of a pen, many of our colleagues were suspended in recent years and interdicted from office. We have lost some out of frustration and pain, magistrates and kadhis have been the most affected since they have no security of tenure. Our hope is that the incoming CJ will consider this, give them an opportunity to be heard before drastic decisions are taken against them," he added. The SG cited an example where Kiambu magistrate Brian Khaemba was suspended without a hearing. "The KMJA came out guns blazing. At the steps of the Supreme Court, I joined hon Bryan Khaemba, Hon Lady Justice Hedwig Ongudi, Hon Sinkiyan Tobiko and hon Godfrey Oduor to issue a hard hitting statement condemning the said utterances by the head of state. Hon Khaemba has since left the Judiciary while hon Oduor sadly passed on. Needless to say that KMJA occasionally stood by the CJ to stand up against an Executive that was determined to bully and bring down the judiciary and its workers," he added. The SG thanked Maraga for exemplary work . "I take this opportunity to appreciate the immediate former occupant of the office for his exemplary service to our nation. Mr Justice Maraga, served with dignity, diligence and honesty. Unfortunately, for him, many roadblocks were mounted on his way first by the Executive and Parliament," he said. He added, "His first major assignment in office was to preside over a presidential petition to challenge the results that had been announced by the IEBC. The Chief Justice was joined by three other Supreme Court Justices in nullifying the elections. Hell broke loose when non other than the President of the Republic of Kenya, openly disagreed with the decision and called the judges wakora. He vowed to "revisit. "He kept his word because his revisit has been felt," said Kuto. He said during Maraga's tenure, the budget was slashed among other issues "The budget was slashed, we were branded to be the weakest link in the fight against corruption, individual judges and magistrates' names were maligned and non other than the second in command was arraigned in court over dubious charges, which were later set aside by the High Court, "he said. He urged Kenya to have faith in the Judiciary and be prepared for the decision that will made by the JSC "Kenyans should also be prepared to accept the outcome of the interviews. We may not all get what we want. We must be ready to support whoever will be appointed," he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara