Private schools are planning to invest more in virtual classes even as the opening of schools remains uncertain due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Education CS George Magoha has said schools will reopen next month as had been scheduled. Schools that had initiated online learning performed better in the 2020 KCPE exams compared to those that did not. Busy Bee Academy headteacher Dorothy Kaimuri said the online classes ensured that they completed the syllabus on time. She said all candidates had undertaken the classes despite them being optional. Kaimuri said online learning ensured the 2020 candidates performed exemplary well despite the eight months of school closure due to Covid-19. “When we re-opened in October, we had plenty of time to revise and prepare our students for the exam,” she said. Schools were closed in March 2020, leaving most students unattended. Some of the schools including Busy Bee initiated virtual classes where students were taught online. Kaimuri said they intend to invest more in online learning for future uncertainties. “When schools were closed, it took us time before we launched the online classes and we also faced some challenges. But to ensure operations run smoothly in the future, we intend to keep the virtual systems running,” she said. Jeddy Academy headteacher Charles Anyal said students who attended the online classes performed better than their colleagues who did not. He said online learning ensured that they covered the syllabus on time. However, when schools opened, he said they were forced to start the syllabus afresh so as not to leave behind students who had not signed up for the online classes. As a result, the candidates did not have adequate time to revise. “We have parents who took a personal initiative to enrol their children for the online classes. Some parents also would coach their children privately,” he said. Anyal said the school intends to ensure online classes are mandatory for all candidates in future. That is subject to approval by parents.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris