Boda boda operators have been warned against sneaking pillion passengers in and out of the Covid-19  diseased zones. The Boda boda Safety Association of Kenya through its chairman Kelvin Mubadi on Friday condemned such actions terming them as an act of impunity. “It has come to our notice that some riders are ferrying passengers across the restricted county borders by avoiding roadblocks and barrier checks by authorities,” he said in a statement. “We condemn such acts of impunity which undermine our government’s effort to contain the spread of the virus,” Mubadi added. He appealed to the operators to adhere to government's directives warning of consequences to those who break them. "All riders across the country to adhere to the government’s directive failure to which authorities will deal with them mercilessly as per the law,” Mubadi added. Last  Friday President Uhuru Kenyatta tightened restrictions in Nairobi and four surrounding hard-hit counties terming them as "disease infected  zones". The restrictions include cessation of movement into and out of Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Nakuru and Kiambu. Public gatherings are banned, and an evening curfew imposed from 8pm until 4am in the affected counties. The association called upon its county officials in the five counties to work closely with the county commissioner, county police commander and all security agencies to ensure they enforce the directives. As a result, Mubadi requested the government to take boda boda riders as essential services provider and prioritise them during this vaccination period. “It is evident that a significant segment of Kenya’s population is directly dependent on the boda boda industry and right at the time when the 3rd wave of Covid-19 is striking hard, leading to a paralysis of the public transport sector. Boda boda remains the most dynamic mode of rural and urban transport," he said. All boda boda riders have also been urged to take precaution and protect themselves through observations of the covid-19 protocols. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara