University students will not get laptop loans as earlier anticipated after Helb's efforts to secure funding hit a stonewall. It had been expected that university students would get Sh44,000 loan to buy laptops to enable out of class learning. The project would initially target half of those enrolled in first year – at least 61,000. The laptop project was estimated to cost about Sh2.5 billion but instead of the allocation, Helb has suffered a budget cut of Sh2.2 billion. This is Sh300 million shy of the amount it required. Presenting the proposal in Parliament in November, Helb CEO Charles Ringera said those to benefit would be the most needy from the fresher's pool. Postgraduate and diploma students would not be eligible. However, the realisation of the programme remains uncertain after the National Treasury cut Helb's funding. Ringera says the budget cut means the project is “dead for now”. He said they have to go back to the drawing board and review loans yet to be distributed. This means students who had yet to receive study loans but had been shortlisted will get less than what they had expected. Universities have reverted to online learning after the closure of learning institutions as one of the measures to stem the third wave of Covid-19. However, a major barrier to successful online learning has been the lack of decent devices. To fix this, the Higher Education Loans Board had proposed to provide laptop loans to new students joining university. By Monday, the Star had seen and authenticated 31 public and private university vacate notices to students. They also announced end of semester exams will be taken online. At Zetech University, students have been instructed to switch online where they will sit their exams due to begin next week. The Catholic University of Eastern Africa announced it had suspended teaching and learning in a notice dated March 26, but directed that examinations and teaching be conducted online. Kabarak University has asked students to switch to online but they can still occupy the hostels within the institution's premises. KCA in a letter to its faculty and students notes that the University Senate on March 28 resolved to halt face-to-face learning. Those affected would take virtual classes. The university further says examinations set for the face-to-face cohort would be taken online. A Unicef report released in December 2020 documents how the pandemic has caused inequality as the poorest of students are left behind in access to online learning. In the report, the greatest of disparity is in the sub-Saharan region, where Kenya lies, with limitations ranging from lack of devices to access to mobile data. Ringera on Tuesday told the Star that many students depend on gadgets such as mobile phones to attend the online sessions, but using a phone is limiting. He said not only will the provision of laptops aid in online learning, but it will also help students to work online and get an income.