Transparency International has renewed efforts to compel the Directorate of Public Prosecutions to charge perpetrators of the Sh7.8 billion Kemsa PPE scandal. The agency says it is concerned about the length of time it has taken to investigate, charge, and prosecute those involved in the procurement irregularities at the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. “We request the authorities to provide an update on the Kemsa probe process as per our earlier letter,” TI said in a statement on Wednesday. Speaking to the Star, TI Kenya executive director Sheila Masinde said they were yet to receive feedback from DPP Noordin Haji following the agency’s letter on the same on March 29. In the letter, TI, Kelin, and Inuka Kenya decried that members of the public were yet to receive information on any findings or action taken against the alleged perpetrators. “We are especially concerned following the shocking reports of blatant disregard to public procurement, financial management laws and ethical business practices as revealed through Parliamentary Committee hearings on the Covid-19 procurements by Kemsa,” the entities said. “It is also one year since some of the alleged procurement irregularities were conducted.” They requested the DPP to provide information on the status of the case saying the matter was of great public interest. The agencies also took note of the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta in August last year ordering investigative agencies to undertake and conclude a probe within three weeks. EACC, in its latest update on the Kemsa case, said it had recommended the prosecution of eight companies implicated in the scandal. The anti-graft agency said a report was compiled and forwarded to the DPP recommending the prosecution of officials of the said firms. The companies were awarded multibillion-shilling state contracts for the supply of Covid-19 emergency equipment, some without the capacity to handle the supplies. Accenture Kenya, Gadlab Supplies and Meraky Healthcare, Steplabs Technical Services, Wallabis Ventures, Shop n Buy, and Kilig Limited were among entities EACC sought to have their directors charged. EACC is also pursuing the prosecution of suspended Kemsa CEO Jonah Manjari, director of procurement Charles Juma, director of commercial services Eliud Muriithi, director of finance and strategy Waiganjo Karanja and the quality assurance manager. The companies, their directors and Kemsa officials face charges related to the procurement and payments for the supplies. They could be charged with giving and receiving a bribe, willful failure to comply with the law relating to procurement and unlawful acquisition of public property. The officials could also be charged with abuse of office, conspiracy to commit an economic crime, entering into a contract without authority, and neglect of official duty by a public officer. EACC first submitted the file to the DPP on September 11 last year, recommending the prosecution of the suspended Kemsa managers and the CEO’s personal assistant. On October 2, the DPP returned the file for further investigations after which EACC resubmitted the same on October 22. The DPP sought further adjustments, which the EACC resubmitted on November 19 with fresh recommendations. The Office of the DPP earlier told the Star that investigations into the Kemsa heist were ongoing.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris