Traders in Narok county have asked the county government to consider waiving taxes in bid to cushion the business community from economic slowdown occasioned by the coronavirus outbreak. Narok Chamber of Commerce and Industry chairman David Mpatiany said many businesses are struggling with reduced cash flow due to the recent lockdown of five counties which are neighbouring the county. In a press a conference in his office, Mpatiany said the move will help the traders start over after being affected by the pandemic for the last one year. “I call on governor Samuel Tunai to intervene and waive on plot rents, land rates, business permits and taxes on water which is now essential in the fight against COVID-19. The government should also review taxes imposed on electricity as a measure to save people from high economic times currently experienced,” said Mpatiany. While urging Kenyans to ensure they enhance their protection against the deadly virus by adhering to the health protocols, Mpatiany lauded Tunai for waiving rates when the virus was first reported in March last year and pleaded with them to do the same this year. The chairman also called on the police officers to stop taking advantage of the pandemic and arresting  residents claiming they have flouted the health guidelines. “The police officers should be humane in the way they conduct the crackdown on those flouting the health protocols. They should not use the current pandemic as a tool to exhort bribes from already overburden Kenyans,” he said. On the other hand, Mpatiany called on the traders to be extra careful and ensure they abide by the measures set by the government to fight the Covid-19. “The new variant of Covid-19 is deadly and the only way to stave off is to abide by the measures put in place by the government,” he said. Similar sentiments were echoed by Narok Chamber of Commerce and Industry, director  Hezron Koori who urged residents to exercise caution saying the region is bordering the counties declared as red zone and also neighbouring Tanzania. “There is a need to keep a high level of surveillance so that we can prevent deaths arising from this virus. We need to be disciplined by following the regulations set by the department of health like regular washing of hands and putting on face masks the right way to avert the disease," he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 