The 2020 KCPE candidates recorded dropped performance in Science and partly in languages. Compared to the 2019 results, the candidates also dropped in five subjects including Social Studies. The drop on the languages was experienced in writing skills while improved performance was record on multi-choice language tests. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha, while releasing the results, noted that there was a drop in performance in English Language, Kiswahili Insha and Kenyan Sign Language Composition. “I am happy to announce that five papers recorded an improvement in performance in the year 2020 when compared to 2019,” Magoha said when he unveiled the results on Tuesday. Those subjects that posted improved performance included Kiswahili Lugha, Kenyan Sign Language Objective, Mathematics and Religious Education. According to the results, comparatively in respect to the 2019 results, there was some general improved performance in English Composition writing. In terms of gender, girls performed slightly better than their male counterparts in English, Kiswahili and Kenyan Sign Language. The boys performed slightly better than their female counterparts in Mathematics, Science and Social Studies and Religious Education Magoha said that many doomsayers who predicted that candidates of the 2020 KCPE Examination will perform dismally had been proved wrong as the overall performance of candidates in the 2020 was better than 2019. This was despite the drop in the marks of the highest candidate from 440 marks in 2019 to 433 in 2020. “I wish to commend all the teachers, parents and 41 candidates for this good performance achieved during a very difficult period,” Magoha said. In the 2019 results,  candidates improved in English, Kiswahili, Kenya Sign Language, Social Studies and Religious Education. There was, however, a slight drop in mathematics and science. In the same year, boys also performed slightly better than their female counterparts in mathematics, science and social studies and Religious Education. 