Chief Justice nominee Martha Koome has expressed gratitude ahead of her confirmation. In a thank you statement on Wednesday, Koome said she was extremely grateful to the Judicial Service Commission for nominating her to the office. "It will indeed be an honour and a great privilege for me to serve this great country as the Chief Justice if confirmed to the office," he said. "I appreciate this was after a thorough, rigorous and a very competitive process that saw some of the best legal minds come forward as capable candidates demonstrating their willingness to serve Kenyans." Koome said she continues to thank God ahead of her confirmation. "As l continue to prepare for the next stage, l wish to convey my profound gratitude to all well-wishers who encouraged and prayed for me," she said. "I wish to assure Kenyans of my unwavering commitment to serve them to the best of my abilities." Justice Koome will be the first woman to lead the Judicature, one of the three arms of government when she takes office. The Judicial Service Commission is expected to submit her name to President Uhuru Kenyatta who will then appoint Koome to succeed former CJ David Maraga. Justice Koome, who has 33 years of experience in legal practice, joins the growing league of powerful women in top Judiciary positions. She has spent a significant portion of those years in public service as a defender of human rights. Koome has earned international accolades for tremendous contribution to the expansion of the rule of law and defence of the vulnerable. She is an acclaimed expert in family law and takes a keen interest in children's affairs. She was named the UN Person of the Year runner-up in 2020 for these efforts. During her interview, Justice Koome expressed her concerns about the country's laws in relation to gender. She said many have been socialised to look at women as second-class citizens who are not supposed to take part in leadership positions. Justice Koome said she subscribes to feminist legal arguments that contend that the law corresponds with structures of patriarchal dominance and oppression. 