Data analytics, research, and advisory firm–IDinsight has made changes at its regional office, picking Frida Njogu-Ndongwe as its East Africa regional director. She will oversee IDinsight’s projects, partnerships, and collaborations in East Africa, enabling decision-makers to use high-quality evidence to further their goals of improving lives. Frida is a medical doctor, public health specialist, entrepreneur, and development and management consultant. Prior to IDinsight, she was the director of programmes at the Center for Health Solutions - Kenya and a consultant at McKinsey & Company’s Africa Delivery Hub. She served most recently as CEO and co-founder of Afyakit Technologies, a Kenya-based start-up that built and operates a health analytics platform for health managers and service providers. Afyakit Technologies was named by WHO as among the top 30 innovations with he highest potential for health impact in Africa. She previously served as a consultant for governments, NGOs, civil society and multilateral agencies across a multitude of sectors including health, human rights, gender, housing, youth employment, city design, and other areas. Her background in public health has led her to focus on issues surrounding HIV, tuberculosis, maternal and child health, supply chains, digital health, as well as public health emergency financing and operations. She is a fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering Life Innovation Fellowships and has published a book examining the Kenya Health System through the lens of tuberculosis case detection. She holds a Master of Public Health degree from the University of Auckland and a Bachelor of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBChB) degree from the University of Nairobi. “Frida brings deep expertise and a passion for impact to our team, and I am excited to work with her to make the most of our opportunities for impact in the East Africa region,” said Ruth Levine, IDinsight CEO. On her appointment, Frida sid: “My vision is to have people everywhere live quality lives. The work IDinsight does intersects well with my vision and I am excited to work with the team and partners towards this end.”