ANC has started consolidating the Western region and anchoring its leader Musalia Mudavadi's presidential bid ahead of the 2022 race. On Wednesday, Mudavadi received Malava MP Malulu Injendi, who decamped from Jubilee during a meeting held at ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula's residence in Runda. Malulu had in December announced that he would work with ODM, only to retreat two weeks later to declare he was still in Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga camp. He accused Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya of duping him into meeting ODM leader Raila Odinga, so he could defect. Yesterday Savula said three more MPs from Western were set to join Mudavadi's camp in the coming weeks to solidify the vote-rich region. "What we're doing now is sweeping the bedroom to ensure there are no bugs before we officially release the party leader to look for partners from other regions and form a formidable team that will square it out with DP Ruto," he said. ANC is also preparing for grassroots party elections later this year to steady the party leadership. The party has been undergoing restructuring to give it a national look. Mudavadi is part of the One Kenya Alliance. The alliance brings together Mudavadi, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi of Kanu and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula. Savula said the party had okayed Mudavadi to work closely with President Uhuru Kenyatta to gain a foothold in Central Kenya. He said ANC was keen to inherit Raila's Nyanza bloc, adding that Mudavadi supported him (Raila) twice. Raila has not declared whether he will be making his fifth and perhaps final stab at the presidency in 2022. He has announced that he will only discuss 2022 after the referendum on the BBI Bill, expected to take place later in the year. Raila's failure to submit his application for the ODM ticket at the expiry of the set deadline on March 31 caused anxiety within the top party ranks and his supporters. His trusted allies have been warming to the idea of working with DP Ruto in 2022. Ruto has however said there are no active coalition talks with the former Prime Minister. 