National para powerlifting team coach Lena Marita has described the Covid-19 vaccination as a shot in the arm for the team ahead of their final Tokyo Paralympics qualifier in Dubai on June 19-24. Marita said the jab has enabled her powerlifters to push on in training without worrying about the risk of contracting the virus, even though they are strictly following on the set Ministry of Health guidelines. "Most of our players train at their homes or in public gyms. Most of them also use matatus as their main source of transport to and from training. This makes us one of the most susceptible sportspersons to the virus," Marita said. "However, the vaccine has calmed our fears, knowing that we are insulated from the adverse health effects of the disease. We can now focus on our training." The coach also revealed plans are at an advanced stage for a bubble training camp for the powerlifters to sharpen their skills for Dubai with minimal distractions. "Now that we have been vaccinated, we are consulting with the Ministry of Sports on how to establish a training camp as soon as possible. For now, the powerlifters are mostly training individually as per the coronavirus restrictions. One is training back at her rural home in Meru while others are training at Pangani and South 'B'," she said. Paralympians were among the first athletes to receive the Covid-19 jab, which was rolled out by Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed two weeks ago at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Marita revealed that none of the team members have reported any serious side effects except for fatigue and nausea in the first one week after receiving the vaccine. The team returned home a fortnight ago after a disappointing outing in Manchester where they were barred from participating in the Paralympics qualifier after two individuals in the delegation tested positive for Covid-19. They had to spend 10 days in isolation in a hotel and away from one another during which the Manchester para powerlifting World Cup went on for three days. Nonetheless, Marita said they have forgotten the setback and are still determined to secure as much tickets as possible to Tokyo. "The mood within the team is optimistic regardless of what happened in Manchester. We have come to reality with the circumstances. The silver lining is that there are three of us still with a great chance of qualifying for the paralympics due to their high ranking in their respective categories," she said. The 2014 Commonwealth bronze medalist Joyce Njuguna, Hellen Wawira (world no. 2 in the U-40kg category) and Gabriel Magu are poised to grab a slot at the August 24-September 5 global showpiece in Tokyo. 