Council of East and Central African Football Associations Executive Director Auka Gecheo says the recent rise in Covid-19 infections is likely to clog their plans. In an exclusive interview with The Star on Monday, Gecheo said the virus had proved to be a bull in a china shop, effectively denying them sufficient time to implement their set objectives. “Definitely, there will be some effects. It's a fluid situation and chances are it could interrupt the events we already have lined up,” said Gecheo. The regional body had on March unveiled their calendar of events for the year where Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda, Somalia, Djibouti, Sudan, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Burundi and Zanzibar were in attendance in a meeting in Rabat, Morocco. “The 2021 CECAFA Women's Senior Challenge Cup had tentatively been set to take place in Djibouti later this year,” said Gecheo. “Besides Djibouti staging the Women's Cup, Uganda will organise the Cecafa U20 Women’s Challenge Cup, while the Cecafa's CAF Women’s Champions League event will be hosted by Kenya,” he added. “The prestigious regional tournaments, including the women's events, have received the support of the various Football Associations,” said Gecheo. However, no specific dates were specifically set aside for the women's tournaments. “We held a Cecafa meeting which was well attended at the Sofitel Hotel in Rabat in March and deliberated on several issues including the calendar for 2021,” Gecheo. "It was confirmed that Somalia will not participate in the Women’s Champions League qualifier. Other members have confirmed participation in the Women’s Champions League apart from Eritrea and Rwanda." Kenya national women's team, Harambee Starlets, will be defending the Women's Senior Challenge Cup title they won at Chamazi Stadium in 2019 after dethroning hosts Tanzania 2-0 in the final. Meanwhile, Gecheo said he doesn't think Simba SC's current outstanding form in the CAF Champions League necessarily reflects a rise in the standards of the region's football. “It is too soon to start celebrating East Africa's achievement based on Simba's performance. Simba have a long term strategy. They have put a plan in place which has enabled them to attain their current status,” said Gecheo. Gecheo, who took over the reins at Cecafa early last year said the new office has experienced challenges achieving their set objectives owing to the slow progress of activities following the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. "We've had very little time to pursue our targets given there has been very little room to carry out any activities,” he concluded.