I had been hearing stories from friends and colleagues about their escapades to Ngong Hills but had never been there. I really wanted to visit that place so bad and begun planning for it. As I was busy planning for it, one Sunday afternoon after the Sunday Service, my family decided that we should look for a place where we could relax away from home. Suggestions came in but the one that stood out was Ngong Hills and finally we all settled for it. On our way there, we decided to make a stop at Naivas Supermarket along Ngong road to buy food and drinks that we would need for the picnic that we were to have. On the way, my heart was heavy with expectation since it was going to be the first time to ever visit the famous Ngong Hills that my friends were talking about. The journey took approximately forty minutes and we were at the entrance. There were not so many vehicles at the entrance but as soon as we finished paying and were looking for a spot, we started seeing vehicles parked at different spots. Within a few minutes, we found a nice spot next to the wind turbines. The site that was before me was beyond what I could comprehend. The green environment still reminded me of how nature is important and how beautiful and breath taking it was to watch. The fresh air from the trees around passed through my lungs making me feel so refreshed and relaxed away from exhaust fumes in the Central Business District (CBD). We had our picnic, which lasted for two hours then decided to leave but before we left, we could not help to take a picture of the hills and the manmade lake that was directly a few kilometres from where we were. I got to know later that while there you can do activities such as Hiking and Zip lining. There are seven hills there and it will take you three to four hours to get to the last hill. With its highest level being 2, 460 meters, it is a hill that requires a great amount of effort to climb and get to the top. During the colonial rule, Ngong Hills was a major settler farming region and many traditional colonial houses can still be seen. In order to ensure the safety of Ngong Hills and the nature around it, there is a small post for the Kenya Forestry Service at the North East foot of the park. Despite the short trip to Ngong Hills, I enjoyed having the picnic with the beautiful view of how green it was with fresh air flowing to my lungs. I wish I would have come on a day when I could do the Zip Lining and Hiking but placed them in my bucket list.