Decorated international setter Jane Wacu is set to link up with the Malkia Strikers squad in a fortnight, team manager Alfred Chedotum has confirmed. Regarded as one of the best setters in the country, the long-serving international, currently in the books of Anse Royale club in Seychelles, will compete for a slot in the Tokyo-bound team against Kenya Prisons' Joy Luseneka and fast-rising Immaculate Nekesa of KCB. This is a timely boost to Malkia Strikers 19-member provisional squad currently in a bubble-training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. The former Kenya Prisons player was part of Team Kenya who took part in the intercontinental Olympic qualifiers in Italy in 2019. The 36-year old was also instrumental as Kenya defied odds to book the sole Olympic slot reserved for Africa as Kenya returned to the global show after a 16-years hiatus. Wacu has previously turned up for Kenya Pipeline and VBC Chamaliers club in France in a career that spans more than 15 years. Chedotum said Wacu brings experience, composure and a winning mentality to the team and expects her to seamlessly fit in. "She is dependable, cool-headed and reads the game well and thrives well in a high-pressured environment.  We expect her before April 20 month," Chedotum said. "She was lately vaccinated against Covid-19 and is only waiting for the second dose before travelling." Wacu should be in line for Kenya's tour of Brazil and Turkey in May and June respectively for training and international matches. The team will also tour Kurume City in Japan from July 1-18 before reporting to the Olympic village in Tokyo on July 20. Kenya play Japan six days later in the opening match. Chedotum said confidence will be supreme for Kenya. "Wacu has interacted with several of the Olympic-bound opponents and this plays to our advantage. The technical bench will craft a plan on how to deal with those teams," said Chedotum. Meanwhile, Chedotum is worried that the rampant spread of Covid-19 in Brazil could scupper the team's plans. He, however, said they are monitoring the situation in the South American state and will seek advice from the Ministry of Health before making any move.