The path leading to the blue gate is overgrown with grass. A climbing plant crawls unevenly over the perimeter walls to one side of the gate. Outside, residents of Karura village in Kiambaa in Kiambu county, go on with their lives. They glance the gate as they pass by, a dark memory hanging loosely in the air. Inside the compound, silence reigns. Five members of a family and their farmhand were stabbed repeatedly and bludgeoned to death in the now desolate home. Nicholas Njenga Warunge, his wife Anne Wanjiku, last born Christian Njenga, nephew Maxwell Njenga and farmhand James Kinyanjui were found dead in the home four months ago. Lawrence Warunge, the main suspect in the murders of his father, mother, brother, cousin and the labourer is expected in court Wednesday. He will take a plea if he is found fit to stand trial. The Star could not access the compound, but a peep through the fence showed another locked gate leading to the main house. A neighbour, John Ndung'u told the Star that the two daughters who survived the incident had never returned to the home after the burial. "One daughter stays with a relative while the other is currently sitting her KCSE exam," he said. There was no sign of life except for the untended plants in the compound. Outside the main house, was rubble from part of a house that had been occupied by the family farmhand before he was killed. The house is partly demolished, with only a room and a toilet standing. Clothes aired outside and dirty utensils under a tree by the house, showed that someone lived in the house. After knocking and calling out for some time, a security guard emerged from the house. “I live here with a colleague. We were employed here just after the burial of the family to guard the home and the construction material being used at the site,” the guard told the Star. He said no other relative had visited the place since the funeral except for Lawrence's two maternal uncles. Workers at the two brothers' construction site, which was next to the guard's house, told the Star they visited the home a few times during their inspection of the project. "This land belongs to the late Wanjiku's brothers. While inspecting this project from time to time, they go to the home. We have never seen anyone else visit," a worker said. The worker said that the main entrances to the house has remained locked. Clients at a food kiosk where Warunge loved to order take-away had only memories of a soft-looking boy. They said that they have been relying on the media and hearsay to follow the proceeding of the case. "It is difficult to ask members of the family anything regarding the case for fear of evoking new emotions that we know they are yet to come into terms with, so we wait for the media to update us," said a labourer who knew Warunge. The kiosk owner, Lucy Muthoni said a memorial service was held there after the burial. "There was a church service that was held sometime in February. I have not heard or seen anything since then," she said. Warunge confessed to having killed the five. Chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor said the five suffered similar injuries – multiple stab wounds to the chest and multiple cases of blunt force trauma to the head. The 23-year-old IT student at Mt Kenya University led police to a residence in Mai Mahiu where a knife, clothes, shoes and a piece of paper were recovered. Warunge told police that while planning the murder, he was inspired by the psychopathic assassin Villanelle, in a British dark comedy-drama thriller TV series, Killing Eve. He had also described his parents to police as 'satanic and killers' and said that he had planned the murder for about three months Police were investigating the murder of the farmhand whose body was found at a nearby building with injuries when they discovered the body of the father lying outside the house within the compound. Further search revealed the rest of the bodies in different rooms inside the house. Warunge went missing after the murder and was arrested as a prime suspect in the incident after a three-day manhunt. He is still undergoing mental care after a psychiatrist assessment showed that he was not fit to stand trial. The family farmhand Kinyanjui, 38, was buried in Gathiga public cemetery in Kiambu on January 13 while the four members of the family were buried in a mass grave at their home. Kinyanjui is survived by his widow and two children who live in their Nyahururu home.  (edited by o. owino)