Former Tusker Project Fame contestant Magdaline Muckoya has opened up about struggling to make ends meet while raising a six-year-old daughter. Magdaline has appeared on TV shows ‘The Presenter’ and Kenya’s Greatest Entertainer ‘Kenge’, which she won. She also hosted ‘The Ultimate Choir’, a talent search TV show for choirs. In a long social media post, she narrated how family and friends have deserted her in her time of need. Magdaline explained how troubled she is without a job or a mentor, and that nothing seems genuine as even her family are no longer supportive. "Brave face with Colgate smiles but broken shattered dreams under this melanin. My apologies to whom I have muted on, it’s not by choice. I have tried to pick my pieces and be a strong role model for my fast-growing princess, but in vain." The former reality show star, who has released several singles, said her search for a job has not been forthcoming for years now. Speaking to Word Is, Magdaline said she had recently gotten a job but a week ago, her position was declared redundant. She said she needs prayers and financial support to get back to studio and a good job that will allow her to use her voice, talent and skill. "I have no other source of income and it is hell from my family members. I feel bad that with the passion I have, my family do not want to help me," she said. "They even told me that I have visited witchcraft. I am at a friend's place with my child till I become stable. Asked what went wrong with her family, she said she has always felt like an unwanted child. In her social media post, she added, "What is a great voice when no one appreciates to accept my CV for media or familiar jobs? "What is a great voice with depth compositions when I have no finances for the studio? What is education for when my degree hasn’t landed me my dream job? What is the meaning of family when all I have faced my whole life is hell, insults, loneliness and rejection?" The long post had cryptic messages about her will to keep fighting. "What magic is performed so the earth opens and swallows up a person, can it be performed asap and take me plus mine, for leaving her behind to this cruel, toxic world we call home is unimaginable?" She added that some of her friends have ignored her pleas for help.