Governor Joseph ole Lenku says there is only one credible opponent out of those seeking to replace him in the 2022 Kajiado governor race. Lenku, who spoke on K24 TV Weekend edition on Sunday night, dismissed Katoo ole Metito’s candidature, saying that his UDA party had run out of euphoria. “Early in the year, UDA was seen in Kajiado as a hot cake, but that euphoria ran out of steam long ago. This is the reason I don't see Katoo as my challenger,” said Lenku. The governor said while Katoo has served the Kajiado South constituency with humility for 17 years, he is no threat in the governor race. “The only person who can give me a run for my money is former governor David Nkedianye,” said Lenku. He did not refer to other candidates such as MP Peris Tobiko and Francis Meja, who both beat the governor in a social media popularity test. In the social media poll that ran for five days, Meja led as Lenku came in third after Tobiko. Tarayia ole Kores was last as Nkedianye was placed fifth. “We are the drivers of Kajiado county politics, we know when we will start going to the people to ask for votes,” said Lenku. When asked which party ticket he will use in next year’s race, the governor said he will be vying on Jubilee party. He said if the One Kenya Alliance will form a coalition ahead of the 2022 General Election, he will switch to it. Asked how he became the Maa spokesman and why some leaders are not happy with him, Lenku said: “There is bound to be discerning voices among us. We are over 1 million Maasai people in Kenya and not all will agree with you.” “As Maa people, we decided that we will no longer remain a swing vote nation, we want to come out as a movement which can negotiate with other blocs in the general election," he added. Lenku said the Maa people picked him to lead them. Narok Senator Ledema Olekina said Lenku imposed himself as Maa spokesman. The senator said the position of the Maa spokesman is not bought but is gained through wisdom. Ladema has gained the support of many other politicians in Kajiado and Narok counties, who believe Lenku negotiated for the position. Lenku said he is confident he will win the 2022 election because he has stood for unity and has remained a unifying figure in the region. “Before my election, there was instability in Kitengela and Ngong. I have since ironed those issues out and the people of Kajiado are happy with my leadership,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara