 Kiambu county has one of the highest drug addiction rates with an estimated 1,300 people injecting themselves every day. Officials said the menace was worse in Kiambaa constituency where a clinic for Medically Assisted Therapy has been set up at Karuri. The clinic was established with the support of the Medicine Sans Frontiers -Belgium (MSF) in partnership with the county government, LVCT health and the National Aids and STIs Programme (Nascop). The clinic was officially opened by Kiambu Governor James Nyoro in March last year at the Karuri Level 4 Hospital. There are three other clinics across the county offering such therapy. The aim is to tackle the growing menace of drug and alcohol abuse by providing a holistic approach. The initiative offers a one stop-clinic with free healthcare services for addicts who inject themselves with drugs. In Kiambaa, officials say the programme has largely been successful with reduced morbidity and mortalities associated with heroin. Dr Mercy Wambui who is in charge at Karuri Level 4 Hospital says there are around 480 recovering addicts enrolled in the Medically Assisted Therapy. They visit the clinic daily to get Methadone drug to be able to get out addiction. The clinic has also extended services to prisons where they take the drugs to addicted inmates daily. “This is a challenge to us as methadone is a controlled drug that is kept under lock and key. This means we have to get a permit from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board every time the drug leaves their pharmacy," Wambui says. “I was addicted to heroin for nine years and I got to learn about MAT clinic from a friend. My life had turned for the worse as I lost my job as an accountant at a secondary school because of my addiction. I would miss going to work for several days and was always intoxicated after taking the drug. This hindered me from performing my duties," beneficiary John Wainaina told KNA during an interview. “I lost my family too because of my addiction as I was not able to cater for their needs. I am so thankful for the programme because through their services I'm now on the road to recovery.” The clinic is a multidisciplinary facility that offers comprehensive services to recovering addicts including counselling, social support, HIV prevention and testing, condoms, screening for STIs and services for Hepatitis B and C. Dr. Janet Ng’ethe who works at the MAT clinic says many patients come with other medical conditions associated with drug addiction, including HIV. The programme has also led to reduced crime incidents in the county. “For long, we have had many cases of petty crimes such as burglary which could be blamed on drug addicts. Such crimes have reduced as most addicts have now recovered and reintegrated back to their families through the programme,” Karuri town residents Miria Kango said. Ng’ethe said youths aged between 20 and 32 are the most affected. Most are male. The few females in the programme were introduced to the vice by their partners, she says. Some were already pregnant when they enrolled for the programme. “This forced us to introduce the babies they got to an antidote to eliminate the drug from their system,”Ng'ethe says. Beneficiary Wa Kamary said she started abusing hard drugs in 2005 while she was in Form 3. Bhang, cocaine and heroin are the most common drugs that are abused in the area. "We normally buy a roll of bhang for between Sh10 and Sh30 while a dose of either cocaine or heroin goes for between Sh200 and Sh250. I am now much more responsible and am able to help my family more after the treatment,” Kamary said. It takes at least one year of Medically Assisted Therapy in a controlled environment for a user to get unhooked from a hard drug such as heroin, but it can take much longer, medics say. A daily visit to the clinic for the Methadone dose is necessary for every recovering drug addict and this can be time-consuming and costly. And even though all the services at the MAT clinic are absolutely free, patients have to pay for their transport to and from the clinic.  Edited by P.O