The sharing out of the proposed 70 constituencies and the introduction of a slum upgrade fund is at the centre of the BBI standoff at the joint Justices committee of Parliament. The Star has learnt that the bid to overhaul the list, which is largely driven by ODM, is the reason why the joint committee of the Senate and MPs has been unable to reach a decision on a report on the BBI bill. Some MPs want the special fund created to help improve the living conditions in slums across the country. A report of the committee on the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020, paves the way for the debate on the bill at the National Assembly and Senate plenary. But that is likely to take long amid the hardline stances pitting proponents of amendments to the bill and those against such a move citing the protection guaranteed to a bill under popular initiative. Parliament is in recess to contain the spread of Covid-19 virus, throwing into disarray the bid by the BBI promoters for a June referendum. A member of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee told the Star the two issues are the reason for the stalemate. The committee in a presser addressed by co-chairman Muturi Kigano (National Assembly Justice and Legal Affairs committee chairman and Kangema MP) that they were yet to conclude the report. Co-chairman Okong’o Omogeni said they anticipate having the report ready by May 4 – when the National Assembly is slated to resume sittings. Kigano said they would hold a five-day retreat to take a further study of the recommendations by a team of experts hired to help them interpret contentious legal issues on the process. “We have given this exercise a full five days to wrap up the report and give one that can stand the test of time,” Kigano said. Speaker Justin Muturi said he has not received a request for a special sitting, meaning there is no matter that needs the urgent attention of the House. Omogeni argues that if the matters in question are not addressed, the BBI process would be exposed to an array of litigations. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, in its submissions to the JLAC committees, maintained that delimitation of boundaries is squarely its mandate. Members of the joint committee are split on the matter, with both sides citing the risk of exposing the document to litigations – either way. Those for amendments say Parliament has powers to tweak the bill, citing a precedence set during the enactment of the current constitution. But a senior member of the team told the Star in confidence that it would be defeatist to yield to demands to open the document. “Everybody is looking at the constituencies…constituencies….constituencies….you can’t satisfy everybody. We have to develop, in future, criteria for creating a constituency,” the member said. “If you open the document to include territorial mass land and the sort, everybody will keep on asking for amendments here and there,” the MP said. The standoff, observers say, is a mixed bag of handshake politics and the 2022 elections, with a section of MPs said to be keen on taking credit for the additional constituencies. Minority leader Emmanuel Wangwe, however, denied the existence of contention in the discussions saying members have no point of departure. “There is no point of departure. The bill is an issue of discussion and that is why we have been meeting people with different views. In Parliament, we don’t anticipate debate. We go to meetings with open mind. You can’t go to a meeting with the mindset that you’ll get all clauses right,” the Navakholo MP said. National Assembly Leader of Majority Amos Kimunya weighed in saying: “The first thing is that we can’t change the bill. The committee report is to help the debate on the bill. We are not approving the committee report.” He said the committee would simply give its observations on the bill, which will have to be debated as a bill through second reading - aided by the committee report. Kimunya allayed fears of further delays after May 4 citing the ruling by Speaker Muturi that the bill would be debated with or without the report. “There were people who thought you can open the bill and make amendments. The issue is just to bring the report to the House for futuristic reviews. Article 257 of the Constitution is clear the bill goes to a referendum whether parliament has approved it or not. The report is for MPs to have their input but not to amend the bill,” the Kipipiri MP said. ODM leader Raila Odinga had reportedly asked his stalwarts to go slow on the demands and allow the bill to proceed without further delay. He put a stop to the power games around the BBI project, said to be played by some second term governors and members of the House committee tackling the bill. “The stand-off is staged by persons who are keen on the collapse of the handshake so that they reap from the confusion that would be thereafter,” a senior ODM lawmaker said on Friday.