Nairobi's proposed budget for the next financial year has been increased by Sh1.9 billion — to Sh39.6 billion. It's the highest since devolution started in 2013. Last year's budget was Sh37.7 billion. Revenue has improved since KRA took over revenue collection in March 2020. The assembly passed the revised County Fiscal Strategy Paper FY2021-22 on Friday last week. The largest share, Sh27.01 billion, is allocated to recurrent expenditure. Development will get Sh12.59 billion. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services, which has taken over four key functions, has been allocated Sh21.18 billion. The transferred functions are health, transport, public workers and planning and development. Of the Sh21.18 billion, Sh12.05 billion will go to recurrent expenditure and Sh9.12 billion to development. The amount includes the Ward Development Fund, which has been allocated Sh1.5 billion. Each of the 85 wards will get Sh17.65 million. It is an increase over the current financial year's Sh1.3 billion. The budget of the NMS team led by director general Mohammed Badi will be cut by Sh5.9 billion. This year it was allocated Sh27.1 billion, including Sh11.75 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh6.6 billion for development. Assembly Finance, Budget and Appropriations committee chairman Robert Mbatia said NMS pointed out the "robust measures" they will employ to ensure optimal absorption of the development budget, services and revenue. NMS called on the assembly to ensure compliance with the Deed of Transfer of functions and emphasised the importance of collaboration and understanding by both levels of government. The county has been allocated Sh14.3 billion for the retained functions and Sh4.1 billion for assembly operations. The governor's office is to utilise its Sh5.4 billion to ensure implementation of inspectorate and investigative services, support the subcounty administration and improve effectiveness of the internal audit, the fiscal strategy paper said. The Public Service Board has been allocated Sh143.6 million; Sh250 million goes to the Liquor Licensing Board and Sh140 million to the Emergency Fund. To support micro and small enterprises and develop local and foreign trade, Sh1.03 billion has been proposed for the Trade, Commerce and Tourism sector. About Sh2.2 billion has been allocated to the education sector for ECDE centres, new vocational training centres and youth welfare. Agriculture and Fisheries is to receive Sh409 million to enhance food security and safety. The Finance and Economic Planning sector has been allocated Sh2.2 billion. The  ICT and E-Government will get Sh559.2 million to put up data centres into operation and establish staff labs. To fund the budget, the county aims for internal revenue collection of Sh20.4 billion. The increase is to be achieved with the roll-out of the Geographic Information System. GIS will reach segments yet to be captured in the revenue map. The county will also work closely with KRA and take other revenue-enhancing measures. City Hall has fallen short of own-source revenue targets every financial year. The poor performance has often been blamed on inefficient collection of parking fees, unreliable rates, low collection from single business permits. The highest amount ever collected was Sh11.71 billion in 2015-16, which was still short of the Sh15.3 billion target. In the last financial year, the county collected Sh8.6 billion, the lowest ever recorded, against a target of Sh17.2 billion. Under performance was largely attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic and arbitrary granting of waivers. The county only collected Sh20.7 billion against a target of Sh34.2 billion to finance its Sh37.7 billion budget. “The county government has never hit Sh12 billion in terms of internal revenue collection since the rolling out of the devolved system of government,” the Fiscal Policy Paper reads. (Edited by V. Graham)