The Postal Corporation of Kenya has reached out to senators to save it from collapse. In a report to the Senate Committee on Information and Technology, the corporation made several proposals it wants to be incorporated in its survival plans. PCK is one of the country’s oldest parastatals but has been fighting to remain in business in recent years. Financial reports show the corporation has been sinking into losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In the report, postmaster general Daniel Kagwe asks the Senate to facilitate the appointment of PCK as the preferred government logistic services provider. Kagwe also wants PCK to be part of the Kenya Transport and Logistics Network that was established in November last year by President Uhuru Kenyatta through an Executive Order. KTLN is meant to enhance logistics efficiency and coordination in the transport sector through public-private dialogue and leveraging the efficiencies and synergies of the relevant state agencies. It is hoped that through KTLN, the country will be able to achieve its strategic agenda of becoming a regional logistics hub. Kagwe asked the Senate to facilitate the process of reverting government cash disbursements and transfers to PCK. Beneficiaries of cash disbursements and transfers have been collecting their cash from selected commercial banks or through mobile money transfers. Kagwe also wants senators to fast-track approval of a minimum annual budgetary allocation of Sh1 billion to cushion PCK from the burden of Universal Service Obligation and to ensure that approval of postal address ownership is a mandatory requirement for company registration. USO is the practice of providing a baseline level of services to every resident of a country. Kagwe also highlighted some of the measures the corporation has put in place to ensure survival. He cited the introduction of Mobile Wallet- for mobile money transfers, e-commerce payments and government disbursements. He said the corporation is seeking partnerships with Kenya Medical Supplies Agency for distribution of drugs, National Transport Safety Authority for distribution of logbooks and certificates, Ministry of Interior for delivery of Huduma cards to all sub-county offices and delivery of passports through a digital delivery system. Last year, PCK employees went for months without salaries, even as the state declared them essential service providers in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Broadcast and Telecommunications PS Esther Koimett was then summoned by National Assembly’s Committee on Labour and Social Welfare to shed light on the woes facing the parastatal. She said the government had initiated various policy and institutional reforms aimed at revitalising the corporation. The overall objective of the restructuring was to make PCK self-reliant. Koimett cited the rapid conversion to digital communication, the courier sub-sector, the high cost of infrastructure, and the heavy public mandate of providing universal postal services to all citizens as the main threats to the survival of PCK. “The failure by PCK to embrace the changes fast enough to withstand the new developments in the sector has affected its revenue and operations,” she said. Koimett said the financial challenges had made PCK reduce its outlets from 1,039 in 1999 to the current 623. PCK has about 2,500 employees across the country.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris