Malkia Strikers players currently in a bubble training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani will not be allowed to re-join their clubs for the African Clubs Championship, team manager Alfred Chedotum has confirmed. The clubs' continental assignment is set for April 19 to May 1 in Sousse, Tunisia. Kenya Volleyball Federation League defending champions Kenya Prisons,  Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) and Kenya Pipeline who are eligible for the annual event, will miss the services of their best players who are intensifying their training ahead of the Tokyo Olympic Games. Kenya Prisons are the last Kenyan club to lift the African club title — in 2013 — after beating GSP of Algeria to win a fifth continental crown in Madagascar. KCB are expected to miss the services of Immaculate Nekesa, Edith Wisa, Mercy Moim, Noel Murambi, Leonida Kasaya, Jemimah Siangu, Sharon Chepchumba, and Violet Makuto. Prisons will miss Joy Luseneka, Lorraine Chebet, Pamela Masaisai, Emmaculate Chemtai, Joan Jelagat and Elizabeth Wanyama while Pipeline are set to go to battle without Gladys Ekaru, Pamela Adhiambo and Agrippina Kundu. With the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic ravaging the country at the moment, Chedotum said it was crucial to have all the players in camp ahead of a busy international schedule, adding that the decision to lock out the players was arrived at after extensive consultations with the clubs. He added that they want the players to be around when a group of four Brazilian coaches, seconded to Kenya by the FIVB, arrive in the country mid this month. "Clubs are aware of our resolve but we are sorry for the quality they will miss. It is good for the players to get to work with the expected foreign coaches, who we believe will add another dimension to their game. The team is entering a crucial period and we found it wise to have them all with us," said Chedotum, who doubles up KDF Team Manager. The Brazilian coaches are expected to take charge of Paul Bitok's charges between April 15 and 25. The team is also expected to travel to Brazil for a one-month training camp and international friendly matches. At the same time, Chedotum revealed that a decision will be made whether or not to give the players a break from camp. The verdict will be made by the management in conjunction with the advice from Caro Okoth — the Olympic Team Kenya doctor. In the meantime, Chedotum said that setter Esther Mutinda, who withdrew from the squad last week on health reasons, will not be replaced in the team.