A woman who gave birth to quadruplets at Kalemunyang dispensary, Loima sub-county in Turkana is appealing for help from well-wishers for support. Arot Aching’ole,39 and a mother of seven, last week on Thursday delivered four boys. Aching’ole delivered two hours after arriving at the health facility with labour pains though she had turned up for the antenatal clinic checkup. “I am a happy woman after delivering four children though I expected twins. I thank God and the health workers for their support because the boys and I are in good condition,” she said. Aching’ole said she has named the babies after the team of health workers who helped her deliver for remembrance of their good services. The mother of 11 children now says she has a huge task to provide for her family since she is the breadwinner. “My family depends on me for survival. I don’t know how I will manage to provide food for them because my husband and I depend on menial jobs such as burning charcoal for sale as I also weave baskets and mats to make our ends meet,” she said. She said that since she left home together with her husband to the hospital she is worried about the status of her seven children that she left without food. “When I’m at home, my children depend on me, no one can provide for them. Now that we are here, I can’t imagine how they surviving at home,” she said. Aching’ole has appealed to public members to help her raise the quadruplets because she cannot afford to provide for their needs and she also needs a well-balanced diet to breastfeed them. “I need your help to enable me to provide for them. I also have seven children that I’m supposed to feed, but due to my status now I have to babysit my infants and unable to provide for them,” she said. She has also appealed for support from the county government citing that she now has the burden of raising the children. Faith Kipchumba clinical officer, in charge of Kalemunyang Dispensary, said the mother delivered well although she was expecting twins, she instead delivered quadruplets. “The mother was shocked after giving birth to quadruplet, we had to counsel her that it’s normal. Since our facility is still developing and it doesn’t have a kitchen where the mother can be taken care of, we had to refer them to Lorugumu sub-county hospital,” she said. Anthony Gichungi, medical officer for Lorugumu sub-county hospital confirmed that they received the infants from Kalemunyang Dispensary and they are admitted to the newborn unit. He said the infants have a good birthweight as three have two kilograms each and one has 1.7 kilograms. “As a medical team, we are focusing mostly on providing a favourable environment for them to gain weight and for the mother to be able to provide nutrition support. We aim to make sure they attain 2.5kilogram before we discharge them,” he said. According to Peter Lomurkai, Loima sub-county health medical officer said they have made a record for the first time in the county for the successful delivery of quadruplets. “This indicates that we have quality service delivery from the lowest unit. We had to move the infants from Kalemunyang to Lorugumu sub-county hospital because Kalemunyang is not an in-patient unit, there is no kitchen to carter for the mother for nutrition aspects,” he said. Lomurkai said the mother and the children are in good health and they are committed to offering all the necessary support in terms of medical care and nutrition aspects.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris