The Government Chemist has disowned a DNA report allegedly filed in court in a succession case by one of the widows of the former spy chief James Kanyotu. Kanyotu's son Willy Kahara says in an affidavit that on July 30, 2018 Mary Wanjiku Kanyotu filed a witness statement and attached a DNA report allegedly from the Government Chemist issued by Lilian Ouma. He says the report dated June 13, 2018 was presented in an attempt to disinherit him from the estate of Kanyotu. The Government Chemist said that the presenter of the fake report be prosecuted. Kahara complained in his affidavit that he never participated in the DNA exercise and yet he got results. "The DNA was done without my knowledge so as to be locked out of succession case No. 1239 of 2008 estate of Kanyotu," he said. He has also lodged his complaint at Directorate of Criminal Investigations on several fake documents filed in court in the succession case. Among the alleged fake documents is a KCPE school-leaving certificate also allegedly filed by Mary Wanjiku, purporting it to be Kahara's. Following a complaint about the alleged fake DNA report and the documents filed in the case, the Government Chemist through Ali Gakweli filed its response. "We wish to clarify that the DNA report purported to have been authored and signed by one Lilian Ouma is not our report. And Ouma is not one of our reporting officers. The stated file case reference No. N98/2018 is a completely different case from our records,” Gakweli says. The Government Chemist says the origin of the fake report should be thoroughly investigated, including the person who presented it. "We commit to work together with the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions and other relevant investigating arms of government to get to the bottom of this matter," he says. High Court judge Margaret Muigai had issued an order to the effect that any party in the case who has a complaint or has received any form of threat should file the same in court through an affidavit. Edited by Henry Makori