Football Kenya Federation president Nick Mwendwa is frantically scratching his head for elusive solutions after three main Kenyan Premier League sponsors threatened to pull out citing huge losses occasioned by the recent government ban on sporting activities. "The Premier League clubs may miss out on the sponsorship money for the remaining 2020/2021 season from their sponsors — Betking, Startimes and Radio Milele — if action does not resume any time soon," said a visibly dejected Mwendwa. According to Mwendwa, one of the league sponsors has already threatened to put funding on hold given uncertainties surrounding the league in the wake of last months' indefinite suspension of sporting activities. However, Mwendwa revealed that the federation is already engaging the Ministry of Sports in the hope they would allow the top-flight league to resume. “We have already talked to the Ministry of Sports and they are keen to implement a few things. They have asked us to write to them on what we intend to do and make sure Covid-19 does not spread among those involved, “Mwendwa had earlier said in an interview. “What I can say is that the CS is very willing to allow us to resume the league if we follow the laid down Covid-19 regulations and in my opinion, we must have our league restart at the shortest time possible,” he added. Mwendwa said it was necessary for the league to hit the ground running as soon as possible especially now that Kenya has important international assignments coming up. Harambee Stars are set to kick off their World Cup qualifiers against Uganda in Nairobi in their opening match in June. Kenya have been pooled in Group 'E' alongside Mali, Uganda and Rwanda in the continental magnum opus which will be settled on a home and away round-robin format. Mwendwa further said they have plans to vaccinate all the players. “The Ministry of Sports is also keen to have all the players and officials vaccinated after which the league can resume under the laid down Covid-19 protocols," he said.