Police are holding a woman after she stabbed and killed a 35-year-old man in Kwambuzi-Kiboko, within Tigoni, Kiambu County. Police say they arrested Grace Nyambura Njeri after she allegedly stabbed her victim Peter Maina Kasera several times in his chest, in a scuffle outside Maina's rented house. The two had been arguing before the fight broke out and turned fatal. Locals told police the two were friends and had been arguing over domestic issues before a fight broke out. Maina had stab wounds in the chest and detectives who arrived at the scene said they did not find the killer weapon. Director of DCI George Kinoti said police were called to the scene Sunday and picked up the body, taking it to the mortuary as a probe was launched. Elsewhere, police are investigating the suspected murder of a 32-year-old man, who was found dead by the roadside, within Tigoni, in Muna area, Kiambu County. The body of the deceased Duncan Kavucho Lugulu, was found with deep fresh wounds on the forehead and bruises on his chest. Detectives investigating the case are working towards establishing the motive behind his death and the possibility of its relation to the first incident. Cases of fatal domestic fights have been on the rise in the past months with trauma being blamed on the same. In Juja, police arrested a man who killed his lover over a love triangle saga. The main suspect in the killing of a woman whose mutilated body was found dumped inside a car in Weteithie, Kiambu county was arraigned in court on Monday and detained pending investigations. This as it emerged the suspect, who reportedly killed his lover on suspicion she was seeing another man, attempted to commit suicide after the act. Evans Karani, 39, is the main suspect in the murder of Catherine Nyokabi Gitonga, 23. According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, Karani attempted to discard Nyokabi’s body, but his car got stuck in the mud on Bob Harris Road in Juja. Karani fled the scene leaving the car with the body inside. Curious passersby who saw the abandoned car alerted the police after peeping in and seeing a body inside. The authorities said Nyokabi’s body was disfigured and it is suspected that she had been burnt using a corrosive chemical, which is yet to be established. Karani had another family, which was unknown to the family of Nyokabi.