Police officers in Nyanza have been told to crack down on the sale and consumption of illicit brews. They have been directed to carry out daily raids to weed out the vice or face the sack. Regional police commander Karanja Muiruri on Sunday said daily crackdowns will go on and be coordinated by county police commanders. He said the government is keen to preserve the future of young people and will not sit back and watch as illicit liquor brewers and dealers continue to ruin their lives. "I have issued firm instructions to all the county police commanders within Nyanza to ensure that those dealing in this illicit trade are arrested and immediately arraigned. This should happen to their clients found partaking of the brew," he said. Muiruri said young residents who are expected to use their time and energy to engage in useful activities are lost in the drinks and slowly becoming addicts. He said most parents are worried that their sons and daughters are wasting away because of chang'aa and drug abuse. "Those who have turned to such drinks are not helpful at all to society. They're sinking their families into deeper misery and hopelessness," he said. Muiruri at the same time directed those carrying out the crackdown to destroy equipment and other materials used to produce the brew. He urged chiefs and their assistants to help the police in fixing the chang'aa problem. He termed it unfortunate to see young men roaming trading centres and urban slums while drunk as early as 9am. "We must bring back sanity in the region with regard to consumption and sale of illicit brew and any other Illegal happenings, including criminal acts motivated by drug use," the regional police boss said. He described it as regrettable for some county governments to issue permits and licences to people who make the local brews. He noted that the decision has seen mushrooming of drinking dens that attract a huge number of people congregating to consume the liquor. "This must be discouraged at whatever cost because it goes against the Covid-19 protocols that require people to observe the social distance," he said. Last week, several brewers were arrested in Obunga slums during a raid conducted by the Kisumu Central security intelligence committee. The team obtained licences that had been issued to local liquor brewers by the county government, according to deputy county commissioner John Cheruiyot. In recent weeks, some counties such as Nyamira, Homa Bay, Siaya and Kisumu have intensified crackdowns on chang'aa brewers and those selling Uganda's Waragi. On Saturday evening, police officers on patrol on Sindo-Homa Bay road impounded a vehicle that was ferrying over 200 litres of Chang'aa. The driver of the vehicle escaped on foot and is still being sought by the police, according to Muiruri. In Masaba North, Nyamira county, police from Keroka visited homes of notorious illicit liquor traders and destroyed thousands of litres of the brew. Also destroyed were items used to produce chang'aa and busaa. One of the dealers was arrested and will be arraigned on Monday, according to the regional police boss. "This crackdown will continue in the coming weeks until we deal with this problem once and for all," he said.