ODM leader Raila Odinga should support Siaya Senator James Orengo for governor, a political analyst from the county has said. Siaya political analyst Dick Okello said Orengo has had a long political history with Raila and therefore should be handed the ODM ticket to vie for the governor's seat in the 2022 polls. He said Orengo has over the years played a big role in the growth of ODM and he should not be deprived of the party's ticket. The Siaya governor’s seat will be up for grabs after Governor Cornel Rasanga’s tenure ends next year. Four aspirants have so far shown interest in the seat and are expected to battle it out in the nominations for the ODM ticket. They are Orengo, Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, Siaya Deputy Governor James Okumbe and police spokesperson Charles Owino. Okello said of the four aspirants, Orengo has the highest chance of becoming the next Siaya governor. “Even the role Orengo is playing at the national level to ensure ODM has a national outlook cannot be compared to any Nyanza leader,” the analyst said. Okello said when one looks at the political landscape in Siaya, virtually all the MPs and MCAs were assisted one way or the other by Orengo to secure their seats, hence the goodwill he is enjoying in the county. He said Rasanga’s sympathisers will vote in Orengo as he has accorded the incumbent governor space to deliver despite being in a position to frustrate his service delivery. Okello said if given a chance to advise other aspirants seeking to vie for governor in the county, he would urge them to support Orengo in 2022. In the last general election, Orengo was elected without an agent at any polling station and no campaign posters anywhere. But Chris Owalla, a Kisumu-based political analyst, said looking at the political history of Siaya, anyone can be the next governor as long as he has the party’s goodwill. “Who imagined that Rasanga could be the Siaya governor for two terms after stepping down for Oburu at the initial stages?” he posed. Owalla said Siaya voters are unpredictable, giving an example of the 2013 and 2017 general elections, where those perceived to be popular lost awfully. He said voters should be allowed to elect their preferred candidate without any interference from any quarter. Edited by A.N