A Nairobi resident has petitioned the anti-graft agency to probe county attorney Lydia Kwamboka for abuse of office, conflict of interest and professional misconduct. The unnamed resident told the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission that Kwamboka single-sourced a law firm she had worked with to represent the county. She is accused of using the firm as a proxy to trade with the county government. The county attorney denies wrongdoing. The petitioner says the attorney picked the law firm without pre-qualification as required by the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act. The resident further says the attorney is illegally in office as she did not obtain a practising certificate from the Law Society of Kenya for 2020 and 2021. “Ms Lydia neglected to take out a practising certificate for the year 2020 and 2021 but went ahead to draw and execute legal instruments on behalf of NCCG, thereby exposing the NCCG to invalidation of the said legal instruments and exposing the county government to unwarranted legal action,” the petitioner said. The Star confirmed through the LSK website that Kwamboka is compliant and certified for 2021. The resident accused Kwamboka of abusing her office by appointing four people from her Kisii community to head the four directorates under her office. “An attempt by the County Secretary who is the Head of Public service to make changes and ensure tribal and gender balance...was met by a series of memos by Kwamboka countermanding him,” the petition reads. Kwamboka distanced herself from the claims, terming them malicious allegations meant to tarnish her name. She said city cartels threatened by her refusal to allow irregular payment of legal fees to corrupt networks out to fleece the county were fighting back. “I have not heard of the allegations and I want to tell you none of them is true,” she said. The city attorney said her office does not hire people and that the four directors named were in office before she was appointed by former Governor Mike Sonko. "I'm not a tribalist," she said. "My husband is a Kikuyu, my father is a Kipsigis and I'm a Kisii, so tribe means nothing to me." Kwamboka said she found the firm prequalified by the procurement department, which forwarded it to her as one of those to pick for cases. "After practising for the many years, does it mean that once I get into public office I can't work with anybody I ever knew before?" she said. Kwamboka termed the claims that she was not licensed as rubbish, saying the LSK records show she has a current certificate. "All these are cartels out to fleece legal fees and I have tried to block them so they are fighting back," she said. Kwamboka said that the county secretary was being used to fight her  "and carry out unlawful appointments". "I won't relent in my quest to ensure that people comply with the law," she said.  (edited by o. owino)