A Twitter posting by DCI has opened a floodgate of reactions from Kenyans on police brutality in what is seen as reactance to deal with rogue officers. In the tweet, DCI said Darnella Frazier was only 17 years old when she witnessed a UK Police officer breaking the law. Frazier took action by filming the then Minneapolis Police officer Derek Chauvin, as he arrested George Floyd by placing his knee on Floyd’s neck. Out of Darnella’s courage, Derek is now convicted for murder. “DCI acknowledges that the unlawful actions of an errant law enforcement officer, may lead to untold suffering to victims,” DCI said. “That’s why we encourage you to stand firm in pursuit of justice, by reporting crimes happening near you for action." Chauvin was convicted of second-degree murder, third-degree murder and manslaughter in the deadly arrest of George Floyd, a milestone in the fraught racial history of the United States and a rebuke of law enforcement's treatment of Black Americans. The 12-member jury found Chauvin, 45, criminally liable in Floyd's death last year after considering three weeks of testimony from 45 witnesses, including bystanders, police officials and medical experts. Jurors began their deliberations on Monday. But the DCI comments were met with angry Kenyans who 'crucified' the Directorate for lack of action in its cases. Some Kenyans shared pictures of police assaulting Kenyans while others questioned why Kenya was not having convictions in brutality cases. @jakes_254 said “Babu Owino shot someone on Camera and nothing has been done to him... Floyd's case has even been tried and determined while our courts are still dilly-dallying our justice system is rotten to the core.” @gluyuku said “But if someone filmed a policeman you guys would destroy his phone or camera and threaten to arrest him! Just see how you reacted to the story about police guns! "JP and Oscar documented the NPS murders during the anti-Mungiki crackdowns. In the well captured (on video) 2008 Kondele shooting of Ismael Chacha and George Ouko, which police prosecutor changed the firearm serial number in the Edward Kirui Vs State matter, hence the acquittal?" @francisngira said. Since Kenya announced its first coronavirus case in March 2020, alleged instances of police brutality tied to the enforcement of virus containment measures have been well documented. Rights groups have helped document at least 95 cases of killings they say were linked to police in 2020. Rights groups in the country filed a class suit on behalf of the victims of police killings and brutality witnessed during the Covid-19 period. Amnesty International, IJM, HAKI Africa, and Kituo Cha Sheria says law enforcement officers meted violence and brutality on members of the public before curfew. The respondents in the case are the Inspector General of Police, Interior CS, and the Attorney General who have been sued for failing to uphold their mandate while enforcing the curfew order. In February 2018, local and international rights organizations, including Human Rights Watch, documented more than 100 cases of police killings of opposition protesters during the 2017 presidential elections. In June 2016, Human Rights Watch found that at least five people died and 60 more were wounded by gunfire in the Nyanza region as police tried to obstruct two protests calling for reform and reconstitution of the electoral body.