A prime suspect in the murder of a Kenya Defence Forces Private says the deceased fatally hurt himself. The suspect Violet Asale, who is the widow to the deceased told police the soldier - Daniel Onyango - hurt himself in the house as they argued. Asale is a secular musician, popularly known as Zian Achama and she is behind the songs – “Nimechoka”, “I love you”, “Falling in love” and “Gimmie love”. She told police that the man walked out of their room after the argument and confrontation saying he could not breath. "The woman says she did not use any weapon. She claims the man tried to strangle her before she fought back and ran out of their bedroom," said an officer aware of the probe. "Moments later the man walked out complaining of inability to breath. But we will know more," he added. She said Onyango bit her in the back prompting her to  bite back. She is in custody ahead of planned murder arraignment on Tuesday. Onyango had argued with Asale over a one-bedroom rental apartment in Kasarani, Nairobi. Police say preliminary investigations show the soldier and Asale had a bitter exchange when the man demanded to know who was paying rent for the room in question. He had apparently not been told about the studio prompting suspicion and questions. According to some of the witnesses so far questioned the wife had rented the house to serve as an office and editing of her music, which did not go down well with her husband. Onyango showed up at their house in Kahawa Wendani on Saturday and refused to take his supper. This prompted an exchange of words between the two that turned fatal. An autopsy is planned on the body to determine how he died, police handling the case said. Police will then charge the woman with murder. She is however expected to be produced in court on Tuesday when police will seek time to hold her ahead of the autopsy report and further probe. The couple had three children and according to police and witnesses, their last born, a four year old baby, witnessed the traumatic incident. The couple's squabble turned lethal when Asale, armed with her teeth bit him in the bedroom. The suspect and other witnesses told police an argument over the said room broke out into a major ding-dong at midnight on Sunday before the lady resorted to the unlikely weapon - her teeth. Realizing he had developed convulsions and was sliding into his death, Violet rushed her man to Kahawa Garrison health centre, but it was too late to save him. During the incident at their two-bedroom rental apartment, three other people were present. They included their last-born baby, a sister of the suspect and an auntie to the deceased. Neighbours at the Makiwanga area said the deceased was seen  looking distressed and late in night some commotion and screams were heard from their house. Onyango has in the past served in Somalia under Amisom. He was attached to the Ranger Strike Force. The trip to Somalia is said to have partially traumatised him. Lately, there have been a surge in such cases, with some being linked to mental illness due to the COVID-19 pandemic.