Women leaders have dismissed claims that Chief Justice nominee Martha Koome was favoured on account of her ethnicity and gender. The leaders, led by Gender Cabinet Secretary Margaret Kobia, on Thursday said the nomination of Court of Appeal judge Koome should not be interpreted through ethnic lenses and that she has all it takes for the office. Kobia, alongside CSs Amina Mohamed (Sports), Faridah Karonei (Lands), Betty Maina (Industry) and Cecily Kariuki (Water), said the JSC process was rigorous and fair and Koome demonstrated her capacity to lead the arm of government and widen access to justice. The reaction comes after lawyer Fred Ngatia cast aspersions on the process that settled on Koome, alleging that he had topped in the interviews but was rigged out after calls by big shots in government. Ngatia, who is a senior counsel, claimed that four commissioners from the Mount Kenya region were allegedly instructed by unnamed persons to unfairly manipulate his interview scores in favour of Koome. Ten candidates sought the position. They Others were Moni Wekesa, Patricia Kameri Mbote, Alice Yano, Nduma Nderi, Njagi Marete, Said Chitembwe, Philip Murgor and William Ouko. The commission resumes interviews on Monday to recruit a Supreme Court judge. Among the shortlisted candidates are Chitembwe, appeals judge M’inoti Kathurima, Nduma Nderi, Lumumba Nyaberi, Appeal Court president Ouko, Joseph Sergon and Yano. The nomination of Koome has also elicited disquiet in some quarters on the account that ascending to that office puts the three arms of government firmly under the control of people from Mount Kenya region. The concern is that her nomination flies in the face of the need for regional balance in state appointments. But the CSs, flanked by a section of women CASs and PSs, as well as women players in the private sector, defended Koome, asserting that her ascendancy to that office is a major milestone for women. "Let's not bring these issues to hinder this nomination," CS Mohamed said. "Men don't rig. When they are appointed to high office no one complains." Karoney said, “Koome is not a Meru. She is a career woman who has ascended the ladder higher up on the basis of her competence and credentials.” CS Kariuki said women still suffer prejudice in society, giving an account of her experience this month when she alleged a man demeaned her despite her position. Kariuki claimed that she was having an official meeting with some unnamed man when another man called to disrupt. "The calling man would tell the man I was meeting: 'What are you doing with that woman,'" she recollected, adding that women leaders should support women occupying high offices "because it is cold up there". Kobia said in Koome's nomination "she has dealt with obstacles entrenched in social and cultural norms that deny leadership opportunities to women." The leaders asked members of the National Assembly to fast-track Koome's vetting to pave the way for her appointment. Edited by Henry Makori