Governors have raised concern over depletion of vaccines in their stores. The Council of Governors in their weekly updates noted that the uptake of the vaccine has been boosted by taking of the jab by national and county leadership. “The confidence of the citizens was enhanced and there is a serious demand for the vaccine now. Many county governments have depleted resources of what they had in store,” CoG Health Committee chairman Anyang' Nyong'o said. “This is a good sign but also a challenge since we have a shortage at the counties in the country and globally,” he added. Data from the Health Ministry shows that 999,000 doses have so far been distributed to the nine regional vaccine depots in the country with just 121,000 remaining at the National vaccine store in Kitengela. This comes amid concerns that Kenyans who had received their first jab might have to wait longer to receive their second dose amid fears of delay in importation of the second consignment. Despite the Health Ministry being optimistic that everything is under control, there might be need to slow down on the vaccination speed. A total of 526,026 Kenyans had been vaccinated in the country as at Monday with the AstraZeneca vaccine. This means that around 593,974 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine are still in stock. With the current speed, Kenya might run out of stock in the next 20 days. Way before the June 30 target. The initial plan was to reach 500,000 people with two doses of the 1.02 million doses received from the Covax Facility on March 3, but plans were changed to reach at least one million people with the hope that the second consignment of the vaccines will be received in April to facilitate second dosage. But with India having restricted exports of the vaccines as it continues to battle with the disease internally, the Kenya government will have to relook at the strategy to ensure those who are due for the second dose are able to get it. “Indeed we have received communication that probably there could be a delay perhaps of three to four weeks and so far we are not worried about this delay.  We are confident that when it is time for you to receive your second dose you will receive it,” Health CAS Dr Mercy Mwangangi said. Reports indicate that the second batch of the vaccines will be delayed for three to four weeks, which means the earliest another consignment will be received in the country is early May. “The communication we have so far is the delay will be about a month, we expected it early April so we should get in early May and that time many people will be already ready for their second dose,” Vaccines Deployment Taskforce chairman Dr Willis Akhwale said. According to Head of Vaccines and Immunisation Programme Dr Collins Tabu, the first dose is still as equally as protective and the second dose assures to boost the protective effect of the first dose and also assure long term protection from Covid-19. As at Monday, just 267,200 doses were at the nine regional depots across the country; 32,500 in Eldoret region depot, 60,000 in the Nakuru depot, 38,400 in the Kakamega depot and 19,500 in the Nyeri depot. Nairobi regional depot had 62,700 doses, 48,000 in the Kisumu depot, 3,000 in Mombasa depot, 2,100 in the Garissa region and just 1,000 in Meru depot.