Some 7,509 students graduated from the Kenya Medical Training College last week Tuesday – the biggest number ever since its establishment 94 years ago. They were awarded diplomas and certificates in various fields of medicine. Out of that number, 332 graduated with higher diplomas, 1,487 diplomas and 5,690 were awarded certificates. The graduation was conducted under strict Covid-19 rules where only 19 students attended the event at the campus, representing different faculties. The rest participated virtually. Health Chief Administrative Secretary Rashid Aman, who represented the national government during the ceremony, commended the KMTC administration for adopting digital learning after the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country to ensure continuity of education. “I want to commend the leadership of the college for moving with speed and shifting learning to online platforms, which has ensured over 51,000 continuing students undertake their studies as scheduled," he said. Aman thanked the management for the critical role the college plays in training  competent health workers. “Currently, the college contributes 85 per cent of the local middle-level health workforce. It is indeed gratifying to note that every health facility in the country, and some in the region, have a KMTC alumni or a trainee." KMTC Board of Directors chairperson Prof Philip Kaloki said the 7,509 students were supposed to have graduated last year in December, but their studies were interrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the college had cumulatively released 66,499 graduates to the job market since 2014 to bridge the human resource gap in health facilities. Kaloki further complemented government efforts in the fight against the coronavirus. He said KMTC has partnered with the Ministry of Health to manage the Covid-19 pandemic in the country by availing 44 of its campuses with a bed capacity of 3,397 for quarantine and isolation purposes. He said 5,077 people had been hosted in the facilities, effectively slowing down the spread of the virus. “The college further donated handwashing facilities and our lecturers conducted health education and promotion as well as provided mental health and psycho-social support to mitigate the effects of the coronavirus," Kaloki said. He said 41 campuses are being used as vaccination and training centres for health workers. KMTC chief executive officer Micheal Kitoo said the college has strengthened primary health care by collaborating with partners to train community health volunteers and community health assistants. Others trained include community health extension workers and emergency medical technicians. He said during clinical placements and rural experience, students and faculty play a significant role in augmenting healthcare service delivery alongside other healthcare professionals. During the ceremony, several people were recognised and awarded lifetime achievement awards.