Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai has said that the guns featured in an investigative story by Citizen TV do not belong to the National Police Service. The IG said on Monday during an interaction with members of the public through #EngageTheIG on Twitter, that the circumstances under which the weapons were acquired are an active investigation. Mutyambai added that police are sworn to protect lives and property and that should any officer be found breaking the law, legal action will be taken. The exposé revealed how rogue police officers promote crime by hiring out their police operating gears: guns, uniforms, bulletproof vests, and handcuffs to criminals for as low as Sh1,000. This caused an uproar among Kenyans, prompting the Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti to come out, dismissing the feature. Late week, while dismissing the exposé, Kinoti said that none of the firearms shown in the exposé belong to the Kenya police. “The allegations are extremely serious. We shall be asking the editorial director, and other relevant reporters to come and give us more insights to this report in pursuit of criminals harbouring the weapons,” Kinoti said. "The report seemed to be a malicious attempt to discredit the National Police Service; we can only conclude that it was aimed at creating public pandemonium over the management of the security sector." At the same time, Mutyambai has asked Kenyans to continue observing Covid-19 regulations. He said that flattening the Covid-19 curve is a collective responsibility and that any passenger boarding a vehicle that has more than 60 per cent capacity is as liable as the vehicle operators. The IG has also called upon Kenyans to report the police officers who will be taking bribes. “Nobody is allowed to solicit or give bribes under any circumstance. We need better collaboration between the police and citizens, this includes reporting specific instances against specific individuals and availing the evidence for legal action,” Mutyambai said.