The High Court has dismissed a case by a former Kenya Commercial Bank teller seeking to quash his sacking for telling a customer that he was disturbing. Julius Kirimo sued KCB seeking to be reinstated. He claimed his termination was illegal and sought Sh2,637,936 compensation. In a memorandum of claim, he also sought an order directing KCB to reinstate him to his previous job without loss of benefits. However, Employment and Labour Relations Court judge Byram Ongaya ruled that Kirimo’s termination was procedural. The judgment was delivered on April 23. The judge said Kirimo was not entitled to the remedies as prayed for except the certificate of service as the rest of the claims and prayers collapsed as the termination was not unlawful or unfair. “In conclusion, judgment is hereby entered for the respondent against the claimant for the dismissal of the memorandum of claim filed on July 15, 2019,” Ongaya ruled. Kirimo’s case was that KCB employed him initially as a clerk effective April 1993 at a monthly salary of Sh5,522. He served continuously for 25 years in various branches. His last station was Kilifi branch where he was paid Sh206,748 per month with an owner-occupier allowance of Sh13,000. He contract was terminated on September 19, 2018. He claimed it was illegal because due procedure was not followed as per the Employment Act, 2007, and the Labour Relations Act, 2007. Kirimo also claimed his termination was in breach of the prevailing collective agreement. He said he received internal memos from his employer dated July 6, 2018; July 12, 2018; July 14, 2018 and July 18, 2018 inviting him to give a detailed explanation as to why he was allegedly unprofessional in handling two clients. Prior to incidents in the internal memos, he had been very sick and was scheduled for an operation, but KCB failed to understand, Kirimo claimed. KCB, however, denied that the termination was unlawful. It stated that it was substantively and procedurally lawful and in full compliance with the procedure in the Employment Act, 2007. The bank said it issued internal memos as pleaded by Kirimo, but he did not give a reasonable explanation to the allegations made. “The claimant’s explanations were consistently inadequate, evasive, incomplete and never specifically nor adequately answered the allegations.” the judge said.  Edited by P.O