Athletics Kenya have promised to facilitate as many athletes as possible to various events locally and abroad in a bid to increase their prospects of qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics. AK president Jackson Tuwei said the federation will register Kenyan athletes hoping to qualify for the Olympics into various international events, amidst the suspension of sporting activities in the country. "We are taking this issue seriously and we want to offer them as many opportunities for them to qualify. This is not only for sprinters but for the athletes generally. For example, the organisers of the All Comers Meet in Zambia in which Mark Otieno participated plan to hold two more of such tournaments. We also have the Senior Africa Championships in Algeria where our athletes will have a chance of qualifying," Tuwei said. Mark Otieno fell agonisingly short of qualifying for Tokyo when he clocked 10.11 in the 100m men's race during the day-long event on April 11 in Lusaka. Tuwei has promised that Otieno will get more chances to target the 10.05 qualifying mark even as Zambian Athletics Federation plan to hold two more events in the All Comers' series. The federation, he added, is  eagerly waiting for the resumption of sports activities so as to continue with their calendar of events ahead of major international competitions. "We are waiting for the suspension to be lifted so that we can continue with our own local events. If they are held according to international standards, our athletes can also qualify. We still have the national championships to come, among many other events," he said. However, Tuwei cautioned athletes against racing in unsanctioned races lest their efforts go to waste. "I would like to advise our athletes to be careful not to compete in illegal competitions. They should first understand the requirements for the ratification of a national record or qualification to the Olympics. They should also check with the federation always before travelling for some of these events because we will have a chance to warn them if something does not add up," Tuwei said. The Kenyan team to the World Relay Championships in Selesia, Poland, including Otieno, are currently in residential camp training at Moi Stadium, Kasarani ahead of the global showpiece on May 1-2. 