Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has promised to pay secondary school fees for Abiud Kipkurui who scored 430 marks emerging seven nationally in the KCPE exams. Kipkurui is the son of a squatter and only managed to go to school through the support of a well-wisher. His parents were evicted from Serengonik Forest in Nandi and live as squatters on the roadside in the area. They have been struggling to even put a meal on the table. “It was just hard work and prayers to God because my parents are so poor and could not afford anything to enable me go to school. And indeed God has been so good to us,” Kipkurui said. He has been a pupil at Lessos Hills Primary in Lessos ward, Nandi county, where many residents are squatters and toil hard as farm hands in the tea estates to make ends meet. “The corona pandemic really affected learning but I and others really struggled through. I did all I could to study and be disciplined and even though I lacked books I used to borrow from friends and used any time I got very well,” Kipkurui said. He said he was also motivated by his parents to push on even after they were evicted from the forest land. Were it not for neighbour Geoffrey Kotutwo who took Kipkurui to Lessos Hills Academy and paid his fees, he would have probably dropped out of school. “I thank him for the support he has been giving my parents to ensure that I go to school,” Kipkurui said. Teachers at the school described Kipkurui as hard working despite the struggles his family was going through. The school emerged among the top performers in the country. On Friday, Governor Sang said he would ensure Kipkurui continues with his education. “Based on the family's humble background, I have taken up the responsibility to fully support Abiud through his secondary education. This will ensure that our great ambitious student achieves his dream of being a neurosurgeon,” Sang said. Sang hosted Kipkurui and his parents at the county headquarters in Nandi to celebrate the results and offer support to the family. “Listening to his touching story, Abiud's parents are among the Serengonik Forest evictees who now live by roadside. I wish to thank the well-wisher who supported Abiud through his primary education. Abiud went against all odds to post good results and we are indeed proud of him,” Sang said. Sang also congratulated Kipkurui’s parents for standing with their son despite the challenges in their lives. “My son is very committed to education. His work has been books and nothing else and we always tell him that is the direction that will change his life,” Kipkurui’s father Samuel Kipyego said. Kipyego said his family had received support from many people and is thankful for the gesture by the governor to support his son through secondary education. 