President Uhuru Kenyatta has joined other world leaders in mourning Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburg who passed away Friday. Prince Philip, 99, was the husband of Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom and the longest serving royal consort in British history. In his message of condolence and comfort to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, the Royal Family, Prime Minister Boris Johnson and the British people, Uhuru said the Duke of Edinburg has been a global unifying factor. “His Royal Highness Prince Philip has been a towering symbol of family values and the unity of the British people as well as the entire global community. Certainly, we mourn a great man who cherished and worked for peaceful co-existence of the human race,”Uhuru said. The President said he received the news of the death of Prince Philip with great sorrow and a deep sense of loss. "...the People and the Government of the Republic of Kenya stands in solidarity with the Royal Family, the United Kingdom and the world in mourning the departed monarch," he said. Tanzanian president Samia Suluhu also sent her condolences to the family. "On behalf of the Government and people of Tanzania, I convey the most profound condolences to Your Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, the Royal Family and the people of the UK for the demise of Prince Philip. Our thoughts and prayers are with you. May his soul rest in eternal peace. Amen," she said. A blunt-speaking naval officer who as Queen Elizabeth’s dutiful consort helped modernise the British monarchy, Prince Philip might be best remembered for his gruff public persona. Outspoken and irascible, Philip lived in the shadow of the woman he married at Westminster Abbey in 1947 and always walked a step behind the queen at the thousands of ceremonial events they attended during her reign, the longest in British history. Though he had no official role, Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh, was one of the most influential figures in the royal family for more than 70 years. He died aged 99 on Friday. While Philip was often criticised for his demeanour and sometimes brusque remarks, friends said that as Queen Elizabeth II’s closest confidant he brought wit, impatient intelligence, and unflagging energy to the monarchy. “He has, quite simply, been my strength and stay all these years,” Elizabeth said in a rare personal tribute to Philip during a speech to mark their 50th wedding anniversary in 1997. “I, and his whole family, and this and many other countries, owe him a debt greater than he would ever claim, or we shall ever know.” If Philip harboured frustration at his life as consort, he never publicly showed it. But in a tetchy interview with the BBC to mark his 90th birthday, he did reveal that in the early days he struggled to find a role for himself.