The government is planning to roll out local manufacturing of antiretroviral drugs in a move to curb shortage. Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe on Wednesday said Kenya cannot continue depending on foreign nations for the support of ARVs. He spoke during an inspection tour of the Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi, Taita Taveta. Kagwe’s sentiment comes weeks after a standoff between Kenya and the United States over Sh1.1 billion ARVs consignment lying at the Port of Mombasa over a tax dispute. Some of the commodities being held are for HIV testing, treatment and prevention. They include ARVs, laboratory reagents and TB diagnostic and prevention medications. “We must start to depend on ourselves as we cannot depend perpetually on external support to take care of our health sector. “At some point, we must decide, move forward and produce ARVs locally like other nations,” Kagwe said. Local production, he said, will ensure a steady supply of the drug to all health facilities and ease the burden on people living with HIV-Aids. He said if successful, it shall be a milestone in the fight against the virus. According to the National Aids Control Council, about 106,807 children below 14 years are living with HIV, but only 72,968 are on treatment and the number is expected to rise. Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce chairman Willis Akwale said special technical groups at the Ministry of Health were considering a decision on change of HIV treatment method before production of ARVs begins. “Globally, there have been new formulations and arrangements on treating HIV-Aids. Dosing schedules and mode of administration are also changing," he said. “All these are being considered by a technical team before a decision is made.” On the ongoing impasse and shortage of HIV-Aids drugs, Kagwe revealed that the government had already paid the required tax and that the drugs were pending distribution from the Mombasa port. “Originally, we had an issue of taxation because of an introduction of a private sector by the USAID that we were not aware of, but we have already sorted that out,” Kagwe said. He assured the public that the drugs shortage will soon end. Kagwe said USAID wanted to establish its own parallel drug distribution system in Kenya through Chemonics instead of using Kemsa, a move the government protested. The ARVs have stalled at the port since January because of a standoff on who will distribute the drugs, further posing a risk of expiry before distribution. ARVs have a short shelf-life of between 18 and 24 months. The shortage has especially affected Dolutegravir, whose sweet tablets for children had been announced in December. Most common paediatric drugs include a syrup that is 40 per cent alcohol and has a bitter metallic taste that lingers for hours. Lack of drugs for adults could also lead to more children born with HIV. The World Health Organization had earlier warned that nearly 70 countries were facing a risk of ARVs shortage due to the coronavirus that has interrupted supplies.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris