Leaders from Mt Kenya have started lobbying for former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri to be Deputy President William Ruto’s running mate in next year’s presidential race. The Star has learnt that in the last three weeks, a caucus of members of National Assembly, Senate and influential grassroots leaders have been meeting to strategise on how to rally other leaders and residents of the larger Mt Kenya region to back Kiunjuri. The strategy meetings have taken place in Nairobi, Nyeri and Kiunjuri’s home county of Laikipia. The DP who is keen to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in the August 2022 election is shopping for a running mate with his possible picks being individuals from Western and Mt Kenya region. Others positioning themselves for DP’s running mate are Tharaka Nithi senator Kindiki Kithure, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and the new entrant –outgoing Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Laikipia Senator John Kinyua said Kiunjuri is politically experienced and widely acceptable across the larger Mt Kenya. Speaking to the Star on phone on Tuesday, Kinyua said the leaders from Laikipia have endorsed the ex-CS who was dropped from Cabinet in 2020 to go to the negotiating table with the DP. “He has our blessings, he has what it takes not only to be the running mate but to also run for president. But for now, we have told him to work with the DP because that is where the desires and wishes of our people are,” he said. Kiunjuri,  The Service Party leader, was part of the senior politicians who held a meeting with Ruto in Narok county sparking speculations that he is being considered for a top post in the secession matrix. Nyeri Woman Representative Rahab Mukami said Kiunjuri is a seasoned leader who is ripe to unite and lead Mt Kenya, adding that his experience in politics and government affairs give him an edge over the rest. “Apart from Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi, and Martha Karua, there is no other politician who can challenge Kiunjuri in terms of experience. He was unfairly kicked out of government by his distractors who were unhappy because of his rising star,” Mukami told the Star. She added, “While we the new crop of leaders are equally up to the task if picked for the position of running mate, it is only fair that the leadership of Mt Kenya should sit down and we all settle on Kiunjuri.” Nyandarua Woman Rep Faith Gitau however said the leaders from Mt Kenya will have a meeting to settle on one candidate who will be presented. “We have a long queue and we are not yet at that stage. Yes Kiunjuri is an experienced leader, but the best man or woman among the many leaders we have, who will prove to be the best when the process starts, will be supported,” she told the Star on phone. Uhuru and Ruto settled on Kiunjuri as the CS for Devolution and Planning in 2014. The former Laikipia East MP would later be moved to the Ministry of Agriculture. Before venturing into politics, Kiunjuri taught at Kangema High School, Kiarithaini High School and Dr Kiano Boys School between 1983 and 1997. The Moi University Bachelor of Education graduate quit teaching at Kiarithaini Secondary School, Nyeri county, in 1997 and was elected MP for Laikipia East on the Democratic Party  ticket. The outspoken politician was re-elected in 2002 and 2007 but lost in 2013, when he vied for Laikipia governor. His mastery of communicating in the Kikuyu language, especially through proverbs and idioms, is unmatched among Central Kenya politicians of his generation.  -Edited by SKanyara