The daughter of a prominent politician was on Tuesday evening charged with sex trafficking in Nairobi. Faith Bwibo was charged before Kibera senior principal magistrate Esther Boke and denied the charges. The prosecution said Bwibo committed the offence on March 20 at South C's Mugoya Estate in Nairobi county. The charge sheet says that she unlawfully and knowingly transported a woman only identified as FJK, for sexual exploitation by means of deception. Bwibo was charged alongside Abdirizak Adan Abdul who is accused of rape. On the same day, the charge sheet says that  within the same area he raped the complainant. Abdul had an alternate charge of committing an indecent act with an adult by touching the complainant’s breasts. In the second count of malicious damage to property, the accused is said to have damaged the complainant's mobile phone - an iPhone 8 valued at Sh40,000. The police report says that  on the day around 2pm, the complainant received a call from her friend Bwibo who invited her together with other friends at around 4pm. The police  say the complainant received the call from the lady who requested her to take her to a certain place alongside her friends. After some minutes they were ready and the complainant requested her to order an Uber which was to pick them up. The complainant then told them to go ahead of her because she needed to seek permission from her father. So they left and the complainant joined them later at and they all proceeded to Carnivore grounds. When they reached, the accused person, the lady requested the complainant and her friend to take them somewhere as she wanted to see someone and the three went together. They accused person identified a car and  when they all approached it they found the second accused person, Abdi and the complainant remembered how she had occasionally heard the accused person speaking to him occasionally. She says they proceeded to a house at South C where Abdi raped her. She went to Coptic Hospital where she reported the matter. The two denied the charges before a Kibera court through their lawyer who requested that they be released on lenient bond terms. However, the complainant's lawyer Amazon Koech objected the application saying that Abdi was a dangerous man to the society. “The first accused person is dangerous to the society, I pray that this court balances the right of the victim and the right of the accused person,” she told the magistrate. Boke directed that the matter be mentioned on April 9 for  a ruling on the bail applications.