Deputy Clerk of the Safari Rally Course Nazir Yakub expects local drivers to struggle against their world class counterparts during the June 24-27 event. Yakub said lack of superior rally cars and experience in competing at the top level will work against the Kenyans compared to World Rally Championship 1 and 2 drivers who have participated at the top level for a while. "We are lucky to have a few R5 cars being run by Rai siblings Onkar and Tejveer. The R5 is a step below a WRC cars. Most of our boys are still running at National Championship level.The WRC 1 and 2 are running at international level with a lot of factory and team support.  For the quality of drivers, I am certain we have very good competitors, the only undoing being that the type of machines they use are superior," Yakub said. However, Yakub believes the local drivers' knowledge of the local terrain will work in their favour —at least at the initial stages of the rally. "The current crop of WRC 1 drivers have never rallied in Africa. They have never rallied in this surface. So for them, this is a complete new challenge. Locals will have an advantage due to their knowledge of the route but that will surely die out in the first three Kilometres of a stage run. The challenge for the top drivers is how quick they can keep up with the very best and adapt completely to our terrain," he said. Yakub was speaking during a route survey of the expansive Soysambu Conservancy, ahead of the Safari Rally's return after a 18-year hiatus. This final phase of the WRC Safari program will entail a detailed week-long activity. Administrative checks will begin on June 21 in Naivasha before reconnaissance later that day. Reconnaissance continues until  June 23 at lunchtime before shakedown commences on the same day within the Ndulele Conservancy, showcasing a  breathtaking backdrop with spectacular spectator viewing areas. On June 24,  reconnaissance of the Kasarani Spectator Stage (SS1) will happen in WRC cars. On the same day, Kenyatta International Convention Centre will  host a press conference  that will be followed by the ceremonial start. FACTFILE *WORLD RALLY TEAMS 2021 HYUNDAI Ott Tanak -Estonia Thirty Neuville -Belgium Dani Sordo - Spain Craig Green - Ireland. M-SPORT FORD Gus Greensmith (GB) Teemu Suninen (Finland) Adrien Fourmaux (France) Italian Lorenzo Bertelli. TOYOTA GAZOO RACING Sebastien Ogier - France Elfyn Evan- Finland Kalle Rovanpera - Finland Takamoto Katsuta-Japan