ODM party leader Raila Odinga has said that he will also participate in the coronavirus vaccination exercise to boost Kenyans' convidence in the safety of the jab. Speaking during a joint press address at the State House, Nairobi on Thursday with President Uhuru Kenyatta, Raila said that the vaccine is the only way to save the lives of Kenyans. Raila’s comments come after he recovered from the virus following three negative tests. “Now that vaccination is available, I want to encourage our people to take advantage, particularly those who are advanced in age. I am going to personally arrange to do a public vaccination so that people can see that I have confidence in the process,” Raila said. According to the Ministry of Health, those who had tested positive for the virus will have to wait for a period of one month after recovering in order to be vaccinated. The opposition leader has been undergoing medication for the last three weeks, which he said were difficult but made him reflect. He also called upon Kenyans to adhere to the government’s measures to prevent the further spread of the virus. Raila said the virus has continued to plunge the economy of the country, killing citizens, including leaders, health workers, and children. “Some sectors in our economy have been hugely affected and I know that the government will try to come to their rescue,” Raila said. He took the opportunity to wish Kenyans a happy Easter as they observe the protocols that have been put in place. The former Prime Minister has also said that the purpose of the Handshake between him and the president is still on course, adding it will unite the country. Earlier, the president inspected a number of projects in Nairobi and Kajiado together with Raila. The duo inspected the Green Park Bus Terminus on Haile Selassie Avenue in Nairobi, opened the 4.2km access road connecting the Nairobi Inland Container Depot (ICD) and the Southern By-pass near Wilson Airport, and opened the 48km Ngong-Kiserian-Isinya and the 43km Kajiado-Imaroro roads in Kajiado County.