Nyeri Water and Sanitation Company has defended itself  over claims of oppressive water tariffs. The company’s acting managing director Peter Kahuthu on Friday said the claims were as a result of misrepresentation of the water tariff review. Kahuthu said due process was followed, ensuring it was above board and legal. The tariff the company has been using until March this year expired in 2013, he said, adding that since  then, the company has unsuccessfully attempted to review it. “So it means we have been on a tariff that is not cost recovery, meaning we are not able to meet all our requirements through that tariff,” he said. In January 2019, he said, the company started reviewing the tariff and did an application to the Water Services Regulatory Board and went through the required  processes. The new tariffs were gazetted by WASREB in March this year and implemented on  April 6. “We had very successful public participations in October where we engaged the public across our service area. We had four sessions in Mweiga, Nyeri town and Mathira,” he said. He said the public gave them the go ahead to proceed and submit their submissions to WASREB for consideration. But since the billing started, there have been complaints from customers asking for clarifications as the available information did not represent the status of the tariff. Kahuthu said Nyewasco only revised its water tariffs upwards for commercial and government institutions. However, the company dropped minimum consumption from zero to 10 to zero to six, where the pro-poor category of consumers who are 70 per cent of consumers are. Standing charges for this category were dropped, which means those who will consume zero will only pay Sh50 for the meter. This means the tariff was dropped for the low income residents by about 10 per cent, he said. Initially, Nyewasco had been charging 100 per cent of water consumed to sewerage but with the new tariffs, the company is now charging for sewerage at 75 per cent of water used. The increment for commercial and government administrations, which were reviewed upward, will subsidise the rates for low consumers that were dropped. To fight Covid-19 through promotion of hand washing, Kahuthu said the company had erected some hand washing points where they are offering water free of charge. Nyewasco has been rated as the best water services provider in Kenya for ten consecutive years.