The daughter to Jomvu MP Badi Twalib says news of her dad getting Covid almost crushed her performance in the KCSE examination. Zaharia Twalib scored 398 marks. She, however, believes that she would have scored way above that if she was not worried about her parents after they contracted Covid 19. “At first I did not know because I was a boarder, but when I learnt of their situation, I could not stop worrying about how they were fairing since I was not seeing them," she said. She said her worries were due to the information about Covid-19 and the history of virus in her family. Zaharia lost her grandparents (former MP Seif Kajembe and his wife) and an aunt and worries were justified. She said her only prayer was for God to give her strength to finish her exams as well as heal her father from killer virus. “I thank God today I have good results and I also have my father. I thank my teachers and parents for always being there for me and my fellow classmates," she said. Zaharia was a candidate of Iyale Miritini School in Mombasa where candidates performed well. Five candidates scored 400 marks and above and the school had a mean score of 353, up from 340 previously. The first student, Tracy Abigail scored 413, but was not available for the celebration as she was in Nairobi and could not travel due to the Covid-19 restrictions. And Zaharia's dad is a happy man over her performance. While congratulating her daughter and the other candidates, the lawmaker said the school had proven to him that he made the right choice of sending her daughter there. Badi said he was a believer of educating her children within the community he lives in and leads, and the exemplary performance by the candidates was a major boost for his belief. “I have always supported this school and will support the students as they move to their next level of education. I will ensure that each student who performed well will go to the school they will be called to,” he said. Iyale school director Shete Msabaha said the candidates performed better compared to 2019. Edited by Henry Makori