The 2021 African Online World Cup pre-qualifying chess Championship enters the fourth round Wednesday, with the closing ceremony slated for May 2. Chess Kenya President, Bernard Wanjala, said they had officially entered two contestants in the event although they had also encouraged anybody interested to apply for admission privately. Each national federation in each zone was permitted to enter an unlimited number of players in each section. “Due to the fact that the above tournament will run at night and considering the ongoing curfew, Chess Kenya was not able to organise a central venue for our national team as in the previous event," he said. “However, our current national champion for open and ladies were entered as our official representatives.” Mehul Gohil holds the current men's title while Lucy Wanjiru is the reigning women's champion. The nine-round Swiss tournament is being played in 5 divisions which are zone 4.1 Open and women’s section, Zone 4.2 Open and Women’s section, Zone 4.3 Open and Women’s section, Zone 4.4 Open and Women’s section, and Zone 4.5 Open and women’s section. Each game will last for 25 min + 10 seconds per move. The tournament requires players to participate using their full, real name. They must be visible on Zoom video camera feed at all times and they must also use screen-share. All games are subject to statistical correlation analysis to verify fair play. Players must also be willing to support arbtier ‘room checks’ and make themselves available for interviews at request. All results are provisional until the conclusion of Fair Play verification process. The winners in each category will receive economy class air travel be sponsorship to the 2021 African Individual Chess Championships to be held in Lilongwe, Malawi from May 17 to May 28. The winners in each category will also be entitled to free board and lodging at the official accommodation venue for the duration of 2021 African Individual Chess Championships. This event will not be FIDE Rated given no titles can be awarded during online play. Meanwhile, Wanjala has said they are now focused on raising funds for the national team to participate in the forthcoming Africa Individual tournament scheduled for May 17, in Malawi. “Our focus is now on mobilization of sponsorship for current national team (captained by Ben Andiwoh) or national champions( whichever will be possible) to participate in upcoming Africa individual scheduled in Malawi from May 17.”