Samia Suluhu Hassan took over the reins of power as the first woman president of Tanzania last month and is already making sweeping changes in her government. Her predecessor, former President John Pombe Magufuli who appointed Samia vice president, described her as a resourceful and hardworking leader. Magufuli died in March. “She is experienced in public matters having held ministerial positions and her academic training rightly blends with my vision for Tanzania. Her work as a minister and vice president continues to benefit the Tanzania people,” Magufuli said while picking Samia to deputise him. Samia's ascent to the presidency came on the heels of America welcoming their first female vice president in Kamala Harris. Kamala and President Joe Biden were elected to office in November last year. Another big win for women was the appointment of Ngozi Okonjo–Iweala as the first woman and African to hold the office of director-general of the World Trade Organization. These huge leaps give women and Kenyans, in general, the push to open up further spaces to enable women to reach their utmost potential. Policies and legislation within corporate entities as well as in the public sphere at both county and national levels should guide the vision for a better Kenya where boys and girls in school, men and women at the workplace naturally enjoy equal opportunities at all times. Society’s expectations on deliverables from any officeholder should be gauged by their results, not their gender or goodwill. While we celebrate President Samia, VP Kamalan and WTO director Ngozi's ascendancy to power, there is no time to rest taking the equality conversation forward. The conversation has to tilt towards communal acceptance that either a boy or a girl, a man or a woman have an important contribution to make in improving livelihoods and generating products that enhance the profitability of businesses. Women continue penetrating professions formerly ‘reserved’ for men from driving matatus, working as conductors and mechanics. They are also increasingly taking up sciences and pursuing careers in technology, engineering and medicine. At Absa, we are pushing the diversity and inclusion agenda by placing a special focus on supporting women in the workplace through special coaching and mentoring initiatives that open new opportunities for them. These employees have women’s networks that champion women's causes and opening new fronts for career advancement. Last year, Absa announced a Sh10 billion credit to women-owned small and medium enterprises. It also partnered with the International Trade Centre to enable women businesses to participate in the global export/import trade. Today more than 4,500 women have benefited from this programme. The successes of Samia, Kamala and Ngozi give much inspiration to Kenyan women but there are other trailblazers at home. In the Judiciary, the acting Chief Justice is Philomena Mbete Mwilu. In elective politics, Anne Waiguru, Charity Ngilu and the late Joyce Laboso were popularly elected as Kirinyaga, Kitui and Bomet governors respectively. Margaret Kamar, Susan Kihika and Fatuma Dullo also clinched senatorial seats in Uasin Gishu, Nakuru and Isiolo Counties. Kenya’s women representation in Parliament also increased by six from 16 in 2013 to 22 in the 2017 elections. Other women are bossing the corporate arena by running massive multinationals. Rebecca Miano heads listed power generator KenGen, while regional brewer EABL has Jane Karuku at the helm. Limuru Tea’s boss is Gerridina Den, Marion Gathoga-Mwangi is at BOC Kenya, Margaret Odhiambo at Eveready while Nozipho Makhoba heads Stanlib among others. The momentous advancement of women does not dim prospects for men’s progress but affirms the existence of a mutual advancement path. It is therefore important that both women and men locally and globally work together to address vulnerabilities concerning women. A more inclusive world necessitates transforming how we behave and how we #choosetochallenge not just systemic inequalities but our own biases too. Driving societal change and challenging the status quo is never easy — cultural shifts do not happen overnight, but the best part about any change is that it can begin with one person at a time and that one person can be you. Dealing with deep-rooted anti-women practises anchored on cultural practices dating back centuries is an arduous journey that is far from being won. Leaders in the public and private sectors must stand up to make a difference by promoting inclusion. Diversity is not just a good thing to do; it does contribute to positive results and outcomes. Let us purpose to be inclusive in all that we do, starting with how we raise our children and shape their ideologies. To my fellow women, let us keep raising our hands to serve and participate in all our spheres of influence. The world is indeed better because we are in it. Keep creating a path for those coming after us.  Caroline Wambugu is the head of Finance and Decision Support and chairs Diversity & Inclusion programme at Absa Bank Kenya