Kenyan designer based in the United states is fixed on informing and educating masses through his unique garments creation. Zedekiah Lukoye, popularly known as Zeddie Loky is the Director and founder of California-based Blkkburd Genes. The company deals in lux scientific designed gears aimed at educating people about history, nature and current affairs. Loky and his team are the brains behind the Lamu T-shirt worn by Award-wining American rapper Jay-Z. Jay-Z was spotted wearing the T-shirt showing Lamu's Riyadha Mosque on March 30, as he came out of a restaurant in Santa Monica, California. Even though the Riyadha Mosque Committee members have since expressed their displeasure with the design, Loky says his intentions were pure and solely for historical knowledge. "My team and I are very keen on features that stand out. The historic Mosque T-shirt is a creation that is also touching on faith," Locky told the Star. Loky has apologized to the mosque in a letter specifying that only 20 of the T-shirts have been produced and those who own one have been asked to respect the mosque "by not wearing it in bars nor clubs if they happen to decide to wear it." "Our intention was in good faith and in line with our mission of educating the world in world history using HD art, bold fine print and a QR code that carries our finding history on Lamu," Loky said in the letter. He said the T-shirts which were designed in 2019 will be put on museum since they represent an important part of Kenyan history. "History is rotating, putting them in garments is our creative way of preserving it," Lovy said. He noted that people should endeavour to appreciate creatives for putting Kenya on the map using unique ways. "It is very hard to put together vision, design and construction into ach piece. A lot of research and work goes into creation," he said. The optimistic designer is confident that his vision of creating informative products using smart technology is finally taking course. Lovy who has produced merchandise showcasing Kenya's exquisite features including the Diani beach says he has better things cooking.