Three counties have suspended the issuance of new development permits in the area falling within the 10km radius around the Konza Technopolis dubbed “Konza Planning Zone” for a period of 90 days. The county governments of Machakos, Makueni and Kajiado indicated the decision was reached after consensus. This is to enable a newly constituted Inter-County Joint Physical and Land Use Planning Committee to develop an Inter-County Physical and Land Use Development Plan to provide guidelines and standards for regulation of land use practices and general development within the zone. Interior CS Fred Matiangí indicated that there is a need for governments to work together in protecting the ecosystem around Konza Technopolis. "...so as to deliver value to investors and properties around the Special Planning Zone," he said. “Konza is now evidence of what happens when Government leaders at all levels work together and focus on things that matter. What matters is delivering this project to the people of Kenya,” he said. The statement was signed by respective county secretaries. In addition, the three counties in consultation with the national government will provide a mutually agreed spatial development framework for symbiotic and sustainable co-existence between the Konza Technopolis and the adjacent areas falling within the jurisdiction of the three counties. The  Committee consists of the respective County Executive Committee Members responsible for physical and land use planning matters, two other relevant County Executive Committee Members, co-opted representatives from the relevant National Government Ministries, Departments and Agencies (including the Konza Technopolis Development Authority) and the Director-General of Physical and Land Use Planning who shall be the ex-officio member and coordinator of the planning activities. The formulation of the Inter-County Physical and Land Use Development Plan will largely entail the review of the Approved Development Plan and will adopt a highly participatory and consultative process. The committee was constituted pursuant to the provisions of Section 29 of the Physical and Land Use Planning Act, 2019. The buffer zone physical planning and development control will become part of the work of the National Development.