The Senate sitting to debate the report on the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020, resumed on Wednesday evening after Meru Senator Mithika Linturi returned to the chambers. He had been arrested over bank fraud claims. Speaking on the floor of the House, Linturi said, "The few hours I had in the hands of my good brother, (DCI boss George) Kinoti, have not been one of the best experiences to say the least." "I have been thankful to this House. Today is a serious day in the history of this country. Despite that serious moment in our history that will not probably come in the next few years.... I find it very absurd. I would have been summoned to go to the DCI on any other day . But today, it was very painful to me... This gentleman, I don't even understand why this had to happen." Linturi said after leaving the morning session at the Senate, he went to his house and found people in three vehicles surrounding his residence, "brandishing guns and wanting to arrest me". "I should be treated with dignity. I am a Kenyan. I am a leader, I am not running away. I have been told to appear tomorrow 9 o'clock but we shall be here to debate this Bill. So I don't know what we shall do. Because I need to be her." Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot asked the speaker to write to Kinoti and IG of police Hillary Mutyambai to postpone Linturi's appearance at the DCI offices. Lusaka said he had already engaged the IG and Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and agreed to push ahead Linturi's appearance until the business of the house scheduled for Thursday is concluded. "We have also agreed that no member of any assembly, whether county, Senate or National Assembly, will be arrested without the speaker's knowledge," he said. During the morning session, Linturi had sought the speaker's guidance on the interpretation of Article 257 of the Constitution on whether Parliament can amend the Bill. However, the speaker had cut him short saying that his request was premature and asked him to raise his point of order during the afternoon session. The speaker adjourned the morning session after members requested for time to read and understand the report by the joint parliamentary committees on Justice and Legal Affairs that considered the Bill. “Following the request to read, I hereby allow the request. The Senate stands adjourned until 2.30pm today,” the speaker ruled. The senators convened a two-day special sitting starting Wednesday to consider the Bill and take a vote.