Private authorised importers of Covid-19 vaccines will be required to provide a legally binding document committing to bear the liability in case any individual suffers loss or injury from the use of the vaccine. In the latest guidelines released by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board, they will also be required to have a cover of a prescribed amount from a reputable insurance company to ensure compensation in the event of any liability related to the vaccine. Distributors will be required to provide a ‘no objection letter’ from the local representative stipulating the list of specific batches to be imported. For one to be allowed to import and distribute vaccines in the country, they will be required to have met Good Distribution Practices guidelines. The guidelines require premises that should be able to provide protection from contamination and deterioration including protection from excessive local heating, humidity, or undue exposure to direct sunlight. The GDP also requires the availability of personnel with relevant education training, experience, or a combination of the elements that will allow them to effectively handle the vaccines and ensure quality and the products at all times. “This guideline has been developed to provide guidance to industry (manufacturers), stakeholders, and local technical representatives on the documentation requirements and procedure for the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines by the Private sector,” PPB CEO Fred Siyoi said. “The guideline describes the PPB procedure applicable for private sector engagement in the supply of the Covid-19 vaccines,” he added. According to the guidelines, consent forms will have to be signed by the recipients of the vaccine prior to administration based on the fact that the uptake is supposed to be on a voluntary basis. All recipients of the vaccines must be registered to the country’s ‘Chanjo System’ before they can receive the jab. In addition, all imported vaccines will be required to have unique identifiers such as QR codes and barcodes to ensure traceability and additionally show real-time shelf life, manufacturer’s information, batch numbers, and expiry dates. “There is a need to ensure product traceability from the manufacturer to the immunisation service delivery sites through the use of barcoded or QR on each secondary package. Once this is scanned it will inform that the product is not a falsified vaccine and give real-time information,” the guidelines say. Barcoding and QR code information will be collected upon the arrival of the vaccines at the ports of entry, scanned, and collected during internal movement in the country as well as the use of software to trace the products. “If falsified products are found, the board shall institute a national re-call procedure and put the affected vaccine under quarantine awaiting further regulatory action.” The guidelines also stipulate that a multi-agency team be put in place to monitor the movement of the vaccines throughout the supply chain right from the manufacturer to the vaccine as well as appoint a qualified person for pharmacovigilance to ensure safety and quality monitoring. Period safety update reports will then be required to be submitted within the stipulated times, with the first report expected to be submitted within six months following Emergency Use Authorisation. Anybody who will be found to be in contravention of the guidelines will be dealt with according to the Act and laws of Kenya.