The order to extend the curfew hours and the directive restricting movement into and out of five counties could hinder reopening of schools next month. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha on Thursday said the school calendar will not be affected, noting that reopening for the third term will be on May 10 as planned. On Wednesday, however, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i announced the extension of curfew hours in the disease-infected zone covering Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Nakuru and Machakos. Matiang’i said the curfew hours announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta last month will now run until May 29. “This order shall apply during the hours of darkness between 8pm and 4am with effect from March 29, 2021, and shall remain in effect for 60 days thereof,” reads a revised Gazette notice. However, the indefinite decision to restrict any movement into and out of the counties mapped for the rapid spread was not reviewed, meaning no movement will be allowed. The two orders now create a puzzle on how learners will return to school in May. On Wednesday, Basic Education Principal Secretary Julius Jwan said the ministry will arrange for the travel back to school should the cessation of movement still be in force. “Arrangement will be done for them to get a special permit that will allow them to travel back to school,” Jwan told the Star on the phone. But Nicholas Maiyo, the Kenya Parents Association chairman, said that beyond the permits, parents should anticipate an extra cost of returning their children to school. The changes will mostly revolve around logistics on the reporting day, he said. Maiyo wants transport companies contracted and put on standby if learning is to resume in May. He further called for price control. He said schools must prioritse safe transportation of learners. “We ask the government to intervene and ensure transport companies do not use this opportunity to exploit parents through exorbitant fares,” Maiyo said. Huge fares could be occasioned by the order that PSVs only carry half capacity. On Wednesday, Magoha said they would facilitate movement of learners into and out the five counties. This follows a circular released last week by PS Jwan asking schools to organise with transport companies to have candidates picked up. Further, they are required to ensure the students travel in school uniform and are issued with an introductory letter. However, it remains uncertain if the letters will still be effective in May. Matatu Owners Association chairman Simon Kimutai on Thursday said the capacity of PSVs to ferry people into and out of the infected zone has been reduced to zero. Kimutai told parents to expect severe pressure when learners return to school, urging that they book to avoid delays should movement restrictions remain in force. "Long delays by bus and matatus should be expected. Also, some passengers could have a hard time on certain routes that do not have so many matatus plying," he told the Star on the phone.