The Kiambu county government has distributed Sh50 million varieties of seedlings to 56,000 farmers. Governor James Nyoro flagged off the farm inputs that included 112 tons of maize seeds, six tons of beans, 1.5 tons of sunflower seeds, 0.5 tons of canola seeds and 200 tons of basal fertiliser. “The farm inputs will benefit farmers in the 12 sub-counties. Different variety seeds will be distributed to suitable agro-ecological zones to ensure high yields," Nyoro said. The county head said that the seeds will be distributed by agricultural officers and signed off by MCAs to ensure accountability. “By supporting agricultural productivity, we introduced village-based agricultural advisers because of the problem of few ward agricultural extension officers. If you go to Nachu ward, the agricultural officer is the only one serving  6,000 farmers and he is unable to serve all of them,' Nyoro said. He said through the village-based agricultural advisers the county government recruited village-based agro dealers. "Our plan is to stop giving seeds to farmers every year as the village-based agro dealers that we have trained will make sure that seed varieties reach the villages . Farmers will be buying and they will follow up with the farmers and show them proper farming skills. In Kiambu there are 1,000 village-based agricultural advisers and one VBA is serving 200 farmers, Nyoro said. The Council of Governors plans to replicate the village-based agricultural advisers in other counties with appropriate seeds and fertiliser. It said farmers should be trained to advise other farmers but all of them will  advised by the ward agricultural officers,” Nyoro said Nyoro said that the seeds and fertilizers are going to be taken to where the farmers are to avoid overcrowding county offices. “We have followed a clear protocol so  we do not have audit queries and everything has been bought and put in store in Ruiru," he said. The county agricultural officers are going to take the consignment and  hand it over to the ward agricultural officer in the presence of an MCA. It will be signed showing the consignment has been delivered,” Nyoro said. He said they have a had a problem of  accountability because when the farm inputs are taken to the ward level the county government does not receive any signed document of delivery. “We are now holding the ward agricultural officer accountable so they make sure there are returns of signed documents and it must have a phone number to identify whether the farmers received the farm inputs,” He said. He added that the seeds are early maturing and will take 90 to 100 days and for the maize it will be two or three heads. The governor also said they have engaged  26 small dairy cooperatives in the county and they will be given milk coolers before they plan out how to build a county processing plant. The county also plans to build a county coffee mill so farmers and mill and market together. (Edited by V. Graham) 