Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has dismissed reports that he is planning to ditch ODM but said he is open to working with Deputy President William Ruto. Oparanya, the ODM deputy party leader, admitted that he has met Ruto several times to discuss 2022 politics, but insisted that the consultations should not be construed to mean he was planning to abandon his party leader Raila Odinga. It was the first time Oparanya was admitting to having met Ruto. “You can be his enemy, but the Deputy President is my friend. Kenyans should allow leaders to express themselves and talk freely,” Oparanya told Ingo FM on Tuesday. The Kakamega governor said he has an appointment with Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to discuss the state of the nation and 2022 politics. “I will be meeting the Wiper leader very soon. I also want to meet the President and leaders of other parties, among them Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang’ula, to discuss the same,” he added. Last Thursday, Ruto told Citizen TV he had met the Kakamega governor at least five times to discuss politics. The DP made the revelation a week after he held a meeting with Oparanya in Masaai Mara Game Reserve. But in his response, Oparanya said the meeting had not been planned and was just sheer coincidence. Oparanya said Raila and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, also ODM deputy party leader, have been aware of his meetings with Ruto. He said he is also eyeing the presidency in 2022 and has to meet with leaders across the country. “I cannot ignore Ruto. He has his people intact. Nobody can beat him in Rift Valley,” the Kakamega governor said. Oparanya added that Raila has been meeting leaders from other parties, but that does not mean he was leaving ODM. “Raila has been meeting President Uhuru Kenyatta, but he has never even imagined leaving ODM to join Jubilee. Those saying I am leaving ODM are not even members of our party,” he said. Oparanya revealed that he intends to ask Mudavadi and Wetang’ula to disband ANC and Ford Kenya respectively and unite to form one party. “If they do it, I will be more than willing to join them and chart the way forward for the western region.” He said a strong political party from western would work to the advantage of the region. Oparanya said he also met Ruto when he was the chair of the Council of Governors. “Ruto is the chair of the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council. That means we met several times in that capacity,” he added. “Is there an issue? Really. If I meet with you, where do you draw the line between political and official conversation?” He said he has all along been friends with Ruto. "We were in ODM together. We talk business, official issues, and the last time we met he said alliances are coming so that we plan for them.”  Edited by A.N