More than one year since the Human Papillomavirus Vaccine was launched in Kenya, the optimal number of girls reached remains a concern. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the vaccination campaign in October 2019 with a target to reach 800,000 girls within one year. The vaccination comprises two doses of the vaccine, six months apart. It can prevent most cases of cervical cancer, if given before a girl or woman is exposed to the virus. But more than one year later, only slightly above 360,000 girls have received the jab, with reports indicating that some might have missed the second dose as required. In an effort to salvage the situation, the Health ministry has issued guidelines to  county health CECs to ensure a higher uptake of the jab. “Due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, the uptake of HPV vaccine has been sub optimal in all the counties. The ministry encourages all health workers to prioritise routine immunisation and ensure all eligible individuals are vaccinated to reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with cervical cancer disease,” acting Health director general Dr Patrick Amoth said. All the health CECs will be required to ensure all adolescent girls who were 10 years old in 2019 and have not received the jab to date are vaccinated in adherence to the scheduling of six months apart. “All adolescent girls who are due for the second dose and have missed will receive the second dose. Recording of the HPV vaccine doses administered shall remain the same,” Amoth said. The ministry, through the National Vaccines and Immunisation Programme, introduced HPV vaccine into the routine immunisation schedule in an effort to reduce the burden of cervical cancer in the country. The vaccine against the cancer-causing HPV targets 10-year-old girls at about 9,000 public, private and faith-based institutions countrywide. But with the onset of Covid-19, the national immunisation programme was affected due to either the severe health system constraints or physical distancing measures to mitigate the spread of the virus. The issue was affected more with the closure of schools at the onset of the pandemic as most of the outreaches were being conducted in the learning institutions. “It is largely because much as the vaccine is being offered in every health facility, the other aspect is that the targeted outreaches for the vaccine were to be conducted jointly with schools but schools were closed due to the pandemic,” head of Immunisation Programmes Dr Collins Tabu said. Cervical cancer ranks fourth globally in incidence and cancer-related mortality among women. Cancer of the cervix is the second most common kind of cancer in women aged 15 to 44 years after breast cancer in Kenya. It kills nine women every day, about 3,000 every year, a lethalness only second to breast cancer. The World Health Organization recommends vaccination of all girls and screening at least once every year for older women to reduce the risk of cancer, and that the vaccine is most effective when administered between the ages of nine and 14. The vaccine also prevents some other types of cancer like anal warts and cancer of the vulva. Like any other virus, there is no cure for HPV, but it is preventable through vaccination.