Educators have outlined three reasons that pushed public schools to perform better than their private counterparts. They suggest that fee-charging public schools secured an edge in his year's exams as the learners get better quality education. A major shift was recorded in the performance of the top students with public schools posting stunning performance in the 2020 KCPE after scooping 10 of the 15 top performers countrywide. Traditionally, private schools have dominated while public schools have over the years been characterized by poor performance. The development has opened a puzzle as to why and what brought about the shift. Since 2003, the government has been providing tuition capitation of Sh1420 to each learner hence no cost attending a public school. This has also been linked, by various stakeholders to deteriorating performance in the institutions. However, a handful of public schools through negotiations with parents have reviewed this over the years to have parents chip in fees. Analysis by the Star shows that Chogoria Girls Primary school that produced the second student nationally, Maseno Girls Boarding Primary School, St Mathew's Septonok, and Nairobi Primary School pay fees despite being public schools. Leaners at Maseno Girls Boarding Primary School for example ranges at Sh10,000 each year that is paid directly to the school. The amount is used to complement the capitation sent to the school by the government. Parents at Nairobi Primary School, a day school, also have an arrangement where they are required to pay up to Sh5000 for fees. According to a parent, who sought anonymity, the amount was agreed through a parents meeting and has been there since 2016. “This money is used to pay for better services such as employing more board of management teachers and paying them,” the parent said. Nicholas Maiyo, the Kenya Parents Association chairman, on Friday, argued that apart from fee-charging, the government policy to provide each learner with all textbooks required has greatly helped public schools catch up with their private counterparts. Maiyo said the availability of textbooks means that the learners can now learn even in absence of teachers. “A lot of learners were struggling to get a textbook to just do their homework but Matiang’i turned that around and this year’s performance could just be the ripple effects of the policy,” Maiyo told the Star. The World Bank in a 2018 study reported that there is a link between improved performance and adequate provision of textbooks. Kenya Secondary Schools Heads Association chairman Indimuli Kahi and principal of Machakos Boys on his part argue that proper institutional leadership is key to the production of good grades. Kahi says schools with better headship tend to post better performance; this he argues could have propelled the better results. In the 2020 KCPE, public primary schools produced 10 of the top 15 performers in the 2020 KCPE exams, outshining their private counterparts. They performed even better in the top five, producing the first four, with only one candidate from a private school emerging joint fourth. Faith Mumo from Kari Mwailu Primary School in Makueni county emerged as the top performer after scoring 433 marks. While releasing the results on Thursday, Education CS George Magoha lauded performance by public primary schools for weathering all the challenges to post impeccable results. Magoha acknowledged the improved performance of public schools, despite their high enrolment numbers and inadequate teaching and learning resources. “In particular, I am impressed that public schools have shone in the 2020 KCPE, scooping 10 of the top 15 overall slots in the examination. Additionally, of the top 15 places,” Magoha said. There were fears that the long break due to the coronavirus pandemic would impact negatively the overall performance of public schools. Schools were closed between March and early October in 2020. While private schools had invested heavily in digital learning for six months, public schools remained closed due to the surge in the Covid-19 cases.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris