Prominent Kenyan businessman and entrepreneur Sobhagayachand Vidhu Shah is dead. The 86-year-old businessman who owned, among other investments, the Sarit Center in Westlands, Nairobi County died on Tuesday evening while receiving treatment at a Nairobi hospital. In his message of condolence to family and friends of the entrepreneur President Uhuru Kenyatta described the late Shah, popularly known as Bachubhai, as one of Kenya’s finest and visionary entrepreneurs whose business acumen contributed greatly to the country’s economy. "Mzee Bachubhai was a true patriot and a nationalist who created job opportunities for many Kenyans through his entrepreneurial exploits. He strongly and truly believed, and lived the Kenyan dream of hard work, determination and success," Uhuru said. He continued, "His entrepreneurial spirit saw him establish Sarit Centre, Kenya's first shopping mall in the 1980s when nobody else thought about it. He did not stop at that but moved on to establish several other successful businesses including Text Book Centre which has continued to quench Kenyans thirsty for knowledge." The Head of State mourned the late Bachubhai as a determined philanthropist who teamed up with other well-wishers to set up Cancer Care Kenya, an initiative that supports Government's efforts to provide affordable cancer treatment in the country. "As a country, we will always be grateful for Mr Shah's generous contributions in the education and health sectors. Using his own resources, he set up a school in Murang’a County, which has continued to be a centre of excellence," he said. Uhuru said Mzee Bachubhai has left a rich and enduring legacy of success and prayed to God to grant his family strength and fortitude to bear the loss. "Mzee Bachubhai was exceptional in his commitment to both business and community, as demonstrated by the success of his businesses and contributions to philanthropic causes. He believed in hardwork, excellence and forging of strong bonds of friendship amongst Kenyans of all walks of life," Uhuru mourned.