The Transport, Infrastructure and Housing ministry says it acquired the land for the Murang’a landfill project as advised by the National Land Commission. In its response to the National Assembly's Public Accounts Committee, the ministry, which is also in charge of urban development and public works, said it released Sh135 million for landowners' compensation based on a valuation conducted by NLC. The payouts were to help pave the way for the project, which is funded by the government and the World Bank. The 50 acres in Maragua were acquired in 2016 and the Sh1.2 billion project—targetted at fixing solid waste crises in Murang’a, Kiambu and Nairobi counties—started a year later. PAC has been probing it after Auditor General Nancy Gathungu flagged the transaction. Gathungu said the land was still registered under Chosen Builders Investment even though it had been fully paid for. This is captured in a special audit on NLC payments on behalf of other government entities for the period 2014-15 to 2016-17. But the ministry said it privately ascertained the parcel numbers and precise acreage, and used the valuation by the commission. It said Realty Valuers, a private valuer that was engaged by the Murang’a government, valued the land at Sh279 million. This was followed by the NLC valuation at Sh135 million. The ministry said the process was lawful, transparent, accountable and without collusion, conflict of interest or abuse of office. “The state department was convinced that the parcels were lawfully acquired and were not public land as defined by law,” said the ministry in documents submitted by Principal Secretary Charles Hinga, who joined the ministry in 2018. It said the acquisition was necessary for a public purpose. It noted that environmentally acceptable solid waste disposal facilities have been lacking because of insufficient, suitable and well-located public land on which to establish them. Through comprehensive public participation in the metropolis that comprises Nairobi, Kajiado, Machakos, Kiambu and Murang’a counties, the necessity and dire need for development of such facilities was established. This led to procurement of consultancy services for identification of suitable land for strategic waste disposal facilities. The land in Murang’a was identified, among other parcels, hence the acquisition was made. The Murang’a administration says that once completed, the landfill will change environmental conservation in the county and help keep it clean. It says garbage collection stations will be established where waste will be gathered before being transported to the landfill.  Edited by F'Orieny