Hundreds of shoppers on Friday flocked to Naivas Supermarket at the heart of Nakuru town as the chain opened its fourth branch in the populous up-coming city. The newest outlet is also the 71st branch of the supermarket whose origin was a general shop in the little Elburgon Township in Molo before moving to Naivasha as a mini-supermarket. Speaking during the launch, Naivas Limited Chief Commercial Officer, Willy Kimani said his organisation had always wanted to open a branch at the centre of the town which is an opportunity to serve the people even better. He said it also offered opportunities for suppliers within the cosmopolitan town while at the same time offering job opportunities to the locals. The supermarket has taken the precinct recently vacated by Tuskys Supermarkets along Kenyatta Avenue which is Nakuru’s main street. It opens shop less than a week after another supermarket, Clean Shelf Limited opened shop a block away along the same street. Clean shelf took over a building that was previously occupied by Choppies chain of supermarkets. Kimani said the new branch would be the first 24-hour super market in the region once the COVID-19 pandemic is tamed. “I am not shy to say that this store will run round the clock service which will ensure efficiency and double the employment opportunities because of the two working shifts,” he said. He announced Naivas had a new partner namely Amethis and have together improved their corporate governance with proper focus on customers and customers. “Our style of governance has changed and is better having taken lessons from the first three giant chain of supermarkets that have fallen along the way,” he said. He said closing down stores that might turn out unprofitable was among the options that Naivas would take. Kimani said the chain of supermarkets has presence in almost all counties with the largest concentration being in the main cities of Nairobi, Mombasa, Kisumu, Nakuru and Eldoret. A section of shoppers expressed their pleasure of shopping at Naivas and the services offered.