The family of a prominent Murang'a businessman is embroiled in a dispute over his multimillion-shilling estate. The late Cephas Kihanya left a vast estate that is now in dispute between his first wife's children and his second wife. Kihanya divorced his first wife and married Irene Wanjiku who is the administrator of his estate. Three siblings from the first home have moved to court challenging the way their stepmother has been managing the estate. Through their lawyer Jimmy Saisi, they want the grants of letters of Administration issued on July 27, 2015 to their stepmother to be revoked since it was obtained through fraud and forgeries. They further want the court to compel their stepmother to account for Sh2.5 million rent she has been receiving from Thika Municipality since 2018. They want the accounts which were operated by their late father Cephas Kihanya before his demise to be frozen and administrator be compelled to account for the money in those accounts since 2015. They claim that their stepmother has disinherited them. They say they have never been consulted on how to run the estate of their late father. It is their claim that their step brothers are utilising the rent proceeds from their late father's estate while they are pushed to live in the streets within Murang'a town. "Pending the confirmation of the grant both families of the first and second house must agree on how the vast estate should be shared if not equally since the objectors are true beneficiaries," they argued. The siblings have also accused Wanjiru of wasting the estate and she should not be the administrator. They want her firstborn son Peter Kihanya to be the administrator alongside their sister Jane Wanjiku. Since the deceased passed on Wanjiru has been collecting rent amounting to Sh240 million which is paid to a private account with three signatories from the real estate. They also allege that she gets Sh120 million from their coffee factory and they have not benefited from this income. "That because of the desperation and non-recognition or lack of involvement in managing estate as the first son Stephen Kihanya has been pushed to sleep in verandas while the children of their stepmother are living large," they said. They say that after after their father died they thought that their stepmother could hold family meetings and formulate a system of administering their father's vast estate but she did not. "As we were waiting patiently, I was shocked to learn that my step mother Irene Wanjiru had secretly applied and obtained a grant of letters of Administration issued on July 27, 2015 as the only administrator and without informing other beneficiaries," reads court orders. They claim that the stepmother has so far received Sh240 million in rent which she has used to live a flashy life. The case is coming up next month for hearing to determine the issues raised by the children against their stepmother.