The Nairobi Metropolitan Service on Tuesday morning started the Green Park Terminus test run for matatus plying Ngong Road. The NMS Director for Roads Engineer Michale Ochieng was on site to supervise the test run at the terminus from as early as 6 am. Police officers were positioned along the Bunyala road roundabout where all PSV were diverted into the terminus. Only private cars were permitted to use Uhuru Highway to join Haile Sellasie Avenue. Inside the terminus, matatus were only allowed to drop off commuters as they exited. From there, the matatus are required to find their way into the CBD by crossing Uhuru Highway where the traffic police controlled the traffic. The Nairobi Commuter buses were available for the physically challenged, expectant mothers and those with small children free of charge. Many of the commuters appeared to be confused with many saying they were not aware of the test run. “This is a shock because I was not aware of it. They could have done better and prepared us for the test run,” said Caroline Wangeci, a Nairobi resident. “I work in Westlands and I have to walk all the way to Tom Mboya street... There is no means to get into the CBD,” said John Okumu another Nairobi resident. Matatu drivers also lamented that the traffic was unbearable as they entered the terminus. They urged NMS to look into ways that they would take the shortest time to access and leave the terminus. “Since the terminus will be opened soon, the government should assure us that traffic in the terminus will be eliminated,” said Allan Kiragu, a Kibureti Sacco driver. According to Engineer Ochieng, the test run was to assess the dropping off exercise only. The assessment preparedness includes Dropping off, Electronic app systems, picking up and enforcement. “For today we carried out an assessment on dropping off only. We were able to establish that the terminus can accommodate many matatus," he said. Ochieng said NMS will look into the safety elements before the next test run. The next test run will include the electronic app and how the matatu schedules will run on the dashboard in the terminus. “Safety measures in terms of Covid-19 must be considered and also the passengers-vehicles collusion. We have to ensure that there will be minimal confusion within the terminus,” he added. The terminus is said to have cost around Sh250 million and is near completion. Phase One which is purely based on infrastructure and furniture is complete. The dispensary within the terminus is operating and a police post has also been set up. The ablution block has also been stationed together with the sitting bay for commuters. Phase Two which is ongoing entails the Business Park which will include supermarket, restaurants and trading places. The traders who had been displaced to pave way for the construction of the terminus will be given first priority of occupancy. The Green Park Terminus, the former Lunar Park, will be the drop-off and pick-up points for matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes. They currently operate from the Nairobi Central Station Frontage. Another terminus being built by NMS between Bunyala and Workshop roads will be reserved for matatus plying Mombasa Road, South B, South C, Industrial Area, Imara Daima, Athi River, Kitengela and Machakos routes. All matatus currently using Tea Room and Accra Road plying the Thika Superhighway and long-distance matatus from Mt Kenya will move to Desai and Park Road termini in Ngara. They will drop off passengers at the Fig Tree terminus in Ngara and Westlands. A terminus at Muthurwa-Ladhies will handle matatus from Jogoo and Lusaka roads. NMS  will also launch an integrated electronic system in the new termini to be used by matatus and commuters. The digital platform will notify matatu owners when PSVs can make their way to the termini and when commuters can be picked up and dropped off. Photos by Charlene Malwa