Congolese club DC Motema Pembe said on Monday they will be sending a representative to the forthcoming Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup in Uganda to try and lure Kenyan international midfielder Kenneth Muguna to Kinshasa. The continental giants, however, have a hard nut to crack in fending off huge interests from other equally well-oiled competitors, including Nkana FC (Zambia) and Azam (Tanzania), who have also indicated they will be tabling bids. "Most definitely we wish to have Muguna and we will be sending our representative to Uganda to present an offer," said Motema Pembe's spokesman. Motema's revelation comes at a time Tanzanian Premiership side Azam also confirmed on Monday they had their eyes trained on Muguna's signature. Azam Chief Executive Officer Abdulkarim Amin said in an interview on Monday that the club would accelerate their efforts in securing the midfielder's signature. “We have been following closely on Miguna's performance and I can assure you he is in our future plans. We are interested in having Muguna in our team. We are yet to table a fresh bid or reach out to his agent but the plan is in the pipeline,” he said in a telephone interview. It will be the second time Azam will be making a bid for Muguna after their first attempt last year proved futile. “Convincing the midfielder to desert 18-time Kenyan Premier League champions was indeed an uphill task because he had penned a lengthy contract with the club, but we hope our efforts will be successful this time around,” said Amin. Muguna, who has only six months left on his contract, has increasingly displayed signs of discomfort at K'Ogalo especially in recent times after he was stripped off the captaincy. He denied any intentions of deserting K'Ogalo while fielding questions from journalists who sought to know his real position during the Covid-19 vaccination exercise that brought together 10 Nairobi-based Football Kenya Federation Premier League clubs at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday. “There are still some 6 months more left on my contract and I honestly think it's still too early to start discussing my future now. I am very comfortable at K'Ogalo at the moment and will only make a decision at the end of the season,” he said.