Water shortage has hit Lodwar town and its environs for the second week following disconnection by Kenya Power over Sh11 million unpaid bill. Last week, KPLC disconnected the power supply to the water system operated by Lodwar Water Services Company. This has forced residents to buy water from vendors and use dirty water from River Kerio risking water-borne diseases. Lazurus Loyanae, a former Lodwar councillor faulted the county government for the crisis. “We are experiencing a water shortage caused by the laxity of the county government. The pandemic is still with us and we are required to wash our hands regularly, how do we adhere to that without water?” he posed Loyanae said despite the water shortage crisis, LOWASCO is taking advantage of the situation to sell water to residents at Sh20 for a 20-litre jerrican at Moi Gardens water source. “Water sources have dried up, and are only left with the option of buying water yet not all people can afford that. Therefore, I urge the county government and LOWASCO to provide water for us within 24 hours,” he said. Esther Ekai, a resident said water shortage has forced them to sleep hungry as they cannot cook and wash utensils. “We need water to cook, drink and wash our utensils. But now water is a menace in this town, if you can’t afford to buy you will be forced to sleep hungry,” she said. Ekai has urged the government to provide water saying they were forced to use dirty water that can lead to waterborne diseases. Turkana Deputy Governor Peter Lotethiro has ordered LOWASCO,  the county water services department and county treasury to finalise payment of an initial Sh5.4million before June, which is part of a Sh11 million power bill. It was also agreed that LOWASCO will pay Sh1 million each month. Lotethiro ordered the company to improve the integrity of its officers in collecting charges from water trucks and water users. He said regular payment of bills and commitment to clear the debt will build confidence between LOWASCO and Kenya Power, as the county government prepares to launch a new urban water services company in line with the County Water Act (2019). Kenya Power’s county business manager Damaris Akal promised that power connection to the water systems will be restored once the commitments agreed were delivered.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris