A senior official at the Ministry of Agriculture known for cutting deals has allegedly declined to be moved from Kilimo House despite having been indicted in a scandal. The official is said to have resisted the radical changes at the ministry led by Peter Munya (pictured). There are claims that the officer was part of a cartel of well-connected individuals within the ministry who were involved in a recent maize scandal alongside some officials at the Strategic Grain Reserve. His transfer was part of the process to dismantle cartels and clean up Kilimo House. For how long will he push on? Who will blink first? ***** Aside from the thunderous noise coming out of a key agency based at the presidency and the recent irregular sackings, there is a story that is being hidden under a heap of utter lies and conjecture. The real Trojan horse at the agency is an impostor who often invokes the name of the house on the hill to commandeer unwitting officers to engage in brazen malpractices and all manner of malfeasance. The real story is that the institution's officers who were shoved aside recently were standing in the way of an emerging cartel of buccaneers who undermine the top dogs by purporting to be well wired at the acme of government. Our little bird tells us that what has been revealed about the sticky mess at the agency is just the tip of the iceberg. Watch this space. ***** A senior government official from the Western region has found himself in hot soup after he allegedly conned a foreign investor whom he promised to help secure exclusive mining rights in the area. Our moles say the official is now playing hide and seek with the furious investor. The investor has reportedly made it very clear that he will not listen to more promises and excuses from the official over the deal. The official is understood to have pocketed millions from the deal that has come back to haunt him. The next steps could prove reckoning for the state official. ***** A woman representative who has been bragging about her unfettered connections to the office of a senior Cabinet Secretary is in for a rude shock. The Cabinet Secretary has reportedly been ignoring her in the last one month despite their previous close ties. To make matters worse, the CS allegedly skipped a public fundraiser that she arranged in her county last month. The CS did not even send his contribution to the harambee. It is being rumoured that the CS is unhappy over the woman representative's unbecoming conduct. In one of the instances, the CS was accordingly briefed how the politician was bragging to colleagues that their relationship was getting steamy. The claims angered the CS.