Interpol has detected terrorism and drug peddling across Kenyan borders. In an operation coordinated across Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda, Interpol said their focus was to boost the ability of frontline officers at air, land and sea border crossings to detect a traveller as a potential terrorist or criminal behaviour. In the March 19 to 28 operation, the officers found out that seven individuals wanted internationally for crimes including fraud, murder, drug trafficking, armed robbery and financial crimes were detected. "Kenyan authorities at the Moi International Airport in Mombasa arrested a woman after she was found carrying 5.3 kg of heroin worth Sh13,700,000," Interpol said. Counter-Terrorism Director Gregory Hinds said the suspect travelled to Kenya via an alleged drug trafficking route from Southern Africa to East Africa. Hinds said border checks also led to the detection of an individual wanted for alleged links to terrorism, as well as of another individual sought by the International Criminal Court for crimes against humanity. He said the operation saw more than 700 hits on Interpol’s Stolen and Lost Travel Documents database. "Stolen travel documents are a key asset for terrorist mobility, particularly for foreign terrorist fighters returning from conflict zones," he said. “Through its policing tools and services, Interpol is determined to help countries in regions such as East Africa address their specific security threats and help build a safer environment." Terrorists continued to exploit Kenya’s largely uncontrolled land borders to conduct attacks. In 2019, Kenyan officials continued to build a border security strategy, but hurdles remain. Under a June 2018 arrangement, Kenya is anticipated to receive US Automated Targeting System software, which facilitates screening of air travellers using API/PNR. In Uganda, Interpol authorities at the Mutukula border point recovered some 25 kg of ammonium nitrate and other materials used by terrorists to manufacture improvised explosive devices. Highlighting how the terrorist activity is often linked to other crime areas, some 4.6 million checks were carried out at border crossings. With access to Interpol’s databases and secure global police communications system in key strategic locations, frontline officers in the three countries had access to the intelligence required to stop suspected criminals. “It is important to underline the role of operations such as Simba III in enhancing security for East African countries," Deputy Head of the Interpol National Central Bureau in Nairobi Agnes Kiprotich said. Interpol’s General Secretariat coordinated the 10-day initiative. The operation involved police, customs, border forces and counter-terrorism experts, as well as the EAPCCO Counter-Terrorism Centre of Excellence based in Nairobi.