Residents of Mathangauta area of Njoro Sub-County in Nakuru are protesting the death of circumcision initiate on Saturday. The teenager died under unclear circumstances at a circumcision camp within the Mathangauta farm. He had undergone the adulthood initiation ritual on Friday last week and was found dead at the camp the following day. A resident, James Mwangi claimed that the initiate was beaten to death by caregivers which is a common occurrence at initiation camps. He added that youths also have the tendency of visiting homes that have initiates where they rough them up ostensibly as a way of transiting them to adulthood. “Some overfeed the initiates, force them to eat their puke in case they vomit, beat them up, and force them into doing stuff against their will,” he said. Mwangi said caregivers involved in the latest tragic ritual have fled after the incident and called on police to arrest and prefer murder charges in court. He accused the area chief of protecting the culprits saying the administrator should also be investigated and be charged and interdicted if found culpable. “This is not the first incident in this area and no action has been taken, the police should ensure justice is served,” said Mwangi. The victim’s neighbor, Philip Muturi, said the incident was unfortunate adding it was painful for a parent to lose their child in such a manner. He said ritual was slowly losing its relevance if boys will continue dying in the hands of caregivers and irresponsible youths who torture initiates in the name of hardening them for adulthood. “Kariuki’s case was extreme because he underwent serious torture in the hands of people who were trusted to guide him into adulthood,” he said. He called on village elders and leaders to take charge of initiation rites and restore sanity while at the same ensuring that all initiates successfully graduate without fatalities. Mathangauta location Chief Jeffrey Kareithi said the matter was being handled by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations based in Njoro. He added that the victim’s family has been informed. Kareithi denied claims that he was protecting the culprits adding that he was open to investigation. He said DCI had taken up the matter with the objective of apprehending the culprits and prosecuting the case.