President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Central backyard topped the list of regions opposed to the Jubilee administration's borrowing spree, a new study by  Infotrak suggests. According to the survey, 81 per cent of Kenyans feel anxious, fearful or angry because of the debt burden. While most regions are opposed the government's appetite for foreign loans, the President's political turf expressed the most resentment — by a couple of points — that borrowing has caused debt to rise steadily in eight years. According to survey findings released on Wednesday, 69 per cent of surveyed people from Central Kenya are opposed to the government's foreign borrowing. It is followed by the Coast at 67 per cent, Rift Valley 66 per cent, Nairobi 62 per cent and Western 60 per cent. In ODM leader Raila Odinga’s Nyanza backyard, 58 per cent expressed opposition to the government’s appetite for foreign loans. To achieve its development goals, Kenya has borrowed heavily and lured investors in different sectors from across the world. According to the 2021 Budget Policy Statement, Kenya's public debt as of June 2020 stood at Sh7.06 trillion, equivalent to 65 per cent of GDP. Last year alone, the Jubilee administration borrowed an average of Sh3.37 billion every day, according to the 2020-21 budget implementation review by Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang'o. Her  report showed Uhuru’s administration was lent Sh1.23 trillion between December 30, 2019, and December 30, 2020. According to the survey findings, 62 per cent of Kenyans surveyed said  it is not a good thing to borrow externally as a common practice. “A majority of Kenyans at 62 per cent do not think regular borrowing from foreign countries is a good thing,”Infotrak Public Policy and Governance Research Manager Walter Nyabundi said. Infotrak surveyed  800 respondents from 24 counties in the former eight provinces between December 20 and December 23, 2020. It had a  +/-3.5 per cent margin of error and 95 per cent degree of confidence. Most of those polled – 76 per cent — cited China as the country where Kenya gets most of its loans, followed by US and UK at 13 per cent each. This time round, ODM chief Raila’s backyard led the country with 56 per cent expressing anxiety, followed by Western (52 percent). In both Northeastern and Eastern regions, 51 percent of the respondents expressing anxiety over the rising debt . The level of debt anxiety was 47 per cent in Nairobi followed by Uhuru’s Central that recorded 42 per cent. “The three top things concerning Kenyans are that future generations will have to repay it for a long time; Kenya will default on its repayments in a national embarrassment; and should Kenya default, it will lose its resources, facilities and installations to foreigners [lenders],” Nyabundi said. He said 38 per cent of Kenyans were concerned the country will be saddled with the debt for a long time. Thirty-four per cent expressed fears Kenya will be unable to service the loans, causing embarrassment in case of default. “Some 24 percent of the respondents said  if we default, we will lose a number of our national and strategic resources, facilities and installation to foreigners,” Nyabundi  said. Most Nairobi residents said the country will not be able to meet its debt obligations. The Infotrak report further indicates 52 per cent of Kenyans said the administration's management of debt is poor. Only 12 per cent of respondents said the government is prudently using the loans. Most of those unhappy with the government’s borrowing and use of foreign loans come from Western, Coast, Central, Nairobi and Eastern regions. “Kenyans are demanding their representatives in Parliament and even county assemblies take this issue (government borrowing) seriously,” Nyabundi added. Most government borrowing has gone to the transport, energy, agriculture and housing sectors. Some of the multi-billion projects being financed through the loans include the proposed (now court-suspended) Lamu coal-powered energy plant, the Nairobi Expressway and the standard gauge railway. (Edited by V. Graham)