The rising of murder and suicide cases in our society should be a wakeup call that people need to hold conversations to establish the root cause of the problems they to be able to solve them. Even before the Covid-19 pandemic, there were cases of domestic violence — couples turning against each other, killing their children and spouses — in scenarios where if dialogue could have been employed lives could not have been lost. When the pandemic broke, the cases shot up. People had to adapt to the new normal as most of them lost their livelihoods and had to come to terms with the sad reality that the virus was not going away any soon. They were forced to look for other means to fend for themselves and their families, despite the strict Covid-19 measures employed by the government to combat the spread of the virus. The Covid-19 pandemic could have just pushed people further from their human skins into beasts but that should not be accepted. Is it that we are losing our sanity because of the pressure we are experiencing from the hard economic times? Is it that we have just decided to stop being humane and listen to one another? Are the people committing suicide and murders psychologically and emotionally unstable? We could be a people suffering from mental issues that we know nothing about. It is just right if people started to communicate, be it couples, friends, family or even colleagues in the work environment. Communication is key in all aspects of our lives and it is the only way we can be able to understand what the other person is thinking or feeling. There might be a lot of assumptions among people if there is no effective communication hence one may end up misinterpreting what the other person said. Depending on the level of understanding, perception and adrenaline between the individuals, one might be pushed to fight, listen and/or engage in a mature manner, while others might resort to end their lives and that of the other person(s) involved. Some people might be suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder and they don’t know how to express their emotions to others so whenever they get provoked, they turn into their worst and can end up doing things they will regret. It is okay to accept that you are not fine and seek help from people you trust, be it friends, relatives or professionals like counsellors. That way, those affected will know how to cope with the different emotions and stop the surge in suicide and murder cases. Teresa Moraa, Nairobi county