Poultry farmers in Kabatini area of the populous Bahati Sub-county have benefited from Sh4.9 million projects funded by the Nakuru County Government. The multi-pronged projects are aimed at improving breeding and multiplication of indigenous chicken which will ultimately increase income generation and livelihoods. The projects will also help in ensuring food and nutrition security while at the same time creating employment among the locals. Today, 12 farmer groups received a bath of 3,600 kienyeji chicks under a Sh2.9 million project while another 11 groups got automatic egg incubators worth Sh2 million last week. The projects are also aimed at ensuring sufficient egg supply in the country and stop imports from neighbouring countries. Area County Representative, Peter Ng’ang’a said he will sponsor a Bill at the house aimed at locking out cheap import of chickens and eggs to the county in a bid to ensure  local market for the farmers. “Cooperatives will also provide a ready market to the farmers depending on what the client needs,” he said. Ng’ang’a said farmers will not incur high production costs because the chicks require no special care and can be fed just like other indigenous chicken. County Directorate of Livestock observed that although the establishment of a hatchery was labour intensive, it would create employment along the poultry value chain. Sub-County Livestock Production Officer Mary Wambui said projects would empower farmers groups in the ward to maximize their inputs and realise optimum production. She noted that the chicks were improved to endure diverse climatic conditions and highly tolerant to common chicken diseases like New Castle. The projects come at a time when Nakuru’s agricultural lands in Bahati, Njoro, Subukia, Rongai and Gilgil sub counties quickly convert into residential areas due to an ever increasing population. “These projects have been fashioned to promote urban agriculture while ensuring the use of limited available space to feed the growing population,” said Wambui. She said an extension officer would be monitoring the project and equip the breeders with necessary technical advice. “The farmers need guidance on how to feed the birds and administer vaccines,” she added.