Kirinyaga farmers on Saturday defied their former leaders' pledge to stay in office and elected new directors in six electoral areas of Kimunye tea factory. Heavy police presence was witnessed at the polls at Mugumo Primary School in Gichugu. Farmers also turned up in numbers in Kimunye, Thumaita, Ndima, Kangaita and Mununga to elect new officeholders. Two weeks ago, the former directors said they were in office legitimately and would not allow their replacement. The Saturday elections were held following a March order by President Uhuru Kenyatta that the Tea Board of Kenya sanction directors’ polls in 60 days in all the 54 smallholders tea factories. In the Kimunye tea factories polls, farmers expressed optimism with the new leadership. They hope the new leaders will oversee the full implementation of tea reforms. Juma Githinji said with new management in place, farmers' pockets will swell as they continue growing the crop. “We hope they empower the farmer in line with the new reforms. This will be achieved by among others scrapping unnecessary conditions like paying staff that have been seconded by KTDA and instead, channelling the cost burden to the tea entity,” Githinji said. He also said the directive to cap the management fee that KTDA levies on the factories to less than two per cent as opposed to 2.5 per cent will go a long way in reviving the crop management structure. Joseph Karimi blamed KTDA for oppressing farmers through misuse of funds and unwarranted court dramas. “They have been using our money to file for cases that are not helping farmers who are the real owners of the crop. We fully back the government for introducing measures that will help bring more money in our pockets,” Karimi said. Patrick Mugo, one of the new directors, said he will work with his new colleagues to improve the welfare of farmers. The new leaders also want to raise the productivity of the crop to enable farmers to fetch better returns. Over the past year, he said, the factory had produced over 30 million tonnes and intends to increase production. Mugo also defended their entry into office, saying farmers were the sole decision-makers and had begun to demand an extraordinary annual general meeting. Among the agenda at the special meeting would have been the election of new directors. “The court did not bar the farmers from choosing their directors, it barred the KTDA and its associates from interfering and overseeing the election,” he said. “The immediate former directors knew they were in office illegally but because they wanted to collude with KTDA in frustrating a successful implementation of the reforms, farmers overwhelmingly voted them out.” Patrick Githinji, another new director, promised to play his part in bringing a lasting solution to the dwindling price of the leaf which he attributed to cartels. “The crop fetched a good price in 2016-2017. However, the price has been falling year after year from 2018  by about Sh10 per kilo. Currently, we are at Sh26 per kilo from Sh58 in 2018,” Githinji said. Githinji who garnered the highest vote count of 311 among all his other colleagues, said his other priority will be to work with the government for the welfare of the tea sector. Elsewhere, Ndima tea factory welcomed the new leadership to oversee farmer's welfare. Beatrice Mwangi, a farmer, applauded their choice of leaders. She said they had suffered for long in the hands of rogue directors who collude with brokers to reap from their sweat. Newly elected factory director John Mithamo said he will work with other directors to revive the tea sector. 