Smartphone maker OPPO seems to have taken time to design and craft a masterpiece out of OPPO Reno5 F. Why, you may ask? Well, it is because it displays a clear personality, design, performance, and speed in terms of its operating system. You are probably that streaming type of person, so with OPPO Reno5 F you have a wide range of selections from streaming videos online to playing games to taking the best pictures ever. The list is endless. The phones seem to go on and on in terms of performance as compared to all other rivals within the same niche. Calling OPPO Reno5 F a monster of a phone is just an understatement. The phone is powered by MediaTek Helio P95 processor; an octa-core SoC equipped with 2 powerful ARM cortex-A75 cores running at up to 2.2GHz and 6 ARM Cortex-A55 efficiency cores that can comfortably function at up to 2.0GHZ. It features 8GB of RAM and 128GB of storage (expandable to 512GB via a Micro SD Card). OPPO Reno5 F comes with a complex cooling mechanism that presents a combination of graphite tubes, graphite sheets, and copper foil for three-dimensional cooling. The multi-cooling system was designed by OPPO to optimize the hardware and is capable of increasing the heat dissipation efficiency by 30 percent while simultaneously elevating the structural strength of the device. The layout of the graphite sheet in the center frame of the phone’s hardware also increases the effectiveness of CPU heat dissipation and chip hard drive, and the added benefit is that it saves 1g in weight when compared to the copper tube cooling mechanism. This cooling system, alongside the 8GB RAM and a powerful processor means you can switch between apps seamlessly, play games, and enjoy a ton of other activities without it lagging. Better yet, OPPO Reno5 F’s processor supports MediaTek Hyper-engine gaming technology that improves its gaming and graphics. The Reno5 F’s performance is reinforced by an intuitive ColorOS 11.1 based on Android 11. This operating system is efficient, quite effective, and carries with it new improvements and upgrades that enhance the user experience. Combined, they all make the phone quite responsive to touch while enhancing the speed at which applications open. In fact, the System Performance Optimizer delivers a smoother, more responsive experience that won’t slow down even after extended use. It makes phone startup 12.4 percent faster, button responsiveness 10 percent faster, and I/O speed 27 percent faster. All said and done, OPPO nailed it in terms of hardware and the software of the Reno5 F. There is a lot to be analyzed, but all in all, OPPO Reno5 F is features powerful hardware encased in a strong, ultra-slim body that feels great in your palm for an ideal balance of performance and comfort.