ODM leader Raila Odinga is close to luring Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana to his side as he concretises his regional pillars ahead of the 2022 General Election. The former Prime Minister has activated his political engine and is courting new regional heavyweights. The newly established One Kenya Alliance that brings together Gideon Moi (Kanu), Moses Wetang'ula (Ford Kenya), Kolonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Musalia Mudavadi (ANC) has stung Raila into action. Kalonzo, Musalia and Wetang'ula were Raila’s co-principals in the moribund Nasa coalition. Although Raila has not publicly declared whether he will make a fifth stab at the presidency, the Star has established that he is crafting a new team of allies that will be dominated by well-known figures of the country's Second Liberation. On Tuesday, Raila dispatched a team of ODM officials from Lower Eastern region to meet Kibwana and discuss the possibility of forging an alliance ahead of 2022. After the meeting that took place in Wote town, the ODM chairmen from the three Ukambani counties of Makueni, Kitui and Machakos said they prevailed upon the outgoing governor to work with Raila since they share pro-reform ideologies. Kitui ODM chairman Peter Munyasya said they “had a fruitful discussion with Kibwana about national and regional politics and crucially about emerging national and regional development issues within the region.” “On behalf of ODM, we request Governor Kibwana and his allies to work with ODM either directly or through a like-minded party of his choice in propelling his political development agenda,” Munyasya said after the meeting. Kibwana said he shares common development agenda with Raila in terms of agitating for genuine change to take the country forward thus he is willing to join hands with ODM. However, the governor said he would consult his supporters and political allies before a final decision is reached. He asked the party to also engage his fellow governors in Ukambani. "Let ODM also engage Machakos and Kitui counterparts - Governors Alfred Mutua and Charity Ngilu as we have previously held talks with the ODM party leader Raila Odinga as one team to join hands with the party for future political plans," Kibwana said. It is not clear if Ngilu will join the Kibwana-Raila axis since she's eying re-election in 2022. Kitui is the home county of Kalonzo and his influence in the region is still strong. Kibwana and Mutua are both serving their second and last terms in office. Allies of Kalonzo dismissed the proposed alliance saying it is inconsequential since the former Vice President is still the Ukambani kingpin. They said any attempt to sidestep Kalonzo as far as Ukambani vote is concerned is bound to fail. Makueni MP Dan Maazo said Kibwana without Kalonzo is toothless because the voters are solidly behind Wiper. "Raila’s handshake with Uhuru has borne no fruit because he has not gained any single vote from the Jubilee side,” Maanzo said. The second term lawmaker said that the three governors should concentrate on development matters and not 2022 politics. He called on residents to shun politicking leaders. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said Kibwana left Wiper long time ago and that his dalliance with any other party does not bother them. "As Wiper, we have already moved on and if he (Kibwana) considered himself a force to reckon with, he would have left the party formally,” Mutula said. He said the electorate in Makueni has proved its loyalty to the Wiper party through the recent by-election in Kitise ward despite Muungano party led by Kibwana spending millions of shillings during campaigns and still losing out.  Edited by P.O