A KBC journalist was on Wednesday night shot dead in her house in Ngong during a robbery. Betty Barasa, a video editor with the national broadcaster was shot in Ololua area, Ngong. Barasa had arrived at her home at about 8.20pm when a gang that was waiting at the entrance forced their way into the compound as the gate was opened, witnesses said. She was on duty on Wednesday and had left the broadcast house in the city centre for her new home hoping to join her husband and three children. She had recently moved into the house. According to her family, three men had been waiting for her to arrive. Two of them were armed with AK47 rifles. She drove to the gate and the househelp rushed to open it. As she drove in, the three forced their way in, prompting the houselp to run into darkness as she screamed saying there were strangers in the compound. This did not stop them in their mission. According to the family, the gang followed Betty up to where she parked and ordered her out at gunpoint leading her into the house. Her husband and children were in the house, terrified following the screams of the househelp and the arrival of the strangers. Witnesses said one of the gunmen demanded money from Betty and ordered her to take him to the bedroom upstairs. Two others remained in the sitting room where the other members of the family were. The gunmen harassed them demanding to be given money and other valuables. The husband and children begged the gang to spare them and take anything they wanted. And it was during the argument that they heard two gunshots. The gunman who had taken Betty to the upper rooms had shot her twice in the head at close range as she also begged to be spared. One of the bullets went through. A spent cartridge was recovered from her clothes. After the shooting, the gang grabbed the journalist’s laptop and mobile phone and left. Locals who heard the gunshots ran to the compound when they learnt their neighbour had been killed. Police said they are yet to make an arrest or know the motive of the killing. The area is growing fast with the passage of the Standard Gauge Railways (SGR). Many who had bought land in the area now constructing homes. Next to Barasa’s house is a home that is still under construction and it is believed the gang had been hiding there waiting for her arrival. The body was moved to Montenzuma Funeral Home. A team of detectives was sent from DCI headquarters to join their Ngong counterparts in the probe into the murder. Barasa’s colleagues described her as a dedicated journalist who made a mark in her work. She also taught at the Kenya Institute of Mass Communication (KIMC). Ngong has been experiencing relative calm after an upsurge of crime in early 2000 led to an exodus. Thugs roamed there killing and robbing from new residents in a trend that shocked many.