Former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko has advised couples to learn how to say sorry instead of resorting to killings. Sonko was reacting to the recent domestic violence that has been taking place when couples disagree. “The recent cases of domestic violence involving the killing of spouses, children and even parents like the case of the young man in Kisumu are extremely disturbing, and we need to bring this bad culture to an end as Kenyans,” he said. Via his social media account on Wednesday, Sonko said the only secret for survival of any marriage or relationship, is when your wife is high you go low and vice versa. “When you wrong him say sorry and vice versa. Hasira hasara,” he said. Sonko, who shared a picture of president Uhuru Kenyatta with his family when he was still young, said starting a family at a younger age is desirable. “I thought I was the only one who got married and started a family at an early age...kumbe tuko wengi. Hii mambo ni kujipanga mapema(We are many.. in marriages you need to start early),” he said. “ Lakini pia tuwaheshimu wazazi wetu, mabibi zetu, na watoto wetu.” (But we need to respect each other A day ago, ODM leader Raila Odinga bemoaned the increasing cases of spouses killing one another in domestic fights. The AU Infrastructure envoy decried that “too many lives are being lost on a daily basis going by media reports.” Raila, calling for an urgent national discussion on gender based violence, said the “abnormality of the murders cannot become normal.” Cases of couples turning against one another in acts violence that turn tragic have been rampant lately, with incidents reported nearly every week. Recently in Mbooni East, a man hacked his wife to death over a land dispute. He was lynched by irate villagers. On April 8, a man killed his pregnant wife and two children using a sledgehammer in Mbeere South. Several kilometers away that day, a GSU officer shot his wife seven times before turning the gun on himself after a quarrel. In his ninth address on the Covid-19 pandemic, President Uhuru Kenyatta raised concerns with the "increasing tensions within (our) homes." The President ordered the National Crime Research Centre to probe the escalating cases of gender-based violence and violation of children’s rights.