Kesses MP Mishra Kiprop has been nominated to join the Parliamentarians for Peace community. He's become the first legislator from Kenya and from East Africa to join the network. The Parliamentarians for Peace programme constitutes a network of legislators from different countries, with various political cultures, from diverse intellectual backgrounds, who stand together with a strong conviction. Joining the P4P community, Mishrap will be privy to a growing network of national representatives and be offered support to advocate international ideas from the locals on the most pressing geopolitical issues. The community said that the nomination of the MP comes following his illustrious political career and fronting of his 'servant leadership' philosophy and his extensive experience in the medical sector during the Covid-19 pandemic. The community said that it is banking on Mishra’s leadership and voice of reasoning for transformative global agendas. He is the chairman and founder of Mediheal Group of Hospitals. Mishra's nomination to the programme sees him join nineteen other renowned parliamentarians from all around the world. These representatives and senators are gathered by the Open Diplomacy Institute within the Normandy for Peace initiative. The programme which is supported by the Normandy Region brings together international managers to support conflict resolution through mediation, dialogue, and international cooperation. The first group of Parliamentarians for Peace was recruited and accompanied by the Open Diplomacy Institute during a period of crisis due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The first P4P published the Peace Policy Platform (3P) in October 2020, a declaration that asserts strong principles for collective action and sets forth a list of international political solutions. The institute is still recruiting the next group of Parliamentarians for Peace, which will work in-network with the first one before gathering at the Normandy World Peace Forum in June 2021.