Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo and Speaker Moffat Teya have finally ended the three-months stand-off that almost paralysed operations of the county assembly. Nyaribo and Teya met the MCAs at a hotel in Kisii County where they spent about six hours discussing the underlying issues which have been contentious among them. The two leaders met the MCA factions in a bid to resolve the ongoing wrangles that have seen them engage in fist fights in the assembly. They have been divided into two camps: those supporting Nyaribo and that against him - which was majority 21 MCAs out of 36. The two jointly addressed journalists and vowed to work together in delivering promises of their respective offices to the people of Nyamira. Speaking during the presser on Monday, Nyaribo vowed not to allow  a repeat of the ugly incidences that have happened. “Nyamira has been burning due to some issues which now have been resolved. Never again will the people of Nyamira see such things again,” Nyaribo said. Teya on his side said the House leadership will rescind the suspension of three MCAs who were engaged in the chaos that characterized the wrangles in the House. Those who were on suspension include Nyamaiya Ward’s Raban Masira, Duke Omoti (Kiabonyoru) and Fred Omayio (Magwagwa). Nyaribo and Teya held two meetings: one with the County Assembly’s House leadership and another one with all the Ward Reps, including the three who were suspended earlier following chaos in the House. The differences between the Executive and Assembly have played out in various instances of the House business. It all started a month into Nyaribo’s swearing in which happened after the death of his predecessor John Nyagarama which happened in December 2020. First was the rejection of Nyaribo’s deputy Governor nominee Dr James Gesami before it escalated to another fight among MCAs who had already taken sides: those supporting Nyaribo’s agenda and those against him. The House has seen the differences escalate farther, especially after the MCAs allied to Nyaribo were kicked out of the key committees of Public Investment and Accounts and that of Budget and Appropriations.