A Senate committee has summoned Nairobi Metropolitan Services (NMS) Director General Mohamed Badi and Deputy Governor Anne Kananu over the spending of the Covid 19 funds. This after the NMS boss skipped a session by the Senate Health Committee on Thursday to explain the questionable spending. Instead, Badi sent his deputy Kang’ethe Thuku and health services director Ouma Oluga among other top officials to represent him in the virtual meeting. “In our considered view, we had invited the NMS Director General in his capacity as the Chief executive of the entity, because the issues we should discuss can only be responded [to] by the DG. In his absence, we have to reschedule this meeting,” chairman Michael Mbito ruled. NMS is the entity performing the four broad functions of the county government that were transferred to the National Government in February last year. They include Health, Transport, Planning, public works, and auxiliary services. Mbito turned away the officers saying the committee would do a letter to Mbadi, informing him when he should appear alongside Kananu and her executives. The Trans Nzoia senator said the two would respond to what he termed as “cross-cutting issues” involving NMS and City Hall. “In our next meeting we will also have the deputy governor Ann Kananu and her county executives to also respond on issues that concern their domain, the functions that were not transferred to NMS,” Mbito added. A special audit by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu on the utilisation of the funds indicted NMS of several violations in the spending of the cash. Gathagu invited the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) to probe suspicious transactions including irregular withdrawal of cash. Specifically, the committee want Badi to shed light on the whereabouts of Sh180.07 million raised to aid in the fight Covid 19 pandemic. The auditor could not establish the whereabouts of the cash that includes Nairobi City County’s own generated revenue and DANIDA funds donated to boost the war against the infection. Gathungu revealed irregular withdrawal and possible loss of Sh32.38 million meant to fight the virus and invited the anti-agency to swift into action. The money, according to the report, was irregularly withdrawn from the KCB imprest account reportedly for the facilitation of health workers. “The management could not explain the basis of the facilitation, the authority to pay facilitation and expenditure could not be supported,” read the report in part. Gathungu recommended further investigations be conducted to establish any criminality. The auditor could also not establish the whereabouts of some Sh182.07 million donated by the Danish International Development Agency and the county’s own contribution to boosting the war against the contagion. “However, we could not establish where these funds were received and whether they were transferred to the respective health centers. This is because the county management did not provide relevant documents,” reads the report. Further, the Badi-led agency was faulted for dishing out  Sh64.93 million tender for design and maintenance of the makeshift isolation centre to University of Nairobi Enterprise Services through single sourcing. “The expenditure was direct procurement of consultancy for architectural, conceptualisation design, innovation and maintenance of Covid-19 isolation centre. The firm was contracted on June 26, 2020, and already been paid Sh33.15 million as of July 30, 2020. NMS never issued UNES with a tender document contrary to section 104 (a) of the Public Procurement Disposal Act, 2015, implying that the firms might have never signed the contract. The report shows that NMS received a total of Sh294.38 million from the National government to fight the pandemic. As at July 31, 2020, the NMS had incurred expenses amounting to Sh97.32 million which included procurement and payment of facilitation of health workers. The money, however,  excludes the county’s own source revenue and Danida funds pumped into the fight against the virus. According to the special audit report, NMS had put in place approved budget and work plans for the conditional grants received from the National Government. “However, it lacked the procurement plans and the training plans for the conditional grant,” the audit report states.