@ppcheti A KCPE candidate who scored 400 marks in the recently released KCPE exam results is appealing for help to join secondary school. Aaron Barasa, 14, who sat his exam at the Lamu Boys Primary School says he aspires to be a doctor but that dream could be shattered if he fails to continue his education. His father is bedridden following a fire accident in 2006. The family lives in Bajuri area on Lamu island. The father, Kennedy Nyangwara, has been bedridden since 2006 when a fire accident left him with over 90 per cent burns on his body. He has to be fed and clothed because of his situation and cannot do anything to help raise the much-needed fees for his son to join high school now that he has performed well. Barasa, the firstborn in a family of four, says he wishes to join Alliance Boys High School and thereafter the University of Nairobi to study medicine. He, however, worries that his dreams might not come true because of his father’s state. “My dad got an accident and has not been able to do anything. The poverty we have lived in since then hasn’t bothered me until now. I can’t imagine not being able to join high school now that I have done well. It’s my prayer that someone out there will come to my rescue and sponsor my education," Aaron said. His mother, Grace Idiony, is a housewife. She says life has been unfair since her husband got sick but she is optimistic that her son will turn the family's fortunes around. “Before their father got the accident, my children were in private schools, but I had to withdraw all of them and enrol them in public schools when he fell sick as there was no money. Life since then has been a thorny one and now my son has done well. I pray for a miracle so that he can achieve his dreams," Idiony said. She says taking care of her sick husband and four children singlehandedly hasn’t been a walk in the park. She has appealed to well-wishers to sponsor her son’s education as she is not in a position to. The county government had made a general statement that it would sponsor all learners who scored 300 marks and above for four years. Lamu Education executive Paul Thairu said at least Sh200 million had been allocated for that purpose alone in the 2021-22 county budget. A total of Sh173 million was set aside for the same purpose in the last financial year. “All learners who scored 300 marks plus shall receive a full secondary school scholarship. This will ensure bright but needy students pursue higher education," Thairu said. However, families whose children fall in the category have yet to get an assurance of the same. Barasa's family is, therefore, concerned that he might fail to join school without the support he direly needs. They can be reached through his mother's mobile phone number—0710154941.