 Private schools in the North Rift posted stellar performances in the 2020 KCPE exam, producing top candidates in the results that were released last week. The schools mostly in Nandi and Uasin Gishu counties had a large number of candidates scoring 400 marks and above. “All our schools, private and public, posted very impressive results. However, we need to do more in equipping schools, especially those located in marginalised areas like the Kerio Valley,” educationist Loice Chemenjo said. Lessos Hills Academy was one of the best schools in the region, producing Abiud Kipkurui who scored 430 marks. He was seventh nationally. Other top-performing schools included Little Lambs schools and Alpha Academy in Eldoret. Kipkurui is the son of a squatter who only managed to go to school through the support of a well-wisher. His parents were evicted from Serengonik Forest in Nandi and they live on the roadside in the area where even affording a meal was through God’s grace. “It was just hard work and prayer to God because my parents are so poor that they could not afford anything to enable me to go to school. Indeed, God has been so good to us,” Kipkurui said. He has been a pupil at Lessos Hills Primary in Nandi countty where many other residents are also squatters. They work as farmhands in the tea estates to make a living. “The Covid-19 pandemic really affected learning but I and others really struggled through. I did all I could to study and be disciplined and even though I lacked books, I used to borrow from friends and used any time I got very well," Kipkurui said. A neighbour, Geoffrey Kotutwo, came to his rescue and took him in. He enrolled him at Lessos Hills Academy. His teachers described him as hard working despite hardships at home. “I thank him for the support he has been giving my parents to ensure that I go to school,” Kipkurui said. His good performance has brought him good tidings. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang has offered to pay his secondary school fees and ensure he completes his education. “Based on the family's humble background, I have taken up the responsibility to fully support Abiud through his secondary education. This will ensure that our great ambitious student achieves his dream of being a neurosurgeon,” Sang said. He hosted Kipkurui and his parents at the county headquarters to celebrate the results and offer his support to the family. “Listening to his touching story, Abiud's parents are among the Serengonik Forest evictees who now live by roadside in the area. I wish to thank the well-wisher who supported Abiud through his primary education. Abiud went against all odds to post sterling results and we are indeed proud of him,” the governor said. Sang also congratulated Kipkurui’s parents for standing behind their son despite the challenges in their lives. “My son is very committed to education. His work has been books and nothing else and we always tell him that is the direction that will change his life," Kipkurui’s father Samuel Kipyego said. Kipyego said his family had received support from many people and are thankful to Governor Sang for his support. 