Bethany Academy, a missionary school in Matuga, Kwale, is among those that have produced the best pupils in 2020 KCPE exam in the Coast region. Two of Bethany learners—Mosses Furaha Charo (424) and Assumpta Nyawallow (412)—emerged position two and 10 in the region. The school had a mean grade of 396. Bethany had a total of 190 pupils and 12 candidates sat for the national exam. "We are missionaries from America, we aim to mould young people to be great leaders who are God-fearing and assist the communities living around," said Young Lee, the school managing director. The school was first established in 2009 as a Kindergarten by Lee and his wife. By then, the learning facility had one class. The institution had its first KCPE lot in 2017 and became number two nationally, topping in the Coast region with a mean grade of 416. In 2018, it was position four nationally and topped again in 2019 at the Coast. It is a day and boarding school, with pupils in the upper classes boarding. According to Lee, plans are ongoing to expand the institution to accommodate more children in the boarding section and introduce high school for a smooth transition. The institution offers full sponsorship to 60 per cent of the pupils and the other 40 per cent are partially sponsored. "We normally have a class mean grade, those who score above it are entirely assisted [financially] and below that partly accommodated," Lee said. The sponsorship is sustained based on pupil's performance. Most learners proceed to national schools and get fully sponsored in partnerships with the government and well-wishers, among other organisations. A section of the school also offers high-class treatment services to the public at a fee of only Sh100. Kwale Methodist also registered high scores. Methodist's Fatuma Adam scored 415 and became position five on the Coast. Brown Baya Msanzu from Mtwapa Elite school was first. The day school could soon have boarding facilities. Kwale Methodist got a mean score of 355.6. It was built in 1992, according to head teacher Victor Indezi. It got a mean grade of 299 after having the first lot of candidates in 2004. Since then, the mean grade has been going up. In 2012 and 2013, it was the bestschool in Kwale. This year, two learners had over 400 marks, 13 had 350 and above and five over 300 marks. Currently, it has a total of 348 pupils. Indezi said the school's performance was fluctuating because some of its best pupils were shifting to public schools. He said parents had a mentality that private institutions are disadvantaged when it comes to secondary school placement. "People used to think that children from private schools are less prioritised in terms of choosing secondary schools and would relocate students to public institutions earlier to get better high schools," he said. 