Bungoma doctors have referred Beatrice Makokha to Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital, saying her 3kg facial growth may be the extension of a brain tumour. She could be transferred on Tuesday evening. MTRH has offered to perform surgery to remove it at no cost. After the Star highlighted Beatrice's case, well-wishers are contributing to cover other costs. A CT scan, MRI and other tests were carried out at Bumgoma Teaching and Referral Hospital to determine the extent of the mass growing for 21  years. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Bungoma hospital medical superintendent Dr David Wanikina said the tests mostly done on her head and chest showed she might have a brain tumour. “The condition requires a multi specialisation approach and that's why we are referring her to  MTRH,” he said. He said the county has liaised with colleagues at MTRH who have assembled a team of neurosurgeons, ear, nose, dental and eye surgeons. Wakunikina said they had already send the images and results of the tests to MTRH. Results of a radiology test are awaited by the end of the day. Then Beatrice will be taken to MTRH. Her breathing is laboured as the tumour covers one nostril. “I can only breathe through one nostril. At night, I sleep on the right side because on the left side of the swelling makes breathing worse," she said. “If Beatrice is admitted here, her surgery or treatment will be done at no cost to her,” MTRH public relations officer Consolate Chepchirchir said. However, she will accrue other surgery-related and long-term post-operative care costs not covered by the waiver. Beatrice face began swelling 21 years ago in January 2000 accompanied by a sharp pain that would not go away. “It felt like my eye was being stabbed with a knife and I just couldn’t stop rubbing it. The rubbing would slowly get intense and vigorous until my eye turned red," she told the Star during an interview. "We urge well-wishers to help Beatrice breathe with ease by making donations towards her medical bill," the Star said in a statement. Donations can be sent to M-Pesa Paybill number 922379, under the account name The Star. The Star has also made it clear all proceeds will be directed entirely to Beatrice Makokha's medical bills and care. (Edited by V. Graham)