ODM ward reps have turned the heat on Nairobi Metropolitan Services and City Hall over the use of funds allocated for Covid-19 and stalled projects. They demanded accountability over the funds allocated to NMS by the county assembly to fight the pandemic. This comes at a time when the MCAs are lamenting over stalled ward development projects, with some yet to even commence. They had faulted the two entities for taking them in circles on issues pertaining to the WDF and stalled projects. They argued that more than a year since the pandemic hit Nairobi, no single output in terms of medical and socio-economic support has been delivered and residents have continued to suffer as NMS remains silent. Last month, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu raised queries and wanted NMS investigated over the irregular withdrawal of Sh32.38 million meant to fight Covid-19. This was even as the auditor questioned the whereabouts of Sh180.07 million raised to aid in the fight against the virus as she flagged irregular direct procurement by the agency. “We are therefore left to believe that these funds have been misused. We demand that relevant state agencies take appropriate action against persons who may have squandered these funds,” Minority leader Michael Ogada said. However, Majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo defended NMS, saying Badi and his team have been trying to bring back sanity to Nairobi. “I am supporting NMS as they are doing a wonderful job because we have seen what they have done in only a short time. Change cannot happen overnight. I know some of the MCAs are not happy because there are no kickbacks in NMS,” he said. Ogada and Minority whip Peter Imwatok on Wednesday faulted the delay of clearance of pending bills owed to contractors and suppliers despite a directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta last year to clear arrears to all small-scale traders totalling Sh1.3 billion. “As the minority party, we will not sit down and see our people suffer. We demand that these officers allow systems to work,” Ogada said. He also faulted major general Mohammed Badi and his team for only focusing on improving the Central Business District and selected informal settlements in the capital at the expense of other wards. In this financial year, the county assembly allocated NMS Sh27.1 billion, Sh18 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh9.1 billion for development for the transferred functions. “We gave NMS Sh27 billion but nothing seems to be working. We only have two months until this year ends and for a fact we have no developments in the wards,” Ogada said. As a result, he gave NMS a two-month ultimatum to ensure all the budgeted projects across the 85 wards are complete. Imwatok gave Deputy Governor Anne Kananu seven days to realign her administration, alleging there was incompetence in the Nairobi County Public Service Board. He alleged external forces were influencing the process at the board especially on recruitment matters. Imwatok alleged ethnicisation of the board by external forces who are hell-bent on influencing its processes, particularly in the recruitment process. He said Kananu should be allowed to realign her administration to improve performance at the county government as well as blocking cartels from taking over at City Hall. “Kananu has seven days to bring changes in her cabinet to improve performance at the county government. Failure to which we will take stern action once normal business resumes in the assembly,” Imwatok said. The executive committee has Mohammed Dagane (Public works and Transport), Charles Kerich (Housing and Lands), Janet Ouko (Education), Lucia Mulwa (Agriculture), Winfred Gathangu (Trade), Allan Igambi (Finance), Larry Wambua (Environment), Hitan Majevdia (Health), Newton Munene (ICT) and Vesca Kangongo (Devolution). Jairus Musumba is the acting county secretary while Lydia Kwamboka is the county attorney.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris