The National Health Insurance Fund will pay all medical costs incurred by Arot Achingole, a Turkana woman who delivered quadruplets early this month. Achingole, 39, delivered four boys at Kalemunyang Dispensary in Loima subcounty. She now has 11 children. The NHIF and well-wishers came to Achingole's help one week after the Star highlighted her plight and appeal for help. She asked well-wishers to help her raise the quadruplets and herself as she could not do it for lack of resources. “I need your help to enable me to provide for them. I also have seven children that I’m supposed to feed, but due to my status now I have to babysit my infants and unable to provide for them,” she said. She also appealed for support from the county government, citing her huge burden. Magare Vincent, the quality assurance officer for NHIF in Turkana, on Wednesday visited the woman at Lorugumu Subcounty Hospital. The babies are currently receiving care at the facility. “On behalf of NHIF fraternity we are very happy to have seen the mother who delivered the quadruplets. As the NHIF, we are going to partner with Lourugumu Subcounty Hospital to ensure the mother doesn’t pay any fee,” Magare said. He said the mother is covered by Linda Mama scheme whose services can be redeemed at the facility. Once it expires, the NHIF through the Lodwar branch manager will pay the Super Cover of one year for the mother. Magare said the Super Cover will sustain the family for any sickness in any facility within the county. Senior officers from Turkana county, led by director of trade James Lokwale also delivered their support to Achingole. They had mobilised for contributions both in cash and in-kind from well-wishers who responded positively to help the mother. They delivered formula milk, feeding bottles, nutritional porridge flour, tea leaves, 90 kg of sugar, four 50-kg bags of maize, one 90-kg bag of beans and 20 litres of cooking oil. Others are baby and mother packs with assorted clothes, lesos, woollen bedsheets, sleeping mats, a box of washing soap, four buckets of washing detergents and two D-light lanterns. The team also donated 10 goats to the family in Kotela area of Kalemunyang' in Lobei-Lotaruk ward. "We express our gratitude to all well-wishers, including colleagues in the county and national government for their contributions for this good course," Lokwale said. The team leader called for more support to cater to the needs of the babies and the nuclear family at home.  (edited by o. owino)