Three different families in Likoni are yet to trace their kin who were on Saturday taken from their different homes by heavily armed men in what appears to be a case of enforced disappearance. Brian Khamis, 24, and Fauz Mohamed, 27 and Ramadhan Omar were taken on April 23. Speaking to the Star on Saturday at the Haki Africa offices, Khadija Ramadhan 24 year old, narrated what transpired on the said date. Khadija was sound asleep when she was woken up by someone pulling her bedsheet. “It was around 4 am and there had been no noise of a break-in. I don’t know how they gained entry. The door was intact,” Khadija said. Her boda boda rider husband Ramadhan Omar, with whom she was with, was taken by the heavily armed men, with balaclavas, and two or three with scary monkey masks on. They had surrounded their house in Majengo Mapya, Likoni. “They took our phones, switched them off, before putting them inside a bag. They then asked me to give them a T-shirt and a pair of jeans. My husband was half-naked when they took him,” Khadija narrated. It was a break from the other cases of enforced disappearances, with this one not being as violent as has been the case. They did not ransack the house and they never beat Omar. The men left her with a chilling message before they left. “Don’t tell your children that their father has killed people!” It was as if they were driving a point home. It was however a different case for Sophie Mohamed and Khadija Bagathram, whose husbands Brian Khamis, 24, and Fauz Mohamed, 27, were taken violently, as the norm. Sophie was woken up by loud bangs on the main door of their house in Half London, Likoni. A neighbour she only identified as Awadh went to the main door and asked the men banging the door to identify themselves. Once they said they were police officers, Awadh retreated without opening the door. “There was this loud bang and the men gained entry. They told everybody to lie down,” Sophie said. “You have been living with a gangster,” the men, who were dressed just as Khadija had described, told her. They were referring to Sophie’s husband Khamis, who works at a car wash at Makadara ground in the CBD. The heavily armed men took Khamis’ national ID card and passport beat him before leaving with him and Awadh. On Friday evening, Awadh returned after being released. He said they were blindfolded and taken to an unknown, place. Fauz, who also lives with his wife Bagathram in Half London, Likoni, sometimes operates a tuk-tuk and works at Simba Coach bus stage as a conductor-cum-porter. Bagathram said she heard loud bangs but thought she was dreaming until a bright light shone on her face. “The men were shining their torch on my face through the window. My husband went to the landlord, who lives in the same house to enquire what was going on,” she said. Scared, the landlord asked the strangers to identify themselves, which seemed to irk the men. “Open the door! We are the police!” they shouted before the door was forced open after another loud bang. Bagathram, Fauz and other neighbours ran into the landlord’s room where they locked themselves in. However, the heavily armed men threatened to shoot all of them before if they did not come out. They obliged. Fauz and the landlord’s son, who was almost the same age as Fauz, were separated from the group and beaten up, according to Bagathram. One of the men took photos of the two before going outside, only to return moments later and took Fauz, leaving the landlord’s son. “All that while, there was no network in the house. It was as if it had been disabled because we tried calling our neighbours and relatives but could not,” said Bagathram. After they left with Fauz, the network was restored and they could now make calls. All the police stations they went to in Mombasa denied having the three as police denied knowledge of such incidents. Haki Africa rapid response officer Mathias Shipeta said enforced disappearances are becoming a routine at the Coast. Speaking to the Star, he said they have recorded over 10 such cases of enforced disappearances this year and 100 cases over the last three years. He said those taken are usually suspected to have information or are involved in some kind of crime that the police say they are investigating. “We have a firm belief those conducting such operations belong to an elite squad from the police in Nairobi who usually come to the Coast without the local police knowing,” said Shipeta. He said not informing the local police could be a strategy by the elite squad to try and make their operation as clandestine as possible. “The elite squad then release their targets in different areas once they are through interrogating them. These are usually given fare to return home. “However, those unlucky ones are not released and are never heard of again,” said Shipeta. The rapid response officer said the elite squad usually has some kind of tracking device which they use to track their suspects. “This is because in some cases, according to the accounts we get, they are not sure of the identify o their targets and usually have to confirm. That is why they take photos of them and compare them with the photos they have.” Shipeta said their investigations have revealed that one of the three who have been taken shared some information on radicalization on WhatsApp. “We understand the police think they are solving the insecurity problem by eliminating some of their targets but it is only making the situation worse.” “Most of the cases end in death and the bodies are found in forests, national parks and morgues,” Shipeta said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris