Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku was on Wednesday questioned by senators about his administration's use of Sh265.17 million Covid-19 funds. Lenku appeared virtually before the Senate Health committee to respond to audit queries flagged by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. The county chief was taken to task over the award of a Sh2.5 million tender to BOC Gases for supply of oxygen without a contract. The oxygen supplier was also paid twice from different accounts on different dates, according to the audit report. “There is risk that the county government of Kajiado lost funds due to the double payment and therefore the funds should be recovered from the supplier,” reads the report in part. Lenku said that owing to the emergency at the time, the county procured the oxygen from BOC which had been its oxygen supplier in the past. He said that supporting documents including contract, payment vouchers and LPOs have since been provided to the auditors. The county boss refuted the auditor's finding that the company was twice paid. He explained the payment was first processed from recurrent account, but changed to Covid-19 funds accounts before payments were effected. “There was no double payment,” he said. Senators Abdullahi Ali (Wajir), Beatrice Kwamboka (nominated), Sam Ongeri (Kisii), Millicent Omanga (nominated) and Beth Mugo (nominated) pushed to know why the contract documents were not presented at the time of audit. Temporary chairman Ledama Olekina and Ongeri demanded to see a proof that the county government did not lose money through double payments. Olekina ordered Lenku to provide the information sought by the members within seven days failing which the panel would file a report indicting his administration. Lenku also asked why his administration overpaid health workers by Sh9.27 million without a budget or approval by the county assembly. According to the report, Kajiado was allocated Sh45.19 million as grants from the national government for frontline health workers' allowance. The audit established that the county spent Sh54.47 million, resulting in an overpayment by Sh9.27 million. “This additional expenditure was incurred without proper approvals contrary to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) circular reference number SRC/TS/COG/3/61/48,” reads the report in part. Lenku admitted the auditor’s finding but explained that the ‘excess’ Sh9.27 million was not related to Covid-19 allowances. “The Sh45.19 million was the share for Kajiado county from Sh5 billion grant allocated to all the 47 county governments for frontline health workers,” he said. “The additional payments is for other allowances and we had budgeted for it under personnel emolument. It is not related to Covid-19 but other allowances.” The governor found himself in more trouble after the auditor, in a subsequent query, flagged overpayment of 11 health workers. The officers were paid Sh3.38 million more even though they had been given allowances. “There was no explanation given as to why the health workers were paid these arrears yet they had also been paid frontline health workers allowances via salary code 879. The amounts were paid from county own source funds,” the report says. Lenku told the nine-member committee that the 11 health workers were paid for the arrears that had accumulated for six months from the time they were recruited. “The 11 health workers had not been paid their salaries from January when they were engaged. They had not provided birth certificates. So, we paid them in June when we got all the documentation,” he said. Olekina adjourned the meeting to allow members to attend a  special sitting at the Senate. He ruled that the governor would be invited again. (edited by o. owino)