The government has been challenged to ensure realistic revenue projections to curb excess borrowing. An economic expert has warned that the current containment measures are likely to lead to more economic distress, adding that given that the tax relief measures were lifted yet we have not fully recovered, more people have been exposed to vulnerabilities. He further wants more transparency and accountability when dealing with funds, and money available allocated to priority areas. He said the government was struggling to raise revenue even before Covid-19 struck hence continued borrowing will continue exposing the country to the conditions by funders which has seen a push on increase of VAT on fuel. “We don’t think it was wise for government to lift those relief measures since taxes such as VAT are really effective in helping the needy because if you increased the tax relief measures but then impose more taxes is almost like giving you in one hand and taking it from the other,” Noah Wamalwa said. Wamalwa is the Assistant programme officers at Institute of Legislative Affairs. When the first Covid case was recorded, the government announced a raft of measures to cushion the economy from shocks arising from the pandemic. Some of these include reducing Pay-As-You-Earn (PAYE) rate from 30 per cent to 25 per cent; decreasing of the value-added tax  (VAT) rate from 16 per cent to 14 per cent and reduction of the resident corporate income tax from 30 per cent to 25 per cent. Government also announced a 100 per cent tax relief for those earning a gross monthly income of up to Sh4,000. The measures have since been rolled back to the original status. “We have not fully recovered so we don’t think taxes on things like fuel should be increased that much because they are pushing many people into poverty. Kenyan economy is resilient but then it would even have rebounded more had we effectively utilized the emergency relief measures and the economic stimulus package,” Wamalwa said. “Agriculture improved because the imposition of the movement restrictions did not relaly affect the food services because they were classified as essential partly and also good weather conditions which helped improve agriculture.” He said it was estimated that the tax measures that were instituted were equivalent to Sh62 billion that the country lost in terms of tax revenues, adding that because of falling revenue and increased borrowing Kenya has a challenge with servicing of debts leading to pressure to service the loans.