HIV patients are suffering following a new stalemate over ARV drugs distribution, weeks after a consignment stuck at the port was cleared. Almost two weeks after the Health CS Mutahi Kagwe ordered the release of the consignment, the standoff between the government and USAID over ARVs has taken a new twist. Despite solving the tax issues that saw the consignment held at the port from January, the current standoff now involves distribution battles, with USAID failing to release the drugs. The outcry comes even as the Health Ministry began distribution of ARVs to more than 100,000 people in six counties in Central Kenya. The drugs were sent on Friday to Kiambu, Embu, Nairobi, Kajiado, Kirinyaga and Nyeri. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, National Empowerment Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS in Kenya director Nelson Otuoma said USAID said they will only release it when they are also distributing alongside Kemsa. Patients who held peaceful demonstrations in Nairobi on Tuesday now want the drugs released immediately to credible organisations that are operating in the country such as NGOs and faith-based organisations to distribute the medicines to persons living with HIV. The chairperson of the International Community of Women living with HIV Patricia Asero said the situation has seen some of the patients losing their lives due to lack of drugs. “Due to Covid, most of us do not want to go to the facilities because our immunity is compromised. Going to the facility every time means you have to go through public transport, mixing with many people meaning you can get infected because the virus is contagious,” Asero said. Also said to be missing are lab reagents for testing HIV in babies and TB test kits with ARVs stocks in the counties now running dangerously low. “We found out that there is an impasse between the government and USAID who brought in the medication. People we have talked to in various government departments are saying some issues have emerged and those issues are being tackled at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs level,” she said. The current shortage began in January when Pepfar-USAID delivered to Kenya ARVs and diagnostics worth Sh1.1 billion through a private US company known as Chemonics International and refused to pay Sh90 million tax bill as required by law. The row has since been resolved and the tax waived. However, USAID was asked to surrender the consignment to Kemsa, leading to another standoff. “Consequently, USAID is expected to hand over the same for distribution through the established systems,” Kagwe said in a statement last week. Most facilities had also run out of test kits for HIV, including dried blood spots bundles, used to test for the virus in babies. Kagwe said the interruption in the supply of antiretroviral drugs was regrettable. “All we want is ARVs.  They are in the country, why can’t the government rise to the occasion, tackle their differences with USAID but make sure they have tackled the bilateral issues they have and we have the ARVS.” “We are being told there are bureaucratic discussions and as they are talking some of us are already dying because people are scared to even visit health facilities,” Asero said. The entire consignment will last three months during which the government will also send other consignments to Western Kenya, which is hard hit by the ARVs shortage. The current consignment is funded by the government and the Global Fund, Kemsa said. It was ordered by Health PS Susan Mochache last month. Edited by Kiilu Damaris