The Machakos county government has started fumigating public service vehicles to stop the spread of Covid-19. Machakos county commissioner Fredrick Ndunga led the exercise at the bus park on Thursday. Ndunga said the national and county governments were working together to ensure that all public service vehicles were fumigated. “The fumigation will be conducted daily until next week when we shall review the exercise to see if we can reduce it to two or three times a week,” Ndunga said. He said they will continue reducing the fumigation frequencies depending on the number of new Covid-19 cases in Machakos. “Machakos and four other counties under lockdown contribute to 70 per cent of the Covid-19 cases announced in the country by the Health ministry daily. So, we are in danger and everybody must be responsible‚" Ndunga said. “Some Nairobi residents want the lockdown lifted. Should we let you die or we effect the lockdown? The lockdown will be short-lived, depending on how we cooperate.” Ndunga said they will do everything possible to reduce the Covid-19 infections across the county. “If the cases go down, we will lift the lockdown. But as it is now, it is dangerous‚” he said. The county commissioner said the fumigation will be conducted in Machakos, Mlolongo, Tala, Matuu and Malaa bus stations. He said all those who own vehicles operating in the county must have them fumigated and be issued with certificates. “We have given you time to fumigate your vehicles and get certificates showing they have been fumigated between now and Friday. As from Saturday, if found on the road but you haven’t fumigated and haven’t met all the Covid-19 regulations, you will be arrested,” Ndunga said. He said all impounded vehicles for not complying with the regulations won’t be released until President Uhuru Kenyatta lifts the restriction of movement and curfew orders. He said all vehicles must be equipped with thermo guns for checking passengers’ temperatures, sanitisers and occupants to properly wear face masks. Ndunga said all PSV vehicles must ferry 60 per cent passenger capacity at all times. He said all Covid-19 protocols must be adhered to. The administrator threatened to close down markets where protocols are not adhered to. He said sanitisers, handwashing water points, and sanitation must be observed in markets. Ndunga warned motorists and boda boda operators against using 'panya routes' to sneak people in and out of Machakos.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris