The reasons why football lovers were fawning over Danson Chetambe during his days at unheralded Zoo Kericho are now plain for all to see. In just half a dozen matches, the now Bandari attacker has proved to be the king of assists as the Mombasa side remain one of the challenges for the 2021 Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League crown. Though the talent that saw the Dockers snap him up quickly three years ago have began to belatedly show, Chetambe says it has been down to hard work. “Nothing much has changed this season. I can just say it’s another season and I had good pre-season together with the team,” explained Chetambe. The wiry forward added: “I can say our preparation was good and I have also started adapting to the coastal environment and team culture. I feel much more at home now.” So impressive have been his performances for Bandari that club captain Bernard Odhiambo penned an extraordinary ode to celebrate his role in the Dockers quest for success this year. “Dear Chetambe Danson, I want to take this opportunity to congratulate you on your great performance so far. Gunning down six assists is not an easy task but you have managed so far. I urge you to keep it up and keep pushing to get even more good results till you take all the awards in the KPL. Your hard work will push the rest of us to perform even better and the team will grow from this seed. You are a joy to watch and a great human both on and off the pitch. I am happy to play alongside you and I am always confident in everything that you give. May the Almighty God bless you and keep awarding you gift after gift and may you lead us to greater heights. Congratulations bro,” gushed Odhiambo in the fascinating missive. Chetambe started playing football as a young boy growing up in Teso, Busia county. “Our youth team was called Firm United then later I joined a team in the small leagues there, Border Lions then Busia United before joining Zoo FC,” he recounted. Alongside Mike Madoya and Nicholas Kipkirui, the trio formed a triple threat attack that saw Zoo playing some hung up football under Sammy Okoth in the National Super League—culminating in their promotion to the top flight league in 2017. “It was a good combination as a unit back at Zoo. We were all young and ambitious. The coach let us play the game unhindered and we expressed ourselves freely. This is how I got my big break playing for Zoo. They gave me the platform to perform in the NSL and eventually KPL. I think I owe them much. They made me who I am today and it’s where I got the opportunity to join Bandari,” said Chetambe. While Chetambe moved to the coast, Madoya landed at Tusker while Kipkirui famously joined and won league titles at Gor Mahia. Like many up and coming players, Chetambe endured challenges enroute to taking up football as a career though he conceded they were part of their job. Without a doubt his play-making skills have shone through for Bandari. They were honed watching the silky Barcelona duo of Xavi and Andres Iniesta threading passes through the eye of the needle in the golden era for the all-conquering Catalan giants and the Spanish national team. “I used to look up to  Iniesta and Xavi. I liked their playing style and they offered a lot to learn from them and tried very much to shape my style of play to theirs,” said Chetambe. With Chetambe, what you see is what you get. Despite his improved status in the game, he still remains a down to earth individual constantly communicating with his mates back in Busia and Kericho and occasionally inviting them over to enjoy the sun and the ocean that is on offer at the scenic Kenyan coast. “There is nothing really exceptional about my life,” he laughs when quizzed about his private engagements. “I am just a Kenyan youth who loves football,” he added. Chetambe had a season to remember when Zoo won promotion to feature in the Kenyan Premier League for the first time in 2017. But one moment stood out in particular.  “The most memorable moment for me was our game against Kariobangi Sharks at Nyayo Stadium,” he recalled. “We were 1-0 down then I came on as a substitute and boom, I scored with my first touch within seconds after coming on. And from there on,  my journey of football changed course. It was my first game that season,” he enthused. Having gone from playing second tier football to competing in continental football (CAF Confederation Cup), Chetambe remains hungry for more as he heads towards his peak in the sport. “My short term target is to play in KPL this season and help the team (Bandari); then we will see what the long term holds as I hope and pray to play outside Kenya in future,” he said. His toughest opponent locally was Posta Rangers tough tackler Joakins Atudo and former Ulinzi Stars’ defender Hassan Rio.It would also  not be surprising if the two top defenders  put Chetambe in the list of their dangerous opponents of the last five years. The boy from Busia has come from far and his football journey would certainly not end in Mombasa.  PLAYER’S BIO NAME: Danson Namasaka Chetambe DOB: 1993 CLUBS: Busia United(2014-16) Zoo FC: (2016-19) Bandari: (2019- todate) NATIONALITY: Kenyan POSITION: Midfielder (No 8) HONOURS: KPL Player of the Month once CAPS: Under-20 called up (not played)