A section of Nairobi  MCAs on Monday  stormed City Hall' s County Attorney and Chief Officer's office demanding to know how Sh500 million was paid to 26 law firms. They  wanted details on payments made to legal firms and why some were prioritised over those which have been genuinely representing the county. The MCAs were ODM's Deputy Minority Whip Moses Ogeto, David Okello (Huruma), Maurice Gari ( Nairobi West), Alvin Palapala ( Kitusuru), Redson Otieno (Ngei), Jared Akama ( Mugumu-Ini), Lawrence Lawi ( Sarang'ombe), Francis Ngesa (Dandora Four) and Clarence Munga (Kabiro) For close to an hour, the ward reps were at the Chief Officer for Finance Halkano Waqo’s office to inquire if he had given permission for the money to be paid to legal firms. Dandora Area Four  MCA Francis Otieno claimed that some MCAs were behind the push and pull in the payment done to certain legal firms which they had fronted. He questioned his counterparts' motive on legal payments and wondered why they don’t put in the same effort on other county matters. “We cannot allow our counterparts to misuse county money for their own interests. Payments to law firms should be made equally and not pushing for their own agenda,” Otieno said. After leaving Waqo’s office, the MCAs proceeded to County Attorney Lydia Kwamboka’s office, spending at least 30 minutes The MCAs warned that if the county officers made payments to legal firms at the expense of giving out school bursaries then it will not be business as usual at City Hall. On his side, Waqo said that the county will follow the law in payment done to legal firms. He dismissed claims that the county was to pay millions to certain legal firms last week on Friday before the EACC started to investigate the issue. “I’m not aware of such payments and the law firms being discussed. People are trying to come up with stories and having a lot of speculation. As a county we shall follow the financial laws because it is public money,” Waqo said. The Ethic Anti-Corruption Commission last week reveled it was   investigating the payment of legal fees to 26 law firms worth Sh500 million. In a letter dated January 21, 2021 , EACC has asked the County Secretary  to furnish it with the  specific case files handled by the  26 law firms between 2013 and 2020, including  details of the cases, letters of instructions and contract agreements. The firms include Irungu Kang'ata and Co Advocates, Osundwa and Co Advocates, Kwanga Mboya and Co Advocates, Kithi and Co Advocates, Wanjiku Maina and Co Advocates, E Onyango and Co Advocates, JO Magolo and Co Advocates, Ario Advocates, Maskam ( Asanyo) , EN Omoti and Co Advocates , Ogeto Ottachi and Co Advocates, Musyoka Mogaka and Co Advocates, Masire Mogusu and Co Advocates, Maanzo and Co Advocates , and Miller and Co Advocates. The others are Koceyo and Co Advocates , RM Wafula and Co Advocates , Mbaluka and Co Advocates , Njenga Maina  and Co Advocates, Kandie Murtai and  Co Advocates , Sirma and Co Advocates, Arati and Co Advocates, CM Mitema and  Co Advocates , Munyasia  and Co Advocates and  Ongicho Ongicho and  Co Advocates. The county assembly has over time lamented and raised concerns over money paid to legal firms. In the 2016-17 financial year report, former Auditor General Edward Ouko was concerned by the money that the legal department spent, citing Sh592.4 million unauthorised payments.