President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday dismissed claims that he had promised ODM leader Raila Odinga support in the 2022 presidential race. Addressing his Mt Kenya backyard through Kikuyu radio stations, Uhuru said his quest for BBI had nothing to do with the 2022 elections. The President questioned why people were associating his support for BBI with his support for any presidential candidate in 2022. Uhuru said he has never told anyone that he supports Raila and he was focused on peace, unity and prosperity of the country. The statement could deflate a good number of Mt Kenya politicians who have declared that Uhuru would support Raila in 2022. A cash crisis is deepening across the 47 county governments, threatening to bring to a standstill operations of the devolved units. Some of them have not paid their employees for months, others forced to take loans to meet their expenses while others have stopped undertaking development projects to make available funds for salaries and wages. Council of Governors chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said that the delay in disbursement of funds has negatively affected the lives of county government civil servants and service delivery. Counties have been unable to pay contractors while Covid-19 intervention has been hampered with health facilities running out of essential supplies. Wiper Leader Kalonzo Musyoka has joined the long list of senior politicians who have launched attacks on Deputy President William Ruto. The former Vice-President who is not known to be combative on Monday launched a new series of attacks on Ruto asking him to agree to a lifestyle audit. Without pulling punches, Kalonzo told Ruto that he was a beneficiary of corruption in the country and should be investigated. This comes only a day after ODM leader Raila Odinga, who ran on the same ticket with Kalonzo in the 2017 presidential race, asked Ruto to account for his wealth. The formation of an assumption in office committee is what awaits to officially make Anne Mwenda Kananu to become Nairobi's first female Governor. This comes as a change of guard was witnessed on Monday as Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura relinquished his powers as Acting Governor; paving way for the new Deputy Governor to assume the Governor’s position. Mutura said his stay as acting governor which has lasted for 28 days was temporary as at the time of assumption in office on December 21, 2020 the Nairobi lacked a substantive Deputy Governor but with recent development has led him to vacate the office. Kananu was vetted and sworn in as Deputy Governor last Friday but her likely assumption of office as Governor is already being challenged in court.