Weathermen have forecast hot weather in most parts of the country between now and March. However, it will not necessarily be drier because eastern Kenya has normal probability of rainfall. Western Kenya has a forecast for below normal rain. Most parts of Kenya are usually dry between January and March. The forecast was issued by the Nairobi-based Igad Climate Prediction and Application Centre and the Food Security Network Working Group in a meeting to assess food security during the ongoing La Niña. ICPAC also issued a mixed outlook for March-May rainfall. The World Meteorological Organization was, however, cautious. “Interested parties should continue to check updates for the latest information,” WMO said in a statement. WMO said La Niña is currently peaking but it will not necessarily lead to drought in East Africa like it did in 2010. WMO said La Niña is just one of the many climatic drivers that affect weather. “The strength of a La Niña event alone also does not necessarily correlate with the scale of shifts in rainfall or temperatures. No two La Niña (or El Niño) events are ever the same,” it said. According to Kenya Meteorological department, a few parts of the country will have occasional rainfall during the first and second weeks of this month, then go dry. These are western Kenya, Lake Victoria basin, parts of central Kenya and the southeastern lowlands. The rest of the country will remain generally sunny and dry. “Reduction of pasture and fodder for wildlife and livestock is likely and expected to lead to shortages of pasture and drinking water for humans and livestock in pastoral and other areas,” Met director Stella Aura said. Nairobi-based non-profit Oxfam predicted the number of hungry people may still rise. Lydia Zigomo, Oxfam Horn, East and Central Africa regional director, said: “The forecasted dry season will be the last straw for many, devastating their remaining crops and cutting their lifeline of food and income.” Farmers, who make up almost 80 per cent of the Horn of Africa’s population, have already been hit hard by severe floods and the biggest desert locust invasion in 70 years. Since January, locusts have damaged crops on 70,000 hectares (172,973.8 acres)  in Kenya. Zigomo added: “Urgent action is needed to provide the assistance desperately needed by millions of hungry people.” The last time there was a strong La Niña was in 2010-11, followed by a moderate event in 2011-12.