Officials of the Kenya National Union of Nurses in Taita Taveta on Monday bashed the government for what they termed a lack of priorities. They said the government has missed its priorities and has instead plunged the country into a campaign mood. “This government cannot claim to be broke to pay its dues while it is busy with things that do not benefit citizens. If the government is broke, then we have no business [dealing with] with such a government,” Reuben Matolo, the branch secretary, said in Voi. He said the Council of Governors has ignored their demands, but they will not call off their strike until they are met. Matolo said despite the government deducting insurance money from their salaries, it has failed to remit it to the insurance body. More than 450 nurses and clinical officers in the county went on strike on December 7. They demand higher allowances, adequate personal protective equipment, promotional arrears and comprehensive medical insurance cover. They are also protesting about delayed salaries and non-remittance of statutory deductions and third party deductions that include loans, NHIF and NSSF. Governor Granton Samboja’s administration last week laid off 409 striking health workers accused of insubordination with regard to participating in the ongoing national strike. The County Human Resource Advisory Committee advised the County Public Service Board to sack the health workers, citing the Employment Act 2007 which constitute justifiable or lawful grounds for the summary dismissal. The hiring body has since then advertised a total of 449 vacancies to replace the health workers. However, Richard Nyambu, the KNUN deputy branch secretary, termed the dismissal as an inconsequential threat, maintaining that they will continue with their strike. “None of our members has received the dismissal letters; we have only seen them on media. The court order quoted on the dismissal letters was not meant for Taita Taveta county nurses and therefore it is null and void,” he said. Nyambu said the government had failed to honour a previous return-to-work agreement with their unions. He accused the Health department of failing to pay their arrears and remitting deductions within the agreed period. KNUN branch chairperson Halima Hassan echoed the sentiments. She said they will no longer risk their lives by resuming duties without personal protective equipment. She revealed that over 50 nurses in the county have so far contracted the coronavirus and this has been due to lack of proper PPE. “The county lacks an ICU and an isolation facility for health workers. Those who have contracted the coronavirus have been forced to incur extra costs on treatment,” Halima said. She, however, said they are willing to negotiate with the Council of Governors for an appropriate return-to-work formula. The strike has disrupted health services in the county, with residents being directed to seek services in private hospitals and neighbouring counties. Health Services executive John Mwakima said the department was moving with speed to restore services in public facilities. He said fresh hiring would save residents from a possible full-blown health crisis. “The County Public Service Board is now undertaking a recruitment process to fill in the vacancies and ensure our people continue enjoying healthcare services,” Mwakima said in a phone interview. He said services will fully resume by next week.