Police in Nakuru are investigating the death of two schoolboys in different schools who were allegedly hit on their heads. One of the boys, a primary school learner at Kiamaina Primary Schools started developing problems after he was hit on the head by his teacher for having shaggy a hair. Nakuru North sub-county Police Commander Bernard Wamugunda said the boy was given painkillers by his assailant and later taken to Esther Memorial Hospital after he developed complications. “The incident was immediately reported to the police and an OB number issued but his parents did not follow up until January 5 when the boy died,” the officer said. Wamugunda said they knew where the culprit was and would be arrested to pave way for prosecution. The other a form one student was said to have been attacked within City Mission Secondary School. The student, Mohammed Sahalf who suffered a heavy blow on the head was hardly 24hours old in the school when he fell ill and taken to a nearby private hospital where he was diagnosed with internal bleeding in the head. Dennis Kigen, a teacher in charge of students at the school said the 15-year-old  was immediately taken for emergency surgery to stop the bleeding in the head but he died as doctors tried to save his life. Kigen denied claims that Sahalf could have been bullied in the school saying that he could have noticed any scuffle among the students. “He reported to school on Monday this week on the request of his parents who neighbour the school and on the same day at night, I was called and informed that he was complaining of both head and stomach ache,” Kigen said. He said efforts to call the parents who live about 200metres from the school were fruitless and he decided to take him to Mediheal Hospital. “The parents moved him to Nakuru Nursing Home on Tuesday morning where he succumbed while undergoing treatment,” he said. The school director, John Abungu said police had visited the school and were investigating the incident. Sahalf’s family had asked the police to ensure justice for their son prevails.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris