The national government will construct two stadiums in Nyamira county, a level five hospital and complete the stalled county headquarters in seven months. The project is part of President Kenyatta’s promise to Governor Amos Nyaribo recently at State House Nyaribo on Wednesday led a group of officials from the national government who inspected various sites that were proposed for the construction of the facilities in the county. Nyamaiya stadium in Nyamaiya ward of West Mugirango constituency will be constructed to a standard stadia, plus Esanige stadium in Magwagwa ward in Nyamira North sub-county which was toured by the governor and Sports CAS Haasan Noor. Ekerenyo subcounty hospital in Nyamira North will be advanced to a level five facility to improve it from its sub-county status, at Sh100 million, whereas the county headquarters whose construction started in 2018 will also be completed at an approximated cost of Sh200 million. “We have come to start various projects courtesy of President Uhuru Kenyatta so that they are completed by the estimated time in less than a year. The stadiums will help our youths enrich their talents and get them out of the dangerous bodaboda business‚” Noor said. He said President Kenyatta has directed all the projects be completed within the stipulated period with the stadiums being completed at a maximum of six to seven months. “We will ensure these projects are done for the people. We have come with our engineers to inspect and get the best sites for the proposed projects,” he said. The completion of these projects that were in late governor John Nyagarama’s memorandum, will be an achievement to the county. Last year during his tour to Nyamira,  Nyagarama tried to read the memorandum to the President but was heckled by residents at Ikonge Market. After Nyagarama’s death, President Uhuru Kenyatta through Interior CS Fred Matiang’i requested for the memorandum which contains the projects that the national government is doing now as part of the wishes of the late county boss.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris