Only a handful of players have managed to win the national championship in the Premier league era with two different clubs with the last being goalkeeper Boniface Oluoch who has won titles combined with Gor Mahia and Tusker. Now having won the Kenya Premier League title with the brewers in 2016, winger Danson Kago is hoping to join that select group by leading Mathare United to what looks at the moment, a long shot second league crown. “It is the objective of every team to win the league and I am focused on helping the club to achieve their goals and finishing in a better position this season,” said Kago. The diminutive Kenyan international began playing football 21 years ago in the sprawling Githurai estate. His role model was area hero and former Mathare Youth forward Kenneth ‘Modo’ Kimani who was felled in a hail of bullets by a policeman who has since been convicted of murder. “He was the coolest person I have known and friendly and above he was talented,” eulogised Kago. Like his idol the late ‘Modo’ Kago’s football path followed the Mathare Youth Sports Association mantra of ‘Giving the youth a sporting chance’ as he was among a few selected youngsters who were chosen to represent the Bob Munro-founded organisation in the Norway Cup. It is an achievement that the former Posta Rangers’ star believes propelled him towards a career in football. “Travelling to Norway Cup twice at a tender age was an achievement for me and winning the tournament and more so to be the top scorer was a huge success for me. I believe that prepared and gave me confidence that I could play football at the highest level,” said Kago. Upon his return to the country from helping the MYSA team win the Norway Cup for Kenya, Kago got down to business. “I went for trials at Rangers FC immediately I came from Norway cup with the MYSA Under-16 boys. I went there with hope rather than conviction and to my surprise I was selected to join the team,” Kago recounted. By succeeding to join an ambitious Rangers side, the teenager had broken a glass ceiling that had stood on the way of many hopeful youngsters who only had talent but we’re rebuffed by many teams. That year (2011) was a period that saw a sustained attempt by clubs to bring in school boys to boost their squads. “It was a good period for the development of the career of many teenagers and I must say the popularity of the KPL and the KPL Under-19  tournament made many teams to start thinking more seriously of including youths in their squads,” said Kago. While at Rangers and still not out of his teens yet, Kago was putting in dazzling performances every week. Soon enough, the big clubs noticed him and a lucrative move to Sofapaka came knocking. “It was a move I could not resist and in hindsight, I think it was the right decision career-wise and financially. While I was there, I managed  to win the  Charity Cup twice and the Shield once. So it was a good move,” he said. It is at this period (2012-2015) that he caught the eyes of the Harambee Stars coaching staff and in 2014 won his first senior cap. “It’s always a pride for every player to play for the national team. So to have gotten that opportunity and travelled a lot is something I cherish. I gained a lot of experience and hopefully I will have another chance,” he said. His time with the national team wasn’t without controversy. Ahead of the Stars Afcon qualifier against Zambia, Kago alongside Jesse Were were sent off from the Stars camp by coach Bobby Williamson. It was later alleged that while they were at the Nairobi West’s Mvuli Hotel camp, they had been partying while breaching camp protocols. It instantly installed a bad boy image on the youngster, one which he refutes to tag along with. “I never had a bad boy image as I always try to be on the right side at the right time,” Kago insisted. Despite his run-ins with the national team, Kago was still hot property and in 2016, Tusker lured him to Ruaraka. The brewers had gone four years without the league title despite massive investments, having brought in Ugandan Paul Nkata to get them the elusive crown. “My time at Tusker was one of the most memorable in my career as we ended up clinching the 2016 Premier League and the GOtv Shield. At the same time, I played in the Caf Champions League which is an ambition of many players,” said the 26-year-old. His time with the beer makers lasted two seasons and a return to Posta Rangers was agreed. Kago who works at Postal Corporation Kenya conceded that he has a soft spot for the club. “Rangers FC were my first home in the top flight football. So they have a spot in my heart always whether I am playing for them or not,” Kago said. After two years at Posta, Kago moved to Mathare United, the club he had dreamt playing for when he started off in the game in the dusty fields of Githurai. Having played four games—nearly half as most clubs in the FKF Premier League, the Slum Boys are languishing in 17th position with four points from as many matches. “I am looking forward to helping the club to achieve their goals and finishing in a better position,” he said. Having tasted what it feels to play overseas even at a junior level, it’s never far from Kago’s mind to play abroad. But with time running out, he knows his chances are diminishing. “My target is to play for as long as I can and win more trophies. Our league is not that popular so it is more difficult for us local players to attract agents and teams,” he conceded. Outside football, the winger has started preparing for life after football. “I run a sports products business and at the same time I am doing a Fifa course of sports medicine,” he revealed. It’s a venture that he hopes will be profitable for him as he prepares for the penultimate phase of his career that looked promising at the start but has since gone flat. Maybe a second KPL winners medal will prove many wrong.   PLAYER PROFILE Full name: Danson Mumu Kago Date of Birth: June 16,  1994 (age 26) Place of Birth: Thika, Kenya Height: 1.68m (5ft 6in) Position: Striker Current Club: Mathare United  Previous Clubs 2011: Posta Rangers 2012–2015:Sofapaka 2016–2017:Tusker 2018– 2019:Posta Rangers  National Team Caps 2014– Kenya 5 (0)  Honours 2012-Charity Cup (Sofapaka) 2012-Gotv Shield (Sofapaka) 2013-Charity Cup (Sofapaka) 2016-KPL title (Tusker) 2016-Gotv Shield (Tusker)