By WANGECHI WANG’ONDU Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua has condemned Wednesday's political chaos in Githurai and urged Kenyans o shun violence. A handful of youths disrupted a rally by ODM leader Raila Odinga to popularise the BBI in the city suburb in Kiambu county and stoned vehicles in his convoy. Karua on Friday said Kenyans should shun violence and political intolerance and instead allow leaders with divergent opinions conduct their campaigns without confrontations. “It is my appeal to leaders to urge their supporters to always act with decorum so that those with opposing opinions can as well have a conducive environment to market their ideas in rallies characterised by peace,” Karua said. She spoke in Kerugoya, Kirinyaga county after a meeting of party members. She also told off government officials using state machineries to harass those opposing the BBI. “We have seen situations where police officers have been unleashed to deal with campaigners and supporters in government who are perceived to oppose the initiative." Karua reiterated her opposition recommendations contained in the BBI saying she was ready to lead the NO campaign should the country go to a referendum. She called on Kenyans to jealously guard the Constitution. During the burial of Hannah Mudavadi, the mother of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi in Vihiga early this month, Karua called on leaders to shun mudslinging aimed at those perceived to be opposed to the Building Bridges Initiative. “Let each of us be given the space and an ear to explain why we are opposing or proposing the initiative,” she said. Karua also urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to leave a peaceful legacy by allowing Kenyans to make their own decisions on the political path they want to follow without being forced to subscribe to certain political ideologies. "I’m in full support of President Uhuru Kenyatta winding up his term ,but I would equally like him to allow Kenyans make decisions on who and what they want to settle on,” she said.  Edited by P.O