 Kapedo at the border of Turkana and Baringo counties has been declared a disturbed zone and is to be placed under a dusk-to-dawn curfew as a security operation continues in the area. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i on Monday said the aim is to enhance the ongoing operation to address cases of insecurity that have claimed at least 10 lives in the last one month. Matiang’i said he was set to gazette a dusk-to-dawn curfew in the area as part of efforts to address the problem. “We want to deal with the menace once and for all. We will have to deal with the criminals behind this issue who include leaders,” Matiang’i said. He spoke after meeting UK’s Secretary of State for Defence Ben Wallace who is in Nairobi. It will be the second time Kapedo is declared a disturbed zone in three years. The government had gazetted several places in the region as dangerous zones as part of efforts to manage the crisis caused by bandit attacks. The places included Rumuruti, Ol Moran, Kirimon, Marmanet, Mukogodo East, Segera, Mithiga and Matuiku. Police operations have been ongoing in the area with indications they could be extended to curb runaway insecurity in the region. Two more police officers were Thursday evening shot and killed in an ambush by bandits. The head of Rapid Deployment Unit in Kapedo who is a chief inspector and his driver were in a lead lorry in a convoy of three vehicles when they came under attack at a bridge marking the boundary between Turkana and Baringo counties. About 10 civilians have been killed there in the past one month. It is the same place where a senior General Service Unit officer was shot and killed in another ambush on January 17. The officers were on the way from Nakuru with food for other colleagues in a camp in the area when they came under attack at about 4pm. Also in the convoy was a Land Cruiser and a Mine-Resistant Ambush Protected vehicle when the attack happened. Police had earlier on conducted an operation in the area pushing away cattle that the gunmen are using as shield to attack them. Tiaty MP William Kamket was arrested, questioned and released on a police bond last week over the ongoing clashes. Kapedo is at the border of Tiaty and Turkana East constituencies. Kamket was ordered to report to Nakuru DCI office on Tuesday. The MP had earlier on asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to de-escalate the ongoing clashes in the area between local gunmen and police. He called for a change of tack in dealing with the menace. More reinforcements have been sent to the region. Six bodies of locals were found with gunshot wounds on Wednesday. On the killing of the GSU officer, Matiang’i said investigations had showed the ambush took place against the backdrop of a ritual ceremony in which organised bandits were charged and adjured by traditional leaders. The CS said Inspector General Hilary Mutyambai had launched an unprecedented operation in the area. "We will not relent until all the perpetrators, including the elders who administered the oath and sent off the killers are surrendered and brought to justice. This operation will be extensive and sustained as we meticulously comb through every nook and cranny in the area until we find the last criminal,” he said. Matiang'i said insecurity in the area has claimed the lives of many security officers and residents. “It is extremely unfortunate that extraordinary efforts to find a lasting solution to the security challenges and breakdowns of peace between the Pokot and Turkana communities continue to face serious resistance from leaders, who have been patronising the deadly attacks in pursuit of criminal and selfish interests.” He appealed to the locals to work closely with security officers to decisively address the problem. “We appeal to members of the public to work closely with our security officers with a view to bringing this matter to a closure and begin a return to normalcy.”  Edited by P.O