Kenya national boxing team assistant coach Dave Munuhe has called on members of the 'Hit Squad' to intensify training when they  reassembles after the festive season. The boxers took a two-week  break on December 23 and are set to embark on a fresh round of training in the new year. However, Munuhe is apprehensive that the break, albeit short, might have wrecked some of the gains the team had  made. The tactician has subsequently challenged his charges to perk up and sharpen their focus to the required precision as the country revives an abrasive onslaught to reclaim its erstwhile glory on the international battle front in the new season. "They should not relax because they will lose the gains already made so far," said Munuhe. Munuhe said the 'Hit Squad' have their eyes firmly trained on the next world repechage qualifiers in France set for July and prays that Kenya secures more slots to charge for a medal haul in the 2021 Tokyo Olympics. "We shall definitely intensify our preparations when we come back in January," he said. Two Kenyan pugilists, Nick Okoth (featherweight) and Christine Ongare (flyweight), are each assured of an automatic berth in the Tokyo-bound contingent but Munuhe is persuaded that the country's capacity to beef up its numbers in the ring remains plausible. Munuhe further asserted that he is gratified with the fitness levels of the boxers currently donning the national team colours, having meticulously observed their form during the exhaustive sessions conducted by National Olympic Committee of Kenya (NOCK) strength and conditioning consultant Geoffrey Kimani in Nairobi a day before they dispersed for their holiday. The squad convened a non-residential training camp at Lavington, Nairobi early November last year, after a long recess occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic. "Generally, I'm happy with the way things are going. The boxers are in a good position to compete favourably. Even though we've not had an opportunity to train as much as we would have wished to because of the existing Covid-19 protocols, we have definitely gained some ground," he said. Munuhe has maintained his position as the Hit Squad assistant coach ever since he was appointed by the Boxing Federation of Kenya (BFK) on July 23 to deputise coach Musa Benjamin when the team was preparing for the All Africa Games in Rabat and Casablanca in Morocco in 2019.