The appointment of nominee James Gesami as deputy governor has been rejected by the Nyamira County Assembly Appointments Committee. The appointments committee presented its report to the assembly on Tuesday. Magombo ward MCA Richard Onyinkwa said there are legal issues that should be considered before they can debate the report. Among key considerations that led to the dropping of his name are that he presented an expired Certificate of good conduct. He is said to also not have presented a clearance certificate from the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM). "Following the above-stated indecencies above, the county assembly of Nyamira, has rejected the appointment of Dr James Gesami as the county's deputy governor," said Majority Leader Callen Atuya. However, Onyinkwa said the committee does not have the powers to reject the name. "When you state that the name has been rejected, then it means you are a god, it also means you have said the governor had no powers to appoint. The term rejection is terminal, it means the person cannot be back at any time, it is better to delete the term rejected and replace it with the term suitable," Onyinkwa said. The voting was conducted in the county assembly chambers on Tuesday. The vetting of Gesami was done on Friday by the select committee of the Assembly's Appointments Committee chaired by speaker Moffat Teya. After the approval of the DG nominee, the committee will then prepare a report on the suitability of the candidate. However, during Tuesday's sitting, the issue of whether the speaker had an interest in the DG position caused a stir. Ekerenyo MCA Thadeus Nyabaro had raised a question about the Teya's interest. Manga ward MCA Enock Okero countered Nyabaro saying the statement should be quashed because it was just a 'rumour'. Nominated MCA Hyline Mayaka said it should be clear whether the speaker was interested in the position and thus not chair the committee. "I also had an interest in that position and I was barred because I am married to a different county. So the speaker should not have chaired the vetting committee if he had an interest in the same position," Mayaka said. Bomwagamo MCA Charles Barongo demanded that speaker Teya comes out clearly and say if he was interested in the position so that he can be investigated. "Whether it was a rumour or an allegation, the speaker should come out clear on this and let us know it right here, the speaker is here," Barongo said. Onyinkwa said if the speaker was interested, it would not bar him from overseeing the vetting process if at all, he was sober. Speaker Teya however, denied the allegations saying he is not interested at any given time. "Honorable members, I am the speaker of the Assembly and I am chairing the Appointments Committee, I wish to confirm to the house that I am not interested, I was not interested and I will not be interested at any time for the position," said Teya.