Nyamira county assembly on Tuesday voted and rejected the nominee for the position of Deputy Governor - James Gesami. Twenty-one members voted to support the Assembly's appointment committee report that rejected Gesami's approval while 15 voted against it. Earlier in the day, the Appointments committee had rejected the nominee, by the virtue of questionable documents - CRB clearance certificate, Certificate of good conduct - he presented to the committee on Friday last week. The appointments committee presented the report to the assembly on Tuesday. Kemera MCA George Morara said it was not prudent to support a person who has questionable documents, therefore said the assembly needed to reject the nominee. Nominated MCA Abel Mose said the governor needs someone to help him serve the people of Nyamira and hence Gesami should be approved as early as possible to help Nyaribo deliver. "Our county is on standstill, we need service and we don't have much time left for us, so let us approve Gesami to join hands with Nyaribo and work for our people, " said Mose. Magwagwa MCA Fred Nyabaro supported Gesami's appointment and said, with his experience in health matters, Gesami will be able to improve the health sector alongside other duties as deputy governor. "With the documents that were submitted to this house, the nominee was able to produce every necessary documents. Hence the appointments committee was insincere," Omayio reiterated. The voting was conducted in the county assembly chambers on Tuesday. The vetting of Gesami was done on Friday, by the select committee of the Assembly's appointments committee chaired by speaker Moffat Teya. Deputy speaker Robinson Mocheche said a section of MCAs are intimidating other members and trying to dictate them to adopt the report on appointment. "You cannot come and start intimidating us instead of letting the house make crucial decisions independently," said Mocheche. Ekerenyo MCA Thadeus Nyabaro said there are so many issues that need to be handled in the said report and asked for time so that members can go and deliberate before making the right decisions. Nominated MCA Renee Mayaka said it should be clear whether the speaker was interested in the position and was not to chair the committee. "I also had interest in that position and I was barred because I am married in a different county. So the speaker should not have chaired the vetting committee if he had interest in the same position but nevertheless we need to support the nominee so we have our county running," Mayaka said. Bomwagamo MCA Charles Barongo said Gesami is fit for the DG position hence should be approved to have service delivery in the county baring his experience as member of parliament for 10 years and also as an assistant minister. "Let us not waste time here, the man we are discussing here is a man of integrity, a man who has been cleared before for very senior positions in our county, so let us give the nominee time to be given the office and help our county develop," Barongo said. Bogichora MCA George Abuga said Gesami is among a few good leaders like George Morara who left a mark that cannot be forgotten and hence a reason to support him. "This is the man we need so that our county can achieve more and more in service delivery and development. There is no need to debate so much on a man that has been doing wonderfully before," Abuga said. However, nominated MCA Fred Mosiori insisted that the nominee was not fit for the position since his documents were questionable. "The nominee was to go to the relevant authorities for clearance instead of waiting until the last minute so he starts bringing claims of short notice. There is nothing personal but we should not blame the appointments committee over the nominee's failure to produce the required documents," Mosiori said. Nyamaiya MCA Raban Masira said the committee did its role and urged the other MCAs to approve Gesami since the matter of his documents and credentials is no matter for debate.