ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto are engaged in a bitter exchange over Jubilee administration failures. Raila has linked the DP to the failed Jubilee promises and projects while Ruto on the hand accuses the Opposition chief of plotting an exit strategy out of the handshake. Ruto said Raila's recent attacks on the alleged Jubilee’s unfulfilled promises is suspect. He said if Raila is uncomfortable with Jubilee, then he should bolt out instead of attacking the administration. He accused Raila of stalling government projects through the BBI. Rutyo said Raila’s recent onslaught on the Jubilee’s failures is a sign of someone with one leg outside the handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We know their plan is to leave (the handshake) but are still looking for a scapegoat. When you joined Jubilee, you didn’t know those promises had not been fulfilled or you realised yesterday?” the DP posed. On Sunday, Raila said the DP is the reason why the Uhuru-led Jubilee administration has failed to honour most of its pre-election ledges. He cited the flopped laptops projects for schools, one million jobs promise to the youths, 47 modern stadia and 100,000 kilometers of tarmac road as some of Jubilee's unfulfilled promises. Raila challenged Ruto to explain what befell the ambitious Jubilee promises instead of preaching the hustler narrative. Raila said the hustler narrative does not offer sustainable solution to problems facing Kenyans. The opposition chief said it is dishonest of Ruto to start campaigning before delivering the promises they made to Kenyans. He said the change of the narrative by the DP is evidence enough that he cannot be trusted to deliver to Kenyans when elected president. "They promised many things in six months. Now they have forgotten and are saying they now care about the youths and the poor. What happened to the promises of stadia?" Ruto who attended a church service in Londiani, Kerticho county fired back, blaming Raila of stalling the Jubilee manifesto through the Building Bridges Initiative. “We had plans for many dams but we (Jubilee administration) were visited by the devil who spoilt everything. Petty politics found its way into the dam project and now our efforts to provide water to our people has stalled,” Ruto said. The DP defended the Jubilee administration saying they have delivered more than any other government in post-independent Kenya. Ruto was at Kipkelion East constituency where he presided over the opening and consecration of AIC Londiani Town Church. Raila also dismissed claims that Uhuru is taking him for a ride and will not support him in 2022. Speaking to residents of Soweto in Embakasi East constituency in Nairobi, Raila dismissed critics saying they will be in for a rude shock. He termed talks of being abandoned by Uhuru as propaganda by Tangatanga wing who are not happy with the cordial relationship he enjoys with the President. "Wengine wanasema ooh Uhuru anadanganya Raila..takaktaka hiyo..{some people are saying Uhuru is cheating Raila ..that is utter rubbish}," Raila said. He added: "We will stand or fall together." He said his march to Canaan is well on course and called on Kenyans to support the law change through BBI stating it will herald a new dawn for the country. "We posed our journey to Canaan, time is now. We want to walk together," he said. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the party will not quit the handshake and will instead support every step taken by the two principals. "As ODM, we are not parting ways with Uhuru. Where he will go we will be there together," Sifuna said. Raila was speaking after attending a church service at Soweto Catholic Church. He was accompanied by Sifuna and MPs Babu Owino, Maina Kamanda, Junet Mohamed, Sam Atandi, Pamela Odhiambo, Antony Oluoch, Florence Mutua, Godfrey Osotsi, George Aladwa, Esther Passaris, Raphael Wanjala and Millie Odhiambo.  Edited by P.O