High-spending Tanzanian champions Simba are among a host of suitors chasing unattached Harambee Stars defender David 'Calabar' Owino's signature. Owino became a free agent yesterday after his contract with former Zambian champions, Zesco United, expired — bringing an end to his six-year stay at the Ndola-based outfit. "Kenyan international defender David Owino Odhiambo has left Zesco United after six successful years at the club. Odhiambo’s contract expired today ( Thursday) ," read part of the farewell message by the club. Calabar's agent George 'Mendes' Bwana revealed that Simba had expressed interests in the stocky defender, who can be deployed as a right-back and a centre half. Besides the treble-winning Simba eyeing the former Nakuru All Stars man, Bwana said there was a possibility of the player remaining in the Zambian Super League as two clubs were in hot pursuit. Additionally, Bwana, a former Gor Mahia Secretary General disclosed that the former Stars assistant skipper had received an offer from a club which plies its trade in the South African Premier League Soccer (PLS). He alleged that locally Gor were keen to reunite with the defender who prior to his departure had won two league titles and had toasted the defender of the year award in 2013. "Clubs were aware that he was not going to extend his stay at Zesco and began to float in offers. Having succeeded in Zambia, two of the clubs there want to sign him while a club in South Africa is also interested. Simba also want him but he is yet to make up his mind," said Bwana. "Even though most of the leagues allow free agents to sign off the transfer windows, he is not in a hurry to get a new home. Maybe he will sign after the first week of the New Year." Calabar, who joined Zesco in January 2015 from Gor Mahia had a decorated career at the club, winning five league titles, three Absa Cup Championship and two Charity Shield honours. The Nakuru-born player earned praises from Zesco's Chief Executive Officer Richard Mulenga, who said his contribution will remain etched in their history books. "On behalf of the Zesco United Football Club Executive, I wish to take this opportunity to thank Odhiambo for his dedication and commitment to duty. We will never forget his contribution towards the growth and success of this football club," Mulenga said on the club's website. With Calabar's exit, Zesco — nicknamed Zega Mambo — will still have Kenyan players in their books including Jackson Were, their all-time top scorer and Ian Otieno, their first-choice goalkeeper. Former AFC Leopards forward John Makwata is also attached to the club.