Are some allies of ODM leader Raila Odinga (pictured) uneasy with his close relationship with President Uhuru Kenyatta? A confidant of the former Prime Minister was overheard telling party members at a popular restaurant he fears Uhuru might leave "our leader on the highway". According to him, Raila has no alternative plans for 2022 and would be dealt a serious blow if the President fails to endorse him for the top job. The influential ODM official said he will persuade his colleagues to prevail on the party boss not to put all his eggs in one basket. An influential official of a top party has been bragging how he has made money from aspirants seeking the ticket for recently held and upcoming by-elections. The man, known for his appetite for quick cash, says he has made a killing since some of the seats were declared vacant. He has been minting millions of shillings from the aspirants, promising to manoeuvre and ensure they get the tickets. Recently, he almost landed in trouble after two aspirants learnt of his games. He planned to separately meet them at a popular hotel but one of them unexpectedly arrived earlier - finding him chatting with his opponent. An MP and his fierce political opponent from Western Kenya have suddenly closed ranks and become the best of friends in a drastic move that shocked their handlers and residents. The duo - the legislator and his opponent, a former MP – had been involved in nasty exchanges. But in a stunning about-turn, they have struck a deal in what insiders say is a plot to control the politics of the county. The ex-legislator has allegedly agreed to run for a higher seat in the upcoming polls with the current MP agreeing to retain his seat to avoid direct competition. The two leaders are the most influential figures and their new deal will likely lockout aspirants seeking the county’s top seat. Details are emerging that a senator from Mt Kenya region who was vocal on matters of BBI has changed his tune after he discovered that he was not in the list of 'State preferred' beneficiaries for different positions should the drive go through. Sources whisper to Corridors that at least a sitting Cabinet Secretary,  Principal Secretary, woman MP, a former MP and a renown philanthropist had been drafted as preferred candidates from the senator's backyard. The positions earmarked include that of the governor and other state positions. Maybe the fiery lawmaker might have figured out that he was being used as a pawn in the larger scheme of things by his own wise and benevolent party.