The state will not return some of the assets belonging to the imprisoned Akasha brothers and their family. Through the Anti-Narcotic Unit, the state said the properties are expected to be forfeited to the Assets Recovery Agency. Joseph Wafula, a police officer attached to the unit, said most of the properties are considered proceeds of crimes committed by Abdallah and Baktash Akasha, who are currently serving jail terms in the US. Wafula was testifying during the hearing of a petition filed by Najma and Fatma Akasha who want the court to order the release of properties seized from the family in 2014 when the convicts were first arrested alongside Indian Vijay Goswami and Pakistani Ghulam Hussein. Wafula said all properties seized during the raid had been classified as exhibits, properties liable for forfeiture, and personal properties, while the rest of the items had been collected by Najma—the wife of Baktash—on November 2014. The officer further said some items, including firearms, were shipped to the US for use as exhibits in the trial of the Akasha brothers. He said most of the other items, including three vehicles and gold chains, are currently under the custody of the police and will be seized by the Assets Recovery Agency as they are considered. The assets subject to forfeiture also include a beach house in Nyali, gold chains, vehicles and other unknown properties of unknown value. However, the family argued that some of the properties belonged to their late patriarch Ibrahim Akasha. Through lawyer Kiogoro Mugambi, they said the properties are subject to succession, hence seizing them would deny other family members their right to inheritance. Mugambi argued that neither the DPP nor the recovery agency has approached any court to institute seizure proceedings. He added that the US ruling against the brothers did not order for any seizure. The case will be heard on March 17. The Akasha brothers were extradited to the US in 2017 and charged with conspiracy to manufacture and distribute heroin and methamphetamine; use and possession of firearms; and corruption and bribery of public officials to avoid prosecution, among four counts. They pleaded guilty and Abdallah was sentenced to 25 years in federal prison, while his brother Baktash is serving 23 years. 