Wazito will be gunning to move to a point within the reach of  Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League leaders KCB when they host Nzoia Sugar today at the Kasarani Annex. The high-flying moneybags, who have been enjoying a moment of renaissance from the time coach Francis Kimanzi was appointed, trail the bankers by four points and tackle the sugar millers aware that victory will inch them closer to the top of the log. Wazito, who are three seasons old in the top tier have been struggling to make an impact in the competition in the past but the arrival of Kimanzi in November last year has proved the difference so far. Under Kimanzi, Wazito have won four matches, drawn twice and lost a similar number of matches to rank fourth with 14 points. The former  Harambee Stars head coach has for the first time guided the club to collect three successive wins in the top tier. However, his bid to make it four will be put to test by Nzoia who are brimming in confidence after caging a star-studded Sofapaka 2-1 last weekend. Statistics from their last five meetings heavily lean towards Nzoia's side as they have won thrice in with a similar 3-0 scoreline and shared spoils twice. Nzoia, who recently appointed former Bandari assistant coach Ibrahim Shikanda as their boss, haven't tasted defeat in their last five matches and sit 11th with eight points—six shy of their match day opponents. While Wazito and Nzoia will be locking horns at the Annex, Mathare United will be pursuing their second win of the season when they confront Bandari at the main stadium. The 2008 league champions, who will be without the suspended James Kinyanjui and the injured duo of Clifford Alwanga and Harun Junior, ended their search for their maiden win of the campaign with a 2-0 win over Zoo FC on Monday. On the other hand, the visitors, who will also miss the services of their playmaker William Wadri who was sent off during their last encounter against Kakamega Homeboyz, will be seeking their fourth win. Bandari will also miss their assistant skipper Shaban Kenga who is out for four months after going under the knife. Mathare are second from bottom with three points while Bandari are ranked sixth with 12 points.