President Uhuru Kenyatta has ranked top among individuals in an opinion poll, despite concerns about a battered economy that has left many lives in ruins. The poll by research firm Infotrak shows that for most Kenyans, Uhuru and health workers were the heroes of 2020. Forty-two per cent of the respondents voted health workers – frontline warriors in the fight against the coronavirus – as their heroes, while 12 per cent said the head of state is their hero. The Ministry of Health had 11 per cent, Deputy President William Ruto (10 per cent), and retired Chief Justice David Maraga (six per cent). They came third, fourth and fifth respectively. The Jubilee administration’s handling of the economy has, however, been faulted, with Kenyans decrying the lifting of the Covid-19 tax reliefs by the government. Last year was generally tough for most citizens given the pandemic that hit hard nearly every sector of the economy. About two million people lost their jobs as businesses either scaled down operations or closed up shop following tough restrictions imposed by the government to curb the contagion. However, the poll shows that the majority of Kenyans are optimistic that 2021 will be a batter year, with nearly a third of them feeling the economy will improve. About half of the population feel the government will do better this year. “Forty-two per cent are confident that the government will do better in 2021, 39 per cent said the government will not do better, while 19 per cent are undecided,” the pollster said in findings released by yesterday. The survey was conducted between December 27—29 last year. Some 800 respondents aged 18 years and above were sampled from 24 counties across all the eight regions (former provinces). They took part in computer-assisted telephone interviews. The results have a margin of error of + or – 3.5 per cent and 95 per cent confidence level. Health workers have been at the forefront of fighting Covid-19 that hit the country last March. Uhuru’s high rating can be attributed to the stewardship of the fight against the virus. Nearly half of Kenyans at 47 per cent feel the government’s performance in handling the virus was average, 28 per cent said it was poor, while 22 per cent termed it excellent. The health workers were also voted as the best performers of 2020, followed by the Media, the President, religious organisations and the private sector. “Health workers and the media were rated the best in terms of their performance in 2020; the police, the Senate and the National Assembly were noted to have performed poorly,” the findings revealed. The health workers got 76 per cent rating, the media had 72 per cent, with religious organisations, the private sector and the Judiciary getting 65 per cent, 63 per cent and 61 per cent respectively. Some 80 per cent of Nairobi residents endorsed the health workers' service. In Nyanza, Western and Rift Valley, they had 75 per cent, 74 per cent and 79 per cent approval rating respectively, as best performers. The police, the National Assembly, the Senate and the county governments were rated as the worst performers. However, despite the President ranking high, two-thirds of the population indicted his administration and partly faulted it for the economic hardship they endured last year. “Majority of Kenyans, 65 per cent, feel that the government did not do a good job of running the economy in 2020,” the survey report says. Interestingly, DP Ruto’s Rift Valley backyard was the least satisfied with the government’s handling of the economy.  Some 72 per cent of the respondents from the region felt dissatisfied with the state of the economy. Ruto has fallen out with his boss, President Kenyatta, and the harsh verdict on the government’s performance could be attributed to their bad blood that appears to have cascaded to the DP’s supporters. Seventy per cent of Nairobi residents and 67 per cent of those from Western were dissatisfied with the government’s performance on the economy. Northeastern, Coast, Eastern and Central residents at 43 per cent, 40 per cent, 35 per cent and 34 per cent respectively were satisfied with the government’s handling of the economy. Most Kenyans returned a harsh verdict on the government’s decision to reverse the Covid-19-related tax relief measures. “Majority of Kenyans, 67 per cent, did not support the government’s decision to lift the Covid-19 tax relief measures,” the poll report reads. "With the exception of Northeastern and Coast regions, only three in 10 Kenyans in the other regions support the government’s decision to lift the tax relief measures. In late December, the National Assembly voted to reverse the tax relief measures that were introduced soon after Covid 19 hit the country to cushion wananchi and protect the economy. They included reduction of resident corporate tax from 30 per cent to 25 per cent, 100 per cent relief for individuals earning a gross monthly income of Sh24,000 and reduction of PAYE from 30 to 25 per cent for those earning above Sh24,000. Some 15 per cent of the respondents feel they will get Covid vaccination, 14 per cent are optimistic their finances will improve, and 10 per cent are hopeful that they will get jobs. Sixty-five per cent of Northeastern residents feel the government will improve the economy, while 54 per cent and 47 per cent of those from Coast and Nyanza say the same. Inversely, residents of the Rift Valley (48 per cent), Western (46 per cent) and Nyanza (40) said the government will not turn around the economy.