Politicians who prevent voters from accessing polling stations during party primaries could be fined up to Sh1 million if a new Bill is passed by the Senate. The Bill sponsored by Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura is meant to ensure fairness and tame chaos often witnessed in party primaries. The law also seeks to set caps for nomination fees and requires candidates to sign declaration forms before taking part in primaries. The Political Party Primaries Bill, 2020, is due for Second Reading in the Senate. It allows the IEBC to accredit institutions to conduct nominations on behalf of political parties. “A political party may at its own cost hire an institution accredited by the commission to conduct a party primary,” the Bill reads. Mwaura wants presidential aspirants charged a maximum Sh1 million nomination fees, Sh500,000 for governors, Sh250,000 for MPs and Sh50,000 for MCAs. Most parties charge presidential aspirants Sh1 million, between Sh300,000 and Sh500,000 for governor hopefuls and between Sh100,000 and Sh50,000 for MPs. ODM charges Sh25,000 for MCA aspirants while Jubilee charges Sh50,000 nomination fee for the same seat. The rest are within the Sh20,000 range. Parties will be required, for accountability, to declare such fees as paid by aspirants 14 days before the date of a primary. “The fees payable by members of the marginalised groups shall not exceed half the fee charged to other aspirants,” the proposed law reads. Aspirants seeking nomination will also be required to sign declaration forms stating they will meet party obligations; produce valid educational certificates when required and be of good moral standing in society. To be considered, aspirants would thus be required to present their academic qualifications, ID, a self-declaration form as prescribed under the Leadership and Integrity Act and proof of payment of the nomination fees. Mwaura’s proposal further imposes a Sh5 million fine for persons who fraudulently registers or deregisters a person as a member of a political party. Politicians risk the fine for providing false information during party membership registration as well as forging, defacing or destroying a party membership register. Failure to use the political party membership register published by the registrar, in the conduct of party primary, will also be an offence. Mwaura also seeks thorough vetting of nominees by parties before they are presented to the IEBC for inclusion on the ballot. Parties in coalition agreements will also be required to provide in the agreement, the procedure for nominating a candidate for an elective post. The senator further wants the IEBC to specify a day or days for party primaries to observed as public holidays. The bill proposes that nominations be concluded 90 days before the general election and 55 days for the case of a by-election. “An employer or any person in charge of an employee who is a member of a political party that is undertaking a party primary shall permit that employee to participate in the relevant party primary on the day or days specified,” the bill reads. Mwaura also wants political parties compelled to maintain a national register and for every county, constituency, and wards. The proposed law provides that the membership register of a political party shall be accessible to members of the public. Only persons whose details are contained in the membership register certified by a party’s governing body will be allowed to vote in the primaries. Parties would be required to present names of aspirants gearing for nomination to the IEBC and political parties’ registrar 21 days to the vote. Candidates for an election would have to be presented to the IEBC at least 90 days to the general election. “A political party shall not change the candidate nominated after the nomination of that person has been received by the Commission,” the bill reads. There would be exceptions from incidents such as death, resignation, or incapacity of the nominated candidate. In such as a case, political parties will be required to present the substitute before the date of presentation of nomination papers.  (edited by o. owino)