The battle for the Kabuchai MP seat is expected to be a show of might between Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula and Deputy President William Ruto. While Wetang’ula majorly controls the constituency, Ruto has in the recent past made lots of inroads in the entire Bungoma county. Political commentators have said Wetang’ula will fight tooth and nail, and it will not be easy to wrestle the seat from him during the March 4 by-election. The seat fell vacant after MP Mukwe Lusweti died last month. “This is Wetang'ulas constituency, where he votes. He will not let it go that easily as he has lots of command and anybody who gets his ticket will have an edge,” political scientist Maurice Nyaranga said. He said, however, the divisions in Ford Kenya, with one wing led by Kanduyi MP Wafula Wamunyinyi could work against Wetang'ula. Nyaranga said Deputy President William Ruto's influence cannot be ignored as he has been a close ally of the former MP and has been attending fundraisers in the area. “Mukwe worked closely with Ruto and that alone gives the DP something to begin with in that constituency," Nyaranga said. Kabuchai is bordered by Tangatanga MPs who include Didmus Barasa of Kimilili, Waluke John of Sirisia, Dan Wanyama of Webuye West, Fred Kapondi of Mt Elgon and Mwambu Mabonga of Bumula. “If all these MPs camp in Kabuchai to campaign for Ruto's candidate, this will give Wetang'ula a run for his money,” political commentator Isaac Wanjekeche said. There have been indications Ruto was contemplating sponsoring independent candidate Evans Kakai, who has been his close friend. However, among all the Tangatanga MPs only Wanyama has openly supported Kakai. The seat has attracted among others Majimbo Kalasinga, Erick Wanyonyi, Kakai, Peter Kapanga, Amos Wekesa, David Kibiti and Scholastic Murunga. Kalasinga, who vied for the seat on a Jubilee ticket in 2017 will on Tuesday battle it out with Wanyonyi for the Ford Kenya ticket. Kapanga, a Nairobi-based surveyor, is running on an independent ticket after quitting Ford Kenya. Kakai, Murunga, Kibiti, Wekesa are all running in as independent candidates. ODM director of communications Philip Etale told the Star that the Orange party will not field a candidate. “For the sake of respect to Wetang’ula we won’t field a candidate,” he said. 