Farmers who want more profit from poultry farming have been advised to shift from local indigenous chickens and raise Kalro improved kienyeji chickens. Kalro is the Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation. David Mwangi who coordinates non-ruminant research at Kalro said 80 per cent of all poultry in the country are indigenous, yet they produce only 50 per cent of meat and 60 per cent of eggs. “This low production is because of the breed. A local indigenous chicken will lay 80 to 100 eggs in a year and it takes nine months to start laying,” Mwangi said. He said the roosters take seven to eight months to reach the market weight. Mwangi said the Kalro improved indigenous chicken lay 230 to 250 eggs and will start laying when they are five months old. Roosters reach a market weight of 1.5kg in two months. He said disease control and hygiene are important. Mwangi said the main disease that wipes out chicken in the country is Newcastle disease and Kalro has come up with a thermostable vaccine to control it. He said on average farmers keep 15 to 20 chickens and it is not possible to go commercial with such low production. Mwangi spoke on the sidelines of a nine-day training for farmers at Meru National Polytechnic in North Imenti, Meru county. Farmers from Elgeyo Marakwet Baringo and Nyandarua counties were trained. He said they already have trained farmers in 15 counties if the three counties that were at the workshop are added. The researcher said through the Kenya Climate Smart project, 20 counties selected poultry as one of their most important products. Poultry farming can address food and nutrition security. “Thirty per cent of children under five years are stunted because of lack of nutrition and we know by providing a small amount of animal protein we can change that,” Mwangi said. He said poultry farming does not require a lot of capital to start and is dominated by women and youth. “If you provide income to a woman you are providing an income to a household,” Mwangi said. He said the Kalro improved kienyeji chicken has become very popular. Now Kalro is producing 57,000 chicks a month and 5,000 to 6,000 farmers have to wait two to three months for their supply. The farmers are from all 47 counties, but mostly Nairobi, Nakuru and Kakamega. He said Kalro is expanding its production so it will produce about 150,000 chicks a month by the end of the year. The Kenya Climate Smart project is funded by the World Bank. It has set aside Sh3.5 billion for technology to improve farming in 24 counties and cover 13 value chains. 