Tusker head coach Robert Matano isn’t losing sleep over the absence of his suspended centre half Rodgers Aloro ahead of their weekend duel against Zoo FC at the Afraha Stadium. Aloro saw red during their last weekend’s encounter against Kariobangi Sharks and will consequently miss the next two matches— a development which was initially deemed a blow to Matano’s plans. The brewers currently trail league leaders KCB by a point. However, the league winning tactician says the unavailability of the Ugandan defender who joined the club in November 2018 from Sofapaka will hand an opportunity to his understudies to showcase that they are equal to the task. Aloro’s partnership with Eugene Asike at the heart of Tusker’s defence has been a force to reckon with in the league and with the former suspended, Matano will have the luxury of picking his replacement from the duo of Christopher Oruchum and Vincent Ngesa. The two defenders have seen limited playing time this season, thanks to the competition from the Aloro-Askie axis and their experience. Tusker warmed up for the Zoo clash yesterday at the Ruaraka grounds with a massive 10-0 win over Githurai All Stars in their first test match which featured majority of their starters. The second test match played at the same venue against Gogo boys ended 2-0 in their favour.  “He is an important player who rarely gets a rest but his absence is not a big deal for us. It is an opportunity for the other defenders to play and prove their stay at Tusker,” he said. With the local transfer window set to open next month, Matano ruled out the possibility of beefing his squad. Tusker were expected to ship in fresh players, notably a new goalkeeper after Robert Mboya dislocated his shoulder last weekend but Matano says the Harambee Stars trialist is set to recover ahead of schedule. “ We have no intentions to bring new players, not now. We equally have no plans to sign a new goalkeeper considering that Mboya will be out for around three to four weeks,” he added.