A new Coast-based political party will be unveiled soon to unite  the region. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi said the process is at an advanced stage and could be made public before June. The governor was categorical that the new political outfit will be a vehicle for all as opposed to the individual parties such as the recently unveiled UDA to which MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi) and Kilifi North's Owen Baya are allied. Speaking during the official handing over of Sh92 million Mbegu funds and the launch of the fund's three-year strategic plan, the governor said the only thing which will make the Coast region stronger is a political party that shall bring all people together. "Unity is coming but other people should not wait for the party to be brought by Kingi," he said. Kingi who is a close ally of Mombasa Governor Ali Hassan Joho and an ODM die-hard renewed his idea for 'Tufe' movement. He said Tufe is a symbol of unity for the entire Coast region, adding that if the region needs to have a voice they must be heard together. Tufe in KiGiriama means a football made from waste papers, old pieces of clothes, and many other forms of waste that are tied together. The governor said in the new Coast political party, there will be no Tangatanga or Kieleweke teams as that would divide the people. He said it's unfortunate that some leaders believe Coast should produce a presidential candidate but they rally for small political outfits. "Instead of looking for a political party, we should focus on consolidating our base. When the coast has one vehicle it will set a strong base," he said. Kingi reminded residents of the region that there have been presidential candidates who failed miserably because they did not concentrate on the creation of a strong base for the region. Among them, he said, was Chibule Wa Tsuma and Katama Mkangi who ran for the presidency but failed. Without a strong base for the region, Kingi said it will be difficult for a leader to go to Nairobi, Nyanza, Western and other parts of the country to seek support in the quest for the presidency. "I cannot go to campaign outside the region for the presidency if I am not sure of getting even 1,000 votes," he said. Garashi ward MCA Peter Ziro asked the governor to come clear on the Tufe movement he had talked about and when it was coming. Ziro said there was pressure from the electorate who want to know which way the leaders will go ahead of the 2022 General Election. "There is a lot of heat in the grassroots which has begun boiling. Questions are being asked and as a leader, if you are asked a question and fail to respond you are seen as a person who does not know your responsibilities," he said. Kingi said they are against leaders heading briefcase parties but need a party with roots in the region. "We do not want personal parties. The party drive is going on well and soon Coast will speak out, not Kingi but the entire region," he said. Malindi MP Jumwa and Kilifi North MP Owen Baya had unveiled Kadu Asili party as the region's political vehicle. The two legislators are allied to Deputy President William Ruto and have been facing criticism from Kingi who says such a political party will divide the people more instead of bringing them together. 