Senators have ordered the Ministry of Lands and the Nakuru government to resettle thousands of families that were evicted from Dundori Forest. The Lands, Environment and Natural Resources Committee also directed the National Land Commission to investigate the circumstances under which the families were forcibly ejected from the forest, which they call their ancestral land. “The committee recommends that the NLC expedite its investigation into the claim by the petitioners as a historical injustice and submits a report to the committee and the Ministry of Lands within three months,” reads a report by the panel. The committee chaired by Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua) made the recommendations after probing the evictions following a petition by the victims. Dundori is a block within Bihari Forest in Nakuru county. In addition, the panel, whose report was adopted by the House, recommended that the evictees receive relief food accorded to internally displaced persons by the Ministry of Devolution. The families claimed the government evicted them from the forest in 1988, despite living on the parcel since 1930. They alleged that some unknown people suddenly occupied a 200-acre piece where they were supposed to be resettled – leaving them landless and paupers. “Presently, the former residents of Dundori Forest are scattered all over Narok county, and that most of them, their only source of livelihood is serving as casual labourers due to lack of land to cultivate and earn a living,” the report says. In its submission, the NLC told the committee during its enquiry that resettlement is a function of the Ministry of Lands. The Ministry, on the other hand, said while the government’s previous policy was to have those employed to tend to trees to reside in forest houses provided by the government, the arrangement was changed in 1988. “This, therefore, meant that the labourers had to vacate the forest houses and this should not be interpreted to mean evictions,” it said in its submission to the committee. 