The government of Somalia has yet again dismissed the findings of IGAD which dismissed its allegations against Kenya as baseless. In a statement, Somalia said it reserves the right to seek redress through diplomatic means via the African Union and if necessary, the United Nations Security Council. “The federal government of Somalia will continue to exercise considerable restraint, call on IGAD to rescind this frivolous report, and to commission a multinational fact-finding mission.” Somalia claimed that the government of Kenya fabricated the IGAD report, in order to absolve itself from the illegal actions it has undertaken to undermine her  sovereignty . “The federal government of Somalia further condemns the government of Kenya’s direct interferences in the fact-finding mission report in order to absolve itself from the illegal actions it has undertaken undermining the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and political independence of the federal republic of Somalia,” the statement says. According to Somalia, the report has undeniably damaged and undermined Djibouti's impartiality and status as an entrusted partner in the region. It has also claimed that the militia along the border fighting with its military and terrorising its civilians have been supported and sponsored by the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF). The government of Kenya has however dismissed the allegations from Somalia, saying that it will not be involved in its internal skirmishes. During the press address on Thursday, Kenyan Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said Somalia should desist from dragging Kenya into its domestic issues. Oguna said the events being witnessed around Mandera have their genesis in domestic political activities in Somalia. "Allegations by Somalia that Kenya is sponsoring and harbouring militia with the objective of destabilising Somalia are not based on any merit,” Oguna said. But Somalia has continued to allege that the Kenyan troops in Somalia have supported instability and are equally  instigating insecurity by aiding militia. “Somalia has lost its confidence in the KDF’s ability to support the effort to stabilise and bring about long-term peace and security given the overt manner that the government of Kenya has sought to exploit its presence in the country as a pretext to further its national interests.” Somalia claimed that on January 25, the very militia supported by the KDF with mortar rounds, attacked Balad Hawo, resulting in the death of 14 civilians, including women and five children, from the same family. “This wanton disregard for international norms by the Republic of Kenya followed shortly after the fact-finding mission deliberately chose to limit its visit to Somalia and renege on the agreement to meet with ministers and visit Balad Hawo. This act undoubtedly has emboldened the Kenyan Government.”