Some prisons are rejecting offenders who have not been tested for Covid-19, a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and National Security has said. Teso North MP Oku Kaunya  told the Star the issue is of concern since it has led to congestion in police cells. “I'm concerned about the congestion as we have witnessed as a committee. We went around the country and by the time we went on recess, we had gone to 38 counties, and we realised that in some stations, there was a lot of congestion,” the first-time MP said. “At Luanda police station, we found a police cell that was supposed to hold less than 10 people hosting over 30 people. Suspects were sitting almost on each other and that endangers their lives. In fact, it can spread Covid-19 because in case one prisoner has coronavirus, the rest of them risk being infected.” He said remandees who have been sentenced to serve jail terms continue to be rejected at prison gates as heads of correctional centres demand that they be tested for Covid-19 before being allowed into the correctional facilities. Police, he said, have been forced to stay for too long with suspects in police cells, worsening congestion in police stations. In November 2020 when Members of Parliament’s Committee on East African Community and Regional Affairs visited the Malaba One-stop Border Post, Teso North subcounty police commander David Muange raised the issue at a meeting border officials held with the MPs. Muange said congestion in police cells was impeding the fight against the contagion. The OCPD said many of those who had been sentenced had been rejected in prison because they had not been tested for Covid-19. Prison managers, Munge said, demand that convicts be tested before they are allowed into prison. He said police in such circumstances are forced to return the convicts to police stations where they are held awaiting coronavirus tests. Police, Muange also said, are facing challenges handling suspects because of the limited supply of personal protective equipment including gloves, sanitiser and other handwashing materials such as soap. He said the absence of reagents used in testing for coronavirus had limited the capacity to test suspects. Kaunya said his committee had already met with the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai where the issue was discussed. “It is something of great concern and as we did discuss it in the committee it is an issue that requires urgent attention. We have raised it with the Inspector General of Police and the Prisons Department,” Kaunya said. “One of the explanations that we were given is that the prisons said they are not handling those remandees unless they are certified Covid-19 negative.” The MP said he was optimistic that testing for convicts would be quickened before their sentencing to ease admission to prisons.