It is already well known that children in informal settlements are less likely to be fully immunised than those living elsewhere in Kenya. But a new study now shows the mother’s ethnicity plays a big role, as well as factors such as education and income. Children born to Kikuyu and Kamba mothers have the highest vaccine coverage in informal settlements compared with the other ethnic groups, although the gap is narrowing. Those from Luo and Luhya households are consistently associated with poorer coverage, according to the study by the African Population and Health Research Centre. Researchers collected data in Viwandani and Korogocho slums in Nairobi from 2003 to 2017, where APHRC runs the Nairobi Urban Health and Demographic Surveillance System. “This is the first study to provide estimates for the inequality that exists with on-time vaccination coverage in marginalized settings,” authors say. The study is published in the Global Epidemiology journal. “Findings show a high existence of inequalities within the most disadvantaged populations highlighting mothers from certain ethnic communities, children in the poorest wealth quintile,” the authors say. In Kenya, full immunisation coverage for children aged 12–23 months is currently above 75 per cent, but consistently lower in informal settlements by at least 10 per cent. The APHRC study showed that since 2003, that coverage has been increasing but inequalities within informal settlements remain. “Inequality in full and timely coverage was observed by maternal ethnicity. Coverage was significantly higher among children from Kikuyu and Kamba ethnic groups compared with the other ethnic groups,” the authors said. Also, children from the more monied families in the informal settlements had better vaccination levels compared to those from poor families. Viwandani is located near Nairobi’s industrial area and most of the residents are young adults working in the industries, and have better economic and health indicators compared to those in Korogocho. For this study, 32,018 children aged between 12 and 59 months were considered for the analysis. The study participants included slightly more children from the Kikuyu community throughout as compared to the other ethnic groups. Overall on-time vaccination was generally low (below 50 per cent) throughout the periods of surveys. The on-time coverage increased from a low of 26.9 per cent in 2003 to a higher of 43.4 per cent in the 2010–2012 survey period. “Timely immunisation was higher among respondents from the Kikuyu and Kamba ethnic group as compared to the rest,” the authors said. The authors called for an urgent need to develop new strategies to expand immunisation in slums and eliminating the gaps between subgroups.  (edited by o. owino)