Chinese President Xi Jinping delivered a speech at the Davos Agenda 2021 of the World Economic Forum (WEF) on Monday via video link from Beijing. The World Economic Forum, based in Cologny, Geneva Canton, Switzerland, is an international NGO, founded on January 24, 1971. The WEF's mission is stated as "committed to improving the state of the world by engaging business, political, academic, and other leaders of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas". The organisation also convenes some six to eight regional meetings each year in locations across Africa, East Asia, Latin America, and India and holds two further annual meetings in China and the United Arab Emirates. Beside meetings, the organisation provides a platform for leaders from all stakeholder groups from around the world – business, government and civil society – to collaborate on multiple projects and initiatives. It also produces a series of reports and engages its members in sector-specific initiatives. There is no doubt that humanity will prevail over the coronavirus and emerge even stronger from this disaster. "The pandemic is far from over. The recent resurgence in Covid-19 cases reminds us that we must carry on the fight," Xi said. Indeed, containing the coronavirus is the most pressing task for the international community, therefore, it is important to scale up cooperation in vaccine development, production and distribution, and make it truly accessible and affordable to people across the world. The Chinese president warned against the attempt to impose a hierarchy on human civilisation or to force one's own history, culture and social system upon others. The right choice is for countries to pursue peaceful coexistence based on mutual respect and on expanding common ground while shelving differences, and to promote exchanges and mutual learning. This is the way to add impetus to the progress of human civilisation. It also means that countries should resist, reject those that threaten or intimidate others, wilfully imposing decoupling, supply disruption or sanctions, as well as creating isolation or estrangement. The international community should keep its eye on the long run, honour its commitment and provide the necessary support to developing countries and safeguard their legitimate development interests. Equal rights, equal opportunities and equal rules should be strengthened so that all countries will benefit from the opportunities and fruits of development. Scientific and technological innovation is a key engine for human progress, a powerful weapon in tackling many global challenges, and the only way for China to foster a new development paradigm and achieve high-quality development. Most definitely, this should be the case as countries source for more digital equipment and innovative products that have now become the new normal, particularly in the health sector. Furthermore, some jobs are simply not coming back, their mortal human element having been replaced by technology. This view is supported by one of the conclusions of ABI Research in a white paper published in March, Taking Stock of Covid-19: The Short- and Long-Term Ramifications on Technology and End Markets, which says that “a resilient company that is well set to grow post-pandemic will be characterised by its digital agility as much as anything else.” In order to walk the talk, Xi has usually pledged that China will think and act with more openness with regards to international exchanges and cooperation on science and technology, join hands with all countries to create an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for science and technology that is beneficial to all and shared by all. The launch of the 14th Five-Year Plan has given hope to developing countries of continuity beyond Covid-19. China is one of the few countries whose economy is back on track amid the devastation caused by the pandemic in many other countries whose economies have either stagnated or regressed. China has shown its willingness to share the strategies that it applied to guard it from external shocks and use the misfortune as a catalyst for restoration and growth.