Most budding footballers always find it difficult to understand what it takes to make it to the top of their careers. Being in their development stage, their introduction and integration into the first team needs to be a gradual process. While some are frightened to play at the biggest stage, others have taken up the challenge. Despite the fierce competition for promotion to the first team, Emily Andayi and Lavyne Anyango have given the Gaspo Women FC management food for thought in as far as their status at the club is concerned. The 17-year-olds meteoric rise to stardom was not by fluke. At just 15, in 2019, the pair were part of the Kenyan team that finished third in the Council for East and Central Africa Football Association Cecafa under-17 tournament in Uganda. In 2018, both players were given a chance to play in two Premier League matches and they did not disappoint. The then 15-year-olds played with composure and maturity to the vast admiration of coach Isaac Maluki. Anyango, who scored a late equaliser for Gaspo against Thika in 2018, plays comfortably with both feet at left-back, right and left attacking positions and Offensive midfield. Coincidentally, the pair come from Kariobangi North. Anyango, a Form Two student at Kinale Secondary School is a utility player who is tough to silence during matches. Anyango identified her football talent in Class Five at Asulma Centre Primary School. Passion made her stick with football though she had a soft spot for volleyball. “Inspiration came from my brothers, who were also footballers and that is how I developed a passion for the game. Volleyball was my second option. My sisters played it and they tried to convince me quit football for the hand played game but their efforts fall on deaf ears.” In 2018, she was the top scorer with 11 goals in the Kenya Primary Schools Sports Association KPSSA national games played in Meru. In 2019 while in Form One, she chipped in with about six goals for Gaspo who were runner-up in the then unified league. Anyango said she learnt about multi-tasking as she combines both sports and academics to good effect. “2019 was a perfect year for me. I helped Gaspo finish second and chipped in with some goals. Sports is good for my growth and I am comfortable combining it with academics as I balance the two. When I sometimes left school to play for the team, I have to read ahead of the teacher and I think this helped me discover myself.” Anyango says her mother’s support is second to none. Her encouragement and strive for perfection makes her an early riser to the training ground. “My mum is my biggest fan. She bought boots for me and wakes me up at 5:00 am. By 5:30, I am on the training field 30 minutes before team training starts at 6:00 am. This has helped me understand the importance of time management in everything that I do.” Anyango was named the best player in the Peter Ndichu tournament in 2016. She won the same award two years later in the Timothy Wanyonyi tournament. Wanyonyi is the member of parliament for Westlands constituency. She reveals her role models both at club and national team level. “I am a big admirer of Mwanahalima Adams. Her darting runs and crossing earned her the title ‘queen of assists’. I enjoy playing as a no. 7 as I cut inside with my left foot for I am good at crossing. At the national team, Jentrix Shikangwa is an example to be emulated. She is left-footed like me and powerful with an eye for goal. When she receives the ball, you do not know what to expect from her. Defenders are scared of tackling her.” Mwanahalima played for Thika Queens before departing for Israel top tier club Maccabi Halon. Shikangwa is Vihiga Queens’ undisputed striker but is currently unavailable as she prepares for her Form Four examinations at Wiyeta Girls. She was part of the Harambee Starlets squad that lifted the Cecafa women championship trophy in Tanzania in 2019. Anyango is keen to follow in the footsteps of Kenyan internationals, who ply their trade overseas. The likes of Cynthia Shilwatso (Spain), Corazon Acquino (Portugal), Ruth Ingotsi and Annette Kundu (Cyprus) and Esse Akida (Turkey) were granted their wishes after starring for both club and county. Through the venture, she will be able to remove her family from the fangs of poverty. “My preference is Sweden or the United States. I will be primed for the move if I remain focused. I want to be a role model to my younger siblings and remove my mother from the torture of poverty. I endeavour to put happiness on her face as long as I live,” said Anyango. “Despite my age, I have developed well enough to feature for the senior national team though I know I am primed to be elevated to the U-20 age category.” Anyango is ready to step up in taking free-kicks for the club when called upon. She said it is her biggest strength. Elizabeth Wambui is the free-kick specialist at Gaspo. Self-belief is key for the teenager who is keen to break records. “I have scored lots of free-kicks in local tournaments but I have not had the chance at Gaspo. Wamboi is deadly in the speciality but am ready when called upon. But for now, discipline is paramount and hard work continues.” As for Andayi, it has been a remarkable turnaround. She has played in several positions before settling in the attacking midfield role. “I did not know my exact position at the beginning. I played as a goalkeeper for my local club, Hope Raisers." "I have played as a central striker as well as a centre back. I later discovered I can create chances and play with freedom in a free role. Transition is easy because I am flexible to play anywhere. However, playing as a last defender is tricky because you have to organise your defence well to avoid being sloppy.” “A goalkeeper can be prone to injuries as she dives and makes crucial saves. The state of most of our fields makes goalkeepers injury prone. As a striker, you are expected to be always on the score sheet which is not always the case.” Andayi, who was scouted by Gaspo in 2016 is not afraid to fight for her position even as she recognises the rich attacking quality at Maluki’s disposal. She promised to use her qualities to convince the technical bench that she deserves a consistent run in the team even with her inexperience. “My talent is natural. Speed, ok but I need to be decisive in the final third either by scoring or laying assists for the strikers. Gaspo is spoilt for choice in attack.” The third-born in a family of four revealed the challenges in the modern-day game that she faces. “Lack of training equipment is a toll order. The club only gives you uniform. Things like shin guards, socks and boots you need to have them. I am dependent on my parents and the hard economic times are incomprehensible.” Andayi said losing against Thika Queens in the first match was a wake-up call. Debate is already hotting up in Zone ‘A’ in as far as the fight for a playoff position is concerned. Thika Queens and newbies Ulinzi Starlets are considered as serious contenders for the three slots in the zone. However, Andayi said the season is still in infancy but Gaspo need a consistent run of victories to silence doubters. “We learnt lessons in that loss and there’s room for improvement. It is true Thika and Ulinzi are strong but you cannot rule out Gaspo. Last season, we finished second in the unified league and we will aim higher this season. Good result will definitely put the debate to rest.” Andayi is grateful to Gaspo for giving her the platform to showcase her talent and vowed to repay the faith by being consistent whenever chance presents to her. Commenting on the qualities that Andayi possesses, the detail-oriented Maluki said she is a tireless workhorse who has the ability to blossom into an all-action player. “Andayi has a deep, natural understanding of the game. Even at a young age of 13, playing with her mates, you could see her ability to sink deep into the midfield to recover loose balls and create an attacking transition movement. We worked on this attribute, and hence the national team and Gaspo has used her as a creative midfielder and attacking outlet on regular basis,” Maluki said. Andayi was on the bench when Gaspo lost 2-1 to Thika Queens in their last match. Anyango, on the other hand, featured in that hard-to-comprehend loss. Anyango ball control skills thrills Maluki and tipped the pacy midfielder to be the secret weapon when her qualities are maximised. “At such a young age, Anyango has the perfect athletes physique and she is a natural left-footed. She has mastered her ball control skills, dribbles the ball with speed and intent. In her football development, she has played as left back, central midfielder, attacking midfielder and has attacked on all channels.” Even though they won’t be available since they are schooling, Maluki said it is no big blow because they are patient with the duo. They can only become better if they follow instructions. “We will endeavour to support them on their studies and use them whenever they are available. They react positive to instructions, criticism and suggestions. They are self motivated and team players and the future looks bright. If they are able to maintain these qualities they will surely take them to the next level of their football Careers,” posed Maluki. It remains to be seen whether the duo will live up to the expectations. Anybody can have talent but fulfilling dreams and exploiting that potential has always been the biggest challenge.