The proposed addition of 70 new constituencies through the BBI has generated anxiety in Kakamega county. The county was allocated two new constituencies and leaders are sharply divided over the boundaries of the new electoral areas. Constituencies with the highest population in the county are Malava (238, 330 people) followed by Lurambi (188, 212) according to the 2019 census. Local leaders have already started floating suggestions on how the two should look like. Maendeleo Democratic Party leader Amisi Omukanda said the feasible option for splitting Lurambi would be to dismember the three municipality wards of Shirere, Sheyee and Mahiakalo to form Lurambi Urban because of its cosmopolitan nature. He said the remaining Butsotso South, Butsotso Central and Butsotso East should comprise Lurambi Rural constituency. "What is important is for the Batsotso people as a community to be together and the town on its own," he said. He spoke during the burial service for Truphena Nelima at Eshiembekho village in the constituency on Saturday. Nelima was mother to Kenya Trade Agency board member and former Permanent Secretary Dr Wilson Songa. Prof Stanley Khainga rubbished a suggestion that Butsotso South ward be annexed to the neighbouring Butere constituency. He said only suggestions that promote harmony among the communities in the constituency will be accepted. Another suggestion is that Butsotso East, Sheywe and Mahiakalo wards form one constituency while Butsotso South, Butsotso Central and Shurere form another. Yet another group feels the Kakamega-Mumias road should be used as the boundary for the two Lurambi constituencies. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya cautioned Lurambi leaders that their failure to agree on the boundaries could cost them a second constituency. "When the right time comes, elders and leaders from the Batsotso community should sit down and agree on how the area should be split. Remember Lugari is almost equal in population to Lurambi and one of the two will have to lose out," he said. Oparanya said what matters is for the Batsotso community to have their own constituency as they could miss representation in Parliament sometimes because of the town factor. Kakamega town is in Lurambi constitutency. Former councillor Benedict Ambundo said those proposing that the boundaries be altered to annex Butsotso South to Butere and remove Butsotso West and Butsotso North locations, which were moved to Navakholo by the IEBC in 2009, were not genuine. "People are making these funny suggestions because they think they will get leadership. Let the Batsotso in Navakholo seek leadership there," he said. Edited by Henry Makori