On the first day of January this year, a 58-year dream fostered by the Organisation of African Unity (OAU) came full circle as the implementation of the African Free Continental Trade Area (AfCTA) took off. Internationally, however, the news was diluted by the United Kingdom’s final exit from the European Union which for the greatest of world trade, ended in a deal to retain relations between the two parties. Nevertheless, AfCTA signified the greater market to global trade and integration with the new marriage tipped to become the second-largest trading area after the creation of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). All countries but for Eritrea have signed up for the common market while 36 out of 54 countries have ratified the agreement as of December 4 last year. The new market brings together nearly 1.3 billion African state men who represent a region with an annual gross domestic product (GDP) of 3.4 trillion dollars. The new trading bloc is expected to increase the volume of trade between African countries over the near and long-term while creating millions of jobs in the process. According to the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) consumer spending in Africa could hit $6.7 trillion by 2030 upon the implementation of AfCTA. This is as the trading bloc is tipped to grow intra-Africa trade by between 15 and 25 per cent of an equivalent 50 billion to 70 billion dollars. I strongly feel the younger consumers are demanding new and innovative products and services, both public and private sectors are racing to capture new segments with growth of manufacturing and brands remain with the highest opportunities. Will the governments provide incentives and stable environments, to create new employment for our youth? Meanwhile, the World Bank projects the new union to lift an estimated 3 million individuals out of poverty by 2035. Not an easy road Hard work nevertheless awaits in the implementation of the pact and it will be no walk in the park. Proponents of the continental trading bloc already agree the implementation of AfCTA will not only be hard but also a long and winding road ahead. While the bloc is a bold move towards boosting intra-Africa trade including Pan-African private sector, SMEs, women and youth-led businesses, tens of challenges exist to this plan. Among the challenges facing the drive include poor infrastructure, trade tariffs, the large informality of businesses, regional-based conflicts & wars and barriers to entry and slow executions . Trade barriers represented largely by non-tariff barriers (NTBs) however represents the greatest challenge to realizing AfCTA’s ambitions. This challenge goes above and beyond the current strain brought by the Covid-19 pandemic and has to date been the biggest hindrance to intra-African trade. For instance, intra-Africa trade presently stands at less than one fifth. In contrast, intra trade in Europe and Asia represent more than half of the continent's trading at 68 and 59 per cent respectively.While AfCTA has the potential to drive up intra-African trade by more than 50 per cent, the storm of NTBs may well slam brakes on this goal. So far, African states have only completed negotiations on rules covering 81 per cent of products while the States are expected to follow through negotiations of the remaining 19 per cent of products by July this year. Nevertheless, the trading partners are yet to clear up key trading guidelines including rules of origin which not only define where a product was made but also dictates other trading preferences including quotas and anti-dumping measures. Trade protectionism has been the greatest contributor to the trade-related barriers as some African countries stick to individualistic policies. The stain of individualism has been visible through the current regional trading blocs where countries have conflicted on some policies despite signing up for the very custom unions voluntarily. Our very own East African Community (EAC) custom union has, for instance, witnessed its own upheavals as peers disagree on the rules governing the import and export of specific products including milk, sugar and related agricultural produce. To effectively run, States across Africa must endeavour to create a new custom union disintegrating the current formation of overlapping regional trading blocs to enhance harmony in trading rules. Nevertheless, the disintegration of existing trade blocs is very much a catch 22 decision as the very regional blocs have served as the only light to African integration to this point. Connectivity Also key to the desired integration will be the enhancement of connection for both persons and goods. Today, travelling from Kenya to overseas hubs such as China and Dubai is far less simple and cheaper compared to connecting to some parts of Africa. This is as intra-African travel is tied to high costs including air and freight tickets. To boost trade, individuals and goods must be allowed to move with ease across borders with little to no restrictions. With nearly three-quarters of all intra-Africa trade being informal, loose restrictions to market access will be of essence to lifting the stock and value of trade. Complementary initiatives such as the Single African Airport Transport Market (SAATM) under the African Union Agenda 2063 might be the game changer to increasing and enhancing connectivity between countries. My humble opinion, is the plan for instance, endeavours to create a liberalized aviation market which is seen as a central piece of the jigsaw in boosting connectivity both to enhance intra Africa tourism, investments, people entrepreneurship and employment opportunities and resulting , will create amazing brands and new market leadership. 34 countries across the continent including Kenya have already signed up for the single aviation market representing 80 per cent of Africa’s aviation market. The aviation business has great opportunities for moving health, perishable goods and flowers plus the development of talent training in the region. African leaders have nevertheless comes to terms with the tough journey ahead even as they express beaming optimism to the realization of the continent’s integration. President Uhuru Kenyatta has been driving the Africa integration and encouraging the growth of trade in the region. While speaking at a ceremony to officially kick-off AfCTA, Ghanaian President Nana Akufo-Addo said there was a sense of urgency and purpose for Africa to become self-reliant. On his part, exiting Secretary-General to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) Dr. Mukhisa Kituyi said the work has just begun while AfCTA’s secretariat Chief of Staff Silver Ojakol made similar remarks. The growth in Africa needs all of us to team up, both from the private and public sectors to make the continental agreement have milestones of success , and we all must create more business and employment for the ambitious and talented youth of Africa. Chris Diaz Director Brand Africa and Group Director Bidco Africa@DiazChrisAfrica