The High Court has declared a man who went missing 26 years ago from his Kisii home presumed dead to allow his siblings to go on with succession of the family estate. Justice R. Ougo on December 18, 2020, directed the Registrar of Births and Deaths to issue a certificate of death for John Nyamasege Amenya. "I hereby declare that John Nyamasege Amenya alias Nyamasege Amenya is presumed dead and direct the Registrar of Births and Deaths to issue a certificate of death in respect of Nyamasege," the judge ruled. Charles Kiage Amenya, brother of Nyamasege, had presented his petition seeking a declaration that Nyamasege be presumed dead. He also urged the court to direct the Registrar of Births and Deaths to issue a certificate of death in respect of his missing brother. Amenya argued that he is the firstborn of his late father Amenya Obiero who died in 1980 and his mother Peris Amenya, who died in 2000. He said he has six brothers and two sisters. Nyamasege, was the sixth born in their family. On or about 1994 his brother left for an unknown destination and did not tell him or any family member where he was going. Amenya said he reported the matter at Kisii police station the year his brother went missing. He also inquired from all their relatives whether they had seen Nyamasege.  None had seen or heard from him. He said they searched for his brother in hospitals and mortuaries and made reports to assistant chiefs, chiefs, DOs and DCs in Kisii and Nyamira but did not find him or hear of his whereabouts. On October 2, 2020, Amenya went back to Kisii police station to look for the Occurrence Book extract he had been issued in the year 1994 but was advised to make a new report because the station destroys its Occurrence Books every 10 years. He made a new report and acquired OB No. 37/02/10/2020. Amenya further said he had published a missing person notice in a local daily on  October 27, 2020, but he was never contacted with information on the whereabouts of his brother. He urged the court to grant the application as soon as it could to facilitate the finalisation of a succession cause in respect of his father’s estate. The court found that the applicant had demonstrated through evidence that since early 1994, he had not heard or seen his brother. In the circumstances, the judge found that there was sufficient evidence to sustain a presumption of death of Nyamasege.