A teachers sacco in Nyeri lost many members following loss of jobs in private schools during the partial lockdown last year. Newfortis Sacco, formerly known as Nyeri Teachers Sacco, was founded by teachers but later re-branded, opening its door to the public. The Sacco chairman, John Githinji, said loss of jobs by teachers in private schools, business people and other organisations that closed down affected many Saccos. He said employers could not afford to retain or pay their employees leading to loss of members who withdrew their deposits. The loss of jobs also led to a decline in deposit contribution, loans uptake and payments. Sacco business was mostly affected between April and August, he said. “Private schools could not manage to retain their teachers during this pandemic  and so they laid them off and currently we are  again trying  to see how we can walk with them,” said Githinji. The chairman was addressing members during the Sacco's 45th Annual General Meeting (AGM) held at Nyamachaki Primary School grounds in Nyeri town on Saturday. Githinji termed 2020 as an extremely difficult year for business due to the Covid-19 pandemic that ravaged the entire world. “The Sacco sub-sector was not spared and the business environment has been affected thus leading to an economic downturn.” However, he said, the Sacco was able to wade through as the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) and Nyeri county government continued paying their employees, who are also the Sacco members, promptly. But despite the adverse Covid-19 effects, a total of Sh663 million will be paid out as dividend and interest compared to  Sh596 million the previous year. Githinji also lamented that though the Sacco had good liquidity, members did not borrow much. Governor Mutahi Kahiga, who was the chief guest, said members became too cautious to borrow loans. “My plea to you is that you should  borrow as much as you can, pay promptly and keep moving. This cautiousness will not help you own anything,” he said. The governor advised the teachers to apply for county government tenders, get Local Purchase Order (LPO) and use it as security to borrow.