Immature swarms of desert locusts have spread to Meru county. The locusts have also infested Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit, Samburu, Laikipia and Isiolo. This comes as the Food and Agriculture Organisation, a UN body, seeks Sh3.7 billion to continue the fight on the pests in Ethiopia, Kenya, Somalia and Sudan. Carla Mucavi, FAO Kenya country representative, said they need Sh8 million to continue control efforts in Kenya. FAO has said East Africa locust control aircraft could be grounded by lack of funds for fuel come March. "East Africa's locust 'air force' could be grounded, as another wave of the scourge takes flight," FAO said. Twenty-eight planes patrol the skies and spray locusts. Also lacking is money for airtime and pilot hours. FAO deputy director-general Laurent Thomas said a locust fighting force assembled by countries in East Africa to combat invasion is at risk of seeing its activities grind to a halt. He addressed humanitarian partners during a virtual briefing on Tuesday. Thomas warned that funding to sustain its operations is drying up. "Governments have built up capacity in record time. Swarms have been massively reduced in number and size. It would be tragic to throw these achievements away just as the nations of East Africa are starting to see the light at the end of the tunnel," he said. "There is a real possibility they could bring this upsurge to an end this year, but they need to be able to continue doing what they are doing, without faltering." Thomas urged humanitarian partners to help East Africa and Yemen get through the last mile of their desert locust marathon. Keith Cressman, FAO locust forecasting officer, said swarms in Kenya will start reproducing in the coming months and this may coincide with the long rains planting season. “FAO predicts a new generation will emerge in early April. This may coincide with the long rains season and planting period in Kenya and southern Ethiopia. It is extremely important that the control operations are not disrupted," Cressman said.