Tea prices slightly lost grip at this week's auction amid a rise in volumes traded. A kilo fetched an average $1.89 (Sh208.18) this week as volumes traded increased to 10.8 million kilogrammes compared to 8.4 million kilos traded last week. It had picked to $1.97 (Sh217) last week from an average $1.94 (Sh213.69) it traded at in the first and second auctions of this year. The drop is about four per cent from what it fetched last week which is the highest price so far this year, as it neared the traditional 2-dollar mark. The total volume traded this week was 2.4 million kilos more than last week as high volumes against a relatively stable demand saw prices fail to pick. Out of 205,640 packages (13,464,791) available for sale, 166,120 packages (10,845,191 kilos)were sold. 18.08 per cent packages remained unsold, auction managers–East African Tea Trade Association (EATTA) notes. “Although selective, Kazakhstan and other CIS states showed more support,”EATTA managing director Edward Mudibo notes in the weekly report. Pakistan Packers, Yemen, other Middle Eastern countries, UK, Egyptian Packers, Sudan and Russia were active but at lower levels. “Bazaar and Afghanistan lent more interest but at lower rates with Iran quiet,” Mudibo adds. Local Packers operated in line with price. Somalia were active at the lower end of the market. In a similar sale last year, the commodity fetched $2.11 (Sh232.42). Tea farmers are hoping for better returns this year after a 2020 full-year average price of $1.80 (Sh198.27) at the auction. The prices will however be determined by climatic conditions and demand in core markets of Pakistan which takes up 38 per cent of Kenya's tea exports, Egypt, the UK and Sudan. Over supply of the commodity, in case of favourable weather, will affect prices in case of low demand. “We are however optimistic prices on average will be better than what we saw last year,” Mudibo told the Star in a telephone interview, and was optimistic the average price will go above two dollars in the near future. A price of below two dollars is considered low and affects farmers' earnings. Last year, there was over-production and oversupply of green leaf in the wake of favourable weather conditions, with a depressed export market affecting buying decisions. On the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, buyers also stocked their warehouses for fear of a supply cut, a move that slowed buying of new stocks, hence the low price margins. Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) Holdings announced green leaf production by its affiliate factories grew by 28.5 per cent for the year ended June 30, 2020. The 54 tea factory companies managed by the KTDA in October released Sh27.62 billion, being the final payment, popularly known as “bonus”, to tea farmers. This is for the Financial Year ended June 30, 2020. It took the total payment for the year to Sh51.85 billion up from Sh46.48 billion the previous year. Meanwhile, reforms in the tea sector driven by the Tea Bill of 2018,are expected to help improve farmers' earnings . President Uhuru Kenyatta signed into law of the Bill on December 23, last year, setting pace for its implementation. The Bill introduces a raft of measures among them revival of the Tea Board of Kenya and changes in the auction process and export. “Generally, the new law creates an environment that encourages development of the tea sub-sector. In the long run, this will be beneficial to the smallholder tea farmer,” said Alfred Njagi, Kenya Tea Development Agency Managing Director for Management Services. The agency has however poked holes on a number of sections of the bill, which they have warned could crush the commodity's prices, increase factories' operational costs and reverse gains made in the past to cushion farmers from high taxation, that ends up eating into their earnings. The new law provides that all tea processed and manufactured in Kenya for export, with exception of orthodox and specialty teas, be offered for sale exclusively at the auction floor. This denies Kenyan producers access to the direct sales market that on average delivers higher prices than the auction, A blockage on direct sale is also likely to see buyers relocate to neighbouring countries to service their needs at the detriment of Kenyan producers, KTDA argues.