In the twenty-first century, energy is a global concern, and here is one reason: energy is the power to do work. It means that without energy, work can’t be done, especially now that our lives are online and low battery signals trouble. You need energy to achieve your goals. Where there is low or no energy, little or nothing gets done. To advance your goals, you need to protect your energy on major fronts: mentally, physically, emotionally, culturally, socially, etc. You must fiercely protect your energy reserve by learning to disengage from elements that drain your energy and engage with energy boosters. Here are three principles to help you protect your energy. Engage High Thoughts: In my view, three elements affect your energy: thoughts, people, and environment. That is why I encourage people to engage in high thoughts if they want to sustain high energy. High thoughts are positive and progressive thoughts that guarantee continuous growth. These thoughts open your eyes to your greatness and give you the blueprint to attain it. Engage Progressive People: Low energy people diminish your capacity to achieve your goals while progressive people energize your goals because they bring high energy. Progressive people power your goals because they think high thoughts, speak words that uplift people, and excellently execute their plans. The people that you spend time with affects your energy levels. Don’t expect to fly like an eagle when you spend time with chickens. Guard Your Time: Highly effective people fiercely guard their time. They understand that time is a finite resource and poor time management leads to low energy and productivity. It’s difficult to effectively protect your energy if you don’t protect your time. Put systems in place to properly vet the people and activities that take up your time. People who don’t empower you should have little or no access to your time. Your ability to effectively manage your time protects your energy. Access High Energy Environments: In the pursuit of your goals, place matters. The environment or atmosphere in which you process and work on your goals can affect the outcome. We have tech clusters like Silicon Valley and writing hubs like New York because, in these places, the creative energy is high enough to make tech or writing dreams happen. If your environment does not increase your energy, move to, or design one that does. When your environment works against you, it’s difficult to access the energy level required to make your goals happen. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com