National boxing team captain Nick Okoth is hopeful the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics will go on despite the increasing Covid-19 infections in Japan. Okoth, who will be competing in his last Olympics, believes his patience for the past 12 years will pay off by gracing the boxing ring in Tokyo and subsequently earning a medal. "I last participated in the Olympics in 2008 and since then, I have had to bid my time to finally get an opportunity to participate in this Olympics. I am hopeful everything will work out for the best eventually," Okoth said. However, Okoth says his heart is at peace and will not fret too much even if the games were to be cancelled. "I understand the concerns about the games because one's health is the most important above all. It is God who is in control and if it happens that the games are cancelled, then who are we to contest that? At least I have the chance to compete at the next Commonwealth Games," the Kenya Defence Forces officer said. The featherweight specialist beat Uganda's Isaac Masembe at the African Boxing Olympics Qualifiers in Dakar, Senegal in February last year to book his first-ever ticket to the Olympics since 2008. Nonetheless, National Olympic Committee Kenya president Paul Tergat remains optimistic the games will go on despite the raging concerns. "From where I sit, I want to assure you the games will continue. I know there are many outlets speculating whether they will continue or not but I am surethey will go on. As a country, we are ready and cannot wait to compete against other countries," Tergat said. He said NOC-K has worked hard during the Covid-19 period to prepare Team Kenya for the Olympics and enhance their performance at the upcoming games. "However, this is not in any way meant to diminish the challenges and lost opportunities that various sportspersons have encountered as a result of this pandemic," he said. Okoth and Tergat were speaking on Thursday morning during the unveiling of a partnership between NOC-K and Kenya Charity Sweepstakes at Hilton Hotel in Nairobi. The long-term partnership includes a Sh10 million sponsorship for Team Kenya as different teams and athletes prepare for Tokyo Olympics. Furthermore, NOC-K will gain 10 per cent of revenue garnered from the winnings made by the public between 2021-2024. Tergat thanked KCS for its long-term commitment to the growth of sports in the country. "Even when I was an athlete, I remember KCS partnering with NOC-K in the growth of sports. Their willingness to partner with us shows the importance they place on sports," he said. KCS CEO Yaron Farachi said the partnership will not only benefit present-day athletes but also the future generations. "This is the start of a long-term partnership to foster athletes' growth to an elite level. By empowering these sportsmen and women, we believe that they can also empower other upcoming athletes," Farachi said.