Richard Mbuthia is one of the names emerging in the field of contemporary Kenyan literature. A member of the Creative Writers Association of Kenya, he is a fast-rising poet and a teacher of literature of many years standing. Some of his titles include: The Setting Noon and Other Poems (2017) and two anthologies of children’s poetry, titled, Bounding for Light (2018) and A Spark in the Dark (2019). He produced the two anthologies with his pupils, whom he nourishes to appreciate creative writing and literature early enough. He is a staunch believer in exposing the young to literature as an approach to planting lifelong reading habits in them. The poet is currently representing Kenya in an international competition geared towards an award on literary arts organised by the Mulher Forte African Literature Foundation. Recently, the Star caught up with Mbuthia to extract his insights on the role of creative writers in contemporary society. Below are his reflections and views on literature, the youth and more. The Star: Tell us more about your creative enterprise as a young and upcoming Kenyan writer. Mbuthia: Well, creative writing is a catharsis to my spirit. I release bursts of emotion, helping me declutter my soul. It helps me fit into many shoes and lifeforms and redirect events (in my imagination), working up a feeling of being in total control of issues. On the other hand, writing for journalism is sort of straitjacketed. It fits into a mould that determines how the piece of writing should turn out. This is very different from creative writing. What in your view is the role of the creative writer in this time of the global pandemic? A creative writer is very important in this time of the pandemic. Such a writer speaks to the tattered spirits of the readers and mollifies the psychological effects of the pandemic. Different genres can be used to explore varied facets of the pandemic and help in the propagation of information on the same in a more entertaining way. Kenyans are following the murder investigation in Kiambu county, where a young man killed his parents and siblings under the influence of a TV show. What is your take on the connection between creative works and perceptions of the youth of today? There is more than meets the eye here. The young man was (and, is) unstable mentally. According to him, he was disillusioned from the outset and felt that his parents looked down on him. Books and TV series may have given him the modus operandi of actuating his criminal leanings, but the germ for the killings was already in his heart. I aver that the arts have such far-reaching effects on their consumers. Thus, it is politic to consume art with an open mind. As a seasoned teacher of literature to the young, in your view, what can be done to inspire positive approaches to literature by both youth and children? First, more stories of the positive effects of literature should be shared far and wide. It is quite unfortunate that the negative is what usually gains traction as it constitutes 'palatable' news. Second, literature that is positive ought to be availed to the youth and children to help foster positive appreciation. Third, the teaching of literature at all levels should aim to produce more writers and artists rather than just consumers. You have edited an anthology of children's poetry. Tell us about your aim and challenges in the project. So far, since 2017, I have compiled and edited four children's poetry anthologies. My aim has always been to arrest the sparks of poetic expression that emanate from the recesses of the children's hearts. That desire has enjoyed its fair share of challenges and success. It has not been easy to tap the children's poetic talent to determine those to whom poetry comes naturally and those who have no interest. I have self-published all these anthologies. The costs of effecting this have not been easy on my pocket. Marketing the anthologies outside the school setting has also been difficult. And some people cast aspersions on the whole idea of children writing poetry. They feel that I write the poems for the children. There couldn't be anything farther from the truth! Thank you and we wish you all the best of luck as you compete for the international prize. Mbuthia's books are available from www.amazon.com and by order via your email: ritchmbuthia@gmail.com.