Nyeri plans to dedicate Mt Kenya Hospital in Nyeri town to the medical requirements of all government workers and teachers. Governor Mutahi Kahiga said his government has entered into talks with a number of medical insurers towards the goal. The governor said the plans started early last year but were shelved due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But the same has taken off this year with Kahiga saying agreements have been signed and training is ongoing. “We hope to roll-out the programme sooner rather than later. We want to take charge of the Health of our professionals,” he said. Kahiga was addressing members of  Newfortis Sacco, formerly Nyeri Teachers Sacco, during the Saccos 45th Annual General Meeting held at Nyamachaki Primary School grounds in Nyeri town on Saturday. The county government has decided to set aside a hospital where it can be held responsible for the health of its county, national government employees and teachers, he said. This will ensure that government employees and teachers  will receive quality and affordable healthcare through their insurance covers. Nyeri county government alone has more than 4,800 employees, who will be getting treatment there. “This is so that we are able to be sure that we have a certain level of medicare that is worth for them,” he said. Mt Kenya Hospital is one of the four public level four hospitals in Nyeri county. The other three are Mukurwe-ini, Karatina and Othaya sub county hospitals. Kahiga also announced that his government has been able to fix oxygen piping  in more than 200 beds in Karatina and Mt Kenya  Hospitals and will be building oxygen generating  plants in both hospitals as a way of combating the Covid-19. “The Naromoru Level Four Hospitals is also almost complete and I urge Newfortis members to take advantage of the economy that will be created around that Hospital. With 1,200 bed capacity and more than 300 workers,  housing is going to be a major income earner,” he said. The governor said though there was a crisis in the entire health sector, countrywide, health workers in the county have spared Nyeri residents the torture and continued working  while others in other counties are still on strike.