Suspected drug and ivory trafficker Mansur Mohammed has been extradited to the US months after his arrest at the Mombasa International Airport. Mohammed, alias Mansour, 60, was arrested on July 29 and subsequently arraigned on charges of conspiracy to traffic rhinoceros horns and elephant ivory, both endangered wildlife species. This involved the illegal poaching of 35 rhinoceros and more than 100 elephants. He was also charged with conspiracy to commit money laundering and distributing and possessing with intent to distribute more than 10kg of heroin. Mansour, who arrived in New York Monday morning, had while in a Kenyan court unsuccessfully attempted to prevent his extradition, but the prosecution presented a witness that confirmed he was wanted in the US for committing various crimes. New York district attorney Audrey Strauss revealed the suspect is part of an international syndicate engaging in the illicit trade. Mansour is alleged to be a member of an international ring that traffics rhino horns, elephant ivory, and heroin. The enterprise is allegedly responsible for the illegal slaughter of dozens of rhinos and more than 100 elephants. “The excellent work of the Fish and Wildlife Service and the DEA has put an end to this operation,” Strauss said. According to the US Justice Department, the suspect, alongside his accomplices, is said to be members of a transnational criminal enterprise dubbed 'the Enterprise'. The Enterprise is based in Uganda and surrounding countries that were engaged in the large-scale trafficking and smuggling of rhinoceros horns and elephant ivory. A trade involving endangered or threatened species violates several US laws, as well as international treaties implemented by certain US laws. From December 2012 through May 2019, Mansour and his partners allegedly conspired to transport, distribute, and smuggle at least 190kg of rhinoceros horns and 10 tonnes of elephant ivory from countries in Africa and sell to buyers in the US and countries in Southeast Asia. The countries included Uganda, the DRC, Guinea, Kenya, Mozambique, Senegal and Tanzania. The estimated average retail value of the rhinoceros horn involved in the conspiracy was about $3.4 million (Sh340 million), and the estimated average retail value of the elephant ivory involved in the conspiracy was about $4 million (Sh400 million). The suspects are said to have agreed to export the rhinoceros horns and elephant ivory for delivery to foreign buyers, including those represented to be in Manhattan, New York, in packaging that concealed the rhinoceros horns and elephant ivory in, among other things, pieces of art such as African masks and statues. The suspects received and deposited payments from foreign customers that were sent in the form of international wire transfers, some which were sent through US financial institutions. Some of Mansour’s criminal partners had been deported to the US. Liberian Moazu Kromah, alias Ayoub/Ayuba, or Kampala Man, was deported from Uganda on June 13, 2019. Amara Cherif, alias Bamba Issiaka—a citizen of Guinea—was extradited from Senegal on April 3, 2020. Kenyan citizen Abdi Hussein Ahmed, alias Abu Khadi, remains a fugitive. Mansour was arraigned before US magistrate judge Debra Freeman. Mansour, 60, was charged with one count of conspiracy to commit wildlife trafficking and two counts of wildlife trafficking, which each carrying a maximum sentence of five years and one count of conspiracy to commit money laundering, which carries a maximum sentence of 20 years. He was also charged with another count of conspiracy to distribute and possess with intent to distribute one kilogramme or more of heroin, which carries a maximum sentence of life imprisonment and a mandatory minimum sentence of 10 years in prison. Strauss thanked the Kenyan and Ugandan authorities for cooperating with their US counterparts, saying the war on drugs remains a global issue. “We thank law enforcement authorities and conservation partners in Uganda, as well as the Kenyan Directorate of Criminal Investigations and the Kenyan Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions for their assistance in the investigation,” he said. Kenyan authorities had revealed that Mansour had been on the run for 12 years, escaping police dragnets several times at his Kwale home before fleeing to the DRC and thereafter Yemen in 2006.