Garissa lands CEC Habiba Nasib has urged the contractor tarmacking the Galbet Road to fast track the project to avoid costly delays due to heavy rains. Tarmacking the 1.8km road was commissioned in October; it is expected to be completed this month at a cost of Sh81 million. “I urge the contractor and engineers to ensure the road is delivered on time‚” she said on Tuesday after touring the works. Nasib said said government projects have specific deadlines and any delay would be unfair to the residents. “This project is one of Governor Ali Korane’s legacies. We must deliver on all promised projects. The CEC said the road and construction of Orahey market will bring major economic benefits, as well as other government projects. Nasib also toured the Futol, Siraji, Galbet and Orahey markets to ensure the projects are completed as soon as possible. She was joined by  municipality CEO Abdinur Ole Hussein who warned boda boda riders and motorist to stop using  pedestrian footpath or parking on them. The  footpaths, especially along the busy Kismayu Road, were constructed to protect pedestrians. Korane has said the roads will improve the economy, reduce congestion and improve the image of Garissa municipality. He urged the public to properly dispose of waste and not to toss it into drains where it clogs pipes and causes flooding. “The municipality has designated areas for waste disposal but unfortunately some residents are not making use of them. Let's all do the right thing because we want a clean environment." Last week  Garissa subcounty deputy commissioner Bernard Ole Kipury cautioned youth against disrupting tarmacking of a road in Galbet ward to extract money from the contractor “My security team is fully aware of plans by goons made up of youth from the area to disrupt the project by extorting money from the contractor. We will not allow disruption," Kipury said. He spoke after launching the Sh300 million tarmaking of the 5.7km road from Hyuga Girls’ Primary School to Soko Ng’ombe junction Edited by Kiilu Damaris