A hoax that could be turned into a mega scam of personal information theft is circulating with the title of mobile phone and telecom technologies company Huawei. This has been circulating on social media platforms including WhatsApp, Facebook, emails and others. A  link to an unknown website is being received by the users with the title ‘Huawei New Year Gift’ and states Huawei provides free New Year gifts. The weblink is also using the logo of the company to deceive the users easily as the majority of the consumers are unaware of such a scam. These scams mainly resulted in stealing of the individual personal information and data including phonebooks, messages, videos and pictures, and sometimes passwords of various applications including financial accounts of banks and others in the use of individuals. On clicking of the link, it leads to the users to an unknown website which is displaying ‘New Year Gift’ and stated ‘more than 100 units of computer and mobile equipment, as well as 50 cash prizes ranging from $50 to $5000. "All you have to do is open the correct gift box. You have three tries, good luck!" it says. Then it asks three questions, starting with the questions; Do you know Huawei? Which social software do you use more often? and which Huawei product do you want to buy as a New Year gift? Whichever answer you choose you get a notification awarding you with a gift box. It asks you to open the gift box. The process involves getting three attempts to open the gift boxes; in my case, they claim that I had won a Huawei phone. Further, it asks to share the promotion with five groups/20 friends on WhatsApp, Line, or Facebook. Interestingly, it gives you 600 seconds validity to avail the chance and when one click on “continue” to receive New Year gifts, it starts stealing individual personal information and data. An official from Huawei Kenya said there was nothing from the company regarding sharing of free gifts. The hoax is globally circulated from an unknown website and the company has nothing to do with it. Further, such scams use many world-known companies' logos to deceive users. Huawei did not run any of such promotions or have any relation to the currently circulating hoax. The company has cautioned the public to be vigilant and take reasonable precautions when encountering such websites as participating in it may result in data, identity theft or other frauds. The Star thus concludes the links are nothing but a hoax. This story was produced by The Star in partnership with Code for Africa’s iLAB data journalism programme, with support from Deutsche Welle Akademie.