Deputy President William Ruto's allies have vowed to rally their full support behind Margaret Wanjiru's candidacy for Nairobi Governor. This is despite the fact that the Jubilee party will also field its candidate. The party will formally announce its candidate after their nominations set to be conducted on Jan 9. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said they are still members of the Jubilee Party which has been stormed by cartels and political brokers. "We are still in Jubilee but we are on standby. We have good relations because UDA is an affiliate member," he said. He said those associating with the new UDA party face no legal danger. “For now UDA is a Jubilee Coalition member with the highest office holder in Parliament being the Senate Deputy Majority Leader. If there is any disciplinary action it should be directed to those who supported ODM which is our competitor,” Murkomen said. "We have been locked out of Jubilee but we want to remind them that we wrote a coalition agreement. Being our father's party, there are many rooms and UDA is one of the rooms which is ready to accommodate those who feel left out," he added. He said their support for Wanjiru, therefore, is in order because she belongs to a party that is an affiliate of Jubilee. "We want the playing field to be open and fair to all players. The shenanigans we are witnessing currently in Nairobi are so pedestrian, unconstitutional and do not make sense on all standards," he said. The legislator said the plot to ensure Anne Kananu becomes the deputy governor and take over from impeached Sonko is a violation of the Constitution. "We have already allowed the speaker to be sworn in as the acting governor meaning we started a constitutional process, how can it then be that someone else will be vetted to take over the same process," he posed. "This is why we are ready to ready to rally behind Wanjiru and ready to join UDA. We want to tell all our supporters that in your father's house there are many rooms and UDA is just one of them." On Friday the UDA party announced that Wanjiru will fly its ticket in the Nairobi gubernatorial by-election. The announcement came after the party which is associated with Deputy President William Ruto was launched. The registration of the party is the clearest indication that Ruto's hustler movement is determined to dump the ruling Jubilee Party ahead of next year's general election. The Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu confirmed the successful name change and registration UDA, formerly Party of Development and Reform (PDR). “The registrar of political parties takes note of the decision taken by your party and the changes effected on January 7, 2021, upon the expiry of the statutory period in line with Section 20(3A) of the PPA,” Nderitu said. With the registrar's green-light, the UDA started an aggressive rebranding campaign including acquiring a spacious office at Kilimani's Makindi Road called Hustler's Centre. Wanjiru, a Bishop at Jesus is Alive Ministries (JIAM) will now battle it out with the likes of Ferdinand Waititu, Mike Sonko among others. Wanjiru has been a member of the Jubilee Party after she dumped ODM. She has previously served as Starehe Constituency MP since 2007. In 2010, Wanjiru risked losing her seat after a vote recount indicated that her opponent Maina Kamanda on a PNU ticket had won the election with a clear margin. She, however, survived after beating Kamanda in a  by-election held on September 20, 2010.