At least 15 athletes will receive scholarships from the National Olympic Committee-Kenya in preparation for the rescheduled Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games. The scholarships will be issued in conjunction with the International Olympic Committee and the Association of National Olympic Committees. "NOCK is committed to supporting the already qualified teams and those in the qualification pathway," said Nock acting secretary general Francis Mutuku. Qualified teams including national women's volleyball team (Malkia Strikers) and their rugby counterparts (Lionesses) will receive preparation grants to aid their training for the Olympics, Mutuku added. "Our resolve to push the sports transformation agenda still stands. Our goals for the Olympic Games remain unchanged. To achieve them, we have planned programs and training camps for adequate preparations," Mutuku said. The scholarship and grants are part of the 2021-2024 Olympiad, a four-year Olympic Strategic Plan that seeks to prepare athletes for the 2024 Paris Olympics. "We expect to roll out various programs associated with the Olympiad such as athlete support through scholarships, programs aimed at capacity building for administrators and technical officials as well as enhancing the knowledge and expertise of sports support staff such as physiotherapists and doctors," Mutuku said. He added that teams already qualified for Tokyo Games will, in a month's time, begin training in a bubble before entering residential camp in April. NOC-K expects that Team Kenya will then proceed to Kurume City, Japan for a 14-day international training camp in June. The committee has been working together with the Ministry of Sports since last month to review and rework a roadmap to the Games, which were postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. One of the issues for deliberation was an increase in the budget to cater for increased costs arising from regular Covid tests for athletes and officials. NOC-K hopes to take at least 100 Olympians to Tokyo in search for a better medal haul compared to the 2016 Rio Games. Mutuku revealed that preparations for all prospective participants at the Paris 2024, including breakdancing and skating, will begin immediately after the Tokyo showpiece. 