The son of former influential minister Henry Kosgey is among six aspirants who have already hit the ground seeking to replace Nandi Governor Stephen Sang in 2022. Allan Kosgey, who is a Nairobi-based lawyer, has been holding meetings and attending public events to strategise for the expected bruising governorship battle. Sang is a close ally of Deputy President William Ruto, as is Allan Kosgey and several other aspirants. A number eyeing the governor's seat are indicating they will join the United Democratic Alliance party linked to Ruto. They're hoping to get the primary ticket. Finance expert Antipas Tirop is also among the leading aspirants. “I will contest because the people of Nandi want mature leadership based on experience and professionalism," Tirop said, adding he will seek the UDA ticket. Tirop and Allan so far are the front runners. Others eyeing the top job are former Governor Cleophas Lagat, former Chesumei MP Elijah Lagat and administrator Kiplimo Rugut. Nandi Hills MP Alfred Keter may also vie, according to the political grapevine. Kosgey was noncommittal on his plans. Early campaigns will raise political temperatures. Analysts say DP Ruto, who has a number of allies in the race, may be forced to distance himself from all aspirants and let voters make up their own minds. Voters hate manipulated primaries. Sang’s critics led by Senator Stephen Cherargei have accused him of a poor development record but his supporters say he has performed well and it will be difficult to defeat him. County debts run to more than Sh700 million. It uses much of its resources to pay the salaries of a bloated workforce, with little left over for development. More than Sh400 million is spent by the county and assembly on salaries every month. Sang's supporters say he has invested heavily in healthcare and infrastructure but some rivals accuse the administration of financial improprieties and no successful projects for four years. Tirop is one of the most experienced aspirants and says residents regret electing inexperienced leaders who cause the stagnation of devolution. DP Ruto enjoys wide political influence but residents say he will not influence their decision. “Those who think they will ride on their friendship and closeness to the DP are in for a rude shock. We know the DP is going for the presidency and we support him fully but down here we will sort out our own issues," activist Jane Tirop said. (Edited by V. Graham)