More security officers will be stationed at the Likoni Crossing Channel so as to control commuters and vehicles using the ferry. Cleaning of the ramps to get rid of the algae that cause the surface to be slippery will be done daily, unlike in the past, which was done once a week. These are some of the short term measures to be implemented immediately after they were agreed on in stakeholders meeting at the Kenya Ferry Services last Wednesday. The meeting was chaired by Transport PS Solomon Kitungu who had gone to the Coast after the recent incidences at the channel. The meeting was attended by the Coast regional coordinator John Elungata, Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo, KFS chair Salim Chingabwe, MD Bakari Goa, Kenya Maritime Authority director-general Robert Mutegi, and senior Kenya Ports Authority and Kenha officers. Kitungu formed an inter-agency technical committee tasked with coming up with a comprehensive review and recommendations on possible solutions to the frequent ferry incidents causing danger to commuters. The committee, which comprises of stakeholders from the KFS, KPA, KMA, the National Government Administrative Office, among others, is expected to table a report within two weeks. At least five people escaped death when the vehicles they were in plunged into the ocean in the last two weeks. On January 13, a truck loaded with tiles plunged into the sea after it got stuck on MV Kilindini’s prow for some minutes. The driver escaped unhurt. The same day, an SGA Security pick-up overturned as it was heading to board a ferry. The brakes are said to have failed and the driver swerved to avoid hitting another vehicle in front. The driver and his co-driver escaped with minor injuries. On January 10, a bus belonging to Pollman's Tours and Safaris also plunged into the sea after it skidded off the ramp. The driver said he had braked but the bus slid because the surface was slippery. Last Thursday, a truck belonging to Taifa Millers also plunged into the sea at night. On Wednesday, Kitugu said the government is worried the incidents will create a negative perception about their ability to manage the ferries and a  solution must be found. The team reviewed the CCTV records and discussed likely causes of the incidences. The recommendations from the technical committee will go a long way to solving the immediate and long-term problems. He promised the government will work to ensure more safety measures for pedestrians and vehicles. Kenya Federation of Master Builders technical director David Jomeli said the structural design of the ramps is wrong. “The gradients are too steep. They should be redesigned,” Jomeli said. Goa acknowledged that the ramp on the mainland side of the crossing channel is steeper than that of the island side. That could explain why most if the incidents happen on the mainland side. The KFS MD said placing barriers on the ramp may be impossible because the barriers would also hinder the movement of vehicles into the ferry but also possible on the upper side of the ramp and not near the water where the ferry docks.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris