Service providers can now heave a sigh of relief after the city county finally handed over Sh1.3 billion for pending bills to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. The bill is for services rendered during the 2019-20 financial year. Acting Governor Anne Kananu on Wednesday officially handed over all contracts to NMS director-general Mohammed Badi, 10 months after City Hall transferred the management of four key functions to the national government. The functions include health services, transport, planning and development, public works, utilities and ancillary services Kananu said the amount of the pending bills was arrived at after the National Treasury requested the Office of the Auditor General to undertake a special audit in line with the Public Finance Management Act. “Nairobi county procures services and goods from different entities. It is expected that payments be honoured according to the contract terms since the accumulation of pending bills had raised concerns in the recent past and has put suppliers on the edge,” Kananu said.  Contractors and suppliers were to be paid after Benson Mutura signed the warrants on December 21, 2020. Mutura was then serving as acting governor following the impeachment of Mike Sonko. Sonko had refused to sign the warrant back in October, thus blocking cash flow in the county. The former governor had moved to court block the implementation of the 2020-21 Sh37.5 billion budget. Mutura last month said the court allowed the county to enter into consent agreement over the implementation of the budget. "The county has begun the process of paying its service providers. The funds are there and it is now just a matter of organising the records and the order of who will be paid first," he said. Kananu said they will adopt a phased approach to settling outstanding arrears even if it means settling bills in instalments in certain circumstances in order to restore liquidity for business owners. Last year, the county assembly raised concerns that the delay in settling pending bills had led to confusion on who between the NMS and City Hall is supposed to pay after the deed of transfer. Kananu urged the NMS to make pending bills payments the first item of expenditure on their budget.  Badi said his team will renew contracts that lapsed while those still valid will remain actionable. City Hall had initially refused to submit documents linked to the transferred functions, forcing NMS to seek new contracts. “This has been a long journey and we are very happy that the official handover of all the contracts concerning the transferred function has happened. Now that we have all the contracts with us, projects will proceed as expected,” Badi said. He said NMS was relieved that it can now work seamlessly with City Hall and the county assembly. Badi assured that no money would be lost and payments to contractors will be done on time. He said NMS last year faced challenges in paying contractors and suppliers after the former governor had refused to hand over contracts. “NMS had experienced some hiccups last year with the county over the payments of pending bills but we can now finally move forward and work seamlessly with the county and assembly,” Badi said. He assured service providers that NMS will renew contracts of the suppliers whose term had ended. “As NMS, we shall ensure that all contractors are paid on time. We are looking forward to working with those whose contracts are still on course,” he said. Speaker Benson Mutura praised the efforts by the executive and NMS to ensure that Nairobi was transitioning on the right path. “Nairobi had been run like a criminal entity but now we can see the transparency of work between the county and NMS,” he said. Despite the goodwill to work together, Mutura emphasised that the county assembly will properly carry out its oversight mandate to ensure that city residents get the services they deserve. 