Politician Moses Banda has shelved his ambition for the Kitui Central parliamentary seat to popularise Deputy President William Ruto in Kitui county. In a press release on Tuesday, Banda, who is Kitui Central Jubilee Party chairman, said his agenda is to ensure Ukambani has a stake in the hustler nation government to be formed after the 2022 presidential poll. Kitui is the home of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka and his Narc counterpart Charity Ngilu, who is also Kitui governor. Both politicians enjoy immense support  in the area and Banda will have to be tactical and calculative to turn the tide against the duo in their backyard. “I am thus embarking on a blitz throughout Kitui county and many parts of Ukambani to seek to mobilise and place the Kamba community in a position where it will have a say in the next government under Hon William Ruto as President,” Banda said. He plans to work in solidarity with like-minded leaders such former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, now UDA party chairman, in ensuring the Kamba nation cements their place in the Ruto camp. Banda is also the Kitui hustler nation coordinator. In 2017, he unsuccessfully ran for Kitui Central MP. He said in his statement that he had resolved to pursue a community agenda as opposed to personal ambitions. “I have chosen to take the lead and will now focus my energy to campaign and coordinate Dr WS Ruto's presidential bid in Kitui county as I focus on delivering the ultimate price—the Ruto presidency—in order to position our community and county centrally in government,” he said. The politician expressed concern that for the last 10 years the Kamba community has been out of government because of blind loyalty to the supposed community kingpin "who has made a number of political missteps". “It is worth noting that the Kamba community has been out of government for the past 10 years. The reason has been due to the selfishness and the ego of the so-called Kamba kingpin.” He advised that in the current fast-changing political landscape in Kenya, the Kamba community needed to position itself strategically to reap big in government after next year's election.. “It is thus my considered opinion that as members of the Kamba community, we should be politically apt to take advantage of the hustler nation's change blowing across the country to take our rightful place in being part of the government in 2022.”