The Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims (SUPKEM) has commended the move taken by the leaders of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Qatar for signing the agreement to end the blockade and boycott of Qatar that has been in place for the last four years. Council’s national chairman Al-Hajj Hassan ole Naado said that the move to end the blockade and boycott of Qatar by five of its neighbours on Tuesday will ensure the peace agreement translates into tangible action on the ground to ensure peaceful coexistence in the region “We are therefore delighted that the end of blockade and boycott restores the cordial relationships that had existed between the two brotherly," Naado said in a press statement. "We also congratulate and commend the governments of Bahrain, Egypt, and United Arab Emirates for also agreeing to end their boycott and blockade of Qatar and restore diplomatic relationships." He acknowledged the diplomatic efforts by leaders of Kuwait, Oman, and other partners that led to the end of hostilities. “We call upon the citizens of these nations to support their leaders and embrace each other in a spirit of brotherhood to ensure that they build prosperous communities for themselves and future generations." The Supkem boss has also encouraged other counties in the Gulf and other parts of the world that have hostilities towards each other in one way or another to emulate their Gulf partners in finding peaceful relations of their differences. “We, therefore, wish to see hostilities pitting various groups in Yemen, Syria, Pakistan, Somalia, Iraq, Myanmar, Lebanon, India, and Afghanistan resolved through dialogue and humility." In 2017, a coalition of the governments of Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, and Egypt accused Qatar of supporting subversive and destabilizing elements across the region. The accusations were followed by severe diplomatic relationships with Qatar and imposition of a land, sea, and air blockade of Qatar as well as an economic boycott of the Gulf counterpart. As a result, Qatar was functionally isolated from her Gulf neighbours, thus putting a significant strain on the socio-economic welfare of her people.