Most bank clients preferred using fully automated platforms while accessing banking services in 2020, according to the Kenya Bankers Association (KBA) Customer Satisfaction Survey. The report indicates that bank clients opted for contactless banking channels to reduce the possibility of contracting Covid-19 through currency and bank branch visits. The survey, which obtained feedback from over 15 thousand respondents, further notes that the need for human interface in customer service diminished significantly in 2020 compared to 2019, with 43 percent of respondents expressing preference for mobile and internet banking channels. Only 16 per cent of the survey respondents reported the need to visit their bank branches or contact call centers to transact or obtain customer support. ‘’Most age groups surveyed reported preference for automated services while interacting with banks, with the exception respondents above 70 years, who indicated their preference for human-assisted services to access banking solutions,’’ it indicates. Adding that while mobile banking was the most preferred digital banking channel, older customers (56 years old and above) represented the highest share of ATM and bank branch users. The survey also sought to establish the levels of accessibility to banking services for Persons With Disabilities. From the findings, 81 per cent of PWDs reporting that they were largely able to use banking services Independently. Meanwhile, 8 per cent of the clients always needed support, with 11 per cent occasionally requiring assistance. In the survey, most respondents said they had a good experience with mobile banking applications, singling out effective aesthetics. More than 70 percent of the respondents that mentioned feature characteristics cited convenience and efficiency as their main features of interest, with ease of usage and friendliness of user interface being the other critical factors. In addition, respondents based their preference on security, highlighting log-in security as a major feature that influenced their use of the platforms. KBA Chief Executive Officer Habil Olaka noted that banks had to re-orient and re-frame their customer offerings in line with the requirements of the new Covid-19 context, adding that investment in digital banking services across the sector was a game changer. “Most importantly, banks, instituted a number of measures to cushion customers against the adverse effects of the pandemic. These included restructuring of loans in excess of Sh1 trillion and removal of charges on transactions, besides heightening surveillance against fraud,’’ he said. The survey respondents ranked Standard Chartered Bank as the best overall bank in digital experience, followed by Family Bank and DTB Bank respectively. In the Tier I category, Standard Chartered Bank maintained the top position, followed by DTB Bank and Equity Bank in position three. Meanwhile, Family Bank emerged best in the Tier II category with EcoBank and Prime Bank taking the second and third position respectively. Credit Bank topped in the Tier III category while Sidian and Bank of Africa took the second and third positions, respectively.