Baboons and monkeys in Godoni, Matuga, are destroying crops, killing chickens and small goats in Kwale. Residents fear children may be next. They are calling on KWS for help, saying they may have to hunt down the animals themselves if the menace isn't ended. “The wild animals attack the livestock, ripping out their intestines, eating maize and whatever they will find in farms,” Salim Mwakaniki said. He said the wild animals could hurt other livestock and children. Most villagers are forced to hire farmland somewhere else due to the destructive primates, he said. Those who stay on keep vigil night and day to scare off the baboons and monkeys. Residents have reported the problem many times, he said, but no one has helped. Ramadhan Mwapanga said the baboons can be very aggressive, chasing both men and women who try to drive them away. The animals gang up and put up a fight and more villagers join in. Mwapanga who solely depends on farming said they afraid of hunger as the animals constantly destroy crops. Another resident said monkeys invade homes, turn everything upside-down and sleep on their beds and sofas. Samini Katana said she was attacked early morning by baboons when she was heading to work. She said the animals especially harass women. “I had carried my orange water bottle, the baboons came and one jumped on my back when I tried to scare them they became more violent,” she said. Last year some residents just near Godoni village protested against the elephant menace after they  caused havoc in the area. Kenya Wildlife Service community warden Edward Karanja admitted some baboons and monkeys have been a problem for a long period since residences border the Shimba Hills forest He said KWS was working on a long-term solution to end the human-wildlife conflict. Karanja warned the residents against harming the wild animals. He told them to enhance cooperation in ensuring both residents and animals are protected from harm. “We have to learn how to live with these animals harmoniously and that can be achieved by working together and seeing how can we prevent further problems,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)