@ManuelOdeny A huge floating island thicket has blocked most of Sori beach in Migori county, making life miserable for fishers and providing breeding grounds for hippos and crocodiles. The scrubland is about the size of four football fields and has been 'docked' for more than a month. Migori Governor Okoth Obado and Nyatike MP Tom Odege have called on the government to bring in a dredger and remove the thicket. It used to be an island, or islands, out in Lake Victoria and fishermen could manoeuvre around it. But now it's part of the mainland. The two spoke on Saturday during the burial of former MP Owigo Olang. The thicket, overgrown with shrubs and papyrus, has completely choked the fish landing. About 1,200 fishermen are affected; 300 of them are seriously affected at Nam Rongo fish landing beach. “We want the government to dredge out the floating weed affecting our livelihoods,” Obado said. "We will be left with no fish landing site or beaches." Fishermen said they lose more than Sh700,000 weekly in stock and equipment. “We have been struggling with water hyacinth, this one is new and has killed our morale and livelihood,” Sori Beach Management Unit secretary Justus Rabare said. On Tuesday when the Star visited the beach, Joshua Ouma was being assisted by his colleague Kennedy Oketch to row his boat from the lake. “Our boat was blocked in the morning after we went fishing overnight in the lake. A new thicket arrived and blocked the last route to the beach," Ouma said. Dragging the boat past the thicket is hard work. “The weed has blocked our boats from going into the lake, the thicket has wild animals and makes our life hard," Ouma said,” “It was floating in the water for a long time. We used to dodge the islands in open water and we're shocked it landed here," Ouma said. Rabare said on December 31 that part of the thicket had started landing at the beach. He said six people were hospitalised at Sori Lakeside and St Camillus Mission hospitals after they consumed water from the beach that had been polluted by the thicket. Fish seller Debra Atieno said the weed has threatened fish trade as they no longer get fish from the landing site. “It is nowadays very hard to get fish from this place," she said. "The price has also shot up for the little fish we get at this place. Life has become hard." (Edited by V. Graham)