The Council of Governors has warned county governments initiating the signing of the Return to Work Formula with healthcare workers to consider the monetary implications. Last week, the nurses’ union had hinted that it will be initiating the signing of the agreements at county level, adding that at least 10 counties had expressed interest in individually signing the deal in an effort to ensure normalcy in the health sector. In a letter to governors and copied to health CECs, public health CECs, all county secretaries, county public service boards and all chief officers for health, CoG chair Wycliffe Oparanya has warned that approval from SRC is mandatory and no allowance can be paid without their recommendation. “The purpose of this letter is to advise county governments to be cautions when executing the RTWF with the healthcare workers due to the monetary implication which requires approval of the SRC,” Oparanya said. He added: “The county governments are open to reinstate all healthcare workers participating in the ongoing strike and are willing to resume work based on the terms of agreement provided by the respective county governments.” Nurses, clinical officers and lab technologists have been on strike since December 7, with meetings scheduled to help unlock the stalemate proving abortive. The latest one was the meeting organized by the Labour CS Simon Chelugui on Monday failed to take place after the CoG and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services failed to send their representatives. The SRC on the other hand has become adamant, saying that it is the only body mandated to adjust pay for the health workers. This might complicate the situation further. The commission said any allowance can only be paid with its approval and the allowances captured in CBA can only be reviewed after the CBA’s lapse. But the Kenya Union of Clinical Officers SG George Gibore maintained that the strike will go despite numerous court injunctions and sacking threats from some counties. “What we want is they can at least be able to provide on how to give us those very crucial items we need like PPEs and subsequently anyone infected to get medication in a manner that is very clear rather than for us to go conducting harambees,” Gibore said. “The strike is still on, let’s hope that something will come up because there is no way we will go back. Since we went on strike we have not seen any health worker who has lost their life so this means we work in a very dangerous environment,” KUCO SG George Gibore said. The healthcare workers went on strike to demand for among other things, risk allowance for frontline healthcare workers, comprehensive medical insurance cover, hiring of more healthcare workers and provision of quality and standard personal protective equipment. The unions and the multi-agency committee arrived at a conclusion after the talks between both parties, but the Council of Governors has remained adamant saying they will not sign the document. “So if we are not protected, we cannot be guaranteed medication, and that once you lose your life your family can be compensated then I think the whole situation is very clear that when we are away from duty then we reduce the chances of being infected with covid-19,” Gibore added. He noted that the unions have received no further communication from the government after the Monday meeting failed to bear fruits.