Nyeri South deputy county commissioner Michael Tallam has put on notice learners who will be caught with cases of indiscipline. Tallam called on parents to cooperate with teachers in ensuring their children are disciplined to give teachers time to cover the syllabus and recover the time lost during the period schools had been shut down because of Covid-19. The administrator said on Wednesday that undisciplined candidates, especially those causing unrest, risk being expelled and will only go back to school to write their exams. “This applies to both day and boarding schools,” he said. He urged parents and teachers to be on high alert and monitor the movement and behaviour of children to ensure they maintain a high level of discipline at all times. Schools cannot afford to waste more time given that candidates will be writing their national exams in March and April, he said. Tallam also warned parents who have yet to take their children back to school for no good reason that they will face the law. Pregnancies and childbirths are not enough to justify keeping learners at home, he warned, telling teachers, chiefs and their assistants to account for all learners. The administrator also decried the law number of learners in the area, saying populations in some schools have alarmingly decreased. He termed it unfortunate that some primary schools have a population of about 180 learners, meaning each class has an average of 18 to 20 pupils. This is very low given that a class should have a population of 45 learners. “I have seen three or four such schools in Karima division alone and these schools risk closure if the numbers continue to decrease,” he said. Tallam imputed the low number to low birth rates in the area, despite its massive resource endowments. Giving comparisons, he said that in Western part of the country, some schools have a population of more than 1,000 learners. “I am not encouraging you to give birth to more children but I fear that if this continues, then you will have to close some of your schools someday,” he cautioned.