Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang’ula have launched a joint campaign for the vacant parliamentary seats in Kabuchai and Matungu. The seats were left vacant following the deaths of James Lusweti (Kabuchai) and Justus Murunga (Matungu). Addressing the press at Kabuchai CDF offices in Musese near Chwele market where Ford Kenya candidate Joseph Majimbo Kalasinga was cleared by IEBC, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula expressed optimistism of winning the seats. In Matungu, ANC is fronting Peter Nabulindo who was given a direct nomination for the March 4 by-election. “Our being here today is not a freak accident; it is a deliberate statement to the people of Mulembe nation and Kenya at large. The unity of our people will propel our distinguished communities to the higher seat and make us more attractive to engage,” Wetang'ula said. He added, “Let’s be ready to support Majimbo, this by-election is going to be a storm in the region and our unity will determine our future politics.” The Bungoma senator said Ford Kenya hasn’t fielded a candidate in Matungu and ANC has also done the same in Kabuchai. They are going to follow the same pattern in future to unite the region. Mudavadi stated that their intention is to work and move together to ensure that they unite the region. “We won’t allow other people to come here and dismantle our resolve and unity in this region through the by-elections of Kabuchai and Matungu. We will support both Majimbo and Nabulindo,” Mudavadi said The ANC boss said that henceforth they will work together to deliver the region without being coerced by anybody. “Let’s campaign and shame them because I am sure our candidates will emerge winners. We will plan on how to launch our campaigns in the two constituencies,” he said. Other leaders who accompanied Wetang'ula and Mudavadi included Bungoma Woman Representative Catherine Wambilianga, Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Tindi Mwale (Butere) and MCAs. Majimbo said he was very happy to have been cleared to run for the seat. “I believe that ANC and Ford Kenya are working together. They will win with a bigger margin and deliver the Kabuchai and Matungu seats,” he said. Kabuchai IEBC coordinator Benson Isusa and a panel from the electoral agency are overseeing clearance of candidates. Other candidates are Evans Kaki of UDA, David Kibiti of United Green Movement, Amos Wekesa of Federal Party of Kenya and independent candidates Peter Kapanga and Gasper Waffubwa. Edited by Henry Makori