Machakos Governor and Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader Alfred Mutua has urged voters to reject politics of boardrooms. Mutua said certain party leaders sit in boardrooms and dish out political positions before they go to seek votes from the electorate. “It is a day when we are saying that it is important to have systems in a country and also political systems in everything that we do. Kenyan politics has become politics of boardroom,” Mutua said. The governor spoke when he received former Machakos Woman Representative Susan Musyoka, a Wiper party member, to Maendeleo Chap Chap at Alfred Mutua 2022 Campaign Logistics Centre in Mlolongo, Mavoko subcounty, on Monday. He said MCC knows that votes are on the ground, not in boardrooms. Mutua said as a party, they will traverse the country to ask for votes in villages across the 47 counties through door-to-door strategy. “Youths who are jobless, women who don’t have money and Kenyans who don’t have roads should know that there is a party that recognises their plight, not of a few leaders who strategise in radios and newspapers,” he said. He said it was embarrassing that countries which were behind Kenya in development are now far ahead. “Not only lives of leaders, Kenyans want politics that recognises problems which citizens undergo," he said. Mutua told voters not to elect politicians who fly in choppers while conducting their campaigns as they continue languishing in poverty. He said the electorate should do background checks on those seeking leadership. Mutua welcomed leaders from other parties who wish to join MCC. “As MCC, our hands are open. We want to work with everyone including all leaders. I am happy to welcome Musyoka who has declared support for our senatorial candidate John Mutua Katuku for the Machakos by-election.” Katuku received a major political boost after Musyoka threw her weight behind his candidature. "As a party, we are happy to collaborate with like-minded leaders and political parties. We are also happy that Dr Musyoka has chosen to join our team," he said. Mutua said Machakos and Kenya is yearning for a new leadership that will offer young people and women empowerment and income opportunities. "Dr Musyoka is a skilled leader and a reliable stakeholder in Machakos whom we are joining hands with to better the welfare of our people. I am happy that she has chosen to work with us for the benefit of our people," Mutua said. The former women representative described Katuku as a seasoned politician and avid debater who is well conversant with legislative processes. "We live in a period of the handshake and I have decided to join hands with Dr Mutua to ensure that the right candidate becomes the senator of Machakos," she said. She said she will work day and night to ensure victory for the Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate. 