@robertomollo3 Parents of a baby boy who was stolen two weeks ago expressed happiness in Homa Bay after they recovered their child. Benta Akinyi, 21, and her husband Austine Odhiambo, 27, have been gloomy since their firstborn son was stolen in Rodi Kopany township. Akinyi said her baby was stolen when she went to have her hair dressed at a salon in the township. Stanley Desmond was only two weeks old when he went missing. Since then, the parents have been holding their breath, wondering where their son was. They reported to the police to help in the search. On Friday, Directorate of Criminal Investigations officers took the child to Homa Bay police station after they recovered him from a house in the township. Speaking to journalists at the station, Homa Bay DCI Commander Charles Kanywira said the baby was in good health and was being raised by a 32-year-old woman and her 42-year-old husband. Reports indicated the woman who allegedly stole the child lied to her husband that she had delivered the child even though she had had no sign of pregnancy. The woman and her husband were arrested and detained at Homa Bay police station. Kanywira said the child will not be handed over to the parents directly until they complete their investigations to enable them to prosecute the suspects. “The child will temporarily be handed over to the Department of Children. We want to finish up with investigations before his actual parents take him,” he said. The investigations will involve conducting a DNA test to prove the real parents of the child. “We cannot deduce that the complainants are the real parents of the child. The DNA test will reveal the truth so that we can take legal action against suspects in this matter,” Kanywira said. The complainants, who hail from Masakla village in Kanyach Kachar location in Homa Bay Town constituency, were full of joy upon seeing their son at the police station. Akinyi said she had been suffering a lot of pain in her breasts, which she blamed on failure to breastfeed. “We've been having sleepless nights since the loss of the child. But now I am happy after seeing him,” Akinyi said. Akinyi was accorded an opportunity to breastfeed the boy. The husband told the police to take legal action against the suspects. “Let the police accord us justice because the suspects violated both the child's and our rights,” Odhiambo said.