President Uhuru Kenyatta has refuted claims that the Kenya Police is the enemy number one for the public. Uhuru on Tuesday said just like a household might have one or two children who go against good values, there are a few elements within the police that taint the image of the entire service. The Head of State spoke on Tuesday when he commissioned the construction of a leadership police academy and 210 housing units in Ngong. While reiterating that a time has come for the entire police leadership to be transformed, Uhuru said such transformation will see the security sector moved to the next level. He said his government's intention has always been to take care of the welfare of the security sector by ensuring the officers are fully equipped with the necessary skills and training they need. "I want to assure all of you that these officers are not your enemies but your friends. Just respect the law and follow instructions,"  he said. "There will always be bad elements within the police but that is the order in the society. However, that should not amount to blanket accusations and generalization," he added. Uhuru said mechanisms have been put in place by the National Police Service to ensure that such bad elements are punished. The project which is funded by Central Bank of Kenya at Sh1 billion, is set to be completed by end of 2021 and launched early January 2022. Upon completion, the academy will provide the National Police Service with modern facilities for the training of its senior leadership. "The idea of this leadership academy was born out of my administrative desire to see police leadership on another level," he said. He added, "Today's occasion is the most recent example of how government institutions can come together in synergy and promote the welfare and capabilities of the security sector". He said under the directorate of criminal investigations, he will soon launch the forensic lab. "All these efforts are aimed at making the Police more efficient at service delivery," he said. Interior CS Fred Matiang'i said the department was grateful to CBK for supporting the project. "We also thank other corporates that have been part of other developmental projects in the security industry. Your Excellency, we will not let you down," Matiang'i said. The leadership college sits on a 120-acre piece of land where only 18acres are currently in use. Overall construction for the project will be locally sourced where 56 per cent of materials will be local . These include; Adequate accommodation for 220, classrooms and lecture rooms, well-equipped auditorium with seating for 450, kitchen and dining facilities and recreational facilities.