With Nairobi having a deputy governor in office, President Uhuru Kenyatta’s plan in completing the Nairobi leadership takeover is almost finalized. An influential Jubilee MCA who sought anonymity told the Star that despite Uhuru’s silence on Nairobi leadership, he was fully aware and updated on the events. “His silence is on purposes but the President knows what he wants and needed for Nairobi people to get their services without it being dramatized,” said the MCA. Last Friday, the county witnessed Anne Kananu become the first female Deputy Governor of Nairobi after she was vetted and approved by the County assembly. On Monday, County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura who had been acting as governor, relinquished his duties for the office paving the way or Kananu to take over. However, the court on the same day gave orders blocking Kananu to be sown in as the third Governor of Nairobi County. After the formation of the assumption to office committee and if the court doesn’t interfere with the process, Kananu was to be sworn in as Nairobi's Governor and within 14 days nominate her deputy. While giving her speech, Kananu thanked the President for having trust in her as she assumes her new duties as the DG. Lawyer Danstan Omari claims that customs and traditions of governance have become a big hindrance to President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila Odinga which will hinder a by-election from happening in Nairobi. He explains that all the efforts being done for Kananu to become Governor are the fear the two have in facing Deputy President William Ruto in by-elections. “ Uhuru and Raila know that If the Judiciary turns against them, they will face the Big man, they will face the Wheelbarrow champion William Ruto who will beat them in Nairobi. They cannot take that chance,” Omari added. A few hours before Mutura vacated the Governor’s office, the President castigated ex-governor Mike Sonko over his leadership. “I helped this young man get that seat. Instead of working, he was up and about doing nothing,” he said. Instead, Uhuru praised NMS boss Major General Mohammed Badi and highlighted the achievements he had done. “Just look at his (Sonko) replacement, He (Badi) has opened roads in Industrial Area, among others,” he said. The head of state has been personally inspecting projects undertaken by the Nairobi Metropolitan Service a clear sign of his support and interest in the office lead by Major General Badi. Although Uhuru has never publicly talked on recent development in Nairobi’s affairs, close individuals to the President said he was in control of the events that saw former Governor Mike Sonko impeached. The MCAs last month, went ahead and impeached the Sonko after having given a green light through a phone call from State House and a meeting held at Capital Hill, which is ODM party leader Raila Odinga’s office. Sonko on Sunday said he was jobless at the moment courtesy of President Uhuru Kenyatta. The former county boss has been in bad blood with the President since last year after he refused to assent to the County’s Appropriation Bill that would allocate Sh27.1 billion to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. He blamed the head of state and 'State House cartels' for all his woes that eventually lead to his ouster. Lawyer Demas Kiprono however, blamed Sonko for doing 'monkey business’ with the Constitution and failing to appoint a Deputy Governor on time is what has led Nairobi into the current mess. “The Constitution relies on good faith and that everyone will do the right thing. The ideal situation is that there should be no legal vacuum at any time," Kiprono said. "We are in this mess because a lot of ‘monkey business’ was done by having a governor who didn’t want to follow the Constitution and failed to have a deputy for years and now he has many cases about it in court."