Elders and professionals from Isiolo have urged Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to stay firm on the resolution reached to resolve the boundary row between Garissa, Wajir and Isiolo. The CS lat week met with leaders from the three counties and promised to ensure a solution is swiftly found. Matiang'i directed Eastern and Northeastern regional coordinators, together with Isiolo and Garissa county commissioners, to ensure that chiefs are within their jurisdictions. The CS noted that disputes over electoral and administrative boundaries fuel inter-communal clashes. He promised to take action, including dismissal of chiefs who administer beyond their jurisdictional boundaries. Borana Council of Elders chairman Abdullahi Hajj Gonjobe said the resolution was the perfect tonic to bring the row to its logical conclusion if implemented decisively. The leaders also want all illegal semi-permanent settlements in the county demolished. Gonjobe said it makes no sense to have some people opposing the implementation of the resolution. On Friday, a section of MCAs and elders from Garissa differed with Matiang'i's directive that all chiefs in Isiolo and Garissa be within their jurisdictions. A few days ago, some residents of Garissa blocked the Wajir-Garissa road in protest against the directives by CS Matiang’i, saying he has favoured the Isiolo side. Former Isiolo assembly speaker Mohamed Tupi said the border row was an expansionist agenda being pushed by entities from as far as Liboi, which is along the border with Somalia. He raised queries about why leaders from areas along the Somalia border were interested in Isiolo, which is the geographical centre of Kenya. He said security in other parts of Kenya would be at stake if Isiolo South, which acts as a buffer for regions bordering Somalia, was extended for unspecified reasons. The elders said people from Lagdera constituency are always welcomed to Isiolo South for pasture and water, but cause havoc in return. Isiolo South MP Abdi Koropu said the meeting with CS Matiang’i, which he was part of, agreed that locals are free to live in, graze and water their animals in the area as long as they first seek permission from Borana elders. He said they also resolved that administration officers in Isiolo South, who report to Garissa county, should go back to Garissa to resolve the administrative dispute. Eastern regional commissioner Isaiah Nakoru said chiefs and assistant chiefs must vacate the disputed areas as directed to allow the government to settle the boundary row.  