Two of Kenya’s finest pro golfers Dismas Indiza and Greg Snow will renew their rivalry when Safari Tour resumes tomorrow. Snow currently leads the new running points system on 234.0 followed by Dismas Indiza on 224.0 points. Also expected to shine is Zimbabwean Robinson Chinhoi, who is placed third on the Safari Tour log behind David Wakhu. Indiza has been practicing really hard on his long and short game. “The game plan is to remain somewhere on the top and be consistent. Snow has been very impressive this season so the essence to hit the fairways properly and putt with precision,” said Indiza. Rizwan Charania of Windsor, CJ Wangai, David Opati aka ‘Par 3’ of Windsor, David Wakhu, Eric Ooko both from Golf Park and Thika’s Simon Ngige are among leading pros set to grace the restart of a series. Vincent Wang’ombe, who oversees the operations of the KOGL secretariat besides his role as chief referee at the Safari Tour events, confirmed the new date after the first four back to back rounds at Limuru, Vetlab, Sigona and Royal Nairobi in October last year. The Uganda Open was the fifth event. Great Rift Valley Lodge will host the sixth leg on January 13-16 while the leg will be at Nyali  from January 30 to February 3. This will be followed by Muthaiga on February 6-10 and Karen Country Club on February 20-24. Karen will be the last event prior to the Magical Kenya Open in March. The nine local pros who qualified last year including Wakhu, Ooko, Snow, Ngige and Indiza have since gone into the current 2020/21Safari Tour with some points advantage. The 2020 Magical Kenya Open was cancelled and this compelled the KOGL to start a new season with qualifying scores. They, however, hope to factor in 10 percent of 2018/2019 scores and 20 percent of the 2019/2020 with 70 percent counting towards 2020/2021 scores. Safari Tour has traditionally been used as a yardstick to ascertain regional qualifiers for the prestigious European Tour Kenya Open. Snow was the victor in the first leg at Limuru while Zimbabwe pro Chinhoi won the second leg of the Tour at Royal Nairobi. Indiza won the third lef at Vet Lab while Wakhu settling for the Sigona leg Chinhoi was also crowned the Uganda Professionals Open Champion after an impressive 15-under at Kitante in Kampala. The long-hitting Zim pro scored a total of 273 over four rounds of competitive action.