Absa Bank Kenya, in collaboration with the Christian Mission Aid (CMA), has kicked off a food donation drive aimed at supporting over 1,000 vulnerable families affected by Covid-19. The donation, valued at Sh2 million, is part of various initiatives the bank has implemented over the past several in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Under this initiative, dubbed ‘Buckets of Blessing’, the bank funded the purchase of essential foodstuffs such as beans, cooking fat, maize meal, rice, wheat flour and salt which will be distributed to needy families within the next two weeks. The donations will support households of up to five people in parts of Nairobi informal settlements and Kajiado County for a period of up to two weeks. These include about 400 families in Kariobangi and Korogocho slums and another 600 households in Magadi, Mosiro, Gataka areas. Absa Bank Marketing & Corporate Relations Director Caroline Ndung’u, said the donation is aligned to the banks’ strategic priorities to become a force for good in the society. “Over the years, we have been instrumental in driving initiatives that contribute to the sustainable economic growth and resilience of our communities,” said Ndung’u. The bank said that its investment in the initiative was in lieu of the usual annual corporate gifting programmes conducted during the festive season. On their part, Christin Mission Aid Chief Executive Officer Debbie Kitchel lauded the move and called on more organizations to join hands to cushion families affected by Covid-19 pandemic. “Over the years, we have been instrumental in driving initiatives that contribute to the sustainable economic growth and resilience of our communities,” said Ndung’u. The bank said that its investment in the initiative was in lieu of the usual annual corporate gifting programmes conducted during the festive season. On their part, Christin Mission Aid Chief Executive Officer Debbie Kitchel lauded the move and called on more organizations to join hands to cushion families affected by Covid-19 pandemic.