Makoko village in Mwingi North subcounty of Kitui is on high alert after a poisonous agricultural chemical applied resulted to the death of 12 dogs, six chickens and a cat. And the area administration has called out on agricultural officers to advise the locals on the ideal farm chemicals to use to avoid such disastrous effects. Assistant chief Simon Mbuvi on Sunday said access to lethal chemicals by ignorant farmers must be prohibited. Mbuvi, the assistant chief for Kyandali sublocation within whose jurisdiction the pets died, said a local farmer had wrongly applied the chemical in her farm oblivious of it deadly effect. He said the farmer had originally intended to use the lethal Agri-net chemical to spray bed bugs. Speaking on phone Mbuvi said more livestock might be killed by the chemical. He said he had already summoned a public meeting and banned the use of the lethal chemical. Kimanzi Musila said there was fear among the community that besides the killing of the pets and even wild birds essential to the local ecosystem, there was fear that people and their livestock were likely to consume the chemical from water sources. Masila said it was incumbent upon the locals to ensure they avoid use of any farm chemicals that would have adverse effects on human life and the environment. Assistant chief Mbuvi said: “A farmer had applied the chemical in her farm to ward of birds and squirrels that were devouring her crops. Some birds and squirrels died and when dogs and the cat feasted on the carcasses they died too leading to the uproar among villagers.” Mbuvi added that the six chickens perished after consuming grain laced with the chemical that was meant to kill wild birds causing havoc in farms. They had strayed into the farm where the chemical was applied. He said even before he called the public meeting last week, he acted with speed after receiving reports of the death of dogs and other pets to ensure the owner of the dangerous chemical disposed of it safely. He said it was dumped into a pit latrine. The administrator directed that residents should desist from the over-the-counter purchase of farm chemicals. He asked them to always seek the advised of agricultural extension officers before purchasing and applying farm chemicals. Edited by Henry Makori