A section of Muslims organisations have accused the national and county governments of taking advantage of the division of functions to run away from responsibility towards health workers. The organizations, among them Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, (SUPKEM), National Muslim Leaders Forum (NAMLEF), Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya (CIPK) and key stakeholders noted the labour dispute between the counties and various cadres of healthcare workers has paralysed provision of services to many Kenyans. Led by Supkem acting National Chairman Hassan ole Naado and NAMLEF Deputy National Chairman Yusuf Murigu , they said the health sector is crucial and service disruption can lead to a national health crisis. They said the issues raised by health workers in relation to the remuneration and safe working conditions should be addressed immediately. “We should know that health is a matter of life and death; the impasse couldn’t have come at a worse time—during a pandemic,” said Naado in a press statement. He added that the provision of basic healthcare is a function devolved to the county governments with the national government retaining the referral health care services and healthcare policy formulation. “In our view, we find that the both level of governments have taken advantage of this division of functions to gang up in order to run away from their responsibility towards health workers. We are treated to a chorus of contradictions; stonewalling from the very government agencies that are supposed to address the plight of the workers,” he said. The council boss wondered why after both level of governments announced that an amicable settlement had been reached and are turn to work formula agreed upon, the Council of Governors sprang up with a claw-back claim that the counties do not have the budgetary allocation to effect the agreement. “The Ministry of Health appears to have opted out of the issue, leaving it to the counties to mishandle everything. The National Treasury on the other hand is telling us that it does not have the money to pay, thus trying to tell the health workers that their efforts are futile. This has completely led to dejection and frustration among the affected health workers,” said Naado. He said that health issues should be declared a national priority just like Universal Health Coverage (UHC) where the state committed to make strategic investments in health to ensure all Kenyans can access the essential health services they require by 2022. “There cannot be investment and access to quality healthcare without healthcare workers." "Healthcare, being one of the socio-economic rights under Article 43 of the Constitution, should be given top priority as one of the pathways to post-Covid-19 economic recovery,” said Naado. On his part, Murigu lamented the nation is having a financial crunch, adding it is time  a national conversation is had so that they can all rally together and pull together and pull out of this crisis. “But doing so will also mean  facing up to some difficult questions because belt tightening has to be felt in every sphere of public management and the sore point will include the issue of expenditure on the BBI and the soaring public debt triggered by expenditure on infrastructure projects,” said Murigu He called upon President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene in the healthcare crisis, saying initiative will depend on the cooperation of health workers among other key stakeholders in the sector. “We are hopeful and prayerful that the crisis in the health sector will be addressed soonest so that the country can be better placed for the post-Covid-19 recovery, and the Muslim leaders are willing to assist in the mediation of this crisis if and when called upon,” he said.