Three MPs and professionals from Northeastern want leaders who incite communities in the region held accountable. They asked the national government to put in place measures to prevent further influx of aliens from Ethiopia through Moyale and Magado-Elle Dimtu border. MPs Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West), Mohammed Hire (Lagdera) and Musa Musa Arbele said in Nairobi on Monday that some leaders have been going to neighbouring counties to incite people and cause hatred among communities. “These tribal chiefs, including MPs, are hereby informed that their actions are more detrimental for their people,” Kolosh said. He regretted that politicians from Isiolo and Marsabit counties have been uttering inflammatory statements, inciting their people against other communities. “This happens while failing to appreciate that these counties are cosmopolitan and that no single community enjoys exclusive numerical advantage. Their actions have set these counties on war mood, disturbing the prevailing peace,” he added. Hire claimed the leaders have been using rebel groups from neighbouring Ethiopia to cause mayhem in the region. “The government should arrest leaders bankrolling these groups or else peace in the region will remain elusive,” Hire added. The call comes a day after Interior CS Fred Matiang'i warned that he will invoke the Public Order Act in parts of Isiolo, Garissa and Wajir counties if violence continues. The CS announced that the government will embark on a disarmament programme in the three counties to recover illegal guns held by civilians. He spoke on Tuesday after meeting political leaders from Isiolo, Wajir and Garissa over recent violence that has left at least eight people dead. Arbele said the groups causing problems have been banned in Ethiopia and are now being used by some leaders to cause mayhem in Wajir, Mandera, Garissa and Samburu counties. “This is a matter that needs to be dealt with decisively by government for peace and harmony to prevail,” he added. The MPs made the remarks at a press conference in Nairobi on Monday. Clan elders from North Eastern region also accompanied them. They wondered why the name of National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani was being dragged into the matter. Edited by Henry Makori