The crowd that blocked Baringo Senator Gideon Moi from his coronation on Saturday was not affiliated to the Deputy President, Moses Kuria has said. The Gatundu South MP  said everyone, including Gideon, has the freedom to move freely in any part of Kenya. The incident, the Tangatanga MP said, just gave the Kanu chairman unnecessary political mileage. A rowdy group believed to be DP William Ruto’s supporters burnt tyres and used stones to barricade Chepterit-Baraton-Sang’alo road at Kimondi to bar Gideon from visiting the Talai clan for coronation as the Kalenjin kingpin. The coronation was to take place at Kapsisiywa, Nandi county. The group accused Moi of violating the clan's traditions on coronation. Moi blamed his political nemesis in Rift Valley. Kuria said if such acts are not condemned, and even stopped, they may plunge the country in election chaos. He said Gideon is no match for Ruto and no matter how many litres of oil he is anointed with, he can never wrest Kalenjin kingpinship from the DP. “I have been trying to figure out any formula that can make Gideon politically relevant but found none… Gideon cannot be anything in this country,” Kuria said. “Let no one deceive you that the perpetrators of that act are Deputy President’s supporters. Take it from me that they are not his supporters. The DP is a peace-loving person and cannot send anyone to do such a thing.” He spoke at Baptist Church in Nyeri town on Sunday during a fundraiser to build the sanctuary. Ruto’s camp, the lawmaker said, is made up of every ethnic community in the country and cannot be engaged in divisive politics. Kuria also welcomed the signing of the Tea Bill, saying it will address the many challenges farmers face and translate to more earnings. “The cartels who have been exploiting tea farmers will now have to pack and go,” he said. Parliamentarians will now focus on preparing and passing a similar Bill for coffee to drive out cartels, he said. He urged fellow politicians to set aside their political differences when it comes to addressing issues affecting farmers. “We do not want to know one's political affiliation or tribe. What we want is to work together and ensure that we serve Kenyans and make their lives better,” he said. Leaders present faulted the government for setting aside money for the Building Bridges Initiative but neglecting medics fighting Covid-19. They included MCAs Kiruga Thuku (Chinga), Paul Kanyari (Rware), Anne Thumbi (Nairobi nominated), Nahashon Gichuhi (Gatanga, Murang’a), Nyeri lawyer and politician Gacheru Wabandi, and former Athi Water Services board chairman and Kieni politician Wachira Keen. They criticised the government for focusing more on the referendum but failing to provide masks and sanitiser to children as schools reopen. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya