The Ministry of Lands has set up a complaints desk at the customer care centre within Ardhi House to handle complaints arising from the conversion of parcels. In a statement on Thursday, Lands CS Farida Karoney said any person with an interest in land within the registration unit and is aggrieved by the information on the notice is advised to lodge their complaints with the registrar. “Interested parties shall lodge a complaint with the registrar through the ministry's offices at Ardhi House at no cost,” Karoney said. She said the complainant will be required to complete forms LRA 96 set out in the second schedule to the land registration order 2017, or LRA 67 set out in the sixth schedule to the land registration General regulations, 2017. The forms are available in the help desk and can also be downloaded from the ministry’s website. “Certified copies of the title, copy of identification card, P.I.N, contact address and the telephone number should be attached,” she said. Karoney said the complainant will be recorded by the registrar who receives the complaint and assigned a case reference number to facilitate follow up. “Complainant shall be regularly advised on the progress of their complaints. The ministry may issue additional information through our website from time to time,” she said. On January 12, the ministry announced that all land ownership documents issued before the enactment of the Land Registration Act 2012 will be cancelled before issuing new ones. Karoney said the cancellation and replacement will migrate the parcels to the new regime while retaining the ownership, size, and other interests registered against the respective title. She said the registrar will retain the old title documents for record and safe custody and assured land and property owners that great care will be taken to protect their property rights. Karoney said there are several pieces of legislation on land registration, a move that has made land registration complex. The CS said the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010 required Parliament to revise, consolidate, and rationalise land registration regimes. “The confusion occasioned by the different regimes has become a breeding ground for fraud, delays in service delivery, centralisation of land services, and threats to the right to property‚” she said. Land Registration Act 2012 was enacted in 2012, repealing all other land registration statutes. The move unified the registration regime in under this statute. The country has however not migrated to the exclusive use of the Land Registration Act 2012. The conversion process entails the preparation of cadastral maps together with a conversion list indicating the new and old numbers for parcels of land within a registration unit or registration section and their corresponding acreages. Karoney said the objective of the conversion is to collapse land registration processes in the repealed land registration laws into one and will mean full use of Registry Index Maps as registration instruments, replacing the deed plans. “Boundaries will not be affected since Registry Index Maps are generated from survey plans with fixed boundaries. Both the Registry Index Maps and survey plans are accessible to landowners on request for verification of boundary details at the Survey of Kenya headquarters in Ruaraka,” she said. Karoney said the use of Registry Index Maps will minimise land fraud. The CS said title documents held by third parties including banks, hospitals, courts as security at the time of commencement will be replaced upon application by the proprietor.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris