Kenya Defense Forces -KDF has hailed the government's plan to incorporates its servicemen and women in the affordable housing project. This comes after the department secured at least 57 units in the recently allocated Park road project. On Friday, the soldiers were taken through a tour of the housing units at Park Road, Nairobi in order to have a feel of what awaits them. Speaking during the tour Colonel Lobaly who is the chairman of KDF's  Affordable Housing Allocation Committee, hailed the project saying that the houses are being sold at highly subsidised rates and paid on an installment basis. The Col said the allocation was successful after KDF signed a Memorandum of Understanding with Housing Corporation under the State Department of Housing and Planning. “We are very pleased to have been considered and allocated some units as pioneer beneficiaries in this flagship project. This shall go a long way in solving housing needs among officers and also give them an opportunity to own assets in the city even when they exit the service,” he said. He added, “We are pleased that our officers will live with their families in more decent houses which are near their places of work. This shall further boost their morale to work due to the good environment they will be living in,” he added. Lobaly said although the houses could not be enough for all officers who applied for allocation, they are confident to get at least 62,000 units when the entire project of 621,523 units is complete. The houses range from one bed-roomed to three bed-roomed houses costing between one million and four million respectively. Boniface Ngochi, the Deputy Director State Department of Housing and Planning said the government provided the 7.9 acres parcel of land where 1,370 units were constructed at Park Road. Ngochi said the payment period is estimated to be at most 20 years or until one retires from civil service, whichever comes first. “It is the government’s plan to ensure all public lands are put into better use as the construction of such affordable houses. The prices are far below the prices one incurs if he buys through a private company.” He added. Sergeant (Sgt) Lucy Wanja who is one of the beneficiaries could not hide her joy after she was shortlisted for a three bed-roomed house for Sh3.5 million. Sgt Wanja who is deployed at the Defence Headquarters Communication Center said she has a reason to smile after 31 years of being in the service. “I am very happy that my application sailed through. I shall now settle with my family and own a luxurious house within the city which shall save much of the rent and transport money I have been incurring over the years. This is indeed a great legacy by His Excellency the President,” said Ms. Wanja who was recruited in 1991. Senior Sergeant Wycliffe Mureka also thanked the president for having such a project. “I traveled all the way from Mombasa to come to view my house. Many a time we are forced to move with our families when a transfer comes but now my family will comfortably settle in Nairobi and I am very pleased with this,” he said. He urged his colleagues to wait for more units to be complete to see whether they will be considered in the next roll-out exercise.