The government has proposed tough laws in renewed efforts to rid state agencies and the private sector of bribery. New regulations drawn by Attorney General Kihara Kariuki provide that all organisations put in place procedures for preventing bribery and corruption. The Draft Bribery Regulations, 2020, provide that the said procedures will have to be in writing — in English and Kiswahili — or any other language as may be appropriate. The Bribery Act, 2019, makes it mandatory for all public and private entities to put the said procedures in place. A company or its directors or senior officers that fail to put in place the procedures would risk a Sh5 million fine or 10 years in jail or both. “An entity or its directors, senior officer or other responsible person shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding Sh5 million, or to imprisonment to a term not exceeding ten years or to both.” The regulations, if passed in Parliament, will enable the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to enforce the bribery rules. It will apply to all state organs and public bodies in the three arms of government; county governments, constitutional commissions and independent offices. “A state officer, public officer or any other person holding a position of authority in a public or private entity shall report to the commission any knowledge or suspicion of instances of bribery involving that private or public entity that comes to his or her knowledge,” the rules say. Entities under a public-private partnership and any that renders a service to the public as a monopoly are required to comply. The new rules, the draft reads, will apply to all state officers and private entities with virtual presence. In developing the procedures, entities would be required to asses and map out bribery and corruption risks in the operational areas. “Corruption risk assessment shall include identification and analysis of the bribery and corruption risks that an entity faces in its operations,” the AG said. Managers will have to ensure there is commitment from the top leadership to abide by the procedures. If approved, entities will be required to appoint a senior officer responsible for overseeing the implementation of the graft prevention procedures. The arrangement will be required to be in a way that employees of all cadres are involved in preventing bribery. Managers have to state mechanism of receiving, recording, processing, and disseminating reports for appropriate action and feedback. “The procedures shall take into account fair administrative action,” the implementation guidelines read. Entities will also be expected to provide measures for protection of whistleblowers, informants, and witnesses. Organisations will thus have to state their scale of business  — the number of employees, gross annual turnover, exchequer allocation; geographical spread of operations. They will also state nature of business — service or production orientation; carrying on business as a monopoly or otherwise. Entities will also spell the risk of bribery and corruption inherent in its operations and its origins — local or foreign, among other attributes. Subsidiaries, the draft reads, can adopt those of their parent entity while those operating as joint ventures will have each treated as a separate entity. “A local entity that establishes branches for purposes of its operations shall be responsible for ensuring compliance, irrespective of whether the branch or branches operate independently or semi-autonomously,” the regulations read. “An entity that is a franchisee of another entity, whether local or foreign, shall be responsible for establishing its own procedures.” This would be irrespective of whether the franchisor has established its own procedures or for the franchise network. “An entity which operates on a virtual platform shall demonstrate compliance on the platform in which it operates,” the proposed rules read. A report of bribery, the regulations read, will include date and time of bribery incident; name of complainant (in case of any), and particulars of allegation. Reports will also have to show the location, names of parties involved, value and nature of advantage involved – including how the same was transacted. The rules provide that the EACC will maintain a record of all reports made in its quarterly report and state action taken. “The commission shall ensure strict confidentiality when receiving any report of instances of bribery.”