Contractors and suppliers can now breathe a sigh of relief as the Nairobi County embarks to clear more than Sh3.1 billion of its pending bills. The county had been facing budget stalemate after former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko refused to sign warrants to give a green light to the controller of budget to release the funds. Sonko also moved to court blocking the implementation of the FY 2020-21 Sh37.5 billion budget. However, County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura on Thursday said the court allowed the county to enter into consent over the implementation of the budget. "The county has begun the process of paying its service providers. The funds are there and it is now just a matter of organising the records and the order of who will be paid first," he said. This year, Sh3 billion had been set aside for unpaid payments owed to contractors and suppliers. Mutura revealed that after he signed the governor's warrant last month and got into a conditional arrangement with concerned parties to allow some funds to be spent to avoid further paralysis of county operations. However, the court gave an allowance that some of the budget be used after agreeing a consent to have all the court cases withdrawn. He also confirmed that all county staff have been paid their salaries. County Assembly Budget, Finance and Appropriation Committee Chairman Robert Mbatia told the Star that the Treasury will be in charge of paying the pending bills so as to promote transparency. "Everything will be done in broad light with transparency unlike before. We are sure Treasury will do it without favouritism or manipulation," he said. Last year, a report by the Auditor General on pending bills highlighted that Nairobi has Sh10.67 billion eligible pending bills. Consequently, City Hall has only paid Sh1.1 billion to contractors and suppliers and Sh3 billion to the Kenya Revenue Authority in value-added tax and PAYE arrears. In FY 2019-20, before Sonko transferred the four functions to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, City Hall had set aside Sh4 billion to clear the bills. However, contractors, suppliers and Small and Medium Enterprises were not paid despite President Uhuru Kenyatta's directive that they should be paid to cushion them from the effects of Covid-19. City Hall owed them close to Sh700 million which is slightly less than what is owed to contractors. Last year in June, the county assembly had approved a Sh3.6 billion supplementary budget to settle pending bills but no contractors were paid. This was despite a directive from the National Treasury for those with pending bills of Sh5 million and below to be given priority. Garbage contractors who had downed their tools due to unpaid arrears from March last year are owed close to Sh1 billion. Their go-slow has seen filth piling up in various estates with resident urging the NMS to get rid of the uncollected waste. Close to 80 per cent of the solid waste in Nairobi is collected by private firms contracted by City hall.