Somalia should desist from dragging Kenya into their domestic issues, Government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna has said. Addressing the media on Thursday, Oguna said Kenya will not accept to be drawn into Somalia's internal politics. Oguna said the events being witnessed around Mandera have their genesis on domestic political activities in Somalia. "The recurrent confrontations between these forces, not only cause fear and panic amongst our people at the border town of Mandera but also do lead to the displacement of civilians from Gedo region in Somalia," he said. He also rejected allegations that its military in Somalia engages in illegal sugar and charcoal trade. "They live in fox holes. At what time do you leave fox holes to go and trade in charcoal?" he said. He urged all leaders in Somalia to create an environment that will facilitate the resolution of the conflict through dialogue. "This is critical in fostering a united front in countering militants who have, for a long time, destabilised peace and security in Somalia and the region," he said. "Allegations by Somalia that Kenya is sponsoring and harbouring militia with the objective of destabilizing Somalia are not based on any merit. " Oguna said Kenyans are known for their generosity and hospitality. "Due to this, it is here that most Somalis run to whenever violence breaks out in their country. They still do cross over into Kenya to seek certain services," he said. "It would therefore be counter-productive for Kenya to want to destabilize the very people it offers a refuge." He said that the accusations by Somali are diversionary and intended to redirect the attention of the Somali people away from real issues on the ground. "We are a peace-loving people, in a country governed by the rule of law and guided by the principle of non-interference," he said. On Monday, a fact-finding mission established by the Intergovernmental Authority on Development dismissed allegations from the Somalia government that Kenya was infringing on its sovereignty. According to the mission, the decision by the government of Somalia to sever diplomatic relations with Kenya was uncalled for and has negatively impacted the lives of Somali nationals who seek relief and amenities in Kenya. Kenya said that it is now evident that the simulated crisis being contrived by Somalia does not advance IGAD’s vision for achieving peace, prosperity, and regional integration. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that the impartial report will settle the matter, adding that Kenya will not be drawn into “this reckless campaign whose sole intent remains the creation of artificial fissures for parochial and domestic political ends at the expense of regional peace and security.”