National Water Harvesting and Storage chairman Erick Okeyo has said the implementation of the Sh25 billion Koru-Soin Dam is on course with land acquisition ongoing. The project is expected to take between two and three years to be complete. The approximate cost for the dam and water supply components is Sh25 billion, while land compensation costs Sh2 billion. Okeyo said Sh2 billion had been allocated to the National Land Commission (NLC) to compensate landowners. He said a total of 360 parcels will be acquired for the project. Some 230 of the parcels are in Kisumu and the rest in Kericho. Okeyo urged residents to support the project. “Aside from controlling flood, it will provide adequate water for irrigation farming geared towards achieving food security,” he said. “The multi-purpose dam is a national government project hence the authority found it fit to request the commissioner to drive the implementation team,” he said. The authority has met various stakeholders that include Nema and the National Administration, Water Resource Management Authority, NLC and the Lake Victoria South Waterworks Development Agency. Water PS Joseph Irungu on Friday last week urged residents who will be affected by the project not to derail the its implementation by overpricing their land for compensation. He said locals should support the dam which targets to addresses the perennial flooding problem in Nyando and Muhoroni subcounties. The dam, Irungu said, will start once they have acquired land from the owners. He said the NLC is on the ground to secure land for the project. “We are now getting land from the residents. They have already given offers. Of course, we have to get land through legal means,” he said. The PS asked MPs Onyango Koyoo (Muhoroni) and Jared Okello (Nyando) to rally their constituents to fully support the multi-billion project so it can quickly start. Okello and Koyoo said the dam is the best way to control the perennial floods that have displaced thousands of people and caused massive property damage. Koyoo assured residents their views would be taken into consideration. He appealed to the community to fully own the project and not hold up its construction. With the dam project, the government will construct Sh2 billion gravity system from Koru-Soin with the targeted area of 22,000 hectors of land to be put under irrigation. The gravity system will help eliminate the costly pumping system and control flood problem. It will benefit more than 100,000 households at an estimated cost of Sh2 billion. The proposed Soin-Koru Dam is a Vision 2030 flagship project located in Kisumu and Kericho counties along River Nyando. River Nyando is one of the seven major rivers within the Lake Victoria Basin originating from the upper highland areas. It drains into Lake Victoria. The project’s components include the Rockfill dam of 54 meters height, a storage capacity of 93.7MM cubic, water treatment works of 71.279 meters cubic per day. Others include trunk distribution pipelines of diameters 1200-150 millimetres and the total length of 122.54 kilometres as well as 12 number storage tanks of the total capacity of 23.400 meters. One of the major benefits of the project will be to control the perennial floods caused by River Nyando bursting its banks thereby affecting residents in Kisumu county, especially in Nyando, Muhoroni, and Nyakach constituencies. Flooding in lower reaches of Kano plains displaces more than 5,000 people yearly, costing about Sh50 million due to damages and further Sh30 million for rehabilitation measures. Another benefit is the water supply for domestic, irrigation, and institutional use as all the residents near the dam and downstream will be served with water to supplement the existing facilities. Kisumu city and the emerging towns of Ahero, Chemelil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Koru, Awasi, Koitaburot, Katito, Masogo, and Ombeyi will be the major beneficiaries. The other benefits include increased area under irrigation schemes in and around Ahero and West Kano Irrigation schemes from 1,800 hectares to 5,370 and also power generation of approximately 2.5 megawatts. This will be used to pump water to higher areas while excess power sold to Kenya Power as this will translate to cheaper water and additional income for the two counties.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris