Teachers Service Commission has been accused of killing its mother, the Kenya National Union of Teachers. At the helm of the commission is Nancy Njeri Macharia. The latest to hit out at the TSC is ODM leader Raila Odinga, who six days ago launched a scathing attack on the commission. "Through a series of intentional actions, the TSC has disabled and is now en route to killing Knut," Raila said in a strong-worded statement. "The teachers may have been subdued and gone silent as a monumental movement they built from scratch since 1957, and which they took pride in, is brought to its knees. But they are certainly not happy." Siaya Senator James Orengo, a close Raila ally, on Saturday urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and save Knut from TSC. Since the battle between Knut and the TSC began in 2018, the membership of the union has shrunk from a high of 187,000 to 23,000. A series of disagreement on the promotion of teachers, transfer and registration  are behind the legal battle between TSC and Knut. Knut secretary general Wilson Sossion told the Star in an interview that by January, the union membership stood at less than 20,000. In October, senators accused the teachers' employer of attempting to kill the teaching profession through constant meddling in the affairs of the unions. Former doctors’ union secretary general Ouma Oluga in 2019 termed Macharia “too toxic on TSC’s relationship with Knut”. Born in 1963, Macharia has risen through the ranks from the classroom to be the teachers’ employer. She is known for dealing with teachers’ issues with an iron fist, and confronting unions heads on. It is during her tenure that Sossion and Kuppet chairman Omboko Milembawere deregistered as teachers. Macharia also introduced the delocalisation policy, which was opposed by Knut. She graduated with a Bachelors Degree in Education (English and Literature) in 1987 from Kenyatta University. Macharia taught at Kahuhia Girls’ Secondary School in Murang’a and was promoted to deputy principal Kianderi Secondary School in 1992. She quit to join the TSC as a staffing officer and rose to teacher management director. She holds a Master of Education (Policy and Management) degree from Bristol University, UK (2002). In 2015, she succeeded Gabriel Lengoibon, becoming the first female TSC boss. She has worked in the education sector for 29 years. Her competencies include corporate governance, public procurement, policy formation, ICT, proactive management and business excellence models, among others. She is a member of the Kenya Association of Public Administration Management and Institute of Directors. In February last year, Northeastern leaders called for her removal following the transfer of non-local teachers from the area. This was after TSC transferred all non-local teachers in Garissa following targeted terror attacks.