Kirinyaga MCAs have finally vetted six members of the county public service board. The board has operated for one and a half years without the personnel. The nominees were vetted on Thursday after their names were presented to the county assembly last month by Governor Ann Waiguru. One of them becomes secretary to the board while others will serve as members. The six are Newton Njenga, who will serve as secretary, and members Raymond Karinga, Dr Catherine Karimi, Patrick Matu, Esther Wanjiru and Leah Wanjeri. At a special sitting on Thursday evening, majority leader Kamau Murango praised the nominees for having met the threshold to serve in the board. “They bring in expertise that will help streamline our county’s human resource. The assembly has banked on them to come up with long lasting solutions to problems that have choked the county’s workforce.” Murango urged the members to hit the ground running as soon as they get their employment letters. The immediate tasks they face include renewal of contracts for ECD teachers and casual drivers as well as aligning payment issues for more than 70 medical officers who were reinstated and who have been working without pay. He called on Parliament to amend the county government Act that directs members qualified to serve in the board to possess a degree and have over five work experience. He said the provision bars a lot of youths from holding such positions regardless of their competence. Baragwi MCA David Mathenge challenged his colleagues in other counties to avoid passing what he termed as retrogressive laws that work against non-locals. He cited Kiambu County Assembly which last year passed a law that gives preference to locals in employment. “Let us not only pass laws that benefit our county residents but all Kenyans and which seek to strengthen the unity of all citizens.” “For example in this exercise, we absorbed one of their (Kiambu) residents who now is the secretary to this board. There was no need to lock out a competent person.” Nominated MCA Daisy Githinji noted that all members had vast experience, and had exhibited high academic qualification and integrity in serving at the board. Mutira ward representative Kinyua Wangui regretted that the board had existed for more than a year without personnel, which subjected the county government in danger of being dissolved. He further advised the incoming members to utilise the remaining time to recover what has been lost. Nyangati Ward Rep Samuel Maina praised the team for showing a deep understanding of not only their job descriptions but the county as well. Tebere’s Gudson Muchina noted the board was gender balanced, had youths and representatives from different wards. Nominated MCA Joy Lisa Njagi expressed her excitement after two youths were brought on board. The assembly's move is a step into the right direction that a good working relationship continues to exist between the county executive and the assembly.