Parents and learners have protested the transfer of teachers from Ijara and Fafi subcounties of Garissa to perceived safer regions. The Teachers Service Commission has redeployed about 20 newly recruited non-local teachers that were posted to the two areas. The move has sparked protests from locals who took to the streets on Monday demanding the cancellation of the transfers. In January last year, TSC redeployed most non-local teachers in Garissa following the killing of three tutors in a terror attack at Kamuthey. School children and their parents in Bura held demonstrations and asked the government to cancel all transfers, saying the move will jeopardise their future. The learners chanted "haki yetu" alongside their parents as they protested. “We came to the streets with our children because we are angered by what the government is doing. Are we not Kenyans? Don’t our children deserve quality education?” asked Mustafa Khalid. He said the government should strengthen security instead of transferring teachers to other areas. He said such redeployments will negatively impact on the quality of education that their children get. Fafi politician Mohamed Diis Shafat demanded to know who ordered the transfer of teachers, saying there were no security threats in the area. Shafat has expressed interest in vying for the Fafi parliamentary seat in 2022. “These teachers were transferred a week after they were posted. Who gives such kind of orders? Every Kenyan has a right to quality education and we will not accept such a move,” Shafat told the Star. Kenya National Union of Teachers executive secretary for Garissa Abdirizack Hussein said they will take up the matter with a view to finding a solution. He said the redeployment might have a devastating impact, arguing that children left without education might easily fall prey to militant groups. “Why are you recruiting these teachers if you will redeploy them immediately? This is just taking these institutions as a recruitment bureau,” Hussein said. The unionist said the government should strengthen security so everyone can feel safe and work in the area.  Edited by P.O