After renewing his stay at AFC Leopards for an additional two seasons, Jaffari Owiti says the distractions arising from contract negotiations are behind him and he is now fully focused on helping the team to clinch the title this season. The winger, who joined Leopards in 2017, committed to extend his stay at the den for the next two years alongside the club's skipper Robinson Kamura and right back Yusuf Mainge. Owiti, who is yet to break the deadlock this season admitted that the contract talks had impeded him from giving one hundred percent on the pitch but he has pledged to step up after putting pen on paper. The former Chemelil Sugar winger believes the decision by the management to tie them down on longer contracts will bring stability in the playing unit and boost their chances of toasting the diadem at the end of the season. "Now that negotiations are over, I can fully concentrate on playing and help the team claim the title. It is too early to write us off  as we have more than 20 rounds remaining. We began well but veered off in the last two rounds but I believe we will recover and muscle for the title. Going by the quality we have in the team, then I can confidently say we are favourites to win the title," he said Besides assisting Leopards to end their more than two-decade wait for the league crown,the former national U23, Emerging Stars winger said the deal will go a long way in helping him achieve his individual target of scoring more than ten goals. "As a forward, my job is to score and provide assists and now that I am part of the club's future, I hope to double my efforts and hit my personal targets," he added. Kamura joined Ingwe from Mathare United  in 2017 and was a key member of the squad that lifted the 2017 FKF Shield Cup. He was handed the armband in 2018 after Duncan Otieno left for Zambian champions Nkana FC. On the other hand, Mainge arrived at the club in 2018 and for the first time, he has had consistent playing time this season after sharpening his skills during his six-month loan stint with Slovakia's FK Porhonie.