Education CS George Magoha on Wednesday scolded the media for its coverage of the Covid-19 situation in schools. Magoha accused the fourth estate of not being objective in its coverage. Speaking at a Nairobi hotel while meeting education stakeholders Magoha said the media was only focusing on the negative side while not highlighting the gains that have been made. As a result, the CS said no media or parents will be allowed in schools. He said this will give learners across the country ample time to focus without many distractions. Magoha said he has reached a point where he has pulled back because he no longer trusts the media. He said the media was leaking top-secret documents that are yet to be finalised. "I have pulled back because I no longer understand the methods you use to scoop information that is not ready. When we tell you to wait please do not try to get what is not yet cooked," he said. "...my weakness is to tell you the truth so that we do not argue about it. You even have the audacity to draw funny cartoons about me but I want to let you know that being a public servant I can take all the arrows because I am very strong," he added. Magoha said the government has done a lot of things to ensure the education system works well for all learners. "Don't you think the government is doing what it has that it should do for our beloved children? That is not to mention the medical scheme for all children in secondary schools covered by NHIF at a price of Sh4 billion," he said. "This information is with you because we have given it to you separately in the past. So if you look at your database you will find that you have this information, kindly let us give credit to the government where it is deserved," he added. Magoha said for instance the ministry is just about to wind up the  CBC Task Force but some journalists have already snooped around reporting on things that are yet to be finalised. "That is so unfair for people in your profession to report on matters that have not been finalised. Nobody is perfect and I should not be demonised because I am not looking for a job but just serving the children," agitated Magoha said. With regards to social distancing in schools, Magoha admitted that it was a challenge for schools to achieve it. He said many public schools are overpopulated but the government is doing all it can to ensure that the laid down covid-19 protocols are observed. Magoha said as a result, currently is is impractical for schools to maintain social distance in classrooms, compounds and boarding houses. "What is the best option, is it to have the children transferred to other schools or try to maintain other protocols minus social distance?," he posed. The CS said the government is doing all it can to ensure smooth learning resumes despite the prevailing challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic.