Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed has exuded confidence that Kenya will secure the hosting rights for 2025 World Athletics Championships after Athletics Kenya recently placed a bid for the event. Speaking in Eldoret while inspecting the progress of Kipchoge Keino Stadium, which is currently under construction, Amina said the country boasts the capacity to host the championships after successfully hosting events of that nature in the past. “We have a very good chance to win the bid to host the World Athletics Championships. We had the World Under 18 Championships in 2017 that proved we can host a big event. "This year, we will be hosting the World Under-20 Athletics Championships. We also have the World Safari Rally Championships as well as the second Continental Tour. Therefore, we stand a very good chance to win because we are a well-known in hosting world sports events,” said Amina. Amina observed that people across the world savour the opportunity to visit Kenya  because of the humble nature of its people and the conducive environment the country provides for competition. Amina further said the country has enough quality facilities for track and field events. “We also have enough facilities that will allow them to compete freely, safely and securely. As a country, we all have their support,” added Amina. Meanwhile, the CS lauded the new Anti-doping law that came into force in December 2020, saying it was long overdue. “I can tell you that it has been long overdue. And I still remember last year in Poland when I raised the whole issue of ecosystem in fight against doping. I made it very clear that coaches, managers and doctors must be treated with the same measures the athlete is being treated to. "I am happy it was accepted and I actually got good response from the cabinet and now we have it as the law that makes it clear that everybody is responsible,” explained Amina. She sent a stern warning to athletes, reminding them that they wouldn't be allowed to get away with the vice, adding that those found culpable of exposing budding athletes to drugs would face the full wrath of the law. “It is a very exciting time for this country and we don’t want to go the way some countries have gone with doping where you are actually banned for long period of time. "The whole team is punished because of the mistakes of a few individuals.