@robertomollo3 Aspirants eyeing Homa Bay gubernatorial position have been told to stop bragging about securing ODM ticket ahead of the party nominations. County ODM organising secretary Peter Kaluma on Thursday expressed concern that some aspirants are telling their opponents that they know how to acquire the party ticket. Kaluma said such utterances threaten and intimidate other hopefuls who also want to participate in the nominations. ODM had announced that it will conduct credible party nominations and issue winners with certificates. But speaking in Sero village in his Homa Bay Town constituency during the burial of Lucy Adhiambo—the wife of Homa Bay Central MCA Julius Nyambok—Kaluma said the aspirants are lying to residents. He said they agreed during the party meeting that only nomination winners will get certificates. “A Homa Bay gubernatorial aspirant who is chest-thumping he or she has been guaranteed the ODM ticket is not only doing harm to opponents but also spoiling for the party. Such propaganda shouldn’t be listened to,” Kaluma said. The MP warned fellow politicians against the feeling that they are more important in the orange party than other members. He gave an example of ODM national chairman John Mbadi who struggled in his efforts to retain Suba South parliamentary seat in the 2017 election. “Mbadi would not have been an MP today had we not sought legal redress on discontent which marred ODM nomination in his constituency,” he said. “Let people stop thinking that they are more equal than others in ODM.” The MP said he will support Homa Bay county secretary Isaiah Ogwe during the party nominations. “I am giving a direction to Homa Bay Town constituents that Ogwe is our candidate. We will walk with him to woo votes from other constituencies,” he said. Ogwe was present at the ceremony. He said he will seek the ODM ticket. He said his success will depend on the residents’ votes. “My ticket will come from votes cast by residents of Homa Bay. I need your support,” Ogwe said. The gubernatorial seat has attracted a number of aspirants, including Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, ODM national chairman John Mbadi and businessman Jared Otieno. Others are Senator Moses Kajwang, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko and Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori.