Is there a push to have ODM sign a formal post-election cooperation pact with Jubilee? Sources whisper to Corridors that Jubilee wants ODM to sign the pact to give their working arrangement backing in law. What has necessitated the new push is the need for ODM to nominate a person who will deputise Nairobi Governor-designate Anne Kananu (pictured). However, the fear is that such a deal would give ODM a lot of political baggage. Why? It comes at a time ODM's adversaries claim they must equally share in the Jubilee 'failures' and cannot use unfulfilled promises as a campaign platform in the 2022 presidential contest. Campaigns are back with a bang and this time proving a hard nut to crack owing to the high stakes involved. So rough is the competition that even those who have traditionally shied away from playing dirty appear to be joining the fray. A politician who has been against handouts as a means to drive mass following appears to be buying the idea, to survive. The man was spotted during his activities at the weekend shaking hands with his followers, only that they were not empty shakes. His handlers intimated to Corridors that the fellow is yet to unveil his financial war chest, specifically for that cause. And still on matters campaigns, the hype around a newly founded political outfit with residency at a posh estate may fizzle out soon as members fight over positions. Two groups are fighting for control of the outfit, threatening its future even before it takes root. One side believes that they have been with the supposed party leader long enough, hence, should be the ones calling the shots. They believe the newcomers have hijacked the entity, forcing the party’s leader to review his chances with it. Corridors is apprised that the man is still non-committal on using the outfit as a vehicle for his ambitions. A registrar of births and deaths at a subcounty in Nyanza is fleecing the poor by insisting they have to get affidavits from a certain law firm. The registrar insists the affidavits are mandatory in applying for a birth or death certificate. The senior officer, who has a penchant of invoking the name of a CS, collects Sh1,500 from the applicants. He dares those who complain to go report to authorities. The man has tormented the down-trodden - ignorant of the law - since he took over in 2019. The law says one only needs a birth notification to secure a birth certificate. Copies of parents' IDs signed and stamped by an assistant chief are sufficient for those born at home.  