Wildlife resources in Kenya have declined by 68 per cent over the last 40 years, a new report says. The State of Wildlife Economy in Africa report, a case study of Kenya by Africa Leadership University's School of Wildlife Conservation, says the decline has a negative impact on the economy. “Wildlife in Kenya has declined by an average of 68 per cent in the last 40 years, threatening the viability of the wildlife economy," the report says. Agriculture and tourism are the key drivers of the economy contributing 30 per cent and 12 per cent of GDP respectively and employing the majority of the population The report says Kenya needs to improve management of its wildlife resources to stem the decline and safeguard the flow of biodiversity and socio-economic benefits to the country. The report encourages more public and private investments in protected and conserved areas to improve biodiversity outcomes and support economic development. There are at least 7,500 plant species, 393 mammal species, 260 reptiles and amphibian species, 1,105 bird species and 769 fish species. Many of the species are globally significant, rare, endemic, endangered, and or threatened. The 2020 International Union for Conservation of Nature list of threatened species shows that Kenya has 456 threatened plant and animal species, with 75 protected through national and international law. Kenya has created an extensive network of protected and conserved areas to protect its species, including 23 national parks, 31 national reserves, four marine national parks, six marine national reserves and four sanctuaries. More than 60 per cent of Kenya's wildlife are in protected areas on community and private lands in the rangelands, making them important for future expansion of wildlife management areas. "Despite an extensive protected area network and heavy investment in wildlife conservation and management, there have been extreme and widespread losses of wildlife," the report says. Kenya has created 160 community and private conservancies covering 63,600, representing 11 per cent of the total land area. These conservancies host some of the most endangered species of global importance such as Grevy’s zebra and hirola, support livelihoods of over 707,460 households, and directly employ about 5,000 people. There are also 257 natural forests categorised as community forests, forest reserves and trust lands that cover 4.2 per cent of the total land area. These provide important habitat for wildlife and protect water and soil resources. Six protected areas have been designated natural World Heritage sites, while six have been designated Ramsar sites. 