Civil servants are resuming work Monday amid proposed reduced allowances and higher taxes. The government had in April last year introduced a Covid tax relief introduced to cushion Kenyans from the economic effects of Covid-19. But MPs in a special sitting late last month passed the Tax Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 sponsored by the National Assembly Finance and National Planning Committee chairperson Gladys Wanga, pushing Kenyans back to the pre-Covid tax regime. Effective this month, the Value Added Tax will move from 14 per cent to 16 per cent and income tax (Pay As You Earn) to 30 per cent, revoking the five per cent relief. The situation will be worse for salaried couples with the increased minimum taxation on wives. Net income for salaried couples will drop drastically because wives will now be taxed 10 per cent more. This is also the year the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) will be going for allowances paid to state and public officers in what the commission argued was a tactical move to address the runaway public wage bill. The SRC wants allowances trimmed to no more than 40 per cent of the employees’ basic pay. It targets to save Sh100 billion annually from allowances. The agency charged with the constitutional mandate to set salary and allowances for public servants indicates that almost half of the current wage bill – about 48 per cent - is made of allowances. Union of Kenya Civil Servants 1st deputy secretary general Jerry ole Kina warned against the move, saying they will be forced to work with other unions to mobilise workers to down tools if the proposal sees the light of day. “SRC does not have the monopoly of decisions. The Constitution is very clear, anything that is going to affect the lives of Kenyans should be consultative and subjected to public participation,” Kina said on the phone. “This time we are going to work with all other trade unions in this country and if it means paralysing this country, so be it. We are not going to take this lying down.” Kina said it is against the Employment Act to reduce workers pay. House allowance alone, according to SRC, accounts for 33 per cent of expenditure on allowances and 16 per cent of expenses on gross pay. Already, the Lyn Mengich-led SRC has published the draft guidelines and the proposal now awaits public participation before it is actualised through Cabinet approval and gazettement. “The SRC will continue to review and consolidate remunerative and facilitative allowances to make the proportion of basic pay to gross salary to be no less than 60 per cent,” the proposed guidelines read. The public wage bill has been increasing from Sh465 billion in 2012-13 to Sh615 billion in 2015-16, Sh664 billion in 2016-17, Sh733 billion in 2017-18 and Sh795 billion up to June 2019.    