A group of women on Monday held peaceful protests against the delay to arrest a suspect who defiled two girls in December in Magina, Lari subcounty, Kiambu. The suspect went into hiding soon after committing the crime. One of the two girls had been using special pipes to relieve herself but the pipe has finally been removed. The two, aged four years and six years, cannot be left at home alone as they need assistance in everything they do. Resident Virginia Wanjiru urged the police to keep in touch with the families of the two girls, saying the suspect has occasionally been seen loitering about in the area. "We suffer when we hear the rapist is seen walking in the village. We urge the police to follow up with him until they arrest him. He cannot go scot-free," she said. The mother of the four-year-old victim said the suspect called the two girls to his rental house, undressed them and defiled them. She says the suspect had told them not to tell anyone about what they did but they revealed later. "He had warned the girls not to tell anyone, but I noticed some change in walking style, I questioned my daughter," she says. "I was so shocked when she narrated the whole ordeal to me, but she told me not to tell anyone since the suspect will know and he will get angry." The girls were taken to Orthodox Dispensary in Kimende, where they were attended to before being referred to Lari Level 4 Hospital and later taken to Kijabe Hospital where a pipe was mounted on one of the two girls to assist her answer the call of nature. "They were defiled on December 3 last year. Almost a month from that time. However, they are in stable condition now, the pipe was removed, but we want justice. We want the suspect arrested," a resident said. Lari deputy police commander Joshua Opondo yesterday said the suspect ran away to an unknown place. He asked the members of the public to inform them once they see the suspect in the village as they claim so that they can arrest him. Opondo, however, said rape and defilement cases are very rare in the area but urged parents to watch over their children, especially when schools are closed and at the weekends.