Two Garissa residents have moved to court seeking to stop the transfer of chiefs and assistant chiefs as directed by the Interior ministry. Hassan Rage Abdi and Hamdi Mohammed from Lagdera constituency want the court to stop transfers of chiefs pending hearing of their case. “Pending inter-parties hearing, the court be pleased to suspend letters addressed to deputy county commanders Lagdera subcounty by the Garissa county commissioner and any preceding communication whatsoever requiring translocation of chiefs and assistants chiefs from their respective current offices of posts,” the application reads. They further want the court to stop the state from translocating the Kenyan-Somali (Auliyan) community and the chiefs and assistant chiefs living and based in settlements along Isiolo-Mogadishe-Wajir roads. The areas in question include Janju, Barquqe Garse, Bulo sublocation and Eldere, Tokojo, Hadun, Kambi Samaki locations in Garissa. It is alleged that the letter dated May 16, 2019 had stated that the joint regional security and intelligence committee resolved that chiefs who are operating in areas within the East region and answering to the Northeastern region should be relocated with immediate effect to their jurisdiction. “Another letter allegedly directed the deputy county commander to relocate the said chiefs and assistant chiefs from Isiolo county to their respective administrative units in Garissa county with immediate effect,” read court papers. According to court documents, the implications of the translocation of the chiefs from their posts as well as amenities will ultimately have an effect of backdoor alternation of the boundaries between the two counties - Garissa and Isiolo - to the detriment of resident of the settlements. The residents claim there was no public participation on the decision, which shall have the effect of exposing the residents to insecurity and raising tension. They have sued the CS Interior Fred Matiang'i and among those listed as interested parties are IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati and the NCIC chairperson. In his affidavit, Abdi says Matiang'i has arbitrarily, capriciously and whimsically ordered for the removal of all government personnel provision services to the residents of the locations. Edited by Henry Makori