Traders along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway in Kiambu and Nakuru counties have urged the government to inform them when it will start expanding it. Lari subcounty traders chairman Paul Ngugi on Monday said some of their members still operate along the road, though others have already relocated. Ngugi welcomed the move to expand the highway, covering 147km from Kamandura up to Mau Summit, but said that the government cannot do without traders. "We are happy to hear the highway will be expanded. It will open job opportunities for casual labourers, investors and improve movement," he said. Ngugi said those remaining behind will move out easily, hence all they want is to be informed of when to do so to pave the way for the project. He spoke at a public participation forum at Nyambare trading centre. Speaking at the same event, Lari MP Jonah Mburu on Monday thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration for considering to increase the number of lanes to six. "We all know that this road is very busy. It will come with so many benefits. We shall have cross-bridges, underpasses and junctions that will reduce cases of people hit by speeding vehicles," he said. The Kenya National Highways Authority has urged traders to move away from the marks it will put. It said the works will begin soon. Another 57km stretch from Kamandura passing to Maai Mahiu up to Naivasha will also be expanded. It will be a continuation of the expansion of the highway from James Gichuru up to Rironi area, where it ends at Kamandura junction. The MP asked Kenha and Kenya Rural Roads Authority to partner in implementing the projects. Also present at the forum were Lari deputy county commissioner Agnes Karoki, assistant county commissioners Caroline Chepkemoi (Lari Kirenga) and Geraldine Barasa (Kijabe), and MCA Joseph Karichu. Kenha director-general Peter Mundinia said the decision to expand the highway is due to its significance, saying it is used by more than six million people every day. He said the highway is part of the Northern Corridor as it is the only highway from Mombasa to neighbouring counties of Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and Eastern DR Congo. The project will be funded by the government, Meridian Company and Vinci Highways Company and it will be completed in three years. "We shall be holding such meetings in all subcounties, where this project will pass," Mundinia said. Karoki urged the youth who will get jobs under the project to conduct themselves well to avoid being sacked. She cautioned them against resigning to alcoholism and drug abuse, saying no employer would want addicts. The administrator also urged residents to support the war on alcoholism and drug abuse from home by speaking up and reporting cases.  