A Kisumu court has suspended the recently gazetted Draft Valuation Roll 2019 after property  owners  decried  higher property rates imposed by the county government. In the Draft Valuation Roll 2019 the rates have been increased by as high as 7,000 per cent. According to the document seen by the Star the property  owners will be subjected to rates of up to 7,275 per cent on freehold land while those on leased land will be subject to an increase of up to 5,343 per cent. Resident John Michael Obure went to court to suspend the Draft Valuation Roll 2019, noting that it was undertaken by a process that violates the law as no public participation was done. The plaintiff stated that unless his application was heard as a matter of urgency, the public shall be subjected to further costs of engaging in either objections thereto or to the expense of payments of the exorbitant property rates. “The Public shall suffer the consequences of exorbitant rates imposed by a process tainted with illegality which includes the consequential rise in the cost of living in the county of Kisumu and its residents' business competitiveness compared to other countries both neighbouring and beyond," read the court documents. Judge Antony Ombwayo granted the application and suspended the gazette notice pending hearing  and determination of the case. "I do find that the applicant has raised the issue of public participation, though the respondent has clarified and undertaken that no member of public will be prohibited from filling any objection the the draft valuation Bill by virtue of having paid the arrears. Public participation is a constitutional requirement and cannot be wished away", he said. "I do grant an order that the leave granted to operate as a suspension of gazette notice No 11063 published on the 24th December 2020 in the Kenya Gazzete Vo.CXXII No 235 and as a stay of all and any proceeding and processes arising therefrom pending the hearing and determination of the applicants application for judicial review". He ordered the applicant to file and serve a substantive notice of motion within three days and the respondent to file a reply with five days. The case will resume on February 24 when highlights on the submissions will be done.