Swarms of desert locusts have now invaded seven counties in parts of northern and Central Kenya. Food and Agriculture Organisation, a UN agency, has reported several immature swarms are arriving every day and spreading throughout northern and central areas. The locust watch update released on Monday showed that the swarms have now been seen in seven counties of Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit, Samburu, Laikipia, Isiolo and Meru. Only four counties had been infested by last week. “A few swarms are starting to mature. In the southeast, hopper bands are present near Taita Taveta and on the coast that could form swarms shortly,” FAO said. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said on Tuesday that the government is prepared to fight the desert locusts as they have enough chemicals and planes. “We are dealing with them as they come. We have a network of 600 ground scouts, who are intensively surveying for the desert locusts,” the PS said. Boga said that this year the government has about Sh1 billion to fight the desert locust upsurge. The money will be used to strengthen the country’s long-term capability, training of staff involved in the control process and for livelihood support. The UN has warned that as conditions remain dry in some areas, the swarms are expected to disperse throughout southern Ethiopia and north-central Kenya. “Any rainfall that occurs in the coming weeks will cause swarms to mature and lay eggs. Once they hatch, they will give rise to hopper bands during February and March,” FAO said. This week’s weather forecast from the Kenya Meteorological Department indicated that there will be unseasonal rains in western Kenya, which will intensify through the Rift Valley highlands and central Kenya. The forecast also showed that a few places around Lake Victoria, the Rift Valley highlands and in Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu counties will be hit by thunderstorms, while some parts of Turkana and Marsabit counties are likely to experience strong winds. FAO said aerial and ground control operations continue against highly mobile swarms in Ethiopia and Kenya, and hopper bands and mature swarms in northern Somalia. “All countries should maintain maximum efforts in conducting the necessary survey and control operations to reduce further migration and breeding,” said FAO. Infographic (data from FAO)