Change in health seeking behavior among Kenyans during the Covid-19 pandemic has made it difficult to get the latest statistics of new cervical cancer cases in the country. Experts have expressed concern that since the onset of the virus, most Kenyans have been shunning health facilities for fear of getting infected. January is cervical cancer awareness month. In Kenya, where HPV is the number one cause of cancer in women between the ages of 15 and 44, it is estimated that approximately 5,250 new cases are diagnosed annually. “Girls should come for the first pap smear as soon as it is discovered they are sexually active. Cervical cancer is not a death sentence, get hold of your life,” Consultant gynecologist at The Nairobi Hospital Prof Eunice Cheserem said. Cervical cancer is the leading cause of female cancer deaths in Kenya and is caused by the Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) that is easily preventable though vaccination. “Yeast infections do not cause cervical cancer. However, frequent infections pause a risk because they mean less protection,” Consultant gynecologist at The Nairobi Hospital Dr Koigi Kamau said. Kenya introduced the HPV vaccine in the country in October 2019 targeting 800,000 girls to protect them against the cancer causing virus. The vaccines, provided through support from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance aim to reach all girls aged 10 in two doses administered six months apart. But with the Covid disruptions, the country has managed to reach slightly above 360,000 girls. According to GAVI, the vaccine alliance, effective implementation and introduction of new vaccines into routine immunisation programmes requires collaboration to raise awareness and generate demand. “Mothers, grandmothers, daughters, wives – too many women’s lives in the poorest countries are cut short by the scourge of cervical cancer, and the greatest tragedy is that the vast majority of cases are entirely preventable via routine immunisation with HPV vaccine,” Gavi CEO Dr Seth Berkley said. Head of Immunisation Programmes Dr Collins Tabu told the Star that the virus containment measures put in place has contributed to the attainment of low numbers than had been anticipated. “It is largely because much as the vaccine is being offered in every health facility, the other aspect is that the targeted outreaches for the vaccine were to be conducted jointly with schools but schools were closed due to the pandemic,” Tabu said. Cervical cancer ranks fourth globally in both incidence and cancer related mortality among women. In Kenya, cancer of the cervix is the second most common kind of cancer in women aged 15 to 44 years after breast cancer. It kills nine women every day, about 3,000 every year, a lethalness only second to breast cancer.