The number of Kenyans who have succumbed to Covid-19 has risen to 1,686 after one more patient died on Monday. In a statement, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said 106 more people had tested positive for the virus from a sample size of 3,315, representing a positivity rate of 3.19 per cent. The caseload now stands at 96,908 from cumulative tests of 1,059,006 conducted so far. The CS, however, warned the numbers might surge in January before dropping again, largely attributed to the fact that Kenyans are coming out of the festive season. Most people threw caution to the wind, with containment measures not being adhered to. Many urban dwellers travelled upcountry, a move likely to fuel a surge in numbers in rural areas. "The reality is we can expect a bit of a surge in January, but hope it slows," Kagwe said. On Sunday, the President extended some of the containment measures, including the curfew hours, for another two months. In his Executive Order, Uhuru said whereas the national positivity rate continues to decline, the Covid-19 pandemic remains a threat to the health and livelihoods of Kenyans. “We must anticipate any situation and therefore that is why we have asked that the preparations for all sorts of isolation facilities in counties are all put in place in the event of anything like that happening,” Kagwe said. He said 184 patients had recovered, raising the recoveries to 79,257. O these, 131 were in the home-based care programme while 53 were discharged from hospitals. “Currently, there are 617 patients admitted in various health facilities countrywide and 2,964 on home-based isolation and care. Twenty-eight patients are in the intensive care unit, 13 of whom are on ventilator support and 12 on supplemental oxygen while three are on observation,” Kagwe said. The CS said 19 patients were separately on supplemental oxygen in general wards. Nairobi recorded 87 new cases followed by Uasin Gishu with five, Kiambu three, Busia, Kajiado and Mombasa two each, while Machakos, Makueni, Kericho, Meru and Kilifi had one case each. Edited by Henry Makori