Professor Andanje Mwisukha started out as a secondary school teacher then physical exercise trainer, before working his way up to be the registrar at Kenyatta University. But his grass-to-grace story does not earn him much praise and admiration from his students. Even in death, he is still loved and hated in equal measure. The don died on January 15 at a Nairobi hospital after a short illness. He was 59. He is survived by his two children and widow Fridah Indeche, a teacher at Githurai Primary School, Nairobi. Mwisukha executed his work with a strict interpretation of the rules and regulations of the university. He was a stickler for formality and this put him at loggerheads with those accused of transgressions. By virtue of his office, he handled numerous disciplinary cases and became the face of the institution in meting out penalties to non-compliant students and staff. For students who got caught up in riots, allegations of exam cheating or other crimes, Prof Mwisukha would be the one communicating to them their fate as decided by the university senate’s disciplinary team. He is also the one who handled fee defaulters. He was the face of expulsion, suspension and fines. He also barred some students from sitting exams. For this, he courted many enemies as evidenced by social posts by students who passed through his hands. He is not up to defend himself. Alex Achebe Waweru, for example, described how the professor kept him waiting when he had an issue he wanted to be sorted by him in his office. He said Mwisukha feigned ignorance of his presence and continued with his business, and sometimes getting deep into storying and passing time with friends. “...this man caused a lot of suffering to numerous comrades, I included...” Waweru wrote on his social media page. “...2018 wakati helb ilichelewa na alikuwa anajua hivo, tukajaribu kumwambia angoje itoke (In 2018 when Helb loan was delayed, we pleaded with him to give us more time [to clear fees])…the guy did not listen to us. He said hatatukipewa miaka hatutakuwa tumelipa fees.” Another former student named Kaliech Serikal seemed to have overcome his pain. He quipped: "May you rest prof. I have forgiven you." Millah Anyango, allegedly one of the professor's 'victims', said: "...He is widely [viewed as responsible] for ruining students' academic journeys through endless suspension and expulsion, even innocent ones. "...he [now] awaits God's disciplinary committee." Dominic Orwa said: "Those who hold these high-end public offices should strive to assist those seeking the [help] of those offices. "Professor had sought an audience with me and unconditionally expressed sympathy for what befell me then. To err is human..." Yet another former student calling herself Wa Wangare said: "He was the reason I prayed every day together with my mother. He suspended, discontinued and expelled thousands of future generations." But the university has described Mwisukha as a hardworking and committed academic who started from lower ranks and rose to the pinnacle of academic management at the institution. He supervised more than 35 masters and PhD students and published more than 50 papers in refereed journals and six books and chapters, the biography reads. "He has more than 100 research paper presentations at local and international conferences to his credit and served locally and internationally as an external examiner for undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in Physical Education, Recreation Management and Exercise Science." Mwisukha's requiem Mass is to be held at KU Catholic Church before his remains are transported to his rural home in Lugari, Kakamega county. He will be laid to rest on Saturday, January 30.