State House has steered clear of a letter by Mt Kenya MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto protesting their exclusion from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s meeting in Sagana on Saturday. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena declined to comment on the matter following questions fielded by journalists seeking the President’s response to the 11-page letter. “I will not be able to answer that question for now,” Dena said during a press briefing at Sagana State Lodge in Nyeri on Friday. Ruto allies, pitching their concerns as the President shifts base to Nyeri from Friday, cited the dire state of the economy, Ruto’s betrayal, and the President’s handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. They also lamented that the BBI had swept away Jubilee development plans under the Big Four agenda and further took issue with the President’s call to allow other communities to ascend to the presidency. The 41 lawmakers said they chose to raise the issues through the letter as they were not invited to the weekend meeting. President Kenyatta arrived at Sagana on Friday for his four-day engagements with the region which is restive following the heated 2022 succession politics and BBI referendum quest. But Dena, in her speech, addressed matters education – teen pregnancies and school fires; and government’s intervention to combat Covid-19 effects on the economy. Uhuru will hold a meeting with area leaders – invited - before embarking on a tour of complete and ongoing national government projects in Mt Kenya region, Dena said. State House said the meeting will discuss the Big 4 agenda, the Building Bridges Initiative, Curriculum Reforms, and the fight against Covid-19. “The closed door consultative meeting whose main agenda is development will be open to all invited Central Kenya leaders,” Dena said. “The President's engagements during the 4-day working visit have been planned in strict compliance with the Covid-19 containment protocols,” she added. She further stated the President’s commitment to safety of children in schools in the face of the rampant fire incidents reported across the country. “The President notes with great concern the increasing cases of arson in schools across the republic and would like to remind the perpetrators of the serious crimes that the National Police Service working with the Education ministry are under his firm instructions to deal decisively with anyone found culpable.” The President thanked parents who managed to take their children back to school at the beginning of the year despite the disruptions caused by Covid-19. “As the children settle in school after a long period of absence, the Head of State would like to assure all parents that the government is committed to ensuring that learning continues uninterrupted throughout the country,” Dena said. The President reiterated his directive to schools to readmit school girls who ‘regrettably fell pregnant during the long break’. “The President has issued instructions to the Education ministry to devise a mechanism for re-integrating them back into the school system," Dena said.  Edited by P.O