Top German model Anne Sophie has urged local celebrities to reach out to the less fortunate children through education sponsorship. Donating to Children’s Garden Home and School in Nairobi, she said celebrities need to support students from poor backgrounds to pursue higher learning. “We need to pool our resources to help needy children pursue their dreams. Children from poor background should be helped further after they complete high school education,” Sophie said. Sophie promised to mobilise her European colleagues in the industry to support needy children in the country. She has been in the industry for 10 years now and has modelled for Vogue, Celine and Vivienne Westwood. “We should use our positions in the society to help the less fortunate children,” she added. Sophie announced that she would be paying full scholarship for Aisha Mwajuma and Esther Njoki to pursue hospitality and teaching courses respectively in local colleges. Mwajuma and Njoki were brought up in Children’s Garden Home and School and are waiting to be admitted in college. Sophie expressed her love for Kenya and said she would be visiting often to give back to the society. “I used to train kids in horse riding and it will always be great for me to assist children, especially those from poor backgrounds, to pursue their dreams,” she said. The institution's director Moses Ndun’gu said any assistance would go a long way in helping underprivileged children in the society. “We have 200 who live at the home and 250 who come here and go back home in the evening,” he said. He said most of the children admitted were rescued from the surrounding slums of Kibera, Kawangware and Kangemi. Nasimiyu Barasa, an alumni from the home, appealed to well-wishers to support needy children. Barasa is a Criminology and Criminal Justice graduate from the University of Nairobi. “I could not have been where I am today were it not for well-wishers,” she said. Diana Muthoni, a beneficiary of the home studying Bachelor of Commerce at Kenyatta University, also appealed for sponsorship. “There are many children in the country who need support to pursue higher education. We appeal to those who come from privileged backgrounds to reach out to the less fortunate,” she said.