Leading gaming company Mozzart continues to provide support to Kenya’s healthcare, making numerous donations to different hospitals every week. Being part of its ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative named “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities”, the company donated Intensive Care Unit (ICU) medical equipment worth sh1.5 million to Dandora 2 Health Center in Nairobi. Donated equipment included hospital beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, incubators and bedside trolleys. Kimenye Richard, the Kasarani Sub County Ministry of Health representative said the equipment would go a long way in improving service delivery. “We are very glad for the support from Mozzart and appreciate what they are doing. The equipment will help us monitor mothers before and after they deliver and this is a big boost. We are really thankful,” he said, “Kasarani sub county is very vast - from Karioibangi to Kamulu and obviously there are gaps as far as health services are concerned. This gesture from Mozzart means a lot as we strive to give quality health services to the community and we will do our best to maintain the equipment. We will also ensure they are put to good use.” He added. George Omondi Owoth, the doctor in charge of the Dandora 2 Health Center also echoed Kimenye’s sentiments. “We thank Mozzart for the equipment. It has been our vision since 2014 to be one of the facilities in Nairobi that can offer quality and affordable health services to the people and this is now coming into a reality courtesy of Mozzart,” “Previously we used to refer patients who required critical services to other hospitals but now we have the capacity to deal with emergencies. Such equipment are very vital and we are very honored to receive them.” He added. June Jemutai, Mozzart’s CSR representative, reiterated the company’s commitment to supporting Kenyan communities especially in the midst of the Coronavirus pandemic. “Thank you for accepting our donations. We hope this equipment will help mothers, kids and all other patients. We have supported various hospitals and will continue to support our communities in different sectors.” She said. Between November 2020 and now, sixteen different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center and now Dandora 2 Health Center. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.