A major split has rocked President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Mt Kenya backyard that now threatens to scuttle the Building Bridges Initiative and the camaraderie with ODM leader Raila Odinga. Uhuru’s allies have claimed Deputy President William Ruto is the hand behind the political turmoil—including the letter by Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang'ata in which he warned that the proposed BBI referendum faces "spectacular defeat" in the region. But the letter has also triggered political suspicion in Raila’s camp that it could be testing ground by some influential individuals to completely abandon the BBI process. Schools reopened on Monday after nine months' closure as educators, parents and learners grappled with challenges of returning to school safely during the Covid-19 pandemic. Unlike in previous years, schools will not be starting a new academic year, instead, they will be working on recovering the time lost under tight timelines. The reopening of schools marks the beginning of the second term of the school calendar, which will end in mid-March. The delivery of the Covid-19 vaccine to Kenya could be delayed after the Indian government banned exports for “several months” until it vaccinates its vulnerable people. Kenya expected to receive the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine next month from the contracted manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India (SII). However, SII CEO Adar Poonawalla on Sunday said his company has been barred from exporting any shots until it supplies the Indian government with an initial 100 million doses. Impeached Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Monday got a reprieve in his quest to overturn his removal after the court barred the IEBC from conducting a by-election. Justice Antony Mrima suspended the special Gazette notice issued by the IEBC last month calling for a by-election to replace Sonko. The judge ruled the by-election is suspended pending the hearing and determination of the application by Sonko, who argues that procedures were violated, hence, the impeachment is null and void. Residents next year will be required to sort garbage into recyclable materials - metal, glass, plastic and paper. Organic garbage will be handled separately and burnt to generate electricity. Garbage collection will change from the current linear system - in which residents simply dump all garbage together - to a circular system. The aim is to Reduce, Reuse and Recycle - the 3Rs.