ODM leader Raila Odinga on Tuesday gave the clearest hint that his party will work with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee to mount a unified campaign for the presidency against William Ruto. Raila said Jubilee and ODM are now one thing adding that their strategy has nothing to do with the United Democratic Alliance that is associated with Ruto. The handshake partners have started the quest by rallying ODM and Jubilee youth leaders to work together to campaign for the Building Bridges Initiative. Part of the plan is to mobilize youths from the grassroots – starting with Nairobi, ostensibly to counter the growing wave of the “Hustler Movement”. The former PM alluded to the development during a meeting with hundreds of Jubilee and ODM youth leaders at Ufungamano House. Governors have explained why they will not pay striking health workers any extra coin. They say based on qualifications and duties, nurses and clinical officers are the best-paid professionals in counties and any further pay rise is untenable and will completely distort the payroll. The governors say they have acceded to all demands by the striking workers except higher allowances, which they reject outright. The governors say financial demands can only be considered in a new Collective Bargaining Agreement. Nurses and clinical officers in 34 counties went on strike on December 7 demanding higher allowances, adequate personal protective equipment, comprehensive medical insurance cover and an end to salary delays. Deputy President William Ruto and his allies are staring at punishment by the Jubilee Party for joining and advancing the interests of the United Democratic Party. Secretary General Raphael Tuju on Wednesday hinted that the lot could face penalty even as he downplayed threats by ANC MPs to impeach the DP for alleged insubordination. Tuju disclosed that he was waiting for the decision of the disciplinary committee for onward forwarding to the National Management Committee and the National Executive Council for a final decision. Tuju, however, said that the party has never discussed Ruto’s impeachment despite a fresh push by MPs allied to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. Deputy President William Ruto and his allies are staring at punishment by the Jubilee Party for joining and advancing the interests of the United Democratic Party. Secretary General Raphael Tuju on Wednesday hinted that the lot could face penalty even as he downplayed threats by ANC MPs to impeach the DP for alleged insubordination. Tuju disclosed that he was waiting for the decision of the disciplinary committee for onward forwarding to the National Management Committee and the National Executive Council for a final decision. Tuju, however, said that the party has never discussed Ruto’s impeachment despite a fresh push by MPs allied to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi. The Nairobi county revenue collection has improved by 25 per cent to Sh3.9 billion over the last six months, thanks to Kenya Revenue Authority. The county collected Sh3.1 billion over a similar period last year before KRA took over the revenue collection role. According to the monthly revenue analysis data seen by the Star, KRA collected Sh466.6 million in July, Sh454.9 million in August, Sh604.7 million in September, Sh1.05 billion in October, Sh502.5 million in November and Sh842.8 million in December. Revenue collection improved in most months compared to the previous year.