A police officer was on Tuesday night shot dead during a robbery incident at Landi Mawe area, Industrial Area, Nairobi. The police corporal attached to Industrial Police station identified as Mark Kiptui was seated with his girlfriend in his car when four gunmen confronted them demanding cash and other valuables. Police said this prompted a confrontation that saw Kiptui shot in the head and died on the spot. He was in civilian clothes at the time. Witnesses and police said adding he was not armed. And in the process, one of the gunmen shot and killed their accomplice. He was also shot in the head as he wrestled with the deceased. Police believe it was intentional given the way it was executed and probably they were targeting the officer for an unknown motive. The girlfriend who said the deceased officer was dropping her at the place was not injured. Nairobi police boss Rashid Yakub said the gang escaped soon after the shooting incident that happened at about 10 pm. “We have lost an officer but we don’t know what the motive was given how this incident happened. A team is investigating it,” he said. Yakub said the bodies were moved to the mortuary after the gang had escaped on foot to an unknown destination. Cases of armed robberies have been fluctuating in the city with police rushing to tame the trend. Two weeks ago, gunmen confronted a van escorting cash to a bank and robbed the crew of Sh3.5 million before escaping, and no arrest has been made so far. The gang is said to have left a lot of cash in the van after picking one box which was empty during the January 18 incident. They were targeting about Sh14 million that was on transit when they attacked the van off Mombasa Road near City Cabanas. The gang which escaped on a motorbike abandoned two rifles they had robbed from two police officers outside Kiambu hospital and escaped. Police say they are still investigating the incident and are pursuing good leads. The team investigating the incident has visited the scene of the robbery and picked surveillance footage that was captured moments before and after. The two police officers who were attacked were detained for grilling.