There is increased delay in cargo handling at the Port of Mombasa and this is hurting businesses, the Kenya Shippers Counci (SCEA)l said yesterday. They blamed this on lack of synergy between Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Railways Corporation. Importers, mainly manufacturers in Nairobi, have had their cargo consisting mostly of raw materials,take up to 21 days at the port, affecting factory operations. An increased number of ships are calling at the Port of Mombasa as international trade picks up after last year's interruption by the Covid-19 pandemic, the council said. By last week, there were 1,496 TEUs (Twenty-Foot equivalent Unit)–the approximate unit of measure of a container, awaiting rail evacuation to the Nairobi Inland Container Depot, with four vessels discharging 2,795 containers. “The delays affect production and inventory management of raw materials and products where some manufacturers have been forced to either scale down or close some production lines,” SCEA chief executive Gilbert Langat said yesterday. Last week, one shipping line issued an advisory over vessel delay at Port of Mombasa saying this averaged at between five and  seven days. According to SCEA, which represents importers, exporters, transporters and the logistic chain in the region, inefficiencies leading to delays may see an increase in freight rates and penalties by shipping lines. While the government last year came up with the Kenya Transport and Logistics Network (KTLN), bringing together KPA, Kenya Railways and Kenya Pipeline together, it has not started bearing fruits, SCEA said. The network is under the coordination of the Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC), with the aim of centralising and coordination of operations to improve services. “That is still in paper, not much has changed in the way these entities work,” Langat said, calling for involvement of the private sector in the network if it is to achieve its intended purpose. The council has challenged KPA and Kenya Railways to increase their collaboration and stop working as competing entities. To improve freight services, the shippers want Kenya Railways to increase the number of Standard Gauge Railway freight trains to at least 15, from the current average of eight. Kenya Railways however notes it operates an average 11 trains currently, with managing director Philip Mainga assuring the business community of stable SGR operations. KRC has re-commissioned 518 wagons which had been damaged during loading and offloading. "The wagons have been attended to and back to full operations enabling daily average supply to the port of above 400 wagons for loading per day," Mainga said. Of the 490 high sided wagons initially dedicated to conventional cargo, 282 have been converted to load containerised cargo adding to daily available fleet. Work is in progress to complete conversion of 208 more for additional utility on containers loading export goods. Kenya Railways is also building 330 wagons as part of its expansion plan for the cargo business. KPA head of corporate affairs Bernard Osero yesterday noted there was disruption of operations last year when Covid-19 hit the country. The port was among the first entities to be hit by Covid cases, which saw management adopt a work from home module with a reduced workforce on sight where staff worked on much smaller shifts. The delays caused by the disruption have however been dealt with, Osero said, adding that KPC is working closely with all port stakeholders including Kenya Railways to address any pending issues, and ensure smooth operations. “Some things may take time before the full impact is being felt but all major issues have been addressed. The key thing is we are collaborating with everyone to ensure the customer is happy,” Osero told the Star. 