 Claims of criminal fraud and wrangles over the ownership of a local firm contracted for the procurement of 500 ICU beds are at the centre of an about-turn by the state in the deal. Eric Gathogo, one of the  young entrepreneurs who had been identified by the state to make and supply  500 hospital beds has dismissed claims that he is a criminal. In an interview on Tuesday, Githogo, 26, said anyone can walk to a police station and check if there are any criminal records about him. “In law every Kenyan is perceived innocent until proven guilty and anyone can go find out if I am a criminal as purported,” Gathogo said. Presidential Delivery Unit secretary Andrew Wakahiu on Monday said the government could not proceed with the contract, claiming the state had since discovered that Gathogo is facing three cases related to fraud and obtaining money by false pretence. Wakahiu visited the young innovators after they caught the attention of President Uhuru Kenyatta in July last year with their locally assembled ICU beds. The officials say wrangles have erupted over the ownership of the firm. Uhuru had directed the purchase of  500 units at a cost of Sh65,000 each amounting to Sh32 million, a deal that has now left Gathogo and his partners Joseph Muhinja, 35 and Paul Wangaruro in debt. Gathogo said they followed all procedures required for the procurement and the process went silent as they failed to get a response from the PDU. “We have all the documentation that is required and I wrote many letters to Wakahiu, called him severally and also wrote short messages to him but I did not get any reply,” Gathogo said. He said the project should not have been pegged on him since he had partners and other youths who are supposed to benefit. “Since I am the elephant in the room, why are my partners being punished yet the company that we registered is genuine and cleared?" He said he would not have been issued with a certificate of good conduct had he been a criminal. Muhinja said the actions of their partner should not have appeared anywhere in the making of beds because he has not been charged in any court of law. “Before the PDU came to us, I am sure they did their due diligence and yet they offered us a chance to make the beds, months later we are told our partner is a criminal and that is why we cannot give you the job,” Muhinja said. He said there were no wrangles as claimed. Wangaruro said that there were no issues between them as partners and once a deal is made it should have been followed through since the government has mechanisms to advise the young people wherever they go wrong once they are offered a tender. “Since the President was willing to help the young people in Githunguri because clearly the project was not about us as partners, the project should have commenced so that the youths can benefit,” Wangaruro said. Leaders from Mt Kenya have expressed outrage at the PDU's about-turn, saying the move will backfire badly on the President in the wake of his push for support for the BBI referendum. Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba said she attempted to mediate but PDU officials refused to proceed with the deal. “I'm a very disappointed. After a gruelling five-hour mediation and discussion over the botched Covid-19 beds promised by the Presidential Delivery Unit to young men of Githunguri, they were left empty,” the MP said. She added, “Without any attached interest in the deal, I honestly offered to mediate but it turned out that the goose was already cooked along time ago and it aborted. All the head of PDU offered was arrogance, lies and non-committal promises including threatening one of the partners with arrest claiming he's a conman. Now I know why Uhuru Kenyatta is loosing the political goodwill of young people in Kiambu.”  Edited by P.O