Potato farmers are expected to earn more in coming months after six-potato-growing counties signed a deal to enforce the 50 kilo bag rule. This is aimed at ending decades of exploitation by brokers who have always promoted the use of extended bags. Governors from Nakuru, Nyandarua, Narok, Elgeyo Marakwet, Uasin Gishu and West Pokot counties agreed that all traders have to pack their produce in 50 kilo bags. They signed the deal in Naivasha on Wednesday where they met tp agree on how to force the regulation. Newly gazetted crop inspectors will have powers to confiscate, arrest and prosecute those contravening the rule. Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui called on the national government to assist in enforcing the new regulations. He called on the Ministry of agriculture to make sure that all county crops inspectors were gazetted to make it easier to enforce the laws. Kinyanjui said that the sector employed over one million families adding that the six counties would in the next one month come up with grading guidelines. “We are asking the state to make sure that potatoes coming from neighbouring countries of Uganda and Tanzania conform to the new regulations in terms of packaging,” he said. He called for the formation of a task-force to develop a structured framework and agricultural land policy that would transform the sector and increase potato production. “Anyone who contravenes any provision of the regulations commits an offence and is liable to a jail term or even a fine of Sh0.5m,” he said. Elgeyo Markwet Governor Alex Tolgos praised the courts for lifting an order that had barred the counties from implementing the packaging rule. Tolgos said counties will work jointly to fully implement the regulations and protect farmers who had been exploited for long. “We are keen to protect our farmers from brokers and we shall make sure that they get value for their produce,” he said. Nyandarua deputy Governor Cecelia Mbuthia said the county produced 33 percent of the potatoes consumed in the country but farmers had little to show for it. “Potato is the mainstay crop of many farmers in the country but unfortunately the focus has been on the tea, dairy and coffee sectors and there is a need to change that,” she said. Uasin Gishu deputy governor Daniel Chemno said farmers in Rift Valley who for years have relied on maize are keen to change to other crops like potatoes which have high financial value. 