Learners from six schools in Nyando on Monday resumed lessons in makeshift classrooms after the institutions were destroyed by floods that wreaked havoc in the area last year. Most buildings at Ogenya, Kandaria, Oseth and Nyamrundu primary schools were partially submerged following heavy rains and backflow from Lake Victoria. Kandaria and Ombaka secondary schools were also affected. Learners from Kandaria Mixed Secondary School have been relocated to Nduru Secondary, while pupils from Kandaria Primary School have been moved to Ugwe Primary School. Some of of those relocated began their lessons in makeshift tents at their new schools, while others sat on the grass with the sun directly hitting them because the makeshift classrooms had yet to be completed. Nyamrundu Primary School pupils reported to Odienya primary, while those from Ongeya went to Kanyagwal. Ombaka Secondary School Principal Motachi Momanyi said they started teaching from 8am in the makeshift structures. Only 50 per cent of the students had reported with the headteacher expressing hope all learners will report in the coming days. Momanyi said flooding caused by Lake Victoria backflow forced them out in January 2020 and that they have since been moving like nomads. "Our current school cannot be accessed unless we use a boat to get there. We relocated from the school on January 29 last year," he said. He said students were seriously affected because their homes were also flooded with some families relocating to far-off places. The principal said they need more toilets given the increased number of students. On Sunday, Kisumu county director of education Isaac Atebe said the relocation was a temporary measure taken by the ministry to aid in school re-opening. He said all health protocols will be observed, including wearing of face masks, availability of water and soaps for handwashing, and enforcement of social distancing. Atebe said each of the affected schools has been allocated funds to construct permanent structures. Each secondary school will get Sh10 million, while primary schools have been allocated Sh4 million each. “What we are doing as schools reopen are temporary measures. The schools are planning to construct permanent structures," he said. Ogenya Primary School parents constructed makeshift classrooms at a new site located 3km away from the institution. They said the move was to provide an alternative learning environment for the 700 pupils. Headteacher Stately Adoli said most of the necessities were already in place at the new site. There was water and soap for handwashing. He said learners began reporting to school from as early as 7am. "The only issue is the completion of this structure that the students are using as a classroom. I think the community is supposed to complete it. They had a shortage of materials and the power saw broke down. Some of the works will continue today," Adoli told the Star on Monday. However, there was no social distancing among the pupils who were sharing desks and squizzed in a hall-like classroom with only a rooftop. "At Ogenya primary, most pupils have reported and learning is ongoing despite classroom challenges. The few who have not made it today, we will go and flush them out from the villages so they can all report to school by Wednesday," Kanyagwal chief Boniface Nyadenje said. Across most schools in Kisumu, teachers were seen at the gates as early as 7am taking temperatures as students resumed. The learners were also directed to wash their hands before entering classrooms. In Arya Primary School, headteacher Wanjira Nehemiah said they have turned some rooms including halls and the library into classrooms to reduce congestion. The school has a population of 1,930 students. Each class will have between 50 and 60 students. "The pupils are happy to be back to school. The only challenge we are getting is the issue of the mask because some of the students are still forgetting and putting them at the chin but we remind them to properly wear them," Nehemiah said. At Pandpieri primary, learning took off to a smooth start albeit with challenges of observing social distance. The school headteacher Alex Diang'a said the situation was better compared to other schools. He said each desk was being shared by only two pupils. Diang'a said his headache was how to accommodate the 148 KCPE candidates. He said they were considering splitting the class and having some learn under a tree.  Edited by P.O