Lamu Island residents have raised concerns over possible disease outbreaks due to the many open sewers in its historic Old Town. They want Governor Fahim Twaha to replace the old drainage with modern system with closable septic vents. Many of the open drainage systems have existed since the pre-colonial period and are in bad shape. Locals and visitors have had to contend with the stench and unpleasant sight of the sewers. The county government has yet to address the issue despite complaints from residents. Lamu elder Ali Abdulrahman said the sewers are always spilling over into the streets and residential areas. The situation gets worse during the rainy season as run-off water carries sewage material all over the island. “We have seen stool on the streets and we have to pass through while holding tightly onto our noses. We wonder why they leave the sewers open knowing very well what they contain,” Abdulrahman said. Trader Shamte Aziz said the situation is a ticking time bomb especially if the sewage finds its way into food and water. “So far we have been lucky but I believe very soon we shall run out of luck. It is very easy for such sewers to contaminate water and food. Let the county government do something,” Aziz said. Lamu, which is also a major tourist destination is grappling with dirty beaches, leading to a decline in visitor numbers. This year, Lamu has recorded the lowest turnout of tourists both local and international putting a strain on the county’s revenue. The Lamu Od Town was listed as a Unesco World Heritage Site in 2001 in a move aimed at protecting its culture and heritage. However, it has been placed on the Unesco watchlist as being under threat from Westernisation and modernity. The town is a rich reservoir of unique and well-preserved cultures that depict the lives of Africans, Arabs and Indians who inhabited the region in past decades. The World Heritage Site listing requires that the Old Town maintains its originality. Former chairperson of the Lamu Tourism Association Ghalib Alwyn says all these factors have compounded matters for the tourism sector. “Open sewers, dirty beaches, the boda boda business, have all made things worse for the tourism industry here,” she said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris