Amani National Congress boss Musalia Mudavadi has warned against political intolerance as the country nears the 2022 election. Mudavadi said the type of politics witnessed in the country this week evokes memories of 2007 when the country found itself at the International Criminal Court (ICC). “The type of politics we have started seeing where people still throw stones...I want us all to condemn such barbaric act. I was at the Koffi Annan dialogue team, we went to ICC because of dirty politics," Mudavadi said. He added: “Let us not allow politicians to drive any Kenyan to the grave or to injure a fellow Kenyan.” The former Presidential candidate was speaking days after goons stoned ODM leader Raila Odinga’s convoy at Githurai 45 stage on Wednesday smashing windscreen of his chase car. The opposition chief was in a BBI sensitization tour of the populous Githurai Market. The following day, Deputy President William Ruto’s rally was disrupted by pro-BBI youths at Burma Market. Mudavadi also urged Kenyans to be wary of politicians out of touch with real issues and are only interested in their selfish interests. He called on Kenyans to avoid being used by the political class and instead choose wisely their leaders ahead of the 2022 elections. Electorates - he said - should shun leaders who offer no solution to the many problems facing the common man. The Nasa co-principal said a number of politicians are out to use Kenyans as a ladder to win political seats and abandon them after elections. Mudavadi added that Kenyans need to be extra vigilant and interrogate carefully the leaders whom they want to vote to avoid a repeat of past decisions which have turned to haunt the country. He was speaking on Friday during the burial of former Nairobi Mayor John King’ori Mwangi in Kamiti, Kiambu County. Divisive politics at a time the country is headed to the referendum and 2022 elections - he said - will hurt the economy more. The economy, he noted, requires a concerted effort by all leaders to come with practical ways of reviving it to help thousands of people who lost their jobs and are struggling to make ends meet. The ANC boss also urged the vote-rich Mt Kenya region to consider a leader who will ensure their businesses thrive. “Entrepreneurs are here (in Mt. Kenya), Mt. Kenya has prime entrepreneurs. If we have political or economic instability the region is the biggest loser,” he said. “We don’t have time to experiment with our politics.” Turning around the economy – he stated – will be his first agenda if his quest to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta is successful.