Many celebrities have overcome the pandemic to thrive this year. Take Diamond Platnumz, for example. The singer has performed on various stages as he campaigned for President John Magufuli. He was also praised for his outstanding performance at the African Day Benefit Concert. In short, money was still getting into his account in the middle of a pandemic. Kenyans also showed love for Sauti Sol, who released their 'MidNight Train' album mid-this year. Their virtual concert was watched by thousands of fans as the album was well received. Singer Mejja also made headlines with each song he did this year. All his singles and collabos for this year have been club bangers, including 'Utawezana' featuring Femi One. Well, these are just but a few celebrities who have been very successful this year, and here are the star we need to watch out for in 2021. Shaffie Weru Known for his role as a radio personality on Kiss FM, Shaffie Weru has been off air for about a year. The good news is that he confirmed in 2021 he will be going back on air. He has been working behind the scenes on Homeboyz radio. Abel Mutua Now known by the name 'Mkurugenzi', the actor has been telling interesting stories based on his personal experience on YouTube. His 'celebrity encounters' have also raised his following on social media. Mutua, who has made a comeback on his 'Anda Kava' comedy series, is set to continue with the same next year as it was on hold due to the pandemic. Zari Hassan's son, Raphael Raphael Ssemwanga is Zari Hassan and the late Ivan Ssemwanga's second born son. Late this year, he has been doing a couple of interviews to let fans know a little about him. He has a YouTube channel, which he plans to get income from. “I just talk about games but I will do a little bit of reality life after quarantine,” he said. The 16-year-old also wants to be a professional basketball player. Zari Hassan said Raphael is the one who wants to be the celebrity of the family. A young man to watch out for in 2021. Nadia Mukami The songstress released her 'African Popstar' EP this year and has been nominated in different music awards. Next year, she says, is about releasing international collaborations and an album. Mukami is also planning to expand her fashion house as she helps more people save money on her financial discipline Chama. Willis Raburu He made his debut into the music industry this year, and his song 'Kalale' blew up. This coming year, Raburu plans to do more collabos since he has already established himself as an artiste, mostly focusing on Gengetone, the sound that is not so new in town. Sol Generation Sol Generatrion signees Nviiri and Bensoul have been making waves in the music industry. They have also made their debut in the reality show 'Sol Family', where they've shared an inside look of their career and their personal lives as well. Word on the street is that Sol Generation is signing a new artiste next year, something we can only wait and see who it will be. Yasmeen Saiedi Popularly known as Maria, Yasmeen has graced people's screens on weekdays. The actress has also signed a deal with a food company this year and was seen on different advertisements. She recently scooped the award for 'Best Lead Actress' at the just-concluded Kalasha awards. She is slowly becoming an influencer and 2021 seems to look bigger and better for her. Gloria Kyallo A source told Word Is that come next year, Betty Kyallo's younger sister Gloria Kyallo will be launching herself as a Mental Health Ambassador and an infuencer. Gloria came to fame for being Betty's sister, who is a media personality and a businesswoman. Tanasha Donna Tanasha announced she is going to release an album in 2021. Early this year, she released her debut EP, 'Donna Tella'. This came after the release of her hit song 'Radio', and she has since released songs like 'Sawa' and 'Gere' featuring Diamond Platnumz. In 2021, she is set to release a collabo with Jamaican dancehall artiste Shenseea. She hinted that she is going to fly the artiste into the country for the video shoot.