Water PS Joseph Irungu on Wednesday applauded the ongoing works at Thwake Multipurpose Dam project. He expressed confidence that it will be implemented according to the set timelines. Speaking during a site tour of the project being implemented by the ministry, the PS noted that Thwake Multipurpose Water Development programme is a key flagship project. Its implementation will change lives of thousands of residents in Makueni, Kitui and parts of Machakos counties. He noted that the government has already rolled out the process of cleaning key water sources especially Nairobi River and others. The exercise, he added, will also be done downstream and involve the counties of Machakos, Makueni and Kitui. “We have already involved key stakeholders like the Nairobi Metropolitan Services, Ministry of Environment and the National Environment Management Authority to ensure that the clean-up exercise is expedited. We want to ensure that the water that will flow to Thwake Dam is clean,” the PS said. The government and the African Development Bank through the Ministry of Water, Sanitation and Irrigation are jointly funding the Thwake Multipurpose Water Development Programme Phase 1. “This project will hugely contribute to the achievement of the Big 4 agenda. I want to assure you of my commitment. It has key components such as irrigation, water supply and hydropower which will spur development in Makueni, Kitui and parts of Machakos,” he added. Irungu said they need collaboration among stakeholders, the community and local leadership for the project whose progress is currently at 46 per cent. The PS was accompanied by Water Secretary Samuel Alima, Makueni county commissioner Maalim Mohammed, Thwake Multipurpose Water Development Programme coordinator David Onyango, officials from the ministry and the contractor. Thwake Multipurpose Water Development Programme, once complete, will create thousands of jobs, spur emergence of small scale industries, boost healthcare and sanitation, ensure food security and irrigation in Makueni and Kitui counties. Already the ongoing civil works in phase one and related activities have created direct and indirect employment of more than 1,200 locals. The project will also improve sanitation and hygiene, hence minimising the threat of diseases among the rural inhabitants of Makueni, Kitui and Machakos counties. The first phase, which is currently on course, involves construction of an 80.5m high multi-purpose dam (688 million cubic meter storage capacity) and associated preliminary works needed to enable implementation of other three phases. Phase two will involve construction of hydropower and substation development expected to generate at least 20MW of installed capacity. The third phase will involve development of a water supply system to treat and distribute up to 150,000 cubic metres of treated water per day to millions of rural inhabitants of Kitui and Makueni counties and inhabitants of Konza City in Machakos county and its environs. The last stage of the project will see development of irrigation of up to 40,075 hectares of land in Kitui and Makueni counties. Edited by Henry Makori