Classifying Kenyans as either belonging to dynasties or a hustlers' movement is extremely dangerous, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu has said. Wambugu told journalists at his Nyeri office that he supports President Uhuru Kenyatta's remarks that the groupings were a recipe for chaos. The president spoke with Kikuyu radio stations on Monday. “The narratives must be fought by all means as the President said. I fully associate myself with his sentiments as it captures all that some of us have been propagating especially in rallying our people against certain political discourse‚” Wambugu said. The MP also expressed fears that the narrative will lead to attacks on properties of those perceived to be doing well in society. This is despite the fact that their assets are a result of hard work and sacrifices, he said. Wambugu said he was glad that even some clergy have condemned the narrative and have been urging their followers to avoid it. “The manner the dynasty-hustler debate is being carried out creates the sad element of us versus them that our opponents have for long pretended to fight in their opposition to the BBI,” the legislator said. “It is ironical that they claim to oppose the BBI on claims that it seeks to present us versus them case when they are doing the same with the dangerous talk of hustler versus dynasty. We rebuke these divisive politics and as the President urged our people against being blinded by a politician driven by personal and selfish desire,” he said. The lawmaker lauded the President for coming out clearly and disassociating BBI with the 2022 politics. “It is good that the President has clarified that we are not yet in the campaign stage for BBI, we are still at signature verification. Those saying the document is not popular in Kenya should wait till we get at the stage of campaigning for it. They will be shocked and embarrassed with their statistics.” This, he said, is what he has been arguing adding that is why he has never lobbied for anyone's 2022 candidature in his support for the BBI. Like the President, he urged residents to consider the larger benefits of BBI to the region and support it.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris