Over 107,000 students have dropped from schools in ten frontier counties due to Covid-19 pandemic, with fears that the numbers could rise due to ongoing drought and insecurity. According to the Frontier Counties Development Council (FCDC), the education sector has been hardest hit in the counties with close to 1.3m school going children remaining at home or in the fields. This emerged at the end of a two day retreat for governors from the ten counties in Enashipai Resort in Naivasha. Addressing the press, the chair of the council Ali Roba, who is also Mandera Governor, identified lack of teachers as the main challenge currently facing the education sector. Of the counties, Mandera is the most affected with 265,000 students out of class followed by Garissa (255,000), Wajir (237,000), Turkana (224,000) and Marsabit with over 94,000 students. “In the ten counties over 1,295,000 students are out of school while another 107,556 dropped from classes due to the ongoing pandemic,” he said. He revisited the move by the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to withdraw teachers from Mandera, Wajir and Garissa on security grounds as the biggest blow to them. “Currently we face a shortage of 3,010 teachers in primary schools and another 437 in secondary schools and we are asking the President to intervene on this,” he said. Flanked by fellow governors, Roba added that the ongoing drought had affected hundreds of families with fears that lives could be lost in the coming months. He said that they were currently feeling the pain from the dry spell adding that they faced some tough and challenging months before the on-set of long rains. “Our counties are actively trucking water to save people and animals and this requires extra funding that keeps water flowing through affected areas,” he said. On locust invasion, the governor added that the frontier counties were the hardest hit with the swarms leaving trails of destruction in farms and homes. He called on the Ministry of Devolution to extend food relief support to help plug the gaps in food security so as to complement efforts of respective county governments and partners. “We applaud efforts by the National Government through the Ministry of Agriculture and FAO in mitigating the impacts of the destructive pest,” he said. The council at the same time expressed its concern over deteriorating peace and pointed to Kapedo, Isiolo-Wajir and the Wajir-Garissa clashes as the recent cases. “We are witnessing increasing incidents of violent extremism and sighting of terror cells particularly in Mandera, Wajir and Garissa and we cannot allow this,” he said. Present during the retreat were Governors Mohamud Ali (Marsabit), Josephat Nanok (Turkana), Moses Lenool kulal (Samburu), Dhadho Godhana (Tana River) among others.