Private valuers have been empowered to enhance service delivery, Lands CS Farida Karoney has said. In a statement on Wednesday, Karoney said the move was meant to enhance efficiency and reduce the turnaround time for the return of valuation figures. “This is also meant to boost government revenue due to the wide reach of private valuers,” she said. Valuation of land in Kenya for purposes of calculating Stamp Duty payable has been a preserve of the Chief government valuer. The CS said the intensive titling programme by the government has seen a rise in land dealings, especially in the counties. “This increase has put a strain on personnel in the office of the Chief Government Valuer, causing inordinate delays and loss of revenue in some cases‚” Karoney said. She said the introduction of valuations by private valuers through the amendment of Section 10A of the Stamp Duty Act, Cap 480 provides an opportunity to enhance efficiency. Karoney said the move will also remedy the unfavourable business environment in this section of the land transaction process. She said the modalities for the appointment of private valuers by the Chief Government Valuer were developed through consultations between the Treasury and National Planning, the Ministry of Lands, and key stakeholders in the sector. The outcome was the publication of the Stamp Duty Valuation of Immovable Property Regulations 2020 on August 5, 2020. The regulations spell out the procedure for appointing private valuers, service level agreements between the Ministry of Lands regarding professionalism, timeliness, and fees payable by transferees for valuation. In line with the above regulations, 255 practising private valuers applied for appointment after advertisement by the Chief Government Valuer calling for applications. “The vetting process is complete and a list of successful applicants shall be available on the Ministry’s website by Friday, January 22, 2021,” she said. Karoney said the introduction of private valuers affords citizens and particularly property owners the right of choice. She said citizens are however encouraged to understand the provisions of the law to enable their informed decision-making. Karoney said the revised requisition for valuation for stamp duty form is downloadable and the list of accredited private valuers is accessible on the Ministry’s website. “The Ministry shall pursue continuous stakeholder engagements to address any issues of concern,” she said. Karoney clarified that the Government does not charge any fees for the valuation of stamp duty. However, those who elect private valuers will incur valuation costs as provided in the Valuers Act. She said the appointed valuers will be expected to observe professionalism in the conduct of their duties. Karoney said the Ministry is committed to efficient, accountable, and transparent service delivery. The CS said the move is part of the government's aggressive multi-sectoral business re-engineering process to stimulate the business environment in the country and improve the Nation’s doing business ranking. These programs include the ongoing digitalisation of land records and eventual migration to the National Land Information System for conducting land transactions, review of policies and legislation amongst others. The Stamp Duty Act is one of the statutes that was reviewed.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris