A political party has called on political leaders across the country to stop giving mixed messages and instead preach among Kenyans. Vitendo Na Sera party Secretary General Jared Oundo said the country is now divided with rising political temperatures that can lead to blood shed if not addressed immediately. Oundo said though framed as a struggle between the haves and the have nots, or the dynasties and the hustlers, the true differences and the bone of contention in the current political landscape is between people who want to retain the status quo and those desirous of change. “These people are using various tactics to communicate their message but unfortunately, these messages are being misinterpreted and are therefore breeding divisions as opposed to stoking intellectual dialogue about developing the country and moving forward as a united, peaceful nation,” said Oundo. He spoke in Kajiado County during their sensation meeting on Friday. The SG said currently, people are happy to embrace the dichotomy of hustlers vs. dynasties because this statement echoes deeply held and painfully experienced inequalities and injustices. “Some political leaders have in the past inherited their positions from parents or other relatives, and this is essentially locking leadership into the hands of a few to the detriment of all. This is where the angst and discontent exhibited by citizens bellowing “sisi ni mahustlers’ is coming from,” he said. Oundo added that although they may feel justified, and indeed, some particular families have dominated the country’s political landscape since independence, and because the current leadership is seemingly endorsing some individuals to carry the mantle of leadership in the 2022 elections, it is of absolute importance that Kenyans do not feel disenfranchised. “The country has engaged in ‘US vs. THEM’ politics in the past with disastrous results. The most recent of these incidences occurred during and after the 2007/8 elections and witnessed violence and destruction unimaginable previously and nightmare-inducing in those who directly experienced it. We cannot repeat the calamitous mistakes of our past,” said Oundo. The party boss said this division is also evident in those supporting and opposing the BBI, which is being viewed by some citizens as a means of entrenching power in the hands of a few politically connected individuals. “Kenya exhibits a glaring discrepancy in wealth as only a small percentage of the population is well off while the majority of the citizens live in poverty. This may make some Kenyans feel disenfranchised as they may feel like second class citizens in their own country,” said the party boss. He noted that situation is exacerbated when some people appear to want power to revolve around a few individuals and in the process, seemingly shut out people who do not have a privileged background in favour of a few powerful individuals. “In a nutshell, this reduces the country to a monarchy in the guise of a democracy. This latter aspect is what may be fueling the apparent discontent among some of the citizenry,” said Oundo. He lamented that in the past, the youth have played a significant role during political upheaval and it is imperative for them to desist from engaging in violence regardless of their political persuasions. “The youth desirous of retaining the status quo may be the ones demanding change tomorrow. And those proudly embracing the hustler tag may be part of the dynasty in the foreseeable future. Thus, young people ought to desist from engaging in any manner of violence, whether self-instigated or through influence by the politicians,” said Oundo. On her part, party acting women league Angela Ngumbi  said that as the next elections are fast approaching, it is critically important that politicians and citizens of goodwill work together to ensure that the country remains united and peaceful now, during the electioneering period and even after the elections. “This calls for sober consideration of ways of communicating each side’s policies while encouraging peaceful coexistence among Kenyans. Kenya is greater than any one of us and therefore, we should actively work to ensure its peaceful existence even while airing our different views," said Ngumbi. She added that there have been reports of some citizens, notably bodaboda riders torching people’s cars after minor altercations on the roads while identifying themselves as hustlers. “This is barbaric, uncalled for and unfortunate, and has to stop. The victims of these violent attacks are just other hardworking citizens struggling to make a living for themselves and their families. It is sad that young people, are engaging in violence and destruction of other people’s hard-earned property when they will be the next crop of property owners,” she said. 