The US has announced visa restrictions on the Tanzanian officials who undermined the credibility of the October 28, 2020, general elections. In a statement on Tuesday, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo the actions of the targeted officials subverted the electoral process, continuing the downward trajectory of the country’s democracy. “Election observers and civil society noted widespread irregularities as well as human rights abuses and violations before, during, and after the election…we emphasise that today’s actions are not directed at the Tanzanian people,” Pompeo said. The Secretary of State added that during the electioneering period, the opposition candidates were routinely disqualified, harassed, and arrested. “Significant and widespread voting irregularities, internet disruptions, intimidation of journalists, and violence by security forces made this election neither free nor fair.” Pompeo said that the civil society leaders remain under threat in the post-election period and that the opposition leaders have fled the country out of fear for their safety. At the same time, the government of Tanzania has been urged to reverse course and hold accountable those responsible for the flawed election, violence, and intimidation. “The United States will continue to closely follow developments in Tanzania and will not hesitate to take additional actions against individuals complicit in undermining democracy and violating human rights.” Also, Tanzanians who participated in the election peacefully and in good faith have been lauded, with the US adding that it will work together with all those committed to advancing democracy, human rights, and mutual prosperity. President John Pombe Magufuli secured his second term in office with 80 per cent of votes, but the outcome was dismissed by the main opposition party candidate Tundu Lissu. The authorities arrested Tundu Lissu, who was the Chadema presidential candidate for attempts to undermine peace. Later, Lissu left the country claiming that his life was in danger. Also, Chadema chairman Freeman Mbowe was detained, along with two other Chadema leaders, for planning violent protests, according to the police.