A political activist who served at the former ruling party Kanu office in Kabarnet town, Baringo Central,  for 14 years is crying out for help. George Kimurey, 43, from the remote Sesya village in Kituro says he has served as the party’s branch executive secretary since 2007. “I have helped to woo and register over 20,000 members and even won several trophies of excellence for the national party” Kimurey said on Saturday. The Kenya African National Union party is currently headed by Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, son of Kenya’s second President Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi. Kimurey, who holds a diploma in business management from Kenya Institute of Management, says his efforts to find a well-paying job were futile. “I then dedicated myself to serve Kanu wholeheartedly thinking that one day Moi’s son Gideon would assist boost my financial status,” he said. But, he said, since then his life has never changed. No has to come to his aid. He said some people are laughing at him for pretending to work for that long time in a political office that doesn’t seem to recognise or value him. “I have three children in secondary school and I no longer afford to pay their school fees. I have got nothing to sell after exhausting the few goats I had,” he said. He said he has written several letters to his boss Senator Gideon but so far he hasn’t received any helpful response. Kamurey does menial jobs which sometimes earn him a paltry Sh200 to provide for his family's basic needs. He is the father of six sons and one daughter. But Senator Gideon’s personal assistant and communications officer Alex Chepkoit disputed Kimurey’s allegations as pure lies aimed at tarnishing the politician’s name. “He had earlier in 2014 refused to take a flower farm job offered to him by Senator Moi” Chepkoit said, adding he personally handed him some Sh5,000 two weeks ago. But Kimurey said he dismissed the offer of a flower farm job as it paid as little as Sh180 per day. “How could I have survived with such a small amount of money to feed my family and pay my children's school fees” he said, adding that he wold rather rely on charcoal burning. He blames greedy cartels that have kept blocking him for so long from meeting Gideon. “I am still a strong Kanu supporter and will not surrender. I know one day I will meet Gideon and he will assist iron out my current financial problems,” he said.