Kenyans on Thursday took to social media to send warm birthday wishes to ODM leader Raila Odinga as he turned 76 years. The hashtag #HappyBirthdayRaila trended at number one Kenya's Twitter trends for the better part of Thursday morning as birthday messages poured in for the former Prime Minister. The ODM Party praised him as a wonderful leader to the world of yesterday, today and the future. "To our Party Leader @RailaOdinga, we are proud to be a part of your special day. May you be blessed with many more. You are a wonderful leader to the world of yesterday, today and the future. We thank God for making you the type of person you are today," the party tweeted. Homa Bay women representative Gladys Wanga wished him more life so that he can see a prosperous Kenya. "Happy Birthday Agwambo - Enigma - Baba! May you live to see the united and prosperous Kenya that you have so desired and sacrificed so much for!" she said. Senator Millicent Omanga also joined the bandwagon and wished Raila endless happiness and good health as he turned a year older. "Happy 76th birthday Baba. This day is special in many ways but most importantly it reminds us of how privileged we've been as a country to have you. I pray for good health and endless happiness as you celebrate your birthday," she tweeted. ODM director of communication Philip Etale described Raila as a fantastic example of wisdom, leadership and foresight. "My boss @RailaOdinga, I wish you plenty of joy today and every day of the coming year! You are a fantastic example of wisdom, leadership and foresight.On your birthday, I wish you peace, good health & happiness. You are the best mentor anyone could have asked for," he said. Lawyer Silas Chepkeres Jakakimba wished the ODM leader good health, happiness and peace. "JAKOM, The indelible legacy manifested in your persistent rooting for a functional political system viable for equitable economic growth & development for all, cannot be overemphasised. On this special day, I wish you Good Health, Peace and all the Happiness," he tweeted. Lawyer Donald Kipkorir was not left behind as he showered Raila with good tidings. "May the road rise up to meet you. May the wind be always at your back. May the sun shine warm upon your face; the rains fall soft upon your fields and until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of His hand. Baba, möge Gott immer über dich wachen!" Here are more tweets from Kenyans;