A rift is emerging in the Mombasa assembly as DP William Ruto seeks to spread his political tentacles in the county through MCAs. This has seen a number of MCAs ditch ODM leader Raila Odinga and Governor Hassan Joho. A group of ‘rebel’ MCAs have been calling and enticing their colleagues to join them and partake of the 'milk and honey' in the Ruto camp. But those still allied to Joho say MCAs craving Ruto's money are cowards who have only been dragging ODM down. They say they will remain steadfast in the Orange party. Their counterparts who have been shifting allegiance are led by Frere Town’s Charles Kitula, Mjambere’s Fahad Kassim, Jomvu Kuu’s Athman Shebe, Kongowea’s Mohamed Abrari and Kipevu’s Faith Mwende. Mwende, who was elected on a Wiper ticket, replaced Likoni’s Athman Mwamwiri, who had been vocal against Joho but was later convinced back into the fold by the late nominated MCA and Mombasa ODM chair Mohammed Hatimy. One of the recently converted MCAs told the Star as many as 25 of the 41 MCAs in the county assembly have either joined or are showing interest in joining the Ruto camp. Kitula on Friday did not confirm the number, only saying: “There are many who have joined us but some still fear coming out because of the repercussions.” Those said to have shifted allegiance to Ruto include Kadzandani’s Kombe Nzai, Junda’s Raphael Bwire and Bamburi’s Robert Nyiro. Ruto is believed to have set his eyes on new outfit United Democratic Alliance on whose ticket he will seek the presidency next year. Mwende, Bwire and Nyiro were at English Point Marina when the pro-Ruto MCAs welcomed the DP ahead of his trip to Msambweni for the homecoming ceremony for newly elected MP Feisal Bader. They were also in Msambweni. Nzai was at the luncheon by Ruto held in Mombasa after the Msambweni meeting. “I was only there to see what was happening. I had been called and people don’t refuse calls, they only refuse what they were called for,” Nzai defended himself when questioned by reporters. The pro-Joho faction in the assembly, mostly made up of women MCAs, have now launched an aggressive campaign against their Ruto-allied colleagues. ODM Women League Mombasa chapter last Monday launched the campaign at Bombolulu Workshop. Led by nominated MCA Fatma Kushe and chairperson Milka Areba, who is also a nominated MCA, they dismissed those shifting to Ruto’s camp as cowards. “If you look carefully, they were only elected because of the party wave,” Kushe said. Areba said those joining the Ruto faction are only after money. “They were not loyal,” she said. The women MCAs plan to vie for the seats held by those who have ditched the party for Ruto. Kushe will be going for Nzai’s Kadzandani seat, Areba is after Nyiro’s Bamburi seat, while nominated MCA Amriya Juma Boy is eyeing Kassim’s Mjambere seat. Other MCAs pushing to oust ‘rebel’ MCAs include nominated Hamida Noor and Timbwani’s Mwaka Bakari. Kushe has been initiating projects at the grassroots in Kadzandani, including opening small-scale businesses for women and the youth, and distributing food during this Covid crisis to needy families. “We have to support each other. I do this because I am compassionate,” Kushe said. With reports that Governor Joho and his Kilifi counterpart Amason Kingi are planning to ditch the Orange party for a home-grown party later this month, the ODM women MCAs find themselves in an awkward position. However, Areba and Kushe, staunch supporters of Joho, said the reports are mere rumours. "We are loyal to our party and our party leaders Raila and Joho. Joho has not told us anything that points to him leaving the party. He is still a die-hard ODM loyalist,” they said. The women MCAs say they will aggressively campaign for the BBI, which they said has many benefits for women, especially at the grassroots. “The women at the grassroots will get more funds because 35 per cent of the previously collected revenue will be channelled to the counties, not 15 per cent,” Kushe said. The BBI seeks to make life more bearable for women and youths, they added. Meanwhile, residents have been instructed to seek bursaries from their respective MCAs’ offices starting Wednesday. However, as if to punish them for their disloyalty, the MCA offices in Mjambere (Fahad Kassim) and Bamburi (Robert Nyiro) in Kisauni constituency will not handle the bursaries. Instead, residents in the two wards will have to go to Kisauni Water Offices for Mjambere bursaries and Open Gate Church in Kiembeni for Bamburi ward residents.