A constituency roads officer in Embakasi North told a court that he supervised the construction and completion of four roads related to a corruption case. Moses Ochieng' who works for Kenya Rural Roads Authority was testifying in a case where Embakasi North MP James Gakuya and 13 others have been charged with embezzling CDF funds. It is alleged that Gakuya and his co-accused misappropriated the CDF funds in the award of tenders for construction of the roads. Ochieng' told trial magistrate Elizabeth Juma that he was the officer who supervised the construction of Administration Police, DO’s access, Mairo Njeri and Cinema roads. Ochieng' said he was very satisfied with the works that were done on the roads that he supervised. The court further heard that the roads were completed and they are still usable as at now. The officer said he prepared a completion certificate and forwarded to the Kerra regional officer to sign. He produced in court several documents showing the job he did while he supervised the construction of the roads. Ochieng' showed court several minutes from the constituency roads committee that he was part of in the year 2015 which led to the construction of the roads. Other documents produced in court include payment and summary of statements prepared by Ochieng'. Ochieng also brought five pictures in court that showed how the roads were being constructed, in one of the pictures he said it showed a grader on site. In his testimony, Ochieng' said he was the one who prepared all the summary of statements for the roads. A tax compliance certificate from Kenya Revenue Authority issued to Tresmo Investments Ltd was also produced in court. Ochieng' said they had a meeting on January 12, 2015 where they prioritised several roads that would be constructed. Present at the meeting were Eros Mukami, Julius Maina, Lilian Atieno, Joseph Maina, Moses Ochieng, Albina Wangare and Frida Mitika. The case resumes hearing on Thursday morning when two more witnesses are expected to testify in the matter. Gakuya was charged in 2018 with four counts of conflict of interest for allegedly awarding tenders for road construction to companies linked to him. 