President Uhuru Kenyatta has not lost his political relevance and remains the Mt Kenya supremo, Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said. There have been claims that Uhuru has lost the backing of his Central Kenya political backyard with barely two years to the end of his term. But Munya says the President is still the most powerful leader in the country and should be accorded respect by all Kenyans. He said Uhuru should be praised for the transformative agenda of the government and his quest to unite the country. “There are a lot of falsehoods being peddled by those who have been campaigning since the onset of his (Uhuru's) second term that nothing much has been done on ground. All the development projects that have been achieved in their constituencies and the turnaround reforms that have been implemented in various sectors, have they not been initiated by President Kenyatta?” Munya posed. He was speaking over the weekend in Kirinyaga county. The CS said Uhuru remains the Mt Kenya political kingpin and still has a good track record as far as leadership and development are concerned. Munya slammed the President's critics, saying they were playing politics meant to damage Uhuru's legacy. The CS also told off those opposed to the Building Bridges Initiative and claiming it was unpopular in Mt Kenya region. He cited ignorance and propaganda fuelled by the anti-BBI brigade as the key reasons why the report has received a cold shoulder in the region. “We as the region’s leaders will soon be embarking on trips to popularise the initiative through civic education. We have noticed that the majority of our people are simply ignorant about the content of the report, a situation that is creating a leeway for the BBI opponents to take advantage of," Munya said. He also disagreed with sentiments by some Tangatanga leaders that the country is broke and has no cash to conduct a referendum. “Why should BBI not be financially facilitated? Those saying there is no money are the same characters heavily spending money by using government’s helicopters and other facilities to facilitate their campaigns around the country.”  Edited by P.O