AFC Leopards coach Anthony Kimani has tipped the club's budding utility player Lewis Bandi to transition and settle at the senior level with ease following his remarkable league debut last weekend. The youngster was thrown into the deep end during a league clash pitting Leopards and KCB at Moi, Kasarani last weekend. He came in early in the first half for an injured and first choice left-back Isaac Kipyegon. Bandi, who was part of Stars team that took part in last year's Cecafa U20 Championships in Arusha, Tanzania, oozed confidence and comfortably contained the bankers duo of  Simon Munala and Reagan Otieno during the match which saw Ingwe end their unbeaten start in the league. Kimani was expected to throw in an experienced defender after Kipyegon was injured owing to the intensity of the match but he instead entrusted the rookie with responsibilities to man the defensive flank as the club's second choice left back Washington Munene was down with illness. Bandi, who can be deployed as a defensive midfielder, comfortably plugged into the gap, eliciting praises from Kimani who believes he is destined for greatness. "Kipyegon pulled a hamstring early in the game and we couldn't risk letting him continue. We summoned Bandi and he punched above his weight and I believe if he is given more opportunities, he will grow and become a big asset for the club and country. He is an upcoming footballer with a lot of potential and confidence and he is bound to soar to greater heights," praised the former skipper at the club. Similarly, the club's team manager Tom Juma observed that Bandi had produced 'Man of the Match' performance against the bankers. Juma, a renowned defensive midfielder in his active years, said the player who was promoted to the senior team in October last year after spending five years in the junior cadre was able to multi-task, thanks to his skills. Bandi, an Eastleigh High School alumnus was part of the Chapa Dimba All-Stars team that travelled for a ten-day camp in Spain in May, 2019 "When a footballer is comfortable with the ball, then positioning becomes easy. He is always good with the ball and this explains why he can play both as a left back or a defensive midfielder," said the retired Kenyan international.