National women’s volleyball team coach Paul Bitok is impressed with the level of fitness being displayed by players despite being inactive for almost a year due to Covid-19 pandemic. Bitok said most of the players have maintained high fitness levels through regular training with their respective clubs. " I was worried because we've not been training and didn't participate in any competition for the last one year but the teams have shown they are physically fit," he said. Bitok said this at Nyayo Stadium over the weekend during the Kenya Volleyball Federation women's league opener between Kenya Commercial Bank and Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) . Malkia Strikers' skipper Mercy Moim, Leonida Kasaya, Noel Murambi and Pamela Masaisai were some of the national team regulars in action as the national league served off over the weekend. "Most of my players are almost on top of their game and when we resume training in the next one week, we will be ready to push them especially on the court. There's some rustiness with reception but with more training, I expect to see improvement," he said. Furthermore, Bitok revealed he is on the lookout for young budding players who might add an extra dimension to the national team. "We have already selected 25 members who we are yet to announce but we've opportunities for new players, who were not in the the team that qualified in Cameroon. "We are also considering players who had injuries then, like Trizah Atuka," he added. He said: "I know all players are ready to fight for Olympics slots and that's why we are giving everyone an opportunity. We will also give a chance to young players from schools as we try to build the team for the 2024 Olympic Games in Paris," he said. Regarding increasing uncertainty about the Olympics, Bitok said it will be a disappointment should the games be cancelled. "We've worked hard for four years to participate in the Olympics and cancellation will definitely dampen the spirit of the players. Some of them  will be competing for the first time at the big stage and are not sure of making the squad in future," he said. He is hopeful that players will be vaccinated in time for the games in July. "I hope they will vaccinate players from most countries in time for the games. I know there is too much pressure to have the Olympics cancelled but as a team, we do not know what will happen but we will continue with our training," he said.