An ugly fight looms between two rival political groups in Mbeere, Embu County. The first group - calling itself  "The Mbeere Assembly" - comprises former Mbeere region MCAs who were defeated in 2017 and new aspirants for the seats in the 2022 election. The second group comprises serving MCAs from the Mbeere region. The 'Mbeere Assembly' operates through a Whatsapp group in the same name and has filed a case in court to stop development projects specifically in the upper parts of Embu county. Members of this grouping had also planned to allegedly 'tour and audit' ward development projects in the lower Mbeere region. They alleged that the projects had stalled and that the upper Embu region was being favoured by the county government. However, serving MCAs from Mbeere North and South sub-counties, led by Embu County Assembly Speaker Josiah Thiriku, who hails from the region, have rubbished the accusations as baseless. The serving MCAs and their supporters have vowed to stop the so-called project "tours". The Ward Reps warned activities of the shadowy 'Mbeere Assembly' grouping were dangerous and meant to incite ethnic strife between members of the Embu and Mbeere communities through hate messages and false claims of development imbalances within the county. They also called on the group to withdraw its case in court to enable the county government to implement intended projects, which actually favour the Mbeere region more. Thiriku said despite calling itself an 'assembly', the amorphous grouping lacked any legal mandate to represent the residents of wards in Mbeere North and South sub-counties. "The group comprises of failed politicians seeking relevance before the 2022 general election," he said. The MCAs also condemned the group's abusive language, being used to disparage the county’s leadership. They welcomed criticism and calls for equitability, but said this ought to happen within the law and with due decorum. In a press statement read by Minority Leader Masters Mwaniki on behalf of Mbeere MCAs, the current serving MCAs leaders called on security apparatus to take action and avert any chaos incited by the group. The statement also cautioned against unnecessary court cases against the County Government, which were likely to stall some development projects. Speaker Thiriku advised anybody dissatisfied with the county’s budgetary allocations or project implementation to instead petition the county assembly. Muminji MCA Newton Kariuki and his Makima counterpart Phillip Nzangi took issue with the group’s agenda of derailing county development plans, then accusing sitting MCAs of doing nothing for the people. They said such propaganda was not adequate to unseat popularly elected leaders. Other MCAs present during the press conference include Ngari Mbaka (Mavuria), Harrison Mwaluko (Mwea), Murithi Kiura (Mbeti South), Nathan Mwari (Nthawa), Duncan Mbui (Evurore), Bernard Kandia (nominated), Edith Nyaga (nominated), Elizabeth Kibai (nominated) and Edna Muisyo (nominated).