Allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are mobilising county assemblies in Rift Valley to pass the BBI Bill, citing expected benefits to MCAs, wards and counties. The region is Deputy President William Ruto's backyard and he says BBI is a waste of money and time and it won't put food on tables. BBI is of no priority, the DP says, thus putting Rift Valley MCAs in a difficult position deciding whether to approve or oppose BBI. “We are asking  MCAs to read the BBI Bill, understand it and make informed decisions on what counties stand and wards stand to benefit," Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Tolgos, who is chairman of the BBI process in Rift Valley, has teamed up with regional coordinators Kipkorir Menjo and former assistant minister Stephen Tarus in urging the MCAs to vote on merit, not politics. “The wards represented by MCAs will have a special fund through BBI. As leaders they will benefit from car grants and counties will gain more resources," Menjo said. Except for Tolgos, most governors are allies of the DP and have remained non-committal on the BBI. Sources tell the Star, however, they are involved in behind-the-scenes lobbying both for and against BBI. At least 24 of 47 assemblies must pass it for the Bill to go go the National Assembly. Assemblies are expected to start considering the BBI Bill this week and most are expected to give it priority. The assemblies where the DP enjoys backing include Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Elegyo Marakwet, Baringo, Bomet and Kericho. Some DP allies said to be quietly lobbing  assemblies to reject the Bill. Tolgos met with BBI coordinators and said resident should not reject the BBI because Ruto opposes it and losing will hurt his chances of winning the presidency. “There is a perception in our region the BBI is about 2022 politics and blocking some politicians from their ambitions. However, the truth is BBI and 2022 politics are very different issues that should not be  mixed up," Tolgos said. He told the residents BBI benefits will extend beyond 2022 and are not linked to individual leaders. He said the BBI was not being forced on residents but they also should not be forced to value individual political interests in the region or the country. He spoke in Eldoret where he met with BBI coordinators from counties in the North Rift including Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Nandi, Trans Nzoia, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo. Tolgos urged residents to read the document and take part in civic education so they can make informed decisions. He said misinformation was largely responsible for low acceptance of BBI in the region that is Ruto's stronghold. “However, things are changing and most people are now embracing BBI due to better understanding," Tolgos said. He and coordinators planned civic education. He said they would widely circulate the BBI booklets so residents can read for themselves. Tarus said there had been investment in misinformation on the BBI but they would go flat out to explain its benefits. “BBI is about the people, it’s about change, reforms, fair representation and economic empowerment. BBI will strengthen devolution and it will spur economic growth through sectors like agriculture," Tarus said. He said individual interests should not override the benefits in BBI and leaders opposed to it should think about the people and the future of the country and not about themselves. “I see no other way to give this country a better future other than the BBI," Tarus said. The leaders noted counties in the region will get more constituencies and more resources. (Edited by V. Graham) 