Mugithi star Mighty Salim was pronounced dead by close family members as he was being rushed to Kenyatta National Hospital on Sunday. Soon after news of the death spread, fans and colleagues trooped to social media platforms, with many describing Mighty Salim as a music legend who transformed the mugithi genre alongside his late brother Salim Junior. According to musician Kamande Wakioi, Salim fell ill and was rushed to hospital where he was pronounced dead. Kamande revealed to the Star on Sunday evening that Salim has been battling kidney disease. “Mighty Salim is indeed dead. It’s a big blow to the family and we pray that they are strong during the hard time,” Kamande said. Mighty Salim is a brother to Sarafina Salim and Salim Young. Sarafina posted a moving tribute on social media saying, "There are no goodbyes for us. Wherever you are, you will always be in my heart.  Rest well my brother Njuguna witu." Fellow mugithii star Samido Muchoki penned a touching tribute as well. "RIP legend. A good heart has stopped beating, a good soul ascended to heaven. You will stay in the history of múgithi forever. Thank you for all the pleasure you gave us." He added: "To the Salim's family, may our Lord bring you and your family the much-needed peace during this sad time. RIP Mighty Salim." Last year, Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria settled Salim's medical bill after numerous fundraising by the family and friends failed to reach the required amount. Back in 2019, Mighty Salim called out his "fake friends" who did not show up for him when he needed help. In a long Facebook rant, Mighty Salim wrote that, "When an artiste die, you are the first to announce and send condolences. I have been to all your stations and made many calls asking for help. I might not succeed or live forever, my life is in God's hands. Dead or alive, that is God's will." His bitter rant went on to detail how a politician even gave him a cheque that bounced and he later turned off his phone and was unreachable. "This is not good at all. If you cannot help me when I'm alive, don't show up when I die. A corpse doesn't need your money. As for politicians, stop demanding our attention during the campaign period. It pains calling someone 10 times only to be told they are in a meeting. It hurts." His death comes a day after the family celebrated the fifth memorial of his elder brother Salim Junior's death on Saturday. A few years back, the Salims held the burial of their elder sister who was also a musician. Mighty Salim is survived by his widow and two children.