Within a span of 4 hours and 30 minutes, Anne Kananu Mwenda  attained power to become the second in command of Nairobi County. With the chronology of events on Friday, it was evident the government played a role in how the 40-year-old Chief Officer for Disaster Management would be sworn-in as the first female Deputy Governor of Nairobi. All cases that were challenging  the vetting of Kanau failed to stop the exercise. On January 12, former Governor Sonko lost bid to stop the vetting. On Thursday , the High Court issued an order suspending a Gazette notice calling for  the Nairobi governor by-election. Justice Anthony  Mrima issued the order following an application by Kananu. On Thursday, assembly Speaker Benson Mutura moved to gazette a special sitting for MCAs to consider a report by the County Assembly select committee on Appointments following Kananu’s vetting. The MCAs are currently on recess until February 9. In a separate case, Mrima on Friday dismissed an application by activist Okiya Omtata and Habil Kongo that had challenged the entire process leading to Kananu's nomination. This gave way for Kananu’s vetting. Vetting The committee kicked off the process at 9.30am. The vetting which was presided over by Majority leader Abdi Guyo ended at 10.10am. The committee proceeded to write a report after the vetting. MCAs flocked into the assembly at 11.28am and Deputy Speaker Geoffrey Majiwa called the House to session. It took the committee one hour and 18 minutes to write and compile the vetting report. At 12.01 pm Guyo tabled the vetting report of the Appointments committee and proceeded to move a motion for the assembly to pass the document. “The impeachment of Sonko did not have any legal effect on his choice of a deputy Governor,” he said. Hinting that there will be no by-election, he said residents do not have time for by-elections, urging those who were eyeingthe seat to wait for 2022. “I want to tell those were preparing to vie for the position of Governor that there will be no by-elections in Nairobi, wait for next year; it is not far; for now our focus is on development,” he added. Minority leader Michael Ogada, who also seats at the committee, said Kananu had been cleared by the Kenya Revenue Authority, DCI, Helb, Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, IEBC and Credit Reference Bureau. At 12.18pm, the assembly adjourned after approving Kananu as the first female Deputy Governor of Nairobi. An entourage of MCAs was immediately seen walking to KICC where Kananu was set to take oath and be sworn-in before 2pm. The MCAs made their way to the Tsavo ball room awaiting the ceremony. However, security personnel at KICC seemed not to be updated about the happenings and ordered everyone to leave. At the Comesa grounds, no tent had been set up or a single seat spotted indicating that the swearin-in was to take place. It was not until 1.20pm that City Hall staffers were seen hurriedly bringing in the necessary material needed for the event. At around 1.40pm, Judge John Mativo arrived at the venue and sat awaiting for Kananu to take her oath. Dressed in a black knee-length skirt, stockings, white blouse and a grey blazer and with only nine minutes remaining, Kananu took her oath as the Deputy Governor of Nairobi at exactly 1:51pm. “I want to thank my party and my party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta for having faith in me to serve in the position. I affirm my commitment to serve the people of Nairobi with utmost dedication,” she said. Demonstrating attainment of power, she proceeded to sit next to acting Governor Benson Mutura and Nairobi Metropolitan Service director general Major General Mohammed Badi. Kananu was later escorted to City Hall where she assumed the Office of the Deputy Governor. With a complete Cabinet in place, she will work together with acting Governor Mutura to ensure operations in the city run smoothly. 