Nairobi Deputy Governor Anne Kananu is set to chair  her first cabinet meeting on Tuesday. The meeting comes as the county government starts a two-day public participation exercise for city residents to give their views on the state of service delivery in the capital. Kananu was sworn in on January 15 and assumed her role as acting governor last week after county assembly speaker Benson Mutura relinquished his duties in the same position. Mutura had been the acting governor from December 21, 2020 following the impeachment of Mike Sonko. “I can confirm that today we will have a cabinet meeting chaired by the Deputy Governor. This will be the first time we're meeting officially as a cabinet. However, the agenda and official invite will be communicated within the day,” said a CEC who sought anonymity. Sonko was charged with corruption in December 2019 and barred from accessing his official office at City Hall. He had been holding cabinet meetings at his private office at Upper Hill, with the last one being on August 26, 2020 to address the issue of the striking doctors. Members of the cabinet are County Secretary Jairus Musumba, Lydia Kwamboka (County Attorney), Charles Kerich (Lands), Mohammed Dagane (Transport), Janet Ouko (Education), Hitan Majevdia (Health), Larry Wambua (Environment), Vesca Kagongo (Devolution), Newton Munene (ICT), Allan Igambi (Finance and acting Trade executive) and Lucia Mulwa (Agriculture). After the cabinet meeting, the CECs will proceed to Mombasa for a retreat with officials from the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. “The meeting will be about service delivery and how NMS and the executive can work together in solving current challenges faced in the county especially on the transferred functions," the CEC said. NMS director general Mohammed Badi, Kananu and speaker Mutura are expected at the Mombasa meeting. Last week, a similar meeting was held by NMS and members of the county assembly. City residents have been urged to submit their views on the state of service delivery across Nairobi during two days of public participation forums. Musumba and Mutura said public participation will be held in all 17 subcounties. “It is notified for the information of the general public that the Nairobi City county government executive and the county assembly Pursuant to Article 10 of the Constitution and provisions of the County Governments Act, 2012 section 6, the public is hereby invited to submit memorandum or representations on the state of service delivery across Nairobi county," the notice states. The people's views will form the basis for improving, structuring and streamlining coordination of service delivery and exercise of all Nairobi county mandates under the Constitution. “This is in addition to expanding our joint cooperation and coordination for effective and efficient service delivery with the national government,” the notice reads. The memoranda may be sent to the office of the County Secretary or physically dropped at the office of the County Speaker by Wednesday. On Tuesday public participation will be held in Westlands at Parklands Day Nursery, Dagoretti South (Waithaka Social Hall), Kibra (Joseph Kangethe Social Hall), Kasarani (Maji Mazuri ground), Embakasi South (Mukuru Health Centre), Embakasi Central (Kayole 2 Social Hall), Embakasi West (subcounty administration office, Umoja), Kamkunji (Eastleigh North Social Hall) and Starehe (Kariokor Social Hall). On Wednesday residents will submit their memoranda in Dagoretti North (Dagoretti Muslim Primary School), Langata (Uhuru Gardens Primary), Roysambu (Kahawa West market), Ruaraka (Ruaraka Resource Centre, Korogocho CDF Hall), Embakasi North (Dandora 3 Social Hall), Embakasi East (Embakasi Social Hall), Makadara (Jericho Social Hall)and Mathare (Undugu Social Hall). Kananu urged city residents to actively participate as responsible citizens in providing the necessary feedback to the county government within the earliest time possible. “To act upon the needs of the people of Nairobi, it is critical to get the views and continue with the success seen over the past few months is replicated over the city,” she said. Edited by Henry Makori