Blocking Baringo Senator Gideon Moi from a Talai elders' coronation ceremony in Nandi exposed the depth of his differences with Deputy President William Ruto. The overnight ceremony from Friday night to Saturday morning at the home of Talai elder Christopher aborted after the Kanu chairman and his entourage were blocked. Angry pro-Ruto Talai clan youths barricaded all entry points to Kapsisywa village, the home of the Laibons, who are both feared and respected. The unprecedented action by the youths was considered revenge against Mzee Koiyoki. He had poured scorn on the coronation ceremony of DP Ruto in early June last year in the same locality. Ruto is running for president and Gideon Moi is also interested; the two are rivals for the Rift Valley vote. Koiyoko claimed he had been kept in the dark and said anointing Ruto was inconsequential. His actions prompted his expulsion from the Talai Council of elders. They pledged to ensure that all the DP's opponents, including Gideon, were crowned and honoured to undercut the DP's influence. His threats placed the clan elders under the chairmanship of Rt Canon James Baasi on high alert to protect the the DP's  ceremony at Baasi's home. Elder Christopher Agui coordinated the Talai yout: barricade the roads to the Talai shrine. “No other ceremony would be held other that than of DP," he said. He added, “If senator Moi is so keen to undergo the ceremony, he should involve political leaders from Nandi, including Governor Stephen Sang, Senator Samson Cherargei and MP Wilson Kogo for proper arrangements." Senator Moi had set off from Eldoret town by road with his entourage on Friday night for the 50km drive to the remote and revered Talai shrine in Kapsisywa. The entourage included Kanu secretary general Nick Salat, Tiaty Kanu MP William Kamket, former legislator Stephen Tarus among others. They were informed the main Chepterit-Baraton road had been barricaded. They made several attempts to access the shrine, but all roads were blocked with boulders and eucalyptus poles and guarded by youths. Moi managed to reach Sang’alo through Kabiyet town, but was stopped after being confronted by hundreds of youths. He failed to convince them to let him pass. They demanded to know why he had apparently blocked DP Ruto from visiting former President Moi before his death. Residents got wind of the ceremony after three VIP tents were erected in the c compound of Mzee Koiyoki, a descendant ofNandi medicine man Orkoiyot Koitalel arap Samoei. Koiyoki had invited only a few elders from outside the Talai community, mostly those allied to Kanu and chairman Moi. He had crowned ODM leader Raila Odinga on June 4, 2017, at Kapsabet showgrounds. Gideon's aborted ceremony was also a sign of division among the five major families, descendants of Koitalel Samoei. They include Kapturgat Kapsogon, Kapsonet, Kapchesang and Kapmararsoi whose elder representatives have ganged up against Mzee Koiyoki whom they consider a rebel. The Talai council members said Ruto's ceremony is working as planned to advance his ambitions and any attempt to crown another leader is akin to dividing the community. “We will not sanction any other ceremony to enthrone anyone else for now until Ruto succeeds as he had passed all stages of the ceremony and has been handed the instruments of leadership,” they said in a statement. Agui who is the secretary general and spokesperson asked, "What instruments was Mzee Koiyoki to hand over to Senator Moi when Ruto had taken away all of them?" The elders hinted they were consulting with the Kalenjin Supreme Council of Elders, Kot ab Miyot, about the future of the leadership gown returned by Tugen elders to the Nandi three months ago. (Edited by V. Graham) 