Deputy President William Ruto has challenged the NASA coalition partners to join hands with the government for unity of purpose. Ruto on Thursday said Kenya is currently facing a hard time and it is only wise that those who were on 'the other side' come on board. While speaking during the funeral service of Hannah Mudavadi, the mother of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ruto said the most imperative unity is that of the nation because the current challenges the country is facing do not wear ethnic regalia. "We are in a difficult position as a country and it is evident that Covid-19 has come with a very serious economic meltdown and health challenges that have put pressure on health systems. I want to ask us that this is not time to point fingers but stand together to confront the situation together," he said. Ruto said currently the country is operating under the handshake space where all political leaders are working together. "It is therefore correct to say let us be friends and partners when times are good and when not so good," he said. Ruto said since Raila Odinga and his NASA coalition partners - Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetang'ula - are communicating with the president directly, it is only fair that they come on board and help manage the situation together without saying 'it is you guys'. "Do not run away from us and point fingers, we must stay put because it is no longer us vs them, we must pull together and confront the situation," he said. While echoing the words of senior pastor Walter Bulimu, Ruto said a time has come for politicians to tone done political abuses, especially at funerals. The pastor had hit at the political class for using funerals as avenues to hurl abuses at their opponents instead of comforting the bereaved. Bulimu challenged the politicians to sober up and restore sanity within the political circles by being true people's representatives. "It is important for us to be reminded of good manners as we go forward. It is important for all of us to know that there is a time for everything, a time to mourn like now and a time for that other discussion," Ruto said. He said when someone loses their parents, they need people to stand with them. "A mother is special to every child. We are blessed and celebrate the lifetime of mama Hannah. She has made great contributions to this great nation through Moses Mudavadi her husband and her son Musalia Mudavadi," he said. He added, "Politics being difficult as it is, it takes a great, strong,  hospital and prayerful woman to support a political husband and son. She not only supported her husband but also became a great mentor to Mudavadi and therefore we have a course and a reason to celebrate her". Earlier on the DP said he would steer clear of BBI politics and instead focus on implementing government projects to help the people. As President Uhuru Kenyatta and handshake partner Raila push to amend the Constitution, Ruto said on Wednesday Kenya is facing many challenges and leaders must focus on solutions for the people. Ruto spoke in Embu county during the funeral service of Cardinal John Njue's sister Jonnes Njuki. The Deputy President said fixing the country's sinking economy, high rates of unemployment and reduced investment are key issues that must be prioritised. "Because there is a lot of work to be done, I will focus on helping President Kenyatta on issues of development; others can drive the BBI agenda," Ruto said. "As leaders we must seek solutions to these challenges, however, the solution to these challenges should not take a tribal angle or come up with plans for specific communities."