Deputy President William Ruto’s allies are plotting a mass walkout from the Jubilee Party amid threats of disciplinary action initiated by the ruling party’s officials from the grassroots. Nakuru County Jubilee Secretary-General Peter Cheruiyot wrote a show-cause letter to Ruto for campaigning for UDA candidates in what is believed to have the blessings of party honchos. But Ruto allies say they are unmoved and openly declared that the wheelbarrow Party is Ruto’s 2022 presidential vehicle. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said the DP and his team are only in Jubilee for strategic reasons and waiting for the opportune moment to bolt out “All indications are showing UDA is the vehicle Deputy President will use in 2022 elections,” he stated, days after it emerged the party was setting up a major regional nerve centre in Eldoret, Ruto’s foremost political base. It has also emerged that the party is planning grassroots elections as there is already infighting among aspirants jostling for Ruto's attention. The officials would be elected right from the polling stations, a strategy that was employed by ODM ahead of the 2017 polls Cherargei claimed they are bolting because of the humiliation they have been subjected to in the ruling party. “Some of us have been embarrassed and betrayed in Jubilee. We now have UDA, which will be our political vehicle,” he told the Star. In his letter addressed to the DP, Cheruiyot said Ruto contravened the party constitution after endorsing UDA candidates for Hells Gate and London ward by-elections in the county. The DP has separately sponsored UDA candidates in the Machakos senatorial by-election, Matungu as well as Kabuchai parliamentary polls. Cherargei said they are currently sprucing up UDA for the proper running of a presidential campaign. “It’s no secret. Our vehicle for the presidential race and other political seats will be UDA,” he told the Star. Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa said politicians who subscribe to the Hustler Movement will contest for various seats on UDA ticket. “All hustlers will use UDA as their party of choice to contest for the various seats,” he stated. UDA chairman Johnson Muthama is on record saying Ruto will contest for the presidency on UDA. Soy MP Caleb Kositany has also said they have been humiliated and have no say in Jubilee. “In UDA we have a home. The party will be home to the hustler nation,” he stated. Jubilee has made it clear that Ruto and his allies are staring at punishment for joining and advancing the interests of UDA. UDA has already fielded candidates in the upcoming parliamentary and senatorial by-elections, contradicting the Jubilee position to pull out of the polls. Jubilee will not be fielding candidates in the parliamentary by-election in Kabuchai and Matungu constituencies as well as senatorial seat poll in Machakos county because of the unity brought by the Building Bridges Initiative. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju has said he is waiting for a decision from the party's disciplinary committee, which will be forwarded to the National Management Committee and the National Executive Council for a final resolution. Cherargei further said ODM leadership met on Wednesday after suspecting that Jubilee might throw them under the bus. “ ODM has realised that time is running out and that they need to put their house in order. For us, Ruto has placed himself strategically to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta,” added the Nandi senator.