Two people died and two others were injured in a black spot road crash in Baringo along Kabarnet-Iten road on Sunday night. “The vehicle overturned and rolled several times before plunging down the steep cliff," Baringo Central deputy OCPD Chrispinius Ogutu said on Monday. Mathew Malakwen, 30, the driver of the Subaru Impreza, died on the spot. Passenger Jonah Malakwen, 26, died while being rushed to Baringo County Referral Hospital in Kabernet. “We could not tell where the victims were coming from but they were heading to Elgeyo-Marakwet county. Their names suggest they could be relatives,” the deputy OCPD Chrispinius Ogutu said. Ogutu said the car could have been speeding along the meandering road. The accident occurred near Kiboino trading centre, a black spot located along the deep meandering terrain across the Kerio Valley around 8.30pm. Ogutu said the other two passengers  - Mathew Kipchumba, 33, and Gideon Kemboi, 27 - survived and were were rescued by good Samaritans who took them to hospital. They were treated and discharged. There were no other passengers. The bodies were taken to Kabarnet hospital mortuary for postmortem. Ogutu warned motorists to be extra careful along sharp, winding roads, saying they can easily cause accidents. He recommended 40 to 60kph along the dangerous Baringo roads. Ten people have died in road accidents in Baringo since 2017. Four people -two children and two adults - were killed and several others injured after the driver of a Toyota Land Cruiser lost control along Airstrip Road near Kabarnet town on October 9. On October 5, popular Kalenjin musician Rhino Kaboom Amon Kipkirui, 27, died after his motorbike collided with a Probox along the Emining-Eldama-Ravine road. The driver of the Probox  and his wife escaped unhurt. In June 2017, three students of Lokichar Boys’ High school in Turkana county died on the spot after the driver of their 52-seater bus lost control and rolled off  Kapkokorwo cliff near Kabarnet town. (Edited by V. Graham)