Former giants, Shabana will on Sunday welcome bottom of the log Murang’a Seal, seeking to maintain their four-match unbeaten run in the National Super League. Shabana have so far recorded three wins and a draw under interim coach Joseph Ongoro. The tactician is hoping his side keep their unbeaten run. “I know Murang’a Seal are bottom of the log but we will not underrate any team. We take all our games seriously,” said Ongoro, who took over from Vincent Nyaberi. Ongoro, who is also a qualified goalkeeping instructor, added: “Despite the financial challenges the club is facing, I’m happy that the boys have given a good account of themselves.” Nyaberi was this week appointed Murang’a Seal head coach and his first match will be against his former team. Murang’a Seal remain winless in the league so far. “We are underdogs going into the game at Gusii Stadium. However, we are going there for a positive result. Anything can happen in a football game,” said Nyaberi. In other NSL matches scheduled for tomorrow (Saturday), Nairobi Stima will host Sony FC at GEMS Cambridge School in Nairobi. Sony assistant coach Andrew Ongwae is confident his team will bounce back from their 3-0 loss against Kisumu Hot Stars. “It’s a must-win game for us because our target is to return to the Kenya Premier League. We made mistakes which cost us last weekend. We don’t want a repeat of the same,” added Ongwae. Newbies Soy United host Kibera Black Stars at Bukhungu Stadium, Coast Stima collide with MCF at Mbaraki playground while Kisumu Hot Stars host Migori Youth at Moi Stadium in Kisumu. On Sunday, struggling Mwatate United will host Vihiga Bullets at Wundanyi Stadium while winless Mt Kenya United will meet log leaders and unbeaten Kenya Police at Camp Toyoyo grounds. At Kianyaga Stadium, second placed Fortune Sacco will tackle Silibwet Seals hoping to keep their unbeaten record. Silibwet FC on Monday appointed Evans Mafuta as their head coach. Ken Kenyatta’s Talanta will face former top tier side Kisumu All Stars at Ruaraka grounds while on Monday, Modern Coast Rangers will entertain APS Bomet at Serani grounds. Ends