Ngong Road giants Quins have retained former Kenya Sevens tactician Benjamin Ayimba as deputy head coach for the upcoming Kenya Cup season. This will be Ayimba's third season in that capacity having served under previous head coaches, Charles Cadovillis and Dominique Habimana. In his first stint with Cadovillis, Ayimba played a pivotal role as Quins qualified for the Kenya Cup semifinals, losing to eventual champions KCB 46-13 during the 2018/19 season. Ayimba will be under Belgian Antoine Plasman, who was appointed in August, and their role will be to ensure that Quins qualify for the playoffs after missing out on the top six last season. Speaking on Thursday, Quins chairman Michael Wanjala said continuity was key in the appointment of Ayimba for the upcoming season. "Benja has been with us for the last three seasons and having him will improve the side. He will help us with certain aspects of the game and improve in areas where we struggled last season and as well offer advice to Antoine," added Wanjala. Wanjala expressed confidence that when the season starts, the club will be in the mix for the playoffs. "Our players started going to the gym in the final two months of the year and we have already met as a group and spoken of our need to be contenders for the upcoming season,” added Wanjala. Quins have bolstered their squad by signing international Joshua Chisanga, Emmanuel Mavala, Phillip Ikambili and Evin Asena from Homeboyz and Xavier Kipngetich, formerly of Impala with Isaac Wafula from Western Bulls and Bryan Oyando from Administration Police also joining. The new signings will complement the core of the squad that did duty last season including Herman Humwa, Eden Agero, Elisha Koronya, Hillary Baraza, Patrice Agunda, Malcolm Onsando and Lyle Asiligwa. Wanjala was hopeful that the squad will start their pre-season this month if the government gives the sport the go-ahead to resume activities following a restrictions imposed in the fight against the spread of Covid-19.