The employment and welfare of health workers will be handled by an independent council if a Bill before the Senate is passed. The Health (Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to give the Kenya Health Human Resource Advisory Council more powers to take up the role. Currently, medics staffing and remuneration issues are handled by the Ministry of Health and county governments. In their strikes in December last year, the medics demanded the creation of a health service commission to oversee their employment issues. The Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ibrahim Ali-sponsored Bill will give the council such powers. It will offer advisory services to the national and county governments on recruitment, employment and deployment. It will also make recommendations to the Health CS on policy guiding posting of interns and advise on inter-county and intergovernmental transfers. Further, the agency will advise on the welfare and scheme of service for health professionals; and also on management and rotation of specialists. The council will also have say on maintenance of a master register for all health practitioners in the counties. Kenya Heath Human Resource Advisory Council will also undertake an audit of healthcare workers in the national health system. It will from this, advise the national and county government on the gaps in recruitment and deployment of registered healthcare workers. KHHRAC will also have say on promotions, training, and remuneration of healthcare professionals. “The Council’s enhanced mandate is expected to improve health service delivery in devolved units through the promotion of cooperation between the two levels of government in the critical area of Human Resources for Health,” the Wajir senator said in his memorandum on the legislation. The lawmaker told the Star that he came up with the Bill as a solution to the skewed employment opportunities in counties and unfair promotions. “I am planning to proceed with the Bill since the commission issue might not succeed. The council is the only option next to the health service commission,” Abdullahi said. The Bill also seeks to give county public service boards three slots in the council. “This is because the counties are expected to employ the bulk of the health human resources and decisions of the board are likely to greatly influence the functions of county governments in regard to employment of health human resources.” Posts held by the Attorney General and director-general of health as per the Health Act have been removed. Other members of the council would be a chairperson appointed by Health CS; Health principal secretary; a council of governors’ nominee (not governor); a representative of the Public Service Commission; a nominee by county directors of health; three persons nominated by universities; and a CEO. The BBI task force reported that there were divergent views on the proposed health service commission, with some quarters bidding for a regulatory statutory body to regulate and oversee the employment and deployment of specialised medical staffs who are in short supply. The BBI team has thus proposed amendments to the Health Act to establish the commission to take charge of health workers’ affairs. The commission is envisaged to develop standards for training; recruitment; welfare, career development and schemes of service for healthcare workers. The BBI seeks to provide that the commission deals with intra-country and inter-county transfer of healthcare workers and the national distribution of highly skilled healthcare workers. “The Commission shall facilitate resolution disputes between employers and health care workers in public service both at the national and county levels and accredit health institutions,” the BBI bill reads.  (edited by o. owino)