Former Kisumu Central MP and EAC Chief Administrative Secretary Ken Obura has declared his interest to replace Governor Anyang Nyong’o in the 2022 gubernatorial race. Obura made stopovers in Kisumu on Monday where he visited jua kali traders before addressing residents at the Kisumu bus park and along the Oginga Odinga Street to popularise his candidature. He expressed confidence of victory, saying he has the capacity to govern the county based on his development record when he served as the MP. Obura will ride on his development record, especially in education, having built schools during his five-year tenure as Kisumu Central MP. He lost the MP seat in the last election to Fred Ouda. Obura has been traversing the county to reach out to opinion leaders, youths and the business community. Among those eyeing the seat are former Governor Jack Ranguma, Senator Fred Outa and former chief finance officer Cephas Kasera. Obura, also praised the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga saying it has seen various developments in Kisumu. He asked residents to rally behind the two leaders to support BBI which will ensure more development funds are allocated. Obura pledged to make health one of his development pillars and tackle the constant medics' strike in Kisumu when elected as governor. He also plans to revamp road networks and support small and medium-sized enterprises. He criticised the demolition of structures belonging to small scale traders during the Covid-19 pandemic which has negatively impacted on the economy. “We are not opposing the ongoing developments in Kisumu. But all we are asking is for the county government to engage locals and find those affected an alternative space,” Obura said. He said Nyong’o had the time to relocate affected traders before demolishing their business structures. “The livelihoods of hundreds of people in the city have been destroyed. They have school fees to pay and feed their family. Where will they get help when their businesses are destroyed?” he posed. But Nyong’o told off politicians to stop using the relocation of traders in the City to make a come-back. “They are shouting themselves lame at Funerals even as mourners refuse to listen to them. We suspect they are holding briefs for cartels and Land grabbers some of whom have even rented pavements to unsuspecting traders,” he said. Nyong’o urged the traders to reject politicians' cheap propaganda and assured the business community in Kisumu, especially the small-scale traders that each one of them will have spaces to sell their wares. He said those who have not been allocated stalls at the Chichwa Market, the Uhuru Business Park will soon open its gates and those affected will be given priorities. “This ultra-modern business park will have up to 10,000 stalls. It will be far better than the pavement where they have been trading in the scorching sun,” he said. Nyong’o appealed to Kisumu residents to be a little resilient and bear with the county government as they strive to make Kisumu one of the greatest cities in Africa. “In every part of the world, big development projects must initially come with a little discomfort, which will eventually ease off,” he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris