Some cabinet secretaries from President Uhuru Kenyatta's Mt.Kenya backyard are planning an aggressive charm offensive to market the Building Bridges Initiative in the region. This even as it emerged that the BBI train in Mt Kenya was encountering massive hurdles amid widening cracks among key leaders from the region over who should lead the campaigns. Key political figures from Mt Kenya region including Kirinyaga governor Anne Waiguru and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata have warned that BBI would encounter more resistance if leaders leading the campaigns are handpicked. The Star has established that CSs from Mt. Kenya have now rolled out a multi-pronged strategy to resuscitate the BBI prospects precipitating a clash with the DP. Outside of Central Kenya, there is a tendency to think of the Kikuyu community as the most united vote bloc in the country, and one that can be relied on to support their recognised “muthamaki” (supreme leader) in all his political initiatives. But recent events have revealed what should really have been an open secret all this time. That the people of that region are actually very independent-minded, and that their support cannot be taken for granted even by a serving president of Kikuyu ethnicity, in this case, Uhuru Kenyatta. Nor is this a new development. In Siasa this Friday, the Star explores why Uhuru is facing a rebellion. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga is facing a massive dilemma to sustain his handshake with President Uhuru Kenyatta and maintain his support bases without jeopardising the Jubilee administration’s agenda. The ODM leader is stuck between a rock and a hard place. Attacking his nemesis, Deputy President William Ruto, who is the country’s second in command, without appearing to hit out at the President. Raila’s allies are mounting pressure on him to reassert his influence as the ‘poor people’s defender’, amid concerns he may have lost a chunk of his constituency to the DP with his hustler nation and wheelbarrow movement. Siasa on Friday examines this quandary. A matatu tout recently tickled a courtroom when, while testifying in his defence, he told the judge that getting high on alcohol helped him see his wife as a beautiful woman. Wycliffe Orinda, charged with creating a disturbance at his estranged wife's workplace, told Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku that consuming bhang and alcohol gave him the courage to seduce his wife in the first place. Orinda's hilarious testimony highlights the extent to which alcohol and drug consumption not only affect romantic relationships but contribute to the start of those relationships. Is love easily brewed in the devil’s drink? The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has employed 600 nurses as it plans to open four health facilities next week. The nurses will be deployed in the 24 hospitals being constructed by director-general Mohammed Badi's team plus two other main hospitals, Korogocho and Mama Lucy. A four-day exercise started on Monday where all the 600 nurses presented their documents for verification and issuance of appointment letters. The NMS will next week commission four out of the 24 hospitals which have been under construction since last October. President Uhuru Kenyatta has directed NMS to construct 24 hospitals in Nairobi's informal settlements at a cost of Sh2 billion.