The Nairobi Metropolitan Service has announced phase two of the affordable housing programme in ten city estates. NMS last week invited Expression of Interest to redevelop the estates, in a plan  which aims to tackle urban decline, improve quality of the environment, increase housing stock, promote proper land use and improve the life of residents. “The Nairobi Metropolitan Service Invites Expressions of Interests (EOI) from development partners in banking industry, pension funds and schemes, real estates developers and other investors to redevelop the properties together,” reads the notice. The estates include Bahati, Maringo, Jericho, Lumumba, Bondeni, Ziwani, Embakasi, Califonia, Kariobangi North and Woodley. In public notice last Friday, NMS deputy director general Kang'ethe Thuku announced that NMS would be embarking  on urban renewal and redevelopment in a phased approach in the 10 estates. NMS said requirements will be detailed in the Request For Proposal (RFP) document which will be circulated to shortlisted firms upon evaluation of submissions. Firms will be shortlisted for participation based on their demonstration of technical and financial capabilities in response to this request. The EOI document can be downloaded at Public Procurement Information Portal www.tnders.go.ke. All applications and attachments must be submitted in hard copy by January 22, 2021, at the tender boxes marked NMS at the KICC. Currently, the first block of 160 units of the Pangani Affordable Housing Project is scheduled to be handed over next month, nine months after the groundbreaking. Pangani is one of the seven estates chosen for phase one of the project. Others are Uhuru, Suna Road, Old Ngara, New Ngara, Jevanjee and Ngong Road Phases One and Two. The county contracted six firms — Technofin Kenya, Green Ederman Property, Green Prestik, Jabavu Village, Stanlib Kenya and Directline Assurance Limited — to redevelop the units The Sh25 billion Pangani development is part of the government's low-cost housing projects with Technofin Kenya contracted to redevelop units. The eight blocks will have 1,562 apartments standing on 5.2 acres worth Sh4 billion. In May, 2019, each of the 48 tenants received Sh600,000 to facilitate their resettlement rent for the next two years as construction works progress. Once completed, the 48 tenants, who were evicted, would be given first priority. Each tenant will get a new house that costs Sh3 million. They are to pay for the houses in a 30-year period at a negotiated monthly rent of Sh8,000.