His arms and legs are shriveled, he's basically without limbs, but 14-year-old Jeckonia Onyango writes and paints by holding a pen or brush in his mouth. “I can write my name. I can read and love to paint. I always wished I could write and go to school like a normal boy. "I know I am normal in a special way,” Jeckonia told the Star from his OVI Children's Hospital bed in Migori county. Three years ago he held a pen in his mouth for the first time. And he is special, he's smart, hopeful and dreams of being an optician someday. Jeckonia was born with contracture at his angle, knee, elbow joints, making his limbs useless so he moves himself by wriggling around. He can get in and out of bed and go up and down five flights of stairs. “I will be a doctor in the future, that is my dream. To be an optician. And I want to go to school like other children,” the boy from Uriri constituency said. His father Bernard Odhiambo said Jeckonia was born with congenital abnormalities so his limbs did not develop normally. Contracture happens when muscles, tendons, joints, or other tissues tighten or shorten, causing deformity. “At birth his mother was taken for an operation and the boy has been living through orphanages before he was rescued three years ago at OVI Children Hospital," Odhiambo said. Odhiambo was shocked to see his firstborn child wrapped in bandages. For years he tried to find treatment and medication, all in vain, before OVI children's hospital stepped in. When the Star visited Jeckonia, he was taking a midmorning nap at a special low-lying bed made for him. He crawls on his side as his limbs are limp. Now he can even sit up, thanks to physiotherapy. “I feel better, I can scale the stairs to cover all the five storeys in the hospital without any help. I can also open and close doors and sleep on the bed without any help,” he said, beaming. To prove his point, he crawls out of his bed and crawls to the door where he lies on his back and opens the door with his legs. “At the stairs, I crawl to the wall and use my back to scale the wall and legs to take up the stairs like this,” he said. Hospital administrator Helen Opilu said for the past three years the boy has made strides and they have trained teachers for him and other children. “When he came his skin was peeling especially around the limbs because he used to crawl in dirt for a long time," she said. “Now he can pick a pen or a pencil using his mouth and paint, write and draw. For the past three years he has been schooled at the hospital by trained teachers and his progress has been great. "He loves to study," Opilu said. She said to help in cognitive thinking Onyango plays draughts or chequers with other children. “We believe his future in a school system can be secured and his progress will be decided by the hospital board. "He wants to be an optician and we pray for him." (Edited by V. Graham)