Kisii County Commissioner Abdirisack Jaldesa on Sunday announced that chiefs and their assistants will start tracing learners who have not reported to school since they reopened last Monday. Jaldesa said that the exercise will be conducted starting tomorrow saying the government wants to ensure no learner is left out. He said that no excuses will be allowed by parents who have failed to take their children back to school. The commissioner said that the chiefs know their homes and thus it will be easy for them to trace the kids. Speaking to the Star on phone, Jaldesa said they have directed chiefs and their assistants to start tracing children who have not reported to their learning institutions. “I am warning parents who have not taken their children back to school that no excuse will be allowed. The government is working to ensure that no child is left,” he said. The administrator said that they have been moving around schools and the progress is that 95 per cent of learners have since reported and are going on with their studies. Jaldesa said most of the schools, have complied with Covid-19 protocols. Meanwhile, Kisii county Governance Watch Secretary Rachel Otundo has raised concern over the safety of learners considering the high number of new admissions, especially in public schools. Otundo said several parents transferred their kids from private institutions because some had closed thus making it difficult to achieve the 1.5-metre distance. She said there is an urgent need for the government to release funds to enable school administrators to purchase tents to use as classrooms to avoid congestion. “Many of the public schools are facing serious challenges because they received a high number of learners from private institutions. This poses danger to learners because of Covid-19,”  Otundo said. She urged the government to release the Sh 27 billion it promised to give to private schools as loans to enable them to address the challenges they are facing. Otundo said private institutions play a key role in supplementing the government’s efforts of giving quality education to Kenyan learners and thus they deserve support.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris