The battle to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago is raging in Uasin Gishu where the dominant Nandi and Keiyo subtribes of the Kalenjin community are facing off. The two subtribes constitute the majority of residents. With more than 18 months to next year's polls, more than six aspirants are are doing groundwork for campaigns to succeed Mandago who completes his second term next year. At a funeral in Burnt Forest area of Uasin Gishu two weeks ago, Senator Margaret Kamar urged residents and leaders to focus on unity and not compete on the basis of ethnicity. “We are one people and should consider ourselves equal," Kamar said. Some speakers had said leadership should be preserved for the Nandi community who dominate the area. The Nandi community constitutes more than 50 per cent of the population, the Keiyos account for about 20 per cent while the rest are from other communities. Mandago is from the Nandi community while his deputy Daniel Chemno is from the Keiyo community. Businessman Bundotich Kiprop 'Buzeki' is considered a leading contender to succeed Mandago. He is from the Keiyo community. Buzeki’s opponents are accusing him of playing the ethnic card. He ran as an independent against Mandago in 2017 and lost narrowly. “I will vie again based on my capacity to work for the people of Uasin Gishu and not this narrow thinking about where one comes from," Buzeki said. Other key people eyeing the governor's seat include Kenya’s envoy to Pakistan, Julius Bitok and politician Jonathan Bii. They are both laying the ground for their campaigns. Analysts say the race will be mainly between Buzeki and Bitok. The professor lost to Mandago in the Jubilee nominations in 2013 and has focused on his envoy's work for the last 10 years. He remains influential in the region. A series of meetings has been underway to strategise for the seat. Recently Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi accused Buzeki of holding secret night meetings over the governorship. “Our meetings are not secret and even Sudi should attend and see what we do. Anyone wishing to attend, including the police are welcome, because we have nothing to hide," Buzeki said. Elders from the Keiyo community met near Kaptagat area two days ago to discus political trends. They expressed concern there was a scheme to push the community out of leadership in the county where they live and work. “As the Kalenjin community, we all support Deputy President William Ruto to go for the presidency. We should not be doing the opposite in Uasin Gishu where we are being told leadership is reserved for a certain group," Mzee Kibet Murusin said. Soy MP Caleb Kositany, Kamar and Chemno are among those said to be eyeing the governor's job but they are yet to make their positions public. (Edited by V. Graham)