“Bring it on! We are waiting for you! Let’s meet on the ground at the Coast!” Those were the words of vocal Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, who was responding to Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho’s condemnation of the push for a coastal party. This sets the stage for a major political battle for the control of the region, which has for a long time been deemed to be in Joho's firm grip. Buoyed by ODM's humiliating defeat in the Msambweni by-election, Jumwa has become more courageous, vocal and pronounced in her attack of Joho and his ODM brigade at the Coast. This has, inevitably, led to talk of a possible political realignment that might see Joho lose the regional political kingpin tag. But who could possibly emerge as a leading voice for the region? Political analyst Prof Hassan Mwakimako says though there will be a realignment, it is not about the leadership but the people themselves. Mwakimako says residents are yearning for unity but the leaders have failed to provide it, and the time has come for the people to decide who will lead them. He says the Jumwas and the Johos of the region are all selfish and are not interested in unity. “They will only sing the unity song when they feel it will benefit them and not the residents,” Mwakimako says. Joho, in an interview with Citizen TV on Utamaduni Day (formerly Boxing Day), said ODM’s Msambweni defeat was just a blip. “Winning and losing is what makes us human beings. The mightiest of all…win some and lose some battles. That does not change who they are,” he said. On Sunday, Joho blasted those calling for a regional party, saying the region was united under ODM. However, Jumwa said a new vehicle with roots in the Coast is already in place and it is only a matter of time before it is unveiled. There are reports she is positioning herself to take the mantle of ‘kingpin’, an idea that has divided opinion in the region. She is eyeing the Kilifi governor position, currently held by Amason Kingi, who also has ambitions of becoming kingpin. Kingi at one time was seen to be in competition with Joho for the title but he seems to have gone silent, keeping a low profile for some time now. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya, who differs with Joho in opinion and ideology, is seen as another contender for the title, but many dismiss him as too ‘shy’ to be the region’s leader. Lands Chief Administrative Secretary Gideon Mung’aro is one of the potential candidates. His political career is largely linked with ODM, from which he decamped to Jubilee but is now seen to be warming up to the party once more, after some time in Deputy President William Ruto’s camp. A photo of the former Kilifi North MP with ODM chief Raila Odinga, Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and Siaya Senator James Orengo, in a round table meeting at Billionaire’s Club on January 2, has raised speculation that something could be cooking. Joho, Raila’s staunchest supporter at the Coast, was not in the picture, leading to questions over whether the ODM chief could be strategising for the region without him. The Mombasa Governor lives in Malindi now. Billionaire’s Club is in Malindi. On Utamaduni Day, Joho said a time will come when the region and its leaders will speak with one voice. “It is expected in politics that ideas, ideologies, wisdom and words will clash. But that doesn’t mean that we don’t have a goal as a people. We have already started talking what we will do to get that unity of the Coast people,” said Joho. Jumwa, in a recorded audio, told off Joho. “You thumped your chest with bravado saying the Coast is yours, but we showed you dust,” she says. Observers say Jumwa is using the same tactic that elevated Joho to the national stage, when he fought President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2017 and 2018. Mwakimako however says there is currently no coastal politician with the muscle to push the region's agenda. “There is a lacuna at the Coast and the leaders are trying to take advantage of it. They realise that the people desire unity, which they cannot provide," he says. “Thus they tend to side with any side that seems to be heading towards unity.” Umoja Summit Party of Kenya is leading the push for unity. The party had welcomed Joho’s Utamaduni Day sentiments about unity. However, the change in tune has them shocked. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya