Kenyan top flight clubs are set to raid the market to restructure their injury-plagued squads when Football Kenya Federation open the second player transfer window next week. FKF leagues and competitions department said on Tuesday that the domestic transfer window would kick off on January 25 and run until March 1. "FKF wishes to notify all Kenyan premier League clubs and other stakeholders that the second player registration period (transfer window) for the league shall officially open  January 25 and shall run until March 1, 2021," a statement read in part. The clubs will also have an opportunity to navigate the international market for foreign players between January 25 and February 22. Already quite a number of Kenyan Premier League players have been ruled out of action after sustaining injuries and this could be a perfect opportunity for their teams to address the concerns as the new season picks up. Reigning champions Gor Mahia are shopping for another shot-stopper after Levis Opiyo terminated his contract in a huff over a payment dispute. Opiyo, who was acquired from KPL returnees City Stars in November, never made it to the starting lineup in all the league and continental assignments for Gor this season. Besides him, two midfielders John Brystone Ochieng and Sydney Ochieng are both nursing serious injuries that have kept them in the cold for slightly over a month. Tusker FC also have injury concerns after their custodian Robert Mboya collected a shoulder dislocation in their 4-2 win over Kariobangi Sharks at MISC, Kasarani over the weekend. Although the Brewers can temporarily look up to second choice Mike Wangala, who came in handy after Mboya was stretchered out of the match, sources indicate they may stretch out their resources for another keeper given Mboya's nagging injury. Kariobangi Sharks are also likely to dig deep in their pockets to fill the voids left by midfielder Patilla Omoto, who suffered an abductor's sprain that kept him out of their last match against Tusker FC. Their centre-back Kuol Chol also collected an ankle sprain while Kenya U-23 fullback Fredrick Alushula is still nursing a medial collateral ligament strain. Mathare United have equally suffered a major setback after their forward Clifford Alwanga got a knock in training that tore his ligaments. The Slum Boys' attacking line up has struggled in their three opening encounters and perhaps coach Salim Ali could be forced to tinker his lineup as he looks for more convincing results.