The Kisumu county government has begun works to upgrade Otonglo market into an ultra-modern facility for Sh79 million. Governor Anyang' Nyong’o said the modern market in Kisumu West subcounty will accommodate 500 traders once complete It is expected to be completed in eight months and is funded through the Sh4.5 billion Kisumu Urban Project. The French government through the French Development Agency supplied the cash. Nyong’o was accompanied at the groundbreaking ceremony by Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, city manager Abala Wanga and Market Milimani MCA Seth Ochieng. “It will not only change the face of Kisumu but will improve the business environment in this urban centre which sits on a major Highway to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and DRC,” he said. Upon completion, Nyong’o said, the market will provide habitable spaces for traders to do their businesses. “This is one of the modern markets my administration is building across the county. It is an indication that we care for the welfare of the small scale traders,” he said. Nyong’o said, “Our resolve to put up these ultra-modern markets is a clear testimony that my government is committed to growing SMEs across the county.” He said they have ensured the transformation has a human face. “This is why we are relocating the traders affected by the operations to new grounds as they await the opening of Uhuru Business Park, Kibuye and Otonglo,” he said. Nyong’o told off politicians opposing the relocation of traders from the streets and removal of structures built on top of sewer lines and drainage. Already, more than 500 traders have been relocated to the Sh37 million Chichwa market, a World Bank-funded project. Chichwa is a component of the Sh241 million Non-Motorised Transport project in the city. Nyong’o said the Sh350 million Uhuru Business Park which has 10,000 stalls is almost ready for occupation. Last year, he broke ground for the upgrade of the giant Kibuye open-air market. Nyong’o said phase one of the project will cost Sh315 million. Nyong’o said phase one of the market will have four ablution blocks, a boundary wall (masonry and steel grating), roads, walkways, foul water drainage, offloading and customer front parking which is expected to be ready in the next six months. He said other expected facilities will include sheds and warehouse for the wholesale market and stormwater drainage, an elevated water storage tank and reticulation, floodlights and street lighting 630 KVA transformer, and electricity connection. The governor said they are seeking more funds to expand and modernise the Jubilee market.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris