Deputy President William Ruto now says Raila Odinga's ODM party cannot run away from the failures it has caused the government. Ruto on Friday said the Opposition party has been part of the running of Jubilee government for the past three years using the Handshake. Speaking at his Karen home on Friday, Ruto said ODM is to blame for causing the government to deviate from its Big Four Agenda plan. “You came and changed the Government’s priorities from the Big Four Agenda to alternative ones like the Building Bridges Initiative. Now, after you have failed miserably, you want to run away,” he said. Ruto said Raila and his ODM brigade will be held to account for the monumental failures it has caused the country. “You must bear the consequences for the derailment of Jubilee’s development agenda. You cannot point fingers at others,”  he said. He spoke after he held talks with the Members of County Assembly from Mandera County led by Majority Leader Abdi Adan Ali. The DP asked politicians not to criminalise discussions about the needs and aspirations of ordinary Kenyans. He said it was time the national conversation centred around the empowerment of the people at the bottom of the wealth pyramid. While defending his 'hustler nation' narrative, Ruto said the hustler conversation was not meant to divide Kenyans but to highlight and address the plight of poor Kenyans. “The discussion we are having about hustler nation is not a discussion about the rich and the poor,  it is about getting everybody to the table and ensure everybody counts," he said. “How is it a discussion that is dividing people if we are saying let us also have a discussion about the ordinary people of Kenya?” he posed. He said for far too long the national conversation had been about leaders and positions of power at the expense of the needs of the ordinary people. His sentiments come hours after former Vice President and Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka said Ruto should be barred from using the hustler nation tag. Kalonzo said the DP is hiding behind the tag to cause divisions while spreading falsehood and propaganda.