The increased rate of indiscipline among young people in the last couple of weeks has been as a result of two major things: The internet and failed parenting. The internet has been mentioned as a key factor causing this change of behaviour, probably as a result of exposure to explicit content to the young minds. Not all content on the internet should be consumed by young people. That’s why we have parental advisory on content that has violence, physical abuse or even inappropriate language. That said, it forms the basis of my opinion that if guided properly, the young people can use the internet to build a better society. The internet can be used to advance our nation to greater levels and one of the ways of doing so is research and developing solutions for various challenges facing t society. Young people living in this fast-changing environment are normally exposed to tonnes of content from the internet. In this cocktail of information, there is no way one will miss the misleading information that can be toxic to them. But the line that separates the good from the bad hinges on guidance. It is a crucial aspect that parents and guardians can work on so as to guide and shape the behaviour of our young ones. This can be achieved by explaining to the children about the content they watch, and enlightening them on its iMpact the good and the bad, eventually. This way, their behaviour is likely to be influenced positively. As a country endowed with vast tech opportunities, we should focus on usage of the internet and innovation platforms to create additional opportunities to more young people. Taking into consideration efforts by entities such as the Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs, Konza Technopolis flagship project and Ajira Digital Programme, among others, much more can be attained. Looking into the future, and the opportunities at our disposal, there are plenty of reasons to guide the young on proper use of the internet. Considering that about 75 per cent of Kenyans are aged 35 years and below, protecting them from explicit internet content for their future development remains important. This can be rolled out in schools and learning institution where majority of the young are easily found. This way, we will have saved these young minds, positioned them for innovations as we gear ourselves towards the fourth industrialisation where innovation and smart technologies are key. Ronald Koskei, Nairobi