Emgwen MP Alex Kosgey has thrown his support behind Deputy President William Ruto and signalled joining the hustler movement. The son of veteran politician and former Cabinet minister Henry Kosgey also declared he would defend his seat in next year’s polls. “We are all in the wheelbarrow [party] and we should stand for peace, unity and stability as we all try and come out of various situations in life,” Kosgey said. The youthful legislator dismissed talk the hustler movement can cause class wars between the rich and poor in the country. “The hustler nation is not about dividing but uniting all people regardless of class. Stop this narrative of class war which doesn’t exist. End this notion of entitlement,” Kosgey said. He spoke on Thursday in Kapsabet as he distributed Sh55 million NG-CDF cash for the expansion of various schools in his constituency. “Let each party sell its policies and stop demonising others simply because you think you are entitled to lead. Leadership is decided by the people themselves and we should not incite others,” the MP said. Kosgey’s elder brother Allan Kosgey is expected to contest against incumbent Governor Stephen Sang for Nandi county’s top job. The lawmaker said the country was faced with serious social, economic and political issues due to various challenges, including the Covid-19 pandemic. Kosgey said schools were facing problems in keeping with the Ministry of Health protocols to control the spread of the coronavirus. “However, with the NG-CDF kitty, we shall ensure we utilise the funds to expand and increase the number of classes and other infrastructure as we insist on face masks and handwashing in all schools,”  Kosgey said. Nandi county commissioner Geoffrey Omoding ordered chiefs to ensure all children return to school – even those who are pregnant. “Pregnancy is not a disease, lets allow all the girls to return to class after delivery of their babies but those responsible for the pregnancies would face the full force of the law,” Omoding said.  (edited by o. owino)