15 aspirants have so far submitted their names to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for clearance to contest in the forthcoming Machakos senatorial by-election. Machakos County IEBC returning officer Joyce Wamalwa said the lot will all be subjected to a nomination process for legibility. They included 13 men and 2 women with six aspirants contesting as independent candidates. “For the purpose of this senatorial by-election, I am the returning officer for the March 18th by-election in Machakos County. So far, we have received a list of 15 aspirants who have shown interest in this by-election and they will be submitting their documents for nomination next Monday and Tuesday from 8.00 am,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa spoke to reporters at her office in Machakos on Friday. The aspirants slated to present their documents to the IEBC for clearance on Monday 25th include independent candidates Munyambu Francis Musembi, Nthama Sebastian Nzau, Maweu Jonathan Makenzi, Muli Lazarus Muoki and Ndonye Gilbert Mutua. Musembi according to reliable sources is a retired senior police officer. Others to appear the same day are Kitheka Simeon Kioko (Grand Dream Development Party), Dr Musingi K. John (Muungano party), Muindi Stanley (Party of Economic Democracy), and Ngengele Urbanus Mutunga Muthama of United Democratic Alliance (UDA). Those slated for nominations on Tuesday 26th are Mwanzia Lily Nduku (Chama Cha Uzalendo), Joseph Musyoki Mathuki (Independent), Katuku John Mutua (Maendeleo Chap Chap), Muia Stephen Kilonzo (Thirdway Alliance), Otto Edward Musembi (Ford Asili) and Agnes Kavindu of Wiper Democratic Movement of Kenya. Each candidate has been allocated 40 minutes to present his/her documents for clearance. The process ends at 3.30 pm. Wamalwa said they were ready for the by-elections. “We have had security meetings with top county security officials chaired by the county commissioner. Things are on course, everything is going on well,” Wamalwa said. She added, “We are just appealing to residents of Machakos County that they should conduct themselves and campaigns should be peaceful. We expect peaceful nominations. So far, we have not received any challenges and we thank the security team for ensuring that everything works well.” Wamalwa said they had given the aspirants IEBC code of conduct that is comprehensive on what was expected of them during the by-election process. She noted that the code of conduct talks of peaceful campaigns, no hate speech, among other issues. “We don’t expect any issues arising or contravening the code of conduct. We agreed with the candidates that they should all adhere to the code of conduct. Therefore, we are not expecting anything that is out of the code.” Wamalwa said all aspirants must adhere to Covid 19 rules and regulations by the government. She said they were in the process of recruiting poll officials. “We are ready for training. We have all the materials that are required. Our equipment is working well, we are ready for this by-election.”