The Ugandan national alleged to have enticed Western Stima goalkeeper and defenders to lose their last weekend match against KCB  with 4-0 scoreline is expected in court today in Kisumu. The club on Saturday recorded a major triumph in the fight against match-fixing in the country after trapping and arresting a man who tried to manipulate the club's league match against the bankers. The match played yesterday at the Afraha Stadium ended 3-1 in favour of KCB According to the club chairman Laban Jobita, the man he identified as Ronnie Mwiine approached the backline and asked them to concede two goals in either half in exchange for Sh 600, 000. To stamp the deal, he allegedly lured the players to a hotel in Kisumu to finalise the deal on Saturday. However, the players raised a red flag and reported him to Jobita who gave them the green light to meet him alongside the club's team manager Moses Nyalik. Jobita said Nyalik's presence in the meeting was the breakthrough point as he called him throughout the meeting for him to listen to the entire conversation to ease his nabbing. “The police took up the matter and we expect him to be arraigned in  court today. He wanted to give our players Sh 10, 000 for lunch then an additional Sh50, 000 as a down-payment. His instructions were that the team to lose 4-0 but the players reported him to me," said Jobita. Football Kenya Federation (FKF) admitted knowledge of the match-fixing allegations from Stima. The governing body says they had written to Fifa to aid in investigations. “ The arrest of the said match-fixer is part of the mechanisms we have put in place to eliminate the vice. Stima wrote to us and we have since forwarded the claims to Fifa,” said the head of communications Ken OKaka. Meanwhile, Gaspo saw off Mathare United 2-0 in the women's FKF Premier League round 5 action at the Stima Club. Mercy Airo broke the deadlock  with a  7th minute that remained unchallenged until the half-time. Despite Mathare firing from all cylinders in the second half in a bid to restore parity, Gaspo's deference stood tall. Their efforts to make a comeback were put off by Elizabeth Wambui who scored deep into stoppage time to ensure Gaspo walk home with all three points.