The BBI politics is tipped to shape the battle to succeed Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya as chairman of the influential Council of Governors. The Star has established that battle lines have already been drawn, with Deputy President William Ruto set to lock horns with ODM leader Raila Odinga in the duel. It has emerged that the pro-BBI camp is positioning Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria to succeed Oparanya, while Ruto's team is said to be fronting Makueni county boss Kivutha Kibwana. Wa Iria is a BBI supporter while Kibwana has faulted the move to change the Constitution through the initiative. Wa Iria has been serving as Oparanya's vice chairman for the last two years, while Kibwana has been the CoG whip during Oparanya's reign. The BBI proponents are also scheming to have Kisii Governor James Ongwae, who has been the long-serving chairman of the Human Resource and labour committee, as the next vice-chairman. With governors seen as critical players in the Building Bridges Initiative process to amend the constitution, rival camps are plotting to control the CoG ahead of the planned referendum. The CoG secretariat has confirmed that the election will be held on January 29, but before then, Ruto's allies are spoiling for a major fight against the perceived handshake proponents. “The election has been slated for January 29. We will, as usual, go for consensus but if it fails, we will have a vote,” CoG chief executive officer Jackline Mogeni said. Oparanya was elected by his colleagues in February 2020 for a second and final term in office through consensus after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila backed his bid. Backers of the BBI—which Ruto largely opposes—are said to be scheming on how to instal one of their own at the helm of CoG to bolster the referendum push. Oparanya is the ODM deputy party leader and a key pillar of the BBI campaigns. On Friday, he said he hoped his successor would be a passionate supporter of the BBI and a defender of devolution to fight for more allocation of resources to the counties. He also emphasised the need for the CoG to have a leader who would maintain a cordial working relationship with the national government. “The CoG chairman's post is a critical position that requires a leader who will champion timely and sufficient allocation of resources to counties and one who will build a working chemistry with the national government,” Oparanya told the Star. There are reports that Uhuru will throw his weight behind a governor who supports the BBI process to succeed Oparanya. The head of state has enjoyed a good working relationship with Oparanya during the latter's tenure. Their camaraderie blossomed further with their BBI agitation. CoG chairmanship is a powerful post that serves as a link between the county governments and the national executive and has a lot of leverage, including unfettered access to the President. The chairperson serves as the voice of the county governments and has a lot of privileges, including a stand-by chopper funded by taxpayers through the council's secretariat.