Kiambu senior principal magistrate Theresa Bosibori Nyangena has been indefinitely suspended by the judiciary for gross misconduct. Nyagena's suspension letter was signed by acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu and forwarded to Kiambu chief magistrate Patriciah Gichohi. The Judiciary chief registrar, registrar magistrate courts and director human resource management and development were all copied. The letter was dated January 7, 2021. Nyangena was among five candidates who vied for the magistrates’ slot at the Judicial Service Commission. Mwilu said Nyangena will not get her salary but an alimentary allowance equivalent to one third of her basic monthly pay until her disciplinary case is finalised. Among the accusations levelled against Nyangena are failing to respond to a letter on complaints about her attendance and performance. In another instance, the magistrate was addressed via a letter on her absence from duty without leave. Mwilu said the magistrate only responded three weeks after the lapse of the five she was given to reply. Nyangena is also accused of proceeding on a 14-day leave from August 25, 2020 without approval. Mwilu said the magistrate's conduct has adversely affected service delivery at the Kiambu law courts. Mwilu said the acts amount to gross misconduct and can lead to severe disciplinary action including dismissal from service as stated in the Judicial Service Act, human resource policies and procedure manual. "In view of the above, you are hereby asked to show cause why you should not be dismissed from service on account of gross misconduct," the letter reads. The acting CJ said the magistrate will remain suspended until her disciplinary case is finalised. Nyangena was directed to hand over all judiciary stores in her custody with a detailed handover report to the head of station and to also report to Kiambu law courts every last Friday of the month until her case is finalised. "A report shall be made to the Judiciary to confirm compliance." Mwilu directed Nyangena to file her representation, if any, within 14 days from January 7 "failure to which disciplinary proceedings will be instituted without further interference to you." Nyangena is a law graduate from Moi University having joined as one of the pioneer students in the School of Law in 1997. She was admitted to the bar in 2003. She later, in 2013, enrolled for a master’s programme at the University of Nairobi. Nyangena sat her KCPE exam in 1991 in Bungoma before proceeding to Limuru Girls High School where she sat her KCSE exam in 1995. Her career began at Buluma and Co-Advocates as an associate. The Rift Valley Law Society then appointed her to manage its office in Nakuru town where she was tasked with the implementation of the Children's Act, 2001, and office management. The UK government then sponsored her to Britain on a working trip with a bias on children's rights and family law. In 2007, she was appointed a magistrate and posted to Vihiga law courts before being transferred to Gatundu. In July 2019, Nyangena declined to recuse herself from the manslaughter case against lawyer Assa Nyakundi saying the matter was properly before her.  Edited by P.O