The government plans to reach at least 1.25 million Kenyans with the Covid-19 between February and June. During this period, frontline healthcare workers, all staff working in health facilities and workers offering essential services will be inoculated with priority given to sectors such as security. The Health ministry has also announced plans to build the capacity of more than 23,000 healthcare workers including 8,000 health volunteers in areas of vaccine administration, logistics management, data capture and monitoring. The second phase is expected to run from July 2021 to June 2022 during which 9.7 million more Kenyans will receive the jab depending on availability of the vaccines. The target population in this phase will be Kenyans aged above 50 years and those above 18 years of age with underlying health conditions. Plans by the ministry show the third phase of the vaccination drive could run concurrently with the second phase, depending on availability of adequate vaccines, with the hope of reaching 4.9 million people who will include all other vulnerable populations. “It is important to note that if vaccines become available sooner than expected and resources are available the targets may change,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. “The ministry has already engaged the Council of Governors and both levels of government are working towards a smooth introduction of the vaccine by ensuring all logistical arrangements are in place for the expected delivery of vaccines before the end of February,” he added. Kagwe also revealed that the government has set up a safety monitoring system. Any adverse effects reported will be investigated and corrective measures taken up immediately in consultation with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. Kenya has already committed to initially procure 24 million doses of vaccines through the COVAX facility with the consignment expected in the country in this month. Plans are underway to procure 11 million doses from other mechanisms such as Africa CDC to vaccinate nearly 16 million people over a period of 18 months. COVAX aims to procure and deliver two billion doses of approved vaccines by the end of this year. The first phase of Covid-19 vaccine allocation will give priority to the high risk populations. “The vaccines are expected to be a mix of AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Johnson and Johnson and any other that will be included to the COVAX facility,” the CS said. With the current shortages of stocks, the government also plans to procure additional doses to inoculate at least five million more people over the same period, to achieve a vaccination coverage of 40 per cent. The CS has, however, noted that the government will adopt a vaccine whose Emergency Use Authorization has an approval of a stringent regulator like the World Health Organisation, adding that vaccines authorised for emergency use by SRA have already undergone trials and found to be safe for use. “Whereas the ultimate fight against Covid-19 is adherence to the laid down guidelines by the ministry, an effective vaccine presents a good opportunity to reduce the number of hospitalization and deaths due to Covid-19 thereby contributing to the quick return to normalcy,” the CS said.