A high school teacher who was with former Machakos Senator Boniface Kabaka when he fell ill in a hotel room in Nairobi will not be charged with his death. The Director of Public Prosecutions told senior resident magistrate David Ndungi that a report from the Government Chemist and a forensic report did not find evidence to charge Esther Nthenya Muli. Prosecution counsel Abel Omariba said that the investigating officer had indicated that he had received the two reports and analysed them. “The reports indicate that the investigators have not found evidence to charge the suspect and they do not want Nthenya to be held further. We pray to withdraw the miscellaneous application,” Omariba told court. In his ruling magistrate Ndungi said he had considered the application to discharge the suspect as the evidence before court did not place her at the scene of crime. He noted that the DPP has a right to terminate the case and open an inquest. “The prosecution has confirmed to the court that they have no sufficient evidence to charge the suspect,” Ndungi said. The court also noted that Nthenya had been attending court without fail and allowed the application to terminate the case. “I allow the application by DPP to terminate the case and the suspect is set at liberty and is hereby set free,” the magistrate ruled. Nthenya, 45, was arrested in December and detained pending investigations. She was freed on a personal bond. The deputy principal at Mathemba Secondary School in Makueni county was detained as police investigated an attempted murder claim, but she was released after the Director of Public Prosecutions ruled out any criminal charges. The prosecution told the court that Senator Kabaka had driven himself to the apartment-hotel in Kilimani on the Elgeyo Marakwet Road in the afternoon. He booked a room where Nthenya joined him at about 3pm. The court heard the senator had looked well when he checked in and ordered food and drinks. The court was told the politician collapsed after he was joined by Nthenya. Food and drinks were served by the staff. The senator was rushed by an ambulance to Nairobi Hospital where he was admitted to the ICU. Surgery was performed on December 4, 2020, but he later died. Nthenya's lawyer Dan Maanzo (Makueni MP) told the press that she helped pay the medical bills of the deceased senator. “I am happy the DCI did speedy investigations which showed that my client was not involved in his illness. She found the senator unwell and took him to hospital and even paid the bills,”Maanzo said. Maanzo urged Kenyans to be ready to help others who are in need.