Governors friendly to the Building Bridges Initiative process grabbed top positions during the Council of Governors elections on Friday. Embu county boss Martin Wambora was elected - through a consensus – the chair of the council. He replaces Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who served two terms. Kisii Governor James Ongwae was picked the vice chair while Elgeyo Marakwet county chief Alex Tolgos was elected whip. Wambora, Ongwae and Tolgos are ardent supporters of the constitution amendment drive being spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The majority of the new committee chairs are proponents of the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020, which is before county assemblies awaiting debate. Governors Anyang' Nyong'o (Kisumu), Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Anne Waiguru (Kirinyaga) and Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) were elected chairs of Health, Trade, Gender, Legal committees respectively. Others were governors Kahiga Mutahi (Nyeri), Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga), Ali Korane (Garissa) and Lee Kinyanjui of Nakuru. They were elected to serve as Education, Climate, Intergovernmental, Housing committee chairs respectively. In their maiden speeches Wambora, Ongwae and Tolgos pledged to drum up support for the BBI, saying it would entrench devolution. “We cannot turn a blind eye on the BBI. We shall promote it as we continue with our duties as governors,” Wambora said. There were reports that President Kenyatta would throw his weight behind a governor who supports the BBI process to succeed Oparanya. The CoG chairmanship is a powerful post that serves as a link between the county governments and the National Executive The head of state has enjoyed a good working relationship with Oparanya during the latter's tenure. Their camaraderie blossomed further with their BBI agitation. Wambora pledged to push for timely disbursement of funds from the National Treasury to counties. He also promised to work closely with investigative agencies to fight corruption in devolved units. “I’m going to collaborate with investigative agencies and other stakeholders to eliminate graft,” he said.