Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have been challenged to give alternative solutions to the hustler nation instead of using the narrative to divide Kenyans. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said on Monday the group has been selling the hustler-dynasty narrative without telling hustlers what to do to get rich. Wambugu said the group has been telling the poor that they are hustlers or poor because someone else is a member of a dynasty and rich. He warned against the misguided belief among some poor Kenyans that they will get rich if Ruto becomes president. “I don’t see the end product of the hustler narrative or what it is that they are offering,” he said. Wambugu said he was glad President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday during a vernacular radio interview flagged the narrative as a national security threat and called on all those behind it to refrain from it. He emphasised that he was happy that the President also clarified that the BBI is independent of 2022 succession politics. Tangatanga politicians had dismissed it, saying it creates seats for a few people at the top at the expense of the ordinary citizen. But Wambugu said purporting to campaign for someone will only cause confusion in the conversation. He urged Nyeri people to have a conversation about the BBI and avoid distractions. The discussion, he said, should be whether having county revenue increased from 15 to 35 per cent, getting Mukurwe-ini, Othaya and Tetu constituencies protected or having more members and constituencies was good or bad. That is the debate the region should be having and not who should be President, he said. “The President highlighted the fact that we are being divided, manipulated and played by leaders who do not come from this region.” He said the manipulation and divisions have reached a point where leaders have forgotten issues of concern such as coffee, tea and dairy farming and road construction, among other development projects. “Today, for me to sit with the MP for Mathira [Rigathi Gachagua], we are not going to converse about anything because we are divided by the 2022 conversation,” he said. Uhuru was clear that people should forget about 2022 and first discuss issues affecting the region, he said. “If that is done, people will discuss 2022 from a united perspective when that time comes.”