Three top politicians - old pals from Nasa - have hinted at a new political alliance providing a third alternative ahead of next year's election. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula  reportedly are working on their own alliance – Nasa less ODM's Raila Odinga – that will support one presidential candidate. Already Deputy President William Ruto is building his own coalition of smaller parties, while Raila is expected to team up with President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies in another coalition. This arrangement could rattle Raila and Ruto—seen as front runners. And as they pledged to work together, Muhoho Kenyatta, the younger brother of President Kenyatta suggested that united Luhyas could give Mudavadi the presidency. Speaking during a memorial service for Mudavadi’s mother, Hannah Atsianzale, at Friends International Centre in Nairobi, Muhoho said togetherness of the community would result in greater political roles in the country. “Togetherness of the community could lead to much greater roles and development not only at home, but in the country as a whole,” he said. Western politicians at the service had made passionate pleas for Luhya unity and pledged to rally behind Mudavadi in his 2022 presidential bid. Kalonzo singled out Raila for bolting out from Nasa, signalling the simmering disquiet among the trio. According to the National Super 2Alliance (Nasa) agreement, ODM was not to field a presidential candidate in 2022 if the party had won the 2017 polls. “With our brother Mudavadi, Weta and our brother Raila we formed Nasa. But some of our friends have a difficulty with that organisation. But the three of us have decided to work together come rain come shower,” Kalonzo declared. He went on, “I assure you my brother. Musalia, I have walked the journey with you. You have walked with me. Weta, we have walked together. I give you my pledge that we will walk this journey together come rain or shower. No matter the obstacles, and I mean it.” In his speech, Wetang'ula also revealed they had a covenant not to go their different ways in 2022. “My brother, Musalia, we took a solemn promise to each other that we shall walk together,” the senator told the mourners. There have been telltale signs that Musalia and Wetangula are determined to ring-fence the Western region from political raids by opponents. They  have a deal, for instance, not to field antagonistic candidates in the upcoming Kabuchai and Matungu parliamentary by-elections. But political analyst Advice Mundalo said the togetherness of the three could be a unity of convenience meant to improve their political relevance. He explained that the three cannot face off with Ruto and Raila in their individual capacities. “The unity of the three will be tested when they will need to cooperate behind a single individual for a contest. That could be their point of disintegration,” Mundalo told the Star. He said the three need to focus on making strategic decisions or else they will play subordinates to Ruto and Raila. Signals that something was in the works started on December 14 when Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang’ula met in Nairobi's Karen for private discussions. Ten days later, the three met again at Stoni Athi Resort in Machakos county were they were joined by Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu. The three fell out with Raila after they failed to attend his swearing-in  ceremony at Uhuru Park on January 30, 2018. ODM stalwarts called them cowards and asked that Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho should replace Kalonzo as Raila’s number two in the Nasa arrangement During the Thursday service, Muhoho said he was passing his condolence message on behalf of the Kenyatta family. He said the two family’s have a long history of friendship. President Kenyatta himself has been a close Mudavadi friend. In the 2013 contest, Uhuru agreed to back Mudavadi for the top job only to change days later and claim he was misled by “mademoni”. Mudavadi in his autobiography Soaring above the Storms of Passion said Uhuru and Ruto visited his home and told him they wished to pull out of the poll because of the crimes against humanity charges they were facing at the ICC. During the service, leaders from Western region said they will rally the Luhya community to back Mudavadi’s candidature. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri said Mudavadi’s popularity has demonstrated by the way leaders took their time to mourn with him following the death of his mother. “I have never seen the leadership of the country so united to mourn with a person. As a community in Western, we want to unite and speak with one voice,” he said. However, Ruto, who also attended the service, said what matters was the unity of the country. “I agree with those calling for unity of the community. We should however remember that as we talk about the unity of the community, the togetherness of the nation as a whole is most imperative,” he stated. Makadara MP George Aladwa said they will also be mobilising the Luhya community in Nairobi to speak with one voice. “We will be respected if we are united. We want to head to the 2022 polls as a team,” he added. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said the Luhya community has been a laughing stock because its people are always divided during elections. Navakholo MP Emmanuel Wangwe said it was time the community in Western united behind Mudavadi. “When we unite behind Mudavadi, then he will have high bargaining power come 2022,” said Wangwe, who is the Jubilee Chief Whip in the National Assembly. CS Wamalwa said the Luhya people should embrace other communities even as they unite. “We should embrace unity in diversity. Leaders who have spoken should mean what they say and say what they mean,” he stated. Other leaders present included National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, Cabinet secretaries Eugene Wamalwa and Mutahi Kagwe, legislators Tindi Mwale, Christopher Aseka, Godffrey Osotsi, Tim Wanyonyi, Beatrice Adagala, Victor Munyaka, Vincent Kawaya, Ferdinand Wanyonyi, Ayub Savula, Omboko Milemba, Esther Passaris, Caleb Amisi, George Khaniri and Sakwa Bunyasi. Others were former MPs Cyrus Jirongo, Andrew Ligale and Ruben Ndolo. (Edited by V. Graham)