Friends or the public influence many people to go beyond their means and indulge  in activities that left them regretting later. Louise, 28, says she was addicted to body piercings when she joined college. The mother of two has 12 piercings. Four on each ear, one tongue piercing, a septum ring and a belly button ring and a nose ring. "I have had these piercings for years, but if you ask me if I regret getting them, I'll tell you a big yes," Louise said. She continued, "It was during my college years and everyone was doing it. It was like a wave that was catching up with everyone quite fast. It was not about only females, but males were also catching up to the current wave. I first did ear piercings (two on both ears) then later on I opted for a tongue ring and before I knew it, I had a belly button piercing and a septum piercing or ring however you'd want to describe it," Louise said. And how did it make her feel after going for so many piercings? "I felt cool because the minute I walked into the college premises, I felt like I was making a statement and everyone kept asking questions about my piercings with others wanting to know where I got the job done. "It was all fun and games until I started having tongue and nose infections. My ears and nose were swollen, filled with puss. I tried treating my ears with some antiseptic but nothing was working. After a few consultations, I found a remedy that helped heal the affected areas. Mind you, by this time, my piercings were not piercings anymore. The holes had blocked and I had to remove the rings." This was a devastating moment for Louise as she had to look for ways to cover the ugly marks after the wounds healed. "I had to look for a good doctor who could help fix the problem, especially because I had developed breathing problems, because my nose had blocked. I got the help I needed but I vowed never to go to right about anyone who claims to know what a certain procedure is all about." After what you went through, what would you advise other people? "Don't trust everything your friends tell you. Do your own research. It will help you avoid so many expenses in case of an aftermath. Also, let's explore our bodies. Just because it works for your friend doesn't mean it will work for you." Lucy on the other hand has a very different story. She says that she's had body piercings for years and has never had a bad experience afterwards. "I've had body piercings for close to 13 years and not once have I complained about them. One thing people need to understand especially those who ask me why I have so many piercings is that I did my research well and I also examined my body and understood that I'm not affected by any piercings," Lucy said. She added that she started with just her ears and once they healed properly, she moved to other parts of her body bits by bits. "I had to examine my body first. Si ati niliamka siku moja nikasema nataka kukua na piercings (It's not like I woke up one morning and decided to have piercings all over my body). I did my research before going forward with anything," she said. Not only women are into piercings but men have also embraced this trend that has existed for years now. Moses says he had his first piercing after high school and he has not regretted that decision ever since. "Piercings have been a swag for a long time and people need to embrace it now more than ever. I mean, it's a form of art and we are just trying to embrace it," he said. When asked what he thinks about men and piercing their different body parts, he said, "In this time and era, people need to get on with the program. Times have changed and people are exploring beyond the cage they have been placed in," Moses explained himself. The Star caught up with one of Nairobi's most sought after owners of a tattoo and piercing parlour. Peet, who runs Skintech Tattoo parlour in Nairobi, is a tattooist and body piercer who also specializes in tattoo removal. He has been working for five years in this business of beauty. Well, we caught up with him and asked a few questions on how he runs the business and some of the crazy requests he has received from clients. What does it take to run a beauty business? The beauty business is an area that anyone with an artistic passion would want to dip their toes in. Although it requires you to find your niche. Choosing too large a niche will make it difficult to compete against other artists and parlours since uniqueness makes you stand out. In a day, how many clients walk in for an appointment? It's hard enough to pinpoint but it does bring in the required clients who desire all kinds of fashion from unique piercings to tattoos. What kind of piercings do you do? I do normal kinds of piercings which include the normal body piercings and surface piercings. I'm looking to engage the advanced level of piercings like dermal piercings. Has any customer ever come for a crazy piercing and how did you take it? Yes, we have clients who have come for unique piercings but have chosen to stay anonymous. As a professional, what do you do to ensure your clients don’t come back complaining of aftermaths? I ensure to keep the hygiene at the maximum and with the coronavirus pandemic, I make sure that all protocols for hygiene are observed to ensure the safety of my clients. What’s the best way to treat your piercings? The best way to treat piercings is to always keep it clean by washing with a saline solution and warm water. A clean piercing heals better enough for you to change to other types of rings if desired. What are some advantages and disadvantages of piercings? An advantage of piercing is the beauty and aesthetic value attached to it. Personally, I don't view piercings as having a trend because there is every piercing for every artist to do. There is no special piercing. The disadvantage of a piercing is a bad piercing. Are there any effects one should look out for after piercing? There are no effects of piercings mostly but if you are allergic to certain jewellery, you can always notify the one doing the piercing to pick out something you would be comfortable to rock. What would you tell someone who just wants a piercing for the sake of peer pressure or societal pressure? I'd tell them that they can embrace who they are confidently without any societal pressure, but they can as well make a decision for themselves as long as it will not harm them in any way. This is an art and if it's for a good cause, then you should revel in the beauty of a good look. Art has become a way many people are using to express themselves. But if you choose the path wisely, you will definitely reap good fruits out of it. At the end of the day, is this an art and a celebratory move or is it based on societal rules and expectations?