Nigerian duo of Promise Chinonso and Michael Karamor are among the eight players released by Sofapaka yesterday. The 2009 league champions dropped the eight players ahead of the much awaited mid-season transfer window for the local leagues. Other players who were axed include Ghanaian import Jedinak Nana, former Ushuru goalkeeper Isaiah Wakasala, central defender Faina Jacobs, former Chemelil Sugar midfielder David Simiyu, Bryson Juma and former Nzoia winger Collins Wakhungu. The club's President Elly Kalekwa revealed that the players affected by the purge shot themselves in the foot by putting in a dismal show on the pitch. He said they had been warned in writing twice by the technical bench to step up or face the axe. "They were issued with performance letters asking them to improve but almost ten rounds into the season, they haven't. We have  a new manager and these changes were expected," he said. Chinonso, who joined the club in January last year from Lagos Atletico, gained fame after sinking a brace against Gor Mahia in the following month but he has found the going tough this season. The forward has failed to find the back of the net this season so is Nana who registered a handful of goals and assists while in a Sofapaka shirt last season. The arrival of Karamor at the start of the season was designed to complete an attacking triumvirate but despite enjoying uninterrupted playing time, he has failed to open his goal account with the club. With the fate of the three foreigners sealed, Kalekwa said plans were underway to ship in new players to fill their slots following the opening of the international transfer window on Monday. The duo of Isaac Mitima (Rwandese) and Sebastine Sunday (Nigerian) are the only foreigners who survived the purge. "The three slots left by the foreigners will be filled by deserving imports. This time round, we will buy tried and tested players who will live up to the expectations placed on them. It is expensive to bring in players and pay salaries without the employer getting value for the money," he added. Meanwhile, Kenya Police will be gunning for their fourth win of the season when they host Vihiga Bullets today the Ruaraka grounds. Police lie fifth on the National Super League log with 12 points while Bullets are placed 16th with seven points.