If William Okwasumi would not be stopping shots between the goalposts on an early Wednesday morning, he would probably be sitting idly with a group of friends thinking of where they could get money to buy Mûgûka (Catha edulis vahl) This was the life he led before he joined Uprising Youth FC two seasons ago. Despite being an acrobat, his talent lay fallow as he spent most of his time in the company of unscrupulous characters whose mindset was on how to make a quick kill by whatever means in order to gratify the desires of their flesh. Thank God, Okwasumi ditched these friends with whom he was heading to a pit of destruction and found a home at Uprising Youth FC, where his acrobatic skills have come in handy in his role as a goalkeeper. "Most of the people I used to hang out with are no more. Some of them drowned into a sea of drug addiction whereas others who had ventured into criminal activities met a painful end," Okwasumi narrates. Misery loves company and Okwasumi is all-too familiar with it; his life and those of many others in the sprawling Majengo slums was intertwined with poverty. In Uprising Youth FC, he has found another family who have helped him become the best version of himself. "I like the fact that at Uprising, we are a family that helps each other to grow in our craft. We all love football passionately and this love has created an unbreakable bond among us," Okwasumi, a huge fan of Leicester FC shot-stopper Kasper Schmeichel, says. His testimony resonates with many other members of this football club; football saved their lives and gave them a second chance to redeem themselves by leaving the world a better place than they found it. United by football Uprising Youth FC was established almost two decades ago by a group of youths in Majengo slums who were tired of the area's infamous reputation as a crime hotspot. What began as a bond created by a common love for the sport mushroomed into a community youth group, which gave birth to several income-generating activities geared at providing them with safer and sustainable alternatives of making money other than crime. "Previously, the only income generating opportunity was one public toilet from where various youths hoped to make money. However, the money made was never enough plus it was usually a case of  'only the strongest survive' and so this pushed many into crime. We have buried countless friends who died due to their criminal activities," Nanjez Otundo, head of the Community Development Department at Uprising, explains. Rarely would a young person in the area make it past the secondary school level of education. In fact, making it successfully to Form 4 was considered a huge success considering that many more dropped out at the primary school level. "The place where we have currently set up a car wash was previously a garbage mound. Many times we would wake up and find all sorts of garbage dumped there including aborted foetuses," Otundo says. From an area long considered a no-go zone especially for visitors to the slums, the youth group now boasts of rental apartments, a 3-storey building (rented out to mitumba traders at Gikomba market), a carwash and a garbage collection project. Some of  Uprising's players — mostly who hail from the slum —  oversee these projects in their spare time, leaving no room in their minds for criminal thoughts. Platform for excellence Hussein Mohammed, skipper of the side and one of the team's longest serving players, testifies that his mentality changed when he joined the team in 2011. The opportunity to play for the side is the realisation of a lifelong dream of following in his father's footsteps as a footballer. "He made me fall in love with the sport because he would always tag me along to his matches. During Harambee Stars games, he would sacrifice and buy tickets for both of us. His love for football was quite intriguing and I just wanted to be like him," Mohammed says. However, it was not always easy for Mohammed who joined Uprising after completing high school. The holding midfielder had to bid his time as he lay behind the pecking order of more experienced players. His wait was worth it as he later became a core member of the playing unit that spurred the side in their mercurial rise from the county league to Division Two (Nairobi East Zone) in which they currently play. The bald-headed Mohammed, 31, looks up to former Manchester United midfielder Juan Sebastian Veron and somehow bears an uncanny resemblance to the Argentine. Though he considers himself too old to become a professional, his mission as captain is to mould the younger players into finished gems who can realise their full potential. "I have to lead by example by being self-disciplined. I do not drink alcohol or eat muguka because I know these are inappropriate for a professional footballer. The lessons that I have learnt in the course of my playing career, I want to pass them down to these younger ones," Mohammed, who is also a clothes retailer, says. As the club aspires to grace the Kenya Premier League within three years, nothing would complete Mohammed's joy than to lead them to this promised land. He is also working hard to grow his business, which he has expanded online. The impact of Uprising Youth has been felt far and beyond the sprawling slums by touching the lives of footballers from other areas. After several setbacks in his career, Wycliffe Oruro had taken a sabbatical leave from the sport to concentrate on his clothing business and his accountant profession. A chance encounter with a friend who was playing for Uprising reconciled him with the sport that he has loved since childhood. "A longtime friend called Kulei told me to sign up for the club if only to work on my form. They gave me a platform to showcase my skills as a versatile defender and subsequently attract the attention of big clubs," Oruro, who joined the club late last season, says. The former student of  Ngere High School, Kisumu, was on the verge of signing for then National Super League side Ushuru FC before the team were eventually disbanded by the management. "They approached me after playing for Uprising during the Betway Cup last year. I trained with them and was close to putting pen to paper before the team was disbanded. Nonetheless, God's time is the best and I know that my big break will one day come," Oruro, who can play anywhere across the back four, says. A father figure For coach Collins 'Marquez' Omondi, there would be no greater reward than for his charges to qualify for the KPL in the next three years. He believes it is only a matter of time before the top flight is treated to Uprising's philosophy of possession-based, beautiful, attacking football. Omondi not only describes himself as a tactician in the manner Manchester City's Pep Guardiola, Chelsea's Thomas Tuchel and Liverpool's Jurgen Klopp — but also a father figure to the players. "I always remember that I am a role model to these boys. There are times when one of them is discouraged or is playing badly contrary to my instructions. It is my duty to sit him down, talk to him quietly and try to ascertain the cause of his troubles on the pitch," Omondi says. He has been compelled to quell small fires that appear in his playing ranks from time to time as the ugly head of indiscipline threatens to rear. "One thing I always remind such players is that the whole community is looking up to them. What will they bequeath the next generation;  their children and grandchildren? This is something they must think about before they engage in such acts of indiscipline. If push comes to shove, such players are binned for the sake of unity in the team," he explains. A key barrier to the road to success is the lack of proper playing kit and equipment. "To keep this group of players motivated throughout the year by providing for their needs requires at least Sh1 million. We are currently dependent on the money we generate from our self-help projects but this may not always be enough," Otundo says. The road ahead Having hauled themselves from an abyss of abject poverty, Otundo dreams big for the Uprising community and the football club. A recent partnership with Zetech University has provided bright but needy players within the ranks with an opportunity to develop a plan B for their lives, thanks to a scholarship scheme. Furthermore, the university is providing mentorship opportunities to non-football members of the community who may be talented in other aspects. Otundo is elated about the partnership and believes it will usher the community into a new era of prosperity. "As we aspire to grow, we need engineers, accountants and other professionals to elevate our services. Why do we need to outsource these professionals when we have bright youth among us who only need educational opportunities to acquire these knowledge and skills?" he poses. Challenges abound but Otundo chooses to focus on the positives as he reflects on a tiresome but rewarding journey. "It took a while before we were accepted as people who had reformed and determined to bring positive change. Even our parents were initially apprehensive when we started congregating to implement these ideas but the results have been plain to see," he says. For his parting shot, Omondi asks naysayers to look to previous examples in other countries, such as Ivory Coast and Iraq, where football was a galvanising force among her citizens amidst tumultuous times. "Football can lift you from poverty to prosperity if only you are determined and disciplined. No one should lie to you that it does not pay. It is a unifying force; football matches brings together people from different backgrounds and turns them into friends," he says. Indeed, Uprising's story is testimony of the great things that Kenyan youth can achieve when they are disciplined, selfless, focused and passionate about their God-given talents. One's past does not define them — our past mistakes are not a life sentence but a lesson that we can embrace to forge ahead a better future for ourselves. 