Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has said the government will support schools in ensuring smooth operations during the pandemic. The CS spoke on Saturday at Nyambaria School in Nyamira County where he assessed the learning process at the institution. He was with Health PS Susan Mochache, Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose, Woman representative Jerusha Momanyi, Principal Boaz Owino and county commissioner Amos Mariba. “The government is willing to ensure learning is smooth even after some days of interruptions over this corona virus disease. We are calling upon all the stakeholders to come in and help our institutions so that or children are not affected in any way,” Matiang’i said. Kitutu Masaba MP Shadrack Mose said they will help in enhancing better infrastructure in schools by using the NG CDF kitty in promoting infrastructural development so that students can have a good learning environment. “We are ready to assist in developing our learning institutions so that learners can have humble time for their studies and that we promise as leaders and we must fulfill,” said Mose. Matiang’i noted that some school heads are sending children home for school fees saying the government has already taken care of the same and the only remaining part is the learners to be in school. “No parent should have a child at home over school fees, let the children be at school first and the government will take care of the rest,” he said. Matiang’i also directed security officials to ensure every child is in school by looking for those who have not reported back, establish reasons why they have not reported back and have them back to school. “It is not a matter of debate that we need children in school. All the children must be in school because the government requires them to be in school. In this regard, our security officials , chiefs and assistant chiefs should get the record of those who have not reported to school and have them in class,” said the security boss. He later visited the neighboring Ichuni girls high school where he also assessed the process of learning.