Auctioneers will on Thursday next week sell property belonging to Nyeri politician and industrialist Thuo Mathenge. Graham Investments Auctioneers on Monday ran an advert in the Daily Nation that they will auction five pieces of land both developed and undeveloped among other properties belonging to the businessman. All the properties are within Nyeri county. Thuo has invested heavily in Nyeri where he has built a multimillion-shilling business empire. He vied for the Nyeri gubernatorial seat in the 2013 but lost to the late governor Nderitu Gachagua. He challenged Gachagua’s election in court but lost the suit. Thuo tried his luck again in 2017 but was barred from contesting by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission due to his questionable academic papers. The properties under the hammer include four agricultural lands and a commercial property where his Brade Gate Poultry Industries and Brade Gate Chicken stand. The property, to be auctioned outside the main Post Office in Nyeri town, includes a vacant 14-acre plot in Kamiru area in Chaka. “The property is situated adjacent to Bradegate Industries about 1.2km off Chaka-Narumoru road branching off at the signpost to Brade Gate Industries, approximately 5.8km from Chaka market centre within Kamiru area, Nyeri county,” the ad reads. Others are a vacant two-acre plot in Kamiru, a 0.1235-acre developed plot within Gachika area and a 1.6-acre plot within Gachika area behind one of Brade Gate hatcheries about 500m off Marua-Kiganjo road. On the commercial property stands Brade Gate Poultry Industries and Brade Gate Chicken, plant and machinery, administration block, hatchery block, bakery, extension block, supermarket, printing press and a restaurant, among others. The property is along Nairobi – Nanyuki road adjacent to Bantu Africa Resort also owned by the businessman. The parcel of land measures about 1.99 acres. “The parcel is divided into two sections: the administration and restaurant sections. The administration section comprises the administration block, hatchery block, bakery go-down with an extension block, store block, gate house, concrete water tank, generator cage and semi-permanent structures,” the auctioneers state in the advert. Edited by Henry Makori