Ann Kananu has taken over as Nairobi acting Governor three days after she was sworn in as deputy governor. Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura on Monday officially handed over the instruments of power to Kananu in a ceremony at City Hall. Mutura said since Nairobi now has a substantive Deputy Governor in office he has relinquished his acting Governor capacity and resumes his full duties as Speaker. "I am not a politician, and I will not start being one. I’m focused on bringing a new spirit of cooperation, collaboration, partnership and mutual respect with all organs of government. Nairobi is now back on course," Kananu said. Kananu affirmed that she will lead on the front in heeding the call of President Uhuru Kenyatta on radically improving provision of services in the city. “My work is clearly cut out and I will focus on building legible achievements as seen in the last few months,” she said. Kananu emphasized she will remain driven by the vision and understanding of a whole government approach to service delivery. Kananu remains in DG position pending confirmation as Governor while the assumption of office committee works on the process. “My assumption in office as acting governor was based on Article 182 of the Constitution, since at that time the county lacked a substantive governor,” Mutura said. The Speaker said that developments had occurred that led him to vacate the office as acting governor. “I now, therefore, relinquish my acting as the governor of Nairobi and resume my duties as the Speaker of Nairobi County Assembly to allow Ann Kananu to proceed and assume the position of Governor in a substantive manner,” he added. Mutura noted that he was contented with the few re-alignments that he had effected in the County Public Service Board which has restored faith in Nairobians. He also assured Kananu of full support from the County Assembly during her tenure and urged her to immediately embark on working for Nairobi residents. “ We(assembly) hope to continue working closely together with the Nairobi Metropolitan Service. I request you settle quickly and start working since we have lost a lot of time on none issues not beneficial to Nairobians,” Mutura said. Last Friday,  the Appointments Committee led by Majority Leader Abdi Guyo vetted and approved Kananu, saying she had cleared by KRA, EACC and had a degree and fulfilled other requirements for the job. The Assumption of Office Committee should now be formed and gazetted for Kananu now to assume the Governor’s office. The Committee chaired by the County Secretary is highlighted in the Office of Governor Act, 2019. One of its functions includes preparing the programme and organizing for the swearing-in ceremony of a governor. Its members include the County Secretary, Chief Officer for Finance, Chief Officer for Culture and Social Services, Chief Officer of the County Public Service, Clerk of the County Assembly. Others include a representative of the NIS at the county level, a representative from NPS at the county level, the county commissioner and representative from the Judiciary at the county level. In her first speech as DG, Kananu said she will work tirelessly and together with the Nairobi Metropolitan Service boss Major General Mohammed Badi to ensure all transferred functions are further strengthened to ensure services are delivered. Kananu also pledged to form a liaison committee between City Hall and NMS for a better working relationship. However, the Law Society of Kenya on Monday also moved to court seeking to block the possible swearing-in of Kananu as Nairobi Governor. Also sought is an order to suspend her swearing-in to the office of deputy governor which happened last Friday. The society believes that the hurried swearing-in of Kananu to the office is illegal and a brazen attempt to undermine the process of a by-election as required by the Constitution.