The Police headquarters has sent squads to crack down on traffic personnel ignoring an order to abolish static roadblocks on highways. This is after it emerged despite an order by Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai that the static roadblocks had been abolished and introduced mobile ones, dozens of officers are still using the barricades for their personal use. For instance, in the Rift Valley region, which serves the busiest international highway connecting Kenya-Uganda-Tanzania- Rwanda-South Sudan- DRC Congo, the traffic personnel are still laying the barriers against an earlier order. Regional police commander Marcus Ocholla revealed in an internal memo he had noted an increase of the static traffic checks which are mounted specifically for personal gains and not detection of traffic offences. “Police will only be deployed in static places when providing free flow of traffic to motorists. I have already sent a team with unmarked vehicles to various counties to check on officers deployed on static traffic checks,” said Mr Ocholla in a memo dated January 26. The checkpoints and roadblocks on highways are only to be mounted with the express authority of Regional/Formation Commanders and must be justified and rationalised. He warned that ward and sub-county commanders in whose area officers will be found performing static traffic checks will be charged internally and redeployed. This is the latest move by the police authorities to deal with the traffic menace on highways. When he came to office, Police IG Hillary Mutyambai had indicated he will streamline traffic operations in the country. He later introduced 38 patrol cars on major highways to conduct mobile random checks on specified routes and abolishing of roadblocks. Mutyambai said in 2019 the cars will have four personnel who will include the officer-in-charge, driver and two others. “There will be no discussions with traffic offenders at any given checkpoints and the checks should not affect the free flow of the traffic on the routes,” he said. He added trained personnel had been deployed in all towns to facilitate the free flow of traffic and ensure there is prompt response to incidents. The IG commissioned 25 new cars to be deployed on the routes and enhance operations. The vehicles included 17 that were distributed to major highways and eight to regional commanders for their patrols. “No officer should be deployed to perform traffic duties without service experience of 10 years and all personnel should be in proper uniforms and displayed service tags,” he said. Deputy Inspector General of police Edward Mbugua said then he believed the deployment of excess traffic officers on roads is purely for personal gains. He said the increase in traffic police officers has raised the number of complaints from motorists. Mbugua said traffic commanders had not requested for additional officers and the increase of traffic officers on roads is not proportional to the number of cases detected. “It has come to my attention that commanders are deploying many officers to perform traffic duties at the expense of other police duties. Due to the many officers, there are many complaints on the harassment of motorists. I have no doubts that this is happening for personal gains thus your integrity is questionable,” Mbugua said then. The police boss directed regional and county police commanders to recall the officers and deploy them on the prevention and detection of crimes. Mutyambai had announced that patrols had been enhanced on major highways to address any fears following the withdrawal of traffic checkpoints and roadblocks. He added many of the traffic personnel who have been manning the roadblocks will now be redeployed to general duties. Those who will remain especially at stations near the affected roads will respond to scenes and man urban areas. He said roadblocks will be erected with the instructions of the regional police commanders with a specific purpose. He added according to new rules, not more than 10 officers will be deployed on traffic duties. He issued the directive and revealed commanders shall be held accountable for any misconduct by the traffic officers, which goes unpunished under their commands. The routes include; 1. Mombasa-Malindi 2. Mobasa-Lungalunga 3. Mombasa-Mackinon 4. Mackinon-Voi-Mwatate-Taveta 5. Voi-Mtito Andei 6. Mtito Andei-Sultan Hamud 7. Sultan Hamud-Machakos Kyunvi Junction 8. Thika-Mwingi 9. Athi River-Kajiado-Namanga 10. Nairobi-Thika-Muranga 11. Ruiru-Kiambu-Limuru 12. Muranga-Nyeri 13. Nyeri-Nanyuki 14. Nyeri-Nyahururu-Nakuru 15. Mwea-Embu 16. Meru-Isiolo-Nanyuki 17. Garisa-Mwingi 18. Nairobi-Kinungi 19. Kinungi-Nakuru 20. Nakuru-Mlango Nne 21. Mlango Nne-Eldoret 22. Eldoret-Kitale-Kapenguria 23. Maimahiu-Narok 24. Narok-Bomet 25. Bomet-Kisii 26. Homabay-Kisumu 27. Kisumu-Busia 28. Busia-Malaba-Bungoma 29. Mau Summit-Kerocho-Kisumu 30. Webuye-Kakamega-Kisumu.