The National Cohesion and Integration Commission should have powers to bar politicians from contesting any seat should they be found guilty of incitement or hate speech, MPs have proposed. National Assembly Committee on Administration and National Security chair Paul Koinange and member Oku Kaunya on Friday said the escalating insecurity and criminal activities across the country as a result of hate speech, incitement and terrorism is worrisome. There have been insecurity incidents in parts of Baringo, West Pokot, Turkana, Marsabit and Mandera counties. Lives, including of those of security officers, are needlessly lost. The committee hopes the security operation in Kapedo will bear fruit and change the residents fortune. “All these are because of the actions of certain rogue people. Incitement to acts of violence by politicians and political groups in parts of the country is worrisome,” Koinange, who is the Kiambaa MP, said. He spoke at the English Point Marina in Mombasa on the sidelines of a committee meeting on the escalating pockets of violence in parts of the country. Most recent acts of political violence have been reported in parts of Murang’a, Nyeri, Kiambu and Nairobi counties. “Notably, these political meetings are going on at a time such large gatherings have been stopped the limit the spread of Covid-19,” said Koinange. To tame political violence, the Kiambaa MP proposed that political campaigns be allowed for a maximum of two months to the general election. He proposed that anyone deemed to be campaigning before the official campaign period be automatically barred from vying. “Like what they do in places like Singapore and Korea,” the committee chairman said. He said Kenya was at par with the two nations a few decades ago but now is way behind them because of too much politicking at the expense of development. “You cannot say you love this country and all you do is make a lot of noise from January to January. We have hospitals to build, schools for our children, roads to construct,” Koinange said. The MP said the blame should not be only on the leadership but on all Kenyans. “It is upon us all to say no. If we say no, and we are the people who vote, they will have to listen to us,” the Kiambaa legislator said. Kaunya said the committee is also working on amendments to the NCIC Act 2018 aimed at reining in all inciters and spreaders of hate speech. “It has become more evident in recent times that the NCIC needs to be empowered to deal with hate speech and utterances that amount to incitement,” the Teso North legislator said. The committee has requested interested parties and stakeholders to give their proposals. Koinange said the committee is conducting an in-depth inquiry into the perennial clashes in Marsabit and will present its report to Parliament in due course. The MP said those seeking to exploit tribal or social differences for their own selfish gains need to be severely punished to set an example. “All security agencies need up their game to ensure peace prevails,” Koinange said. The Kiambaa MP said Kenyans seem to forget quickly. “In 2007, only a few people, through their tongues, almost burned this country. This is happening again,” Koinange said. Kaunya said the current law does not give NCIC the necessary powers to decisively deal with hate speech perpetrators. “Currently, we get clearances form the EACC, the DCI and other bodies apart from the NCIC. Should we succeed in passing these amendments, the NCIC will have powers to bar politicians from vying for political seats,” the Teso North MP said. He called on youth not to allow themselves to be used by politicians. “If they come and ask you to cause any kind of chaos, tell them to ring their sons and daughters to be the ring leaders of the chaos they want brought so that you all take some tear-gas together,” Kuanya said. The committee has scheduled meetings next week with Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti and National Cohesion and Integration Commission to discuss some of the emerging challenges. 