Campaigns for the Machakos senatorial by-election are getting intense  as various candidates traverse the county drumming up support ahead of March 18 poll. The Wiper brigade led by Mavoko MP Patrick Makau was at Mlolongo to campaign for party candidate Agnes Kavindu on Saturday. Kavindu surprised the locals when she opened up on her private life, pleading for the electorate to elect her as she was jobless and without a husband. The Senate seat will make her life better, she said. “Mimi ninawauliza nyinyi watu wa Machakos, mnapenda wamama? Si mnipatie kazi tu nijifanyie kazi, kwa maana mimi sasa sina bwana, sina lolote, sina kazi, si mniajiri kazi tu?” [I ask you the people of Machakos, do you like women? Elect me so that I get a job because I have no husband. I have nothing, I have no job. Can you hire me?] Kavindu said. She was accompanied by Matungulu MP Stephen Mule, Machakos Woman Representative Joyce Kamene, former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile and Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti. The politicians said Kavindu was the best candidate for the seat since she had proven to be a leader. Kavindu asked the locals not to leave her die of problems and instead consider her in the forthcoming polls. Kavindu who is former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama’s ex-wife said she had the ability to serve the residents as their next senator. The seat was declared vacant by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission after Senator Bonifase Kabaka’s death. “If you give me this job, you will know that women have power,” she said. Kavindu said Machakos residents overwhelmingly voted for her when she contested for Woman Representative seat on a Jubilee party ticket in 2017. She said that made President Uhuru Kenyatta happy and he gave her two government appointments. Kavindu said she will protect public resources if elected senator. “I know that I am cable for this seat and if I win the contest, I will protect your resources well. Everything will be done as it should be in Machakos county,” she added. Wavinya urged voters to support Kavindu’s candidature and vote for her as their next senator. “My husband died. After he died, you also expected me to die? I had to ask for a political seat and move on. Kavindu was abandoned by the husband, you wanted her to die?” Wavinya posed. The Transport CAS said Kavindu had children and a life to live. “Let them leave Kavindu to continue with her life,” she said. She said Kavindu will help Machakos residents alongside her children if elected senator. Mule said the Machakos senatorial by-election was important since it had a projection on 2022 General Election. “Kavindu’s votes are a no joke. We must vote her in full force to ensure she wins,” Mule said. Eleven aspirants have been cleared to participate in the Machakos senatorial by-election. They included UDA’s Urbanus Ngengele and John Katuku of Governor Alfred Mutua’s Maendeleo Chap Chap party.