Eleven-time champions Tusker have their eyes fixed on the Football Kenya Federation Premier League top spot as they face Zoo FC on Saturday at Afraha Stadium. Tusker are a point shy of league leaders KCB and take on Zoo seeking to ascend to the apex of the log for the first time this season. Tusker, who will miss their suspended Ugandan centre half Rodgers Aloro, have recovered from a slow start and are already touted as one of the title contenders. Robert Matano's charges are unbeaten in their last six matches. Zoo, on the other hand, will be gunning for their maiden win of the season after losing and sharing spoils twice in their opening three rounds. Defending champions Gor Mahia will be out to bag their third successive win when they play a struggling Vihiga United at the Moi Stadium,Kasarani. Vihiga lie 15th on the table with five points against their name. From the time coach Carlos Pinto took over, Gor haven't lost and the Portuguese tactician will be looking to maintain his  100 percent record at the club. Sofapaka will be hoping to redeem themselves from a 2-1 loss suffered at the hands of Nzoia Sugar when they entertain Nairobi City Stars at the Wundanyi Stadium. The Bungoma-based sugar milers are ranked 11th with eight points. The 2009 league champions have had a disappointing run thus far in the campaign, winning and drawing  twice apiece and losing four times. Posta Rangers will be looking for their second win of the season when they lock horns with a struggling Ulinzi Stars at the Utalii grounds. Rangers sit ninth with nine points while the soldiers are yet to regain their form as they are placed tenth with eight points. The mailmen quenched their thirst for a win in the season last weekend, where they saw off Vihiga United 1-0 at the Mumias Sports Complex. On Sunday, KCB will play Western Stima at the Afraha Stadium while Kakamega Homeboyz will be keen to fry Bidco United at the Bukhungu Stadium. High-flying AFC Leopards will tackle Kariobangi Sharks at the Kasarani Annex