Police have summoned former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko for questioning over claims he and other government officials planned and executed chaos in 2017. He is to appear at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters next Monday. The summonses were issued by head of serious crimes unit Obadia Kuria. This is after Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho on Monday complained to the police that Sonko had admitted to committing a serious crime. Sonko had claimed he and Kibicho and other government officials had organised for vehicles to be burnt in 2017 and blamed it on ODM. He spoke in Dagoretti at a function also attended by Deputy President William Ruto. “I want to reveal here that in 2017, I and Kibicho, together with the system, printed ODM T-shirts, bought second-hand cars, then burnt them on Ngong Road to be seen it was ODM supporters that had burnt them," claimed Sonko. Kibicho distanced himself from the allegations and accused Sonko of character assassination. The PS vowed to seek legal redress. Kibicho told police Sonko’s outbursts amounted to confession and admission to his involvement in a serious crime that should be acted on. But he denied the claims made by Sonko linking him to the same crime terming it a total lie and desperate move by the former governor. He said he will also sue Sonko for libel. “When you talk of assassinating someone and us burning vehicles that is criminal and can’t be left to go unchallenged. It will grow horns. I can assure you I don’t start something I won’t finish,”  Kibicho said. “I want DCI to take action against a crime. I asked them to take the shortest time possible to investigate these claims. I was there as a Kenyan citizen who is about to exercise his right when he feels wronged.” He said the trend Sonko had taken was a sign of impunity which if unchecked will get worse. He gave an example of miraa vans that rush on the Nairobi-Meru route with impunity with no action from authorities. “We have come to internalise that as long as you have miraa it is ok to break the law and we are ok. It is exactly the same with the former Nairobi governor Sonko who has pretended to be all those things and he has continued assassinating people’s character by doing all manner of shenanigans since he became a Senator of Nairobi moving forward up to when he left the governorship and people have said it is ok,” Kibicho said. “I as a private citizen have decided to break that cycle. It is not ok for Sonko to continue to make wild allegations against people - some of a serious criminal nature and get away with it. I have had enough. For the longest time whenever the former governor had a problem he blamed Kibicho,” he said. ODM also demanded a probe and action. “ODM demands a full inquiry into the matter so as to establish the motives and extent of these mafia-like covert criminal acts as well as all persons and institutions involved,” said party Secretary General Edwin Sifuna.