Politicians should dissociate the 2002 succession politics from the Building Bridges Initiative, National Assembly Majority chief whip Emmanuel Wangwe has urged. Wangwe, an MP for Navakholo, said on Saturday that dragging succession politics into the proposed constitutional amendments will not only detail the process but also stoke resentment and cause unnecessary divisions among Kenyans. He appealed that succession politics be spared for next year. Succession and the BBI debates have dominated the political space in recent weeks. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga—national co-coordinators of the BBI—have had heated exchanges with Deputy President William Ruto over the proposed constitutional reforms and the succession race. The DP and his allies have rubbished the process as a waste of time and public resources, while the proponents say the proposed changes will ensure equitable revenue sharing and end the winner-takes-all situation that has led to chaos every election year. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) last week cleared 1.4 million signatures supporting the amendments and transmitted the Constitutional Amendment Bill (2020) to all the 47 county assemblies for debate and approval, or rejection. Wangwe said as Majority chief whip, he will mobilise his troops when the Bill is tabled in Parliament to ensure it is passed without delay. "As elected leaders, we should be preparing to sensitise the people to the contents of the amendment bill for them to vote in the resultant referendum knowing what the changes are and how they will affect them," he said on the phone. The bill must be passed by at least 24 of the 47 counties before it can head for Parliament after which it will be subjected to a referendum for approval by Kenyans. Wangwe said those who have been accusing the government of failing to circulate the bill were insincere and only out to make political capital out of their lies. "The report has been undergoing changes since it was first launched. There was no way you would circulate a document that has not been published and gazetted. It's now that we have the published bill which cannot be amended. It should be passed as it is or rejected in its entirety," he said. President Kenyatta has vowed to ensure the country is united through the BBI process before he exits office next year. Edited by F'Orieny