Businessman Bundotich Kiprop 'Buzeki' has resigned as CCM secretary-general and quit, following party leader Isaac Ruto's move to back Deputy President William Ruto. Buzeki says he does not subscribe to Tangatanga politics of lies, which he claims will create division in the country. "I can't be a party to such politics that is based on lies and propaganda. I will not and will never be part of Tangatanga style of politics," Buzeki said. He told the Star by phone he would announce his next political move by April and it would not have anything to do with Chama Cha Mashinani. "I will soon meet with our supporters and stakeholders to discuss the best way forward because we can't be part of what Isaac Ruto is doing," Buzeki said. He said he had completely broken political ranks with CCM and Ruto. "There is no way I can subscribe to Tangatanga kind of politics that is baseless and aimed at dividing Kenyans," Buzeki said. He said he was part of leaders seeking to unite the country and not use cheap propaganda to gain power. He cautioned Ruto that by joining the DP he was drowning politically. The former Bomet governor joined the DP during his visit to the county two days ago and was seen with the Tangatanga brigade which toured parts of the South Rift region on Sunday. “I am joining you because the kind of politics you are playing is the same as what I have been pushing through CCM. It's not because of politics,” Ruto said at rallies addressed by the DP. Buzeki joined CCM two years ago after differing with DP Ruto and his allies whom he accused of perpetrating politics of dictatorship and lies. He has been critical of the DP and his camp, warning that they would ruin the country should they gain power. He vied for the governor seat in Uasin Gishu but lost to incumbent Jackson Mandago. He is considered a frontrunner for the same seat in 2022. Uasin Gishu is DP Ruto's backyard but Buzeki enjoys substantive support in the region.  He had planned to vie on a CCM ticket but will now go back to the drawing board. 