The committee charged with making plans to swear in Deputy Governor Anne Kananu as governor for Nairobi has suspended preparations pending a court case. The Assumption of Office of Governor Committee chaired by county secretary Jairus Musumba also called off a meeting scheduled for Tuesday. On Monday, the High Court suspended Kananu’s swearing-in until a case before it is heard and determined. "Because of the injunction, the committee cannot hold any meeting until the court gives us directions on the matter," Musumba said. He said the plan was to swear in Kananu as soon as the preparations were finalised. "In the planned meeting, the committee was to set the date and venue for the ceremony as well as write to the High Court for a judge to come preside over the taking of oath,” Musumba said. Acting Governor Benson Mutura appointed Musumba as the acting county secretary, replacing Justus Kathenge who had been in the position since 2019. The Office of Governor Act, 2019 outlines the role and composition of the Assumption of the Office of Governor Committee. The county secretary, being the chairperson and chief officer for County Public Service, is its secretary. Other members of the committee are, chief officers for Finance, ICT and Culture and Social Services; assembly clerk and representatives of the National Intelligence Service, National Police Service and the county commissioner. Others in the team are a representative from the Judiciary and a man and woman nominated by the governor-elect. The committee prepares the programme for the swearing-in ceremony, the oath and the certificate of inauguration. The swearing-in of a governor must be a public ceremony before a High Court judge between 10am and 2pm. On Monday, Mutura relinquished his duties as acting governor, paving way for Kananu to take over. He had been governor in acting capacity for 28 days following the impeachment of Mike Sonko on December 17, last year. Kananu will remain as the deputy governor and act as governor until she is sworn in. As acting governor, she can chair the Executive committee meetings and sign crucial county documents. 