Communicable and contact transmitted diseases have reduced significantly because of hand washing and social distancing, Meru chief public health officer has said. John Inanga said this has saved governments expenses that would have been incurred on treatment. He said diseases like tuberculosis, measles, diarrhea, gastro-intestinal diseases, typhoid, mumps among other communicable diseases that are spread through droplets from one individual to another have drastically gone down. “Sixty per cent of patients go to our hospitals because of communicable and contact transmitted diseases. They have reduced significantly due to health protocols against Covid-19. Don’t forsake them because the virus is in the villages only that many people have not been tested,” Inanga said. Inanga spoke at Thiiri Centre in North Imenti during an empowerment session for community health volunteers that also involved donation of diabetes and hypertension screening machines by Non-communicable Disease Alliance of Kenya programme manager Gideon Ayodo. Ayodo said the glucometers and consumables are a great step towards the fight against Covid-19. “The equipment are to support community screening for effective and appropriate detection and management. Early screening of diabetes and hypertension will lead to early detection and management because most of the patients succumbing to Covid-19 have weakened immunity due to underlying conditions,” he said. Community health volunteers coordinator Benjamin Kobia said the CHVs have been well trained in handling of patients from the villages. He appealed to residents to cooperate with the vilunteers when they knock at their doors. He said residents should also be cautious of the food they eat to improve their immunity. “Your health is your responsibility and so you must take care of what you eat. Establish a kitchen garden at your home to eat a balanced diet,” Kobia urged. Inanga echoed Kobia’s sentiments on residents on the need for cooperation. He said residents still require the services of the volunteers even if they are not sick. “Covid-19 has proved to be fatal to those with cancer, high blood pressure and diabetes. I ask wananchi to allow screening for early interventions,” he said.