The government has been urged to look into indiscipline issues among students with a wider lens and not issue threats. Florence Awour, a community social worker, said the government should reflect back on the events surrounding the lives of the students before taking action. She said students should be counselled and guided at home, in school and in church. Awuor, who is attached to Impact Research and Development Organisation in Siaya as a technical adviser and lead person for gender-based violence cases, said some parents have neglected their responsibilities as they look for ways to make ends meet. "We are assuming these children are well. There is the component of aggression, hence the need to support them by offering avenues such as counselling even in schools." Awuor said due to lack of guidance and counselling for children who witnessed the 2007 post-election violence, indiscipline was bound to happen. She said the government failed to address the issue of children's well-being and only focused on bringing peace to the country. Awuor, who is also spearheading the Nyanza Initiative for Girls’ Education and Empowerment (NIGEE), said the post-election violence events are still in the minds of children who witnessed the scenario. She said most of these children are still traumatised and need counselling to help them recover from what they saw more than 10 years ago. Awuor recounted how after post-election chaos, children would make drawings of pangas covered in blood and headless people, a clear indication that the events left them disturbed. Awuor was speaking to journalists in Kisumu after meeting community leaders from Manyatta to discuss gender-based violence. She said if the government put all these considerations into the picture, it will come up with better ways of handling cases of indiscipline among students. This week, Education CS George Magoha said corporal punishment should be reintroduced in schools to stem runaway indiscipline among students. He said that though appearing atavistic, capital punishment holds the key to settling cases where "students have grown horns." The CS said school arson and attacks on teachers are on the rise, indicating a society going to the dogs. "I may appear old school but I think we are at a time when we need to discuss how we can bring sanity in our schools and maybe bring the cane on board once more," Magoha said. Capital punishment if rightly used can significantly reduce many of the indiscipline cases in learning centres, he said. The office of the Director of Criminal Investigations also warned  students involved in criminal activities while in school. The DCI said that it is archiving and consolidating charges that may be preferred against students involved in crime. “Let each student be informed that it will automatically be reflected on the Police Clearance Certificate (Certificate of Good Conduct) when such student will apply for one.” Parents, guardians, teachers as well as religious leaders have been asked to take note and advise students in primary, secondary, colleges, and universities against engaging in crime.