After a trailblazing victory at last Saturday’s Nakuru County Cross Country Championship, Maureen Cherotich now targets a place in the final national team to the African Cross Country Championship set for Lome, Togo on March 6-7. The 17-year-old from Keringet Athletics Training Camp in Nakuru County has been working hard in training and says she is not fazed by the big stage. “My aim is to make it to Togo with the rest of the team and possibly win gold. I know a first place is possible through hard work and trust in God. Competing at such a big platform will not be a problem for me because I have been running in several races despite my young age,” Cherotich said. Cherotich says securing a place in Kenya’s cross country team will provide her with an opportunity to redeem herself after an unsatisfactory performance at the 2019 Africa Under-18 Championship in Cote d’Ivoire where she finished fourth in the women's 1500m race. “In Ivory Coast, I did not perform to my expectations because I ended up fourth and out of the medal bracket. During the race, another athlete tripped me and I fell and this eventually slowed me down. Going to Lome offers me an opportunity to remedy this,” she said. Edna Chepkemoi and Diana Chepkorir clocked 21.15 and 22.25 to finish second and third respectively.  The Nakuru County Cross Country meet was part of countrywide cross country competitions during which various counties  selected their best athletes to represent them at the upcoming Regional Cross Country Championship slated for February 5. The final team for the Lome showdown will be selected after the National Cross Country Championship scheduled for Kisii County on February 13. Speaking at the event, AK's Youth Development Committee chair Barnaba Korir expressed his satisfaction with the talent at display and acknowledged that competition at the regional championships will be heated. "AK successfully held county championship races in 46 of the 47 counties in Kenya. We look forward to a fruitful regional championship," he said.