Pokot elders have ridiculed Baringo Senator Gideon Moi for allowing himself to be chased away by youths from receiving their blessings, saying he should have been stronger. Gideon, who is the Kanu chairman, was blocked and ordered away by rowdy  pro-DP William Ruto youths as he was heading to a planned coronation ceremony by a section of the Talai Council of Elders on Saturday. They were to name him spokesman and endorse his presumptive presidential bid. “We told you to come home immediately after Christmas so we shower you with our blessings but you disobeyed. See, now you were embarrassed in Nandi. Haha! Tiaty Pokot elder Michael Kolem said on Sunday. They said they wanted to bless and instil in Gideon boldness to face the world and seek leadership in Kenya and beyond. The Star on December 22 highlighted the elders asking Gideon to come for his anointment under the Aroon tree at the  remote Ng’inyanyang trading centre. “It is the same sacred place where his father, second president Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi, was crowned back in 1958 and 1978, before he ascended to power. We wanted Gideon to follow in his footsteps," Kolem told the Star He was backed Elders David Arupe, Duka Lopelo, Yuda Losutan, James Cox, Gideon Asil, Canon Christopher Chochoi and the Rev John Lopeta, among elders. However instead of giving a humble response, Senator Moi’s handlers rebuked the Pokot elders. One called them "hungry political brokers just after money for their Christmas festivities". They had said they would appreciate soup for Christmas. “We have not and we do not intend to solicit any money from anybody. We just believe our saliva [for power] is 100 per cent effective and we always give it out for free,”  Kolem said. They accused MP William Kamket and Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot of misadvising and misleading Gideon. Kolem said at no time in Kalenjin history have Nandi elders been known to offer successful coronations or blessings for leadership [in return for favours]. “Like the late Prophet Kimnyole Arap Turukat who was known to lead rivalry wars during colonial era, his son Orkoiyot Koitalel Arap Somoei preceded him before his head was later chopped off by the white soldiers who disappeared with it,” Kolem said. The elders said they have not given up waiting for Gideon so they can bless him as promised. "But he should hurry up and come soon because some of us are already sickly and aging and may soon succumb to natural attrition,” he said. The elders said they support Kanu wholeheartedly in honour of Gideon's father, President Daniel Moi. “Mzee Moi showed a lot of humanity and preached love and unity. We know he still lives amongst us through his son, Gideon," Kolem said. They said it has been more than one year since they 'booked' Gideon for blessing. "This is just a reminder," Kolem said. He said they invited him when he landed with Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa to distributed relief food in July last year. The elders said they support the Building Bridges Initiative and want to be part of the campaign team to bless leaders. “We therefore expected Gideon to lead the way to come for his anointment as other leaders supporting BBI follow  suit,” Kolem said. They recalled the coronation of Danel Moi in a nighttime ceremony but said Gideon would be anointed in daylight. Gideon has indicated he wants to run for president in 2022. “It is high time Gideon comes so we can bless him," Kolem said. The elders urged Gideon to be open, generous and to listen to people as his father did. “He is a leader who will sooner or later become the president so he must learn to live and share his wealth openly,” Losutan said. He said elders expect him to start proving his generosity. The constituency has been a Kanu zone, with residents voting straight Kanu tickets. (Edited by V. Graham)