With their Caf Confederations Cup play-off against Zambia's Napsa Stars a month away, Gor Mahia officials are looking to raise Sh 6 million on time for the home and away duels. The club's management has been on the receiving end of criticism for the logistical challenges the team has faced in honouring Caf assignments occasioned by their last minute rush to secure airfare and accommodation. Gor are scheduled to host the first leg on February 14 before travelling to Lusaka for the return leg a week later. However, the vice chairman Francis Wasuna said they have learnt their lesson the hard way and are keen to gather the funds on time to avert the embarrassing challenges which have been bedevilling the club in the past years. A win for K'ogallo against the Zambian outfit will see them return to the group stages after two years in the cold. The Zambian side boasts of three Kenyan players, who have had stints with Gor Mahia. The trio are former goalkeeper Shaban Odhoji, assistant captain David Owino and forward Timothy Otieno. The administrator revealed that a large chunk of the budget will go into the  organisation of the home match, which he observed was slightly more expensive than the return match as the club will be required to meet the Caf demands. "We are looking for close to Sh6 million for the home and away matches. As per our budget, the home fixture is expensive as we will be required to raise the airfare for the match day officials who are likely to come from far and meet all the standards set by Caf. Travelling to Zambia is cheaper as opposed to North and West Africa and from the current ticket rates,the return match will be pocket friendly," he revealed Meanwhile, Wasuna said the club is scheduled to appoint an assistant coach from the three shortlisted candidates in the course of the week. Gor hired Uefa Pro license holder and Portuguese Carlos Pinto last Sunday to fill the void left by Roberto Oliveira who left in November after his qualifications fell short of the new Caf requirement. The assistant coach slot fell vacant after Patrick Odhiambo quit at the start of the year. "We have three local coaches who have made it to the final shortlist for the vacant job. They are all contracted to other clubs thus we can't reveal their identities but one will replace Odhiambo," he added.