Governors in eight North Rift counties have withheld January salaries for striking health workers. All other public servants in the region have received their payslips, but health workers in some counties, including Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet and Trans Nzoia, said their pay had been withheld. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago said health workers will not receive their pay unless they resume work. County chiefs last week ordered a headcount of health workers to identify those who are on strike and stop payment of their salaries. The region has more than 15,000 health workers and governors have threatened to sack them if they fail to return to work. The strike has for over a month disrupted services at more than 700 health facilities. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said they had decided to sack the workers and hire a fresh group to restore normalcy in the hospitals. Mandago, who also chairs the North Rift Economic Bloc, said the workers to be sacked would be blacklisted so no other county hires them. Tolgos has directed that January salaries for striking health workers in his county be stopped unless they return to work immediately. He confirmed that they would not get their payslips. “My office has lately received requests from unemployed health workers who have expressed interest to volunteer their services in the place of striking health workers in the hope they will be employed in the future,” he said. Tolgos said the county may enlist the services of these volunteers and encourage them to apply for the positions currently held by the striking workers when they are advertised. “I hereby direct the department of health to ensure those on strike do not earn for work not done,” he said. Tolgos said the county had addressed all the grievances of health workers, including the promotion of over 400 medics. “We had listened to them and addressed these grievances, including promotions and provision of adequate PPE. How can they now join the nationwide strike, yet their issues have been sorted?” he asked. Tolgos supported the decision by the Council of Governors to demand that future collective bargaining agreements be county-specific, given their different grievances. “You cannot strike in Elgeyo Marakwet because of a problem in another county. We must be sensitive to the noble call of the medical profession. We must also be sensitive to the prevailing economic conditions of the country, made worse by Covid-19. We cannot pay what we do not have,” he added. Tolgos asked health workers to think about employees in other sectors whose remuneration needed to be looked into. Turkana, West Pokot and Trans Nzoia counties have also threatened to sack striking health workers who include nurses, clinical officers and laboratory technicians. Nurses union official Joseph Chebi said they would not be intimidated by threats from governors to withhold payslips or salaries. “The counties have to meet all our demands and sign return-to-work plans instead of issuing threats, yet they know the strike is legal and protected in law,” Chebii said. But Mandago, speaking separately in Eldoret, said the strike had been declared illegal and that workers on strike risk losing their jobs. “As governors, we will not take their blackmail. Let them wait and see the severe action we are going to enforce,” Mandago said.