Lawyer Paul Gicheru’s request for interim release was granted by the ICC on Friday. The pre-trial Chamber’s decision will be implemented as soon as the ICC Registry finalises all the necessary arrangements. "In the view of the Chamber, Gicheru’s voluntary surrender demonstrates his concrete willingness to subject himself to the jurisdiction of the Court in relation to the allegations against him," the court said. Gicheru is among the three Kenyans whom the international court had been looking for interfering with its witnesses in the cases against humanity related to the 2007-08 post-election violence. The Chamber additionally noted that the Prosecutor did not oppose Gicheru’s request for interim release together with conditions restricting liberty and that he is suspected of offences under article 70(1)(c) of the Rome Statute, consisting in corruptly influencing witnesses regarding cases from the situation in Kenya, which attract lower sanctions, if established. Moreover, the Chamber is of the view that the risks mentioned under article 58(1)(b) of the Rome Statute may be adequately mitigated by imposing conditions restricting liberty. As part of the conditions for release, Gicheru is to provide Sh1 million financial security to the ICC Registrar in the form of cash or bank order. He is to comply fully with all orders issued in this case and surrender himself immediately to the relevant authorities if required by the Chamber. Gicheru shall also appear before the Chamber at the date, time, place, and in the manner ordered by the Chamber and shall remain in attendance until excused. Other conditions include him being barred from contact, directly or indirectly of any of the Prosecutor’s witnesses or victims, except through counsel authorised to represent him before this Court and in accordance with the applicable protocols. He is also to reside in Kenya at a specific address for the duration of the proceedings when not present in the Netherlands for the purposes of court proceedings, unless otherwise authorised in advance by the Chamber. Gicheru is to provide the Registrar with copies of all passports, visas, identity documents, and any other travel documents issued to him; shall not travel internationally except to the extent permitted by the Chamber and shall inform the Registrar or his delegate, no later than seven days prior to any international travel. He is to report once a week to the Registrar, his delegate, or other person(s) on the date and time and in the manner to be determined by the Registrar, which may include the use of video conferencing technology; and The Chamber found that, in the event that Gicheru would fail to comply with any of the conditions restricting liberty specified in its decision, the Chamber may declare the financial security provided forfeit to the Court and issue a warrant of arrest.