ODM leader Raila Odinga could face Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and his Mombasa counterpart Hassan Joho in the battle for the party's 2022 presidential ticket. On Sunday, National Elections Board chair Catherine Mumma placed an advert asking interested candidates to pay Sh1 million non-refundable fee to participate in the nominations. The party's nominations, expected by February next year, would have the potential of putting behind the sting of the 2017 electoral defeat and getting on the launch pad for the 2022 presidential race. Applicants have up to 26th of next month to submit their applications. The entry of Oparanya and Joho —  ODM's co-deputy party leaders— has raised the stakes in the contest for the coveted presidential ticket and opened a new battle front for what appears to be ODM's biggest assignment. From the onset, the contest for the ODM presidential flagbearer could appear an ordinary contest but deeper lie political undercurrents with huge implications on Raila's future career. Opponents seeking to influence the outcome of presidential nominations of rival parties could be the biggest worry for the rank and file of ODM in its bid to hand a third straight ticket to a flagbearer. On Sunday, Oparanya declared that he will throw his hat in the ring to seek the ODM ticket in a battle that will pit him against his boss, Raila, in a bid to get a formidable candidate to take on Deputy President William Ruto. “I will submit my nomination papers to seek the ODM ticket for the 2022 presidential race,” Oparanya told the Star. The outgoing Council of Governors chairman revealed that he is not scared of Raila's domineering personality within the ODM party, saying he was ready to fight it out with whoever was running. “For now, I don't know if he [Raila] is going to be my challenger for the ticket, but if he decides to run, then let delegates decide at the ballot,” Oparanya said. While Joho was not available for confirmation, his close ally told the Star the governor will be seeking the ODM ticket to run for president. “Definitely is he is in,” the ally said in reference to Joho's intention to run. Raila unsuccessfully flew the presidential flag in 2007, 2013 and 2017 handing ODM consecutive defeats at the hands of Mwai Kibaki and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Other sources, however, said the move by the ODM Central Management Committee to okay the competition could be a game plan to consolidate Raila's support bases. Raila's bastions at the Coast and Western Kenya have been restive amid inroads  from DP Ruto whose efforts to court the regions have seen him win over key politicians. The battle for the ODM presidential ticket could rekindle the 2007 memories when Raila defeated pentagon compatriots Ruto, Musalia Mudavadi, Joe Nyaga and Najib Balala to clinch the presidential ticket. In 2012, Musalia bolted from the Orange party, claiming the party constitution made it mandatory the party leader was the automatic presidential candidate. The clause was removed. Analysts say once more ODM has a date with destiny that would mark the turning point for the party; either towards oblivion, or a springboard from which a formidable 2022 vehicle could emerge. This would mean that ODM delegates and party leaders would have a choice to either wield a knife with which they will slice the Orange into pieces or nurture seeds for the Orange to further flourish. On Sunday, ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the party's presidential nomination was an indication of its democratic credentials. “It is only ODM that follows democratic provisions to put in place processes that are free and fair for all,” Sifuna said, dismissing rival parties as lacking structures and systems that can guarantee fair competition. Sifuna said even those  seeking Raila's endorsement for the presidency and are not ODM members have a window of opportunity “Those who know that they can't win the presidency without Raila's support must now apply. If Raila was to support anyone then that person must be within ODM, this is the opportunity for them to join ODM,” Sifuna said in apparent reference to ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka. At least 3,954 delegates drawn drawn from the sub-branches (constituencies) and branches(counties) will take a vote to elected the ODM presidential candidate next year. Each of the 290 constituencies, according to the ODM constitution, is represented by eight delegates with at least three of them being women while every county sends to the NDC 20 delegates. This brings the total number of delegates to about 3,260 who will be eligible to pick the presidential candidate at the National Delegates Convention. The next few months will witness a scramble for the delegates with hopefuls likely to start countrywide tours to woo the voters ahead of the NDC. “In Western Kenya we have a good number of delagates. That tells you I have somewhere to start from, we will then traverse the country to campaign among delegates,” Oparanya told the Star. Ironically, Ruto's Rift Valley turf which enjoys the highest number of counties and constituencies (14 and 54 respectively) brings the number of delegates from the region to 712. Second in terms of voting strength is Nyanza region with 456 voters at the NDC. The region is ODM’s stronghold given that it is the party leader’s home. The region has six counties and 42 constituencies. Third is Eastern, which includes Ukambani with 444 delegates. The region has seven counties and 38 sub-branches. Central region has five counties and 34 constituencies with 372  delegates. Oparanya's Western Kenya region has 344 while Joho's Coast bastion has got 326 delegates, North Eastern 204 while Nairobi has 156 delegates. Non-ODM strongholds might present the trickiest loyalty for the party as rivals could use them to infiltrate the NDC so as to alter the outcome with an aim of installing a weaker candidate.