Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Monday urged Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to stop sideshows and concentrate on his presidential bid. The former National Assembly Majority leader said Kalonzo should defend himself as an individual and stop accusing Deputy President William Ruto of being a tribalist. “How on earth does Kalonzo wake up and start accusing Ruto of being tribal? To the best of my knowledge, he, together with ODM leader Raila Odinga, are the biggest tribalists. Is he forgetting that he gave the EALA slot to his son while Raila rewarded his brother?” Duale asked. “I'm offering free advice to Kalonzo and the entire opposition team to better start preparing for next year's general election. They should start selling their agenda instead of using their energy on attacking Ruto.” Duale spoke when he donated utensils, mats, chairs, jikos and umbrellas to women whose stalls were destroyed by fire at the Soko Ngombe Market. He also gave them startup cash. Ruto and Kalonzo have in the last two weeks been going at each other. It all started when Kalonzo launched a scathing attack on Ruto, accusing him of dishing his entire 2013 Cabinet share to his Kalenjin community. Kalonzo said Ruto should stop portraying himself as a nationalist. The Wiper boss said Ruto's true colours were laid bare on how he distributed his 50 per cent share of government. "Who doesn’t know that President Uhuru Kenyatta got 50 per cent of the government, William Ruto got 50 per cent of the government to the exclusion of everybody else?  At least, the President took his 50 per cent as a national leader,” Kalonzo said. Kalonzo was reacting to DP’s attacks on Uhuru’s suggestion to have another community produce the country's next head of state. Ruto had demanded that Kenyans be allowed to elect their President on merit and not ethnic considerations. Ruto fired back, accusing Kalonzo of grabbing the Yatta parcel, which he claimed the Wiper boss obtained irregularly using his influence as then vice president. But Kalonzo fought off the allegations and said he was ready to be investigated. The Wiper boss went ahead to list pieces of land which he claimed the DP either controversially acquired or attempted to grab. The DP has since denied any involvement. “I uphold the highest moral and ethical standards in all my affairs. I have nothing to hide, and I today challenge the authorities to open an investigation into this matter,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader challenged the DP to equally offer himself for investigation concerning a record 10 scandals – the majority of them on land grabbing - which he claimed Ruto was involved in. Referring to DP as ‘Arap Mashamba’, the ex-VP said Ruto’s appetite for public and private land is an open secret.         