Fifteen police officers and and six county enforcement officers in Busia will be charged with assault and other offenses following an alleged attack on a family in Nambale subcounty last year. The officers will take plea on February 1, 2021  in Bungoma. Independent Policing Oversight Authority chairperson Anne Makori said the agency learned of the incident where police allegedly lobbed teargas into a home and seriously assaulted the owner, Benard Orenga, his wife, children and neighbours on March 3o, 2020. “IPOA immediately launched investigations into the matter. On finalising the investigations and upon independent review and concurrence with IPOA’s recommendations, the Director of Public Prosecutions has directed that 15 police officers and six county enforcement officers attached to Nambale subcounty who were assigned police duties be charged in court,” she said. The charges will include assault causing actual bodily harm, malicious damage to property and attempting to injure by an explosive substance. Additionally, the ward commander who led the operation will be charged with negligence in the discharge of official duty. The Police Reforms Working Group has lauded IPOA and the DPP for taking action. The Independent Medico-Legal Unit had documented the case sued for justice in the High Court in Bungoma. This came amid reports of pressure from the government to drop the charges against the officers and instead charge the commanders. The reforms group said the news of the intended prosecution of the officers was an affirmation to their reform agenda. “Members of the Police Reform Working Group shall continue to pursue human rights violations in our constitutional court as per the Constitution of Kenya 2010 and international human rights law on fundamental human rights,” they said in a statement. PRWG said during the management of the Covid-19 pandemic, millions of Kenyans were exposed to excessive use of force and police brutality during the curfew. “We urge IPOA to ensure that every death or serious injury of a person as a result of police action or inaction during the curfew is adequately and impartially investigated and the officers responsible are prosecuted. IPOA must also continue investigating officers that either frustrate or fail to cooperate with its investigations.” The group said the decision to prosecute was a step in the right direction and will inspire others who are affected by police brutality. “We call for the efficient and timely dispensation of this and many other cases resulting from police misconduct and reiterate that justice delayed is indeed justice denied,” the lobby said. PRWG is an alliance of national and grassroots organisations committed to professional and rule of law policing. They include the Kariobangi Paralegal Network, Women Empowerment Link, Social Welfare Development Program, Independent Medical Legal Unit, Katiba Institute, Kenya Human Rights Commission and Defenders Coalition. Others are Amnesty International Kenya, International Centre for Transitional Justice, The Kenyan Section of International Commission of Jurists  Kenya, Usalama Reforms Forum, Transparency International Kenya, Shield For Justice, Wangu Kanja Foundation, Peace Brigades International, Kenya’s for Peace, Truth and Justice, Constitution, Reform Education Consortium and Haki Africa. IPOA is still investigating incidents that happened during the curfew and has since charged some of suspected officers. Edited by Henry Makori