Cargo clearance at the port of Mombasa is gradually returning to normalcy after last week’s delays that led to congestion at the facility. Internet shutdown in Uganda and the rolling out of the Kenya Revenue Authority’s new Integrated Cargo Management System, caused the delays. KRA is also rolling out their new ICMS to replace the Simba system. However, the new system has had periodical breakdowns. Last week Monday, several ships waited in the deep sea due to the container congestion at the terminals, according to traders. Two weeks ago, when Uganda held its presidential election, there was an internet shutdown in the country, which led to a delay in transit cargo clearance from the port of Mombasa. “Normalcy in container deliveries especially transit containers is expected to resume after a lull occasioned by internet shut down in Uganda, the leading port transit customer,” said KPA in a statement. As of Thursday, there were several container vessels expected to dock at the port of Mombasa. According to KPA, the container operations report as of January 20, indicated a ship average working time of 3.19 days, while the import container dwells time recorded 4.69 days. Acting head of container operations Patrick Makau said the container terminals have been very busy having increased the cargo volumes handled. A total of 13,057 total equivalent units  imports were discharged whereas 13,069 TEUs were to be loaded for export. Container deliveries by road transport registered 6,324 TEUs compared to 5,024 TEUs by the Standard Gauge Railway. KPA said the increase in cargo business has been bolstered by an improved performance in the fourth quarter of 2020 and steady growth outlook for January. Import population breakdown revealed 5,457 TEUs transit bound compared to 4,066 TEUs for local destinations. Uganda bound traffic recorded 4,758 TEUs accounting for 87.2 per cent. Democratic Republic of Congo-bound cargo came in second with 239 TEUs followed by South Sudan with 219 TEUs. Other transit destinations were Rwanda which accounted for 126 TEUs, Tanzania with 103 TEUs with Somalia and Burundi accounting for 9 TEUs and 3 TEUs respectively.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris