Amani National Congress (ANC) party leader Musalia Mudavadi has dispelled claims that President Uhuru Kenyatta endorsed him for the top seat during the burial of his mother Hannah Atsianzale on January 9. He said the President only sparked a conversation that it may be time for leaders from other communities to lead the country. “Uhuru has not endorsed me. He is a person who will never impose a leader on the people,” he stated. Mudavadi noted that he will be contesting for the presidency in 2022 and will be seeking the votes of Mt Kenya region. “When the time comes, I will come back to ask for your support. For now, we should be discussing how to revive the economy,” he said. “There is nothing wrong with what the President said. If you have a good manifesto and qualities of a leader, Kenyans will elect you their president no matter your tribe.” Speaking on Kameme FM- a leading Kikuyu radio station- on Wednesday morning, Mudavadi made a passionate appeal to Mt Kenya region to rally behind the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). Mudavadi's call came just a day after President Uhuru Kenyatta asked his Mt Kenya backyard to rally behind the Constitution amendment drive. Mudavadi said Mt Kenya residents need to support the BBI since their region stands to benefit more from the Constitution amendment. “You are the people who were saying on one man, one vote, one shilling. This was well captured and you have more constituencies. If you do not want the new constituencies, give them to us in western,” he stated. President Uhuru on Monday morning took to Kikuyu vernacular stations to directly appeal to his Mt Kenya backyard to support the BBI. Uhuru said the problem facing BBI was that the perception created was that the drive was about supporting one person and undermining another. Mudavadi defended efforts to amend the constitution at a time when the country was faced with a pandemic and an ailing economy. “We need to have a consensus to avoid going to a referendum sharply divided. This way, the country will save on security and other costs. We also need to put this matter behind us. We have been talking about it for three years now. It is like a boil which needs to be removed for you to heal,” he added. The ANC party leader was however quick to point out that the constitutional amendment would not solve all of the country's problems. Mudavadi at the same time took a swipe on Deputy President William Ruto and a section of leaders from the region for opposing the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020. “If you continue to oppose the document, then you are hypocritical. We all said what we wanted to be changed in the first draft and it was done. The Deputy President also said what he wanted to be changed,” he added. The ANC party leader, however, added that he does not have personal differences with the Deputy President. Mudavadi said Ruto should quit the government if he does not want to bear the responsibility of its failures. “He is in the government of the day. However, we are seeing a scenario where he wants to be in the government and opposition at the same time,” he stated. Mudavadi further appealed to Mt Kenya region to wisely elect their leaders during the next elections. “Interrogate before you vote. Do not vote then interrogate,” he advised.