A section of leaders from the Coast now wants Deputy President William Ruto to choose Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya as running mate in his 2022 presidential bid. The leaders said it is time for the coastal people are effectively represented in national politics. Led by the Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa, they said Mvurya has proven to be the right person for the job and can be a good instrument in winning the support of the coastal people come the General Election. “If you want to get the full support of the Coast region then take Mvurya’s hand,” she said. Jumwa said the governor has shown good leadership skills in terms of development and unifying citizens. The politicians said if the two join forces they can achieve great things together unlike any other leader at the Coast. Infotrack’s 2019-2020 survey revealed that Mvurya is the second-best performing governor in Kenya after his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya. The Malindi MP said they are planning to make Mvurya the head of the anticipated coast regional party. She said the party will give the Kwale governor more powers to unite the people and gain popularity in national politics. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya said winning the Msambweni parliamentary seat is clear proof that Mvurya is ready for national politics. The Msambweni campaigns turned out to be a fight between Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho and the Kwale boss. Mvurya led the campaigns for the independent candidate Feisal Bader and Joho for ODM's Omar Boga. Bader garnered 15, 251 votes trouncing Boga who got 10, 444 votes. According to Baya, they will rally behind Mvurya for bringing respect and recognition to the coastal people. “Will we be led by a person who brings victory and development or the one who daily books musicians for dancing concerts?” he said. Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said there is a need for the coastal counties to have a leader who will help in solving the problems of the locals. He said Mvurya as the Deputy President of Kenya in the next government will  be enough to free the coastal people from the chains of marginalisation. “Enforced human disappearances, extrajudicial killings among other vices are continuing to break us down but when we have our own some of these issues will be addressed,” he said. Omar told Mvurya not to turn down the offer, asking him to take the lead and negotiate on behalf of the people of the coastal region to bring respect, integrity and equal development. Edited by Henry Makori