Impeached Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko on Monday got a reprieve in his quest to overturn his removal after the court barred the IEBC from conducting a by-election. Justice Antony Mrima suspended the special Gazette notice issued by the IEBC last month calling for a by-election to replace Sonko. The judge ruled the by-election is suspended pending the hearing and determination of the application by Sonko, who argues that procedures were violated, hence, the impeachment is null and void. "The special Gazette Notice No. 10914 dated December 21, 2020, issued by the IEBC be and is hereby suspended until the hearing and determination of the amended Notice of Motion,” the order reads. The case will be mentioned on January 14 for hearing of the application. Sonko challenged his removal from office, claiming due process was violated. He argued he will suffer snots ouster from office. Sonko argued that he will suffer irreparable damage not compensable in monetary terms because he stands to lose his position as the second governor of the city without due process of the law. Through lawyer Wilfred Nyamu, Sonko wants the court to bar the IEBC from holding a by-election. He faulted the swearing-in of the acting governor. He argued no oath of assumption can be administered with the intention of filling the vacancy of governor until 10 days have lapsed from the date of the office falling vacant. He said a notice also must be given, setting in motion the process of filling the office. “The petitioner challenges the process under which he was removed, setting out infringement of his fundamental rights and freedoms and violations of various provisions of the Constitution of Kenya 2010 and other statutes,” the court papers read. He said there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate the process did not meet the legal threshold, claiming it was not transparent, accountable and verifiable and its integrity is in question. “It is also well settled that some of the MCAs were in Kilifi county outside the jurisdiction of the Nairobi city county and it is not envisaged that they could vote either physically or virtually, contrary to the provisions of the Standing Orders,” the documents read. Sonko says some MCAs who were outside Nairobi have alleged that their accounts were hacked and corrupted. He also claims that strangers purported to log in and vote on behalf of the MCAs who were in Kilifi. According to the court papers, neither the law nor the Standing Orders provide for virtual voting or attendance of sessions of the Nairobi city county assembly. “It is clear from the screenshots of the Zoom system used on the material date that some members logged into the system more than once with different accounts at the same time. There was double and in some cases quadruple logging into peoples’ accounts, which raises serious questions about the integrity of the process,” Sonko says. Sonko says the proceedings at the Nairobi city county assembly could not have been free and fair because there were a lot of threats, blackmail and intimidation. These could not allow free objective debate and that is why nothing is attached because no debate took place. “Nairobi City  County assembly has 122 MCAs but from the record 146 persons voted. In view of the foregoing, it follows that 24 strangers illegally participated in the process bringing the integrity of the process into question,” he says. (Edited by V. Graham)