The Kisumu county government has suspended building approvals of all undeveloped plots allocated by the defunct municipal councils including any wetlands within the city. Acting City Manager Abala Wanga said no further developments should be done on the said plots. In a notice dated January 18, the suspension was implemented in line with the County Government Act no.17 of 2012, Urban Areas and Cities Act no.13 of 2011 and the Environmental Management and Coordination Conservation and management of WetLand Amendment regulation 2017. “In exercise of the powers conferred upon the county government of Kisumu by Acts, notice is hereby given to all undeveloped plot owners allotted by a defunct municipal council that the approvals are hereby suspended,” read the notice. The notice has been copied to the county secretary, county commissioner, chief officer planning and the director city inspectorate. He urged the plot owners to ensure compliance. Wanga, however, said in the event of non-compliance within the stipulated time frame, the county government shall itself move and initiate repossession process of such plots. This he said will be done without reference to the owners and at their own risk as to cost incidental thereto. Kisumu county has been experiencing a huge transformation with the county reclaiming various grabbed lands, demolishing of illegal structures in Milimani, Nyalenda, Carwash, Breweries areas to pave way for the World Bank-funded non-motorised transport project. The city management has also made moves targeting to restore order and reduce traffic snarl-ups in the city and its entire sanitation. Traders using makeshift structures at the roadsides, some on alleged sewer lines have been affected by the activity that began in late November. Two weeks ago, the city took over the management and operations of all the sanitary facilities that fall under its administration. Wanga said the decision follows the mismanagement of the facilities and wrangles that erupted at the bus stage area. Already, heavy commercial vehicle have been banned from the CBD. A notice directing heavy commercial vehicles to use Kondele Bypass and not the central business district is in effect. Wanga said the vehicles will not be allowed into the CBD from January 11. He also blocked trucks from entering downtown and directed them to use the Kachok Bypass and join Busia Road at the Golf Club roundabout. The directive, Wanga said, took effect on December 21, 2020. He said the move targets to restore order and reduce traffic snarl-ups in the city.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris