Malkia Strikers hope to pitch camp in either Europe or Asia ahead of the Olympic Games in Tokyo in July. Bitok said they are in talks with Slovenia, Turkey, Japan and Slovenia and hope to train in one of the countries before the Summer Games. He, however, said the trip is subject to confirmation in the next two weeks. “The training camps will be good for the team if really we are to be competitive in Tokyo. This will give the girls a lot of motivation ahead of the games," he added. He said the team is set to resume training this month ahead of the Tokyo Olympics. Bitok said he had talked to the Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) President Waithaka Kioni and they have agreed to have the team back in training next month. Kioni doubles up as the Team Kenya Chef de Mission to Tokyo 2020 Games. Bitok said they have been monitoring players for the better part of last year and the girls have already started training under  their respective clubs under strict Covid-19 protocols.  “The girls are in good shape even though they are with their respective clubs. ” Bitok noted that with 2020 being a lost year due to Covid-19 pandemic, It was time the team resumed training for the global extravaganza. “We have lost a whole year and time is not on our side and so we must start early," he added. Bitok exuded confidence that the participation of Kenyan clubs in the Africa Club Championship in March will enhance the players' fitness ahead of  Tokyo. “If things go according to plan, we hope to feature in the event in March and this will boost the girls' fitness ahead of the national assignment," he added. He advised KVF to host the national league matches indoors when they start later this month as per the requirement of the FIVB. "Playing the sport in the sweltering heat will not help our preps for Tokyo. The girls need to get used to playing indoors,” he added. Kenya’s Malkia Strikers will be up against hosts Japan, Serbia, Brazil, South Korea and Dominican Republic in Pool 'A'.  Serbia are the reigning world and European champions and Rio 2016 silver medalists while Brazil are the double Olympic champions.