Nairobi Metropolitan Services is set to launch its  monthly clean-up exercise next month as it steps up efforts to rid the city of garbage. This come as residents complain of piled up and uncollected garbage collection across the county. “NMS is set to commence a monthly clean-up exercise on the first Saturday of every month with the commencement date to be shared soon,” NMS said in a post. In an interview with the Star, director general Mohammed Badi revealed that the Head of Public Service had directed them to implement the new direction. “We wanted to start in January where we dedicate a day probably first day of the month for clean up . After receiving the direction from the Head of Public Service to implement this new rule, we have been preparing ourselves especially on recovering the garbage collection vehicles that had been grounded for years," he said. The exercise, which will cover all the 17 subcounties in Nairobi, will take place on the first Saturday of every month. Last October 10, 2020 Badi had announced the exercise as he launched the Ngong River clean-up  at Karagita, Mihang’o ward. “Each and every citizen of Nairobi county is supposed to dedicate one day a month in a clean-up exercise of the area. This is going to come into law and it will be a must,” he said. The director general said no inspection will be done in estates on the clean-up because the intention is to promote the new "do it ourselves initiative" that his administration has adopted. The once-a-month clean-up exercise is not new to residents as Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko launched a similar initiative in July 2018 to restore what was once called the Green City in the Sun. NMS warned residents and business owners who flout waste disposal rules that punitive measures will be taken against them. In the past two weeks,residents have taken their complaints to social media about the heaps of garbage laying on roadsides. Last week, NMS flagged off eight trucks for collection of garbage that had been disposed openly along the roadsides in Eastleigh, Kamukunji constituency. A total of 15 tonnes of the solid waste left on road reserves and front yards of residential and commercial premises was collected. Nairobi county, with a population standing at approximately 5 million people, generates daily solid waste of 3,000 tons having increased from 2,500 tons. However, NMS is only able to collect an average of 2,500 tons every day, up from the initial 1,000 tons per day that City Hall used to collect. President Uhuru Kenyatta in March, during the establishment of the NMS, ordered the repair of grounded garbage collection trucks. At that time only 10 out of 60 trucks were functional. A hundred days later Badi reported that 32 trucks had been repaired and ready for distribution to the subcounties. In October , 83 vehicles were restored at a cost of Sh22 million and flagged off by the President at the NMS garage in Industrial Area. Some of the vehicles had been grounded for eight years and condemned for sale as scrap metal. Among the 81 , NMS has reactivated 21 garbage collection trucks that had been grounded Since March, the National Youth Service had been providing trucks, machinery for garbage collection throughout the city.