What is Cherangany MP Joshua Kutuny up to? After going missing from the political scene for months, he surfaced on Sunday to meet a section of leaders from Rift Valley at his Eldoret home. However, the meeting sparked political talk since the same team of politicians had met Baringo Senator and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi (pictured) on Saturday at a home in Uasin Gishu county. It was not clear if the series of the meetings were part of a strategy to have the two leaders work together to deliver the BBI referendum in the vast region. Kutuny had taken a low profile during the collection and handing in of the BBI signatures. Time will tell if the two will mend fences and again work  together. *** Well, it seems that people should never criticise their MPs - even if constructively- if they have benefited at all  from any form of contribution from them. A man in Central Kenya paid the price of criticising his legislator, who had contributed to his wedding expenses about a year ago. The constituent, without any malice, questioned the MP’s development record. A little bird tells Corridors that the MP, through his personal assistant, reached out to his ally-turned-critic and brazenly asked him to refund the wedding donation. Petty? Without hesitation, the man is said to have refunded the money promptly and at least got his free speech back. *** Just how heartless can some people on whom authority has been bestowed be? Well, two members of a top organ of a professional body have made life hard for members of the entity after their refusal to sign the group’s paychecks. The members of staff of the professional body thus went without their December pay and are unsure of whether the situation will change in January, considered a tough month by many. The affected members want the heartless duo, whose actions are the hallmark of the ugly fights at the entity, called out for causing other members’ suffering yet the two made merry with their families during the festive season. *** A first-term lawmaker from South Nyanza seems is taking a long time to develop thick skin and is slowly turning into a punching bag for his rivals who relish his emotional reaction to every attack in social media. The MP reacts with threats to almost every social media posting made against him and his administration. Unable to stomach criticism, the lawmaker even goes to the extent of sending messages to the parents of his tormentors. He tells them to instil discipline in their children - or face unspecified actions. 