Former majority leader, Aden Duale, has asked the Jubilee government to seek God’s intervention to stay afloat. Speaking on Saturday at the home of politician Daniel Tenaai, during a function that was attended by Deputy President William Ruto and more than 35 elected MPs and governors, Duale said the party’s troubles are as a result of failure to pray after winning the Hague cases. “This is what is rocking this party. Before they went to the Hague, they held prayers all over the country but on winning they did not thank God for the victory and for helping them form the next government in 2013 and 2017,” he said. Duale said Jubilee Party is in shreds and cannot qualify to be a national entity as it is now a tribal outfit standing on shaky ground. He said he understands the politics of Raila Odinga, Ruto and that of President Uhuru Kenyatta so well because he helped form ODM, TNA and Jubilee. “After Uhuru united with Raila a lot of disturbing things are happening in Jubilee,” Duale said. The former Majority leader questioned the rushed vetting and swearing-in of the deputy governor, saying it was unconstitutional. Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok supported Duale’s remarks, saying the Constitution of Kenya is being violated by the current system. Nanok said the wheelbarrow economics of Hustler Nation will fix the aspirations of majority of Kenyans, adding that no Kenyan should be condemned to poverty for life. Ruto said Jubilee Party has become tribal and it cannot even field a candidate in by-elections. He said when he formed the government with Uhuru, they aspired to have a uniting political party but those who are running it have lost direction and become tribal minded. Ruto said when he becomes the next President, he will transform the economy, make it people friendly and attract investors. “Kenya has 16 million jobless Kenyans, who are living in poverty because the country’s economy is in shatters‚” Ruto said. Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito was booed down by a handful of people believed to be governor Joseph Lenku’s supporters when he accused the sitting governor of claiming that he would not let his seat go. “He has said this more than 10 times but the police are just keeping quiet about it,” Metito said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris