Former Nairobi governor Evans Kidero says he will not bow to pressure from people who criticize his interest for Homa Bay gubernatorial seat. Speaking when he toured Ndhiwa constituency after prayers at Obera SDA church, Kidero said the critics will wait longer. “I will neither be threatened nor intimated by people who only have personal interests. I’m a son of Homa Bay and nobody can bar me from contesting governor seat here,” He said. Kidero is asking residents to support him so he succeeds Governor Cyprian Awiti after 2022 general elections. The former governor argues that he is the best person who is fit to succeed Awiti and transform the county besides improving the livelihoods of the residents. He says Homa Bay has been lagging behind in development since the inception of devolution. Kidero said he has visited seven out of the eight constituencies in Homa Bay and realized that there is a need for a serious transformation. “Homa Bay residents go through a lot and it needs a serious leader to fix the problems. Let’s not gamble with leadership in 2022,” Kidero said. He said when he was in Nairobi some residents also wanted him to contest the seat in his ancestral home which is Homa Bay. “In Nairobi, we were being told to go back to our ancestral counties to contest for political positions,” Kidero said. He argued that he had made the right decision to contest for the Homa Bay gubernatorial seat. Kidero argued that his connection with Nairobi is similar to that of any other  Homa Bay resident who went to seek a job in the capital city. “I want to improve the roads which have become impassable. We should focus on what we want to do to the people,” he said. Kidero toured various trading centres in Ndhiwa Constituency including Adek, Ombo, Pala, Riat, Lwanda, Ratang’a and Ndhiwa town. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata who hails from Ndhiwa constituency is also making efforts to consolidate votes in the constituency for his gubernatorial bid. Ndhiwa is the leading constituency in voter population in the county with more than 86,000 registered voters. “My strategies are underway to ensure votes from Ndhiwa are not spilt elsewhere,” Orata said. Aspirant, businessman Jared Otieno who is also eyeing the seat said he was ready to challenge his opponents. “I don’t want malice. Let my competitors base their politics on policies,” Otieno said. Homa Bay woman representative Gladys Wanga has also promised to help small scale women traders in the constituency. “My objective is to ensure these women improve their businesses so that they can put food on the table,” Wanga said. The seat has also attracted former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, ODM National Chairman John Mbadi and Kuppet secretary-general Akelo Misori.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris