Residents of Ongata Rongai, Matasia, Ngong and Embulbul towns have decried the high cost of buying water. But as the shortage persists, water vendors are making a killing. The residents revealed that the cost of water has gone up in the past two months after Kenya Urban Roads Authority  destroyed water pipes while constructing the Ongata Rongai-Gataka-Embulbul road. James Kimani, a resident of Gataka town, said taps have run completely dry and water vendors have taken advantage of the situation by hiking the prices. He noted that a 20- litre jerrican of fresh water is retailing at Sh40 up from Sh20 and they have now been forced to dig deeper into their pocket. Kimani said he spends close to Sh5,000 a month to buy water for his household and this was really putting a strain on him, as he does not have a regular income and depends on informal work . He called on the government to intervene and ensure the damaged water pipes are repaired as water is a basic commodity. We are calling on the government to intervene and repair the damaged water pipes so that we can access water at cheaper prices like before,” Kimani said. Sarafina Njehia, another resident, expressed her worry that Covid-19 infections might rise as most public places have stopped offering water and soap for washing hands. At Ongata Rongai, long queues of people with jerricans were at water fetching points. Water vendors with jerricans on donkey-driven handcarts and bowsers ferrying water are a common sight. The same scenes are witnessed at Ngong, Gataka, Oloolua, Matasia and Embulbul towns. Brian Kamau, a water vendor at Ongata Rongai town, says the water selling business is currently booming. Kamau, who has been in the business for the past two years, said water has been in high demand the last couple of months, thus earning more profits for himself. The vendor who supplies water on a donkey cart to estates revealed that on a good day he sells more than 60 jerricans at Sh40 each. “The water business here is booming with the on-going road constructions, water and sewerage systems have been affected "But this is good news for us. I can sell up to 60 jerricans of water on a good day,” Kimani said. Oloolaiser Water and Sewerage Company tasked with supplying water to the residents said the water shortage crisis may persist for a while as talks with KURA to repair the broken water pipes have not been successful. CEO Dickson Ntikoisa said with the damaged pipes, their water supply had been cut off causing massive revenue losses to the company. "We have been talking with them in several meetings, together with the President's Delivery Unit, for them to be able to restore the water pipelines. That has not been done. That has really affected our supply to the residents," Ntikoisa said. Dennis Mwangi, a technical director at the company, said the major issue is lack of coordination and support from most bodies in charge of road maintenance and construction. “We have had to incur the costs of repair to the water lines in the Sololo area. We are in the process of returning water to Embulbul area but Gataka residents will have to wait a bit longer,’’ Mwangi said (Edited by V. Graham)