Kenya Sevens remarkable journey in the past forty years has been superb as they continue to produce world beaters. The country has unearthed remarkable gems in the likes of legend Edward Rombo, Jackson Omaido, Eric Kibe, Max Muniafu, the late Jimmy Owino amongst a host of other big names who featured for Watembezi Pacesetters in various invitational   tournaments. The generation that put Shujaa on the world map include former coach Benjamin Ayimba, Oscar Osir, Sammy Khakame, Innocent Simiyu , Felix Ochieng, Mitch Ocholla and Dennis Mwanja. Kenya still boasts a vibrant crop of current stars, among them Shujaa skipper Andrew Amonde, top try scorer Collins Injera, Oscar Ouma, Willy Ambaka, Billy Omondi and former captain Humphrey Kayange who retired two years ago. One gets the feeling that the current team is in transition especially with Amonde, Injera  Willy Ambaka, Oscar Ouma set to retire after the Tokyo Olympics. All have had glittering careers for both club and country. With their imminent departure, the spotlight will now turn on the budding squad members. And they are quite a number. The new kids on the block who have risen through the ranks include Johnstone Olindi, Daniel Taabu and Vincent Onyala. Cast your memory back to the 2018-19 season when former Kenya Sevens coach Paul  Murunga took charge of the team and opted to give youth a chance after the senior Sevens stars rebelled owing to poor contracts from the union. Murunga put his faith in the trio of Olindi, Onyala and Taabu for the opening leg of the 2018 Dubai and Cape Town legs with the only experienced players in the squad being playmaker Eden Agero, Jeff Oluoch and Leonard Mugaisi. Onyala remembers his debut in Cape Town against Fiji in a match Kenya lost 38-7,  where he scored the consolation try. “It was difficult. The Fijians are strong, we missed tackles and were never in the game but I was happy to score my first try in the world series and its something I cherish to this very day” added Onyalla Kenya lost 29-12 to England and 19-12 to France to be relegated to the Challenge Trophy where they lost 34-31 to Argentina in a match  Onyala dotted down twice to prove his worth to the side. The utility back try-scoring exploits continued in the 13th place semifinal where he scored against Zimbabwe and played a key role in the 13th place final where they beat Wales 33-26 in a high scoring encounter. The 2018-2019 World Sevens series was the worst for Shujaa who almost got relegated after they finished a disappointing 13th on the log with 37 points, the lowest points the side had collected since gracing the circuit in 2004. Onyala termed it a tough learning curve for most of the squad: “ This was the first season we had to grow up very fast and the transition was not easy but am glad we did the country proud and am happy we survived the test by keeping Kenya as a core nation on the circuit.” But where did Onyala’s rugby journey start? Unlike his peers who played rugby in schools like Kakamega High school  Maseno, St Mary’s Yala, Lenana and Nairobi Schools, Onyala learnt the game at Mathare 4A Primary School when he was in Class Five following an initiative by some French expatriates. ” I was fascinated by the game. I learnt the game from them and them coming to the informal settlements was good. It was an eye-opener and I fell in love with the game while most of of my peers loved football”  Onyala said. Surprisingly enough Onyala did not play Rugby when he was in Ruaraka High School. His talent came to the fore at Catholic University of Eastern Africa (CUEA) where he played a pivotal role for them between 2011 and 2015, helping them to  earn promotion to the Kenya Cup in the process. “It was an interesting time playing against older smarter teammates and I learnt the nuances of the game the basics and ended being a starter in the first team,” added Onyala  In a match against Quins where they lost 72-12, Onyala scored the two opening tries and was a menace in both attack and defence before the varsity side ran out of steam to crash to the Ngong Road outfit. Onyala’s golden opportunity came when they once played against Kenya Commercial Bank RFC in a friendly match. So good was he that the Bankers invited him to train with them. “On weekends I was playing with the monks but on weekdays I was training with KCB. The bankers believed in me and saw the talent and I ended joining them in 2014 and we went on to win the Kakmenga ten aside tournament,” noted Onyala. Onyala eventually became a KCB player in 2015 after turning out for their feeder side Northern Suburbs in the age grade competitions. At Surburbs, his skill was horned by his mentors Simon Jawichere and Victor Voiya. “I cant say enough of Simon and Victor they really shaped me  as a rugby player and learnt the various facets of play of the game. Without them I would  not be where I am today,” added Onayala. When KCB won the national sevens circuit in 2019, Onyala bagged both the top try scorer and Most Valuable Player of the Year award at the Kakamega and Dala Sevens, a feat he cherishes up to date. “It was an honour but I really like to thank my teammates for the job well done. It’s a team sport and without the support of the management and team, I would not be there,” quips Onyala. Onyala also enjoyed the longer version of the game where he  is an outside centre for KCB and has bagged the Kenya Cup in 2019 and 2018. He was capped by the Simbas when they beat Zimbabwe 36-14 in 2019 in Nakuru where he scored once and emerged ‘man of the match’ after an outstanding all-round display. His Sevens coach Dennis Mwanja is full of praise for Onyala: “He has taken his opportunities well and he has been given a chance and coming through the age-grade system has really helped him and his future is very bright” said Mwanja. Onyala is currently in his second  year at Catholic University studying community development and hopes to pursue a degree in the same course on completion of the diploma. “Education is key and I am working hard to balance my education and rugby pursuits with both KCB and Shujaa. I want to get my degree and contribute to society,” he said. His mentor Simon Jawichere has described him as a quick learner and a very innovative leader. “He has tremendous qualities. He is a quick learner and he is always ready to learn. He has a bright future ahead of him and he is very grounded,” said Jawichere. Onyala’s goals would be to represent Kenya at the Olympics in Tokyo later this year, play at the Sevens World Cup as well as the Rugby World Cup, should the Simbas qualify as well as the Commonwealth Games His favourite local player is Shujaa skipper Andrew Amonde and internationally he adores Fijian Meli Derenalagi. Locally,  he terms Impala as the toughest opponent with South Africa being his favourite international side.