Lionesses skipper Philadelphia Olando has urged the National Olympic Committee of Kenya to organise build-up tournaments for the team ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games. Olando said their opponents at the Tokyo Games have lined up build-up matches  in readiness for the global extravaganza. “We need to be fit to be at par with our international opponents. If we can get friendly matches or tournaments, we will be more than ready to take on our competitors,” he added. The Lionesses have been invited for two tournaments in France and Spain next month but Olando believes the side needs more to compete at par with rivals in Tokyo.  “We need at least six tournaments to be adequately prepared for the Olympics. We have been out for nine months and just training and not gauging yourself doesn't help much," added Olando. She said this being their second appearance at the Olympic Games, they are likely  not to be pushovers. "Our mindsets have changed from our last appearance in Rio having played in World Sevens Series qualifiers. We picked new strategies along the way and we will definitely be competitive at the games.” The team resumed training a fortnight ago at the RFUEA ground and are training under strict Covid-19  protocols. Lionesses’ head coach Felix Oloo said his focus is to build confidence in the side, adding that he plans to have the women’s side train with their male counterparts, Shujaa. "We are coming up with a mechanism to ensure the side becomes competitive and training with Shujaa is one of the avenues to achieve this.  The move will help us get the physical fitness and defensive structure we so much neeed," Oloo said. Oloo said the team is responding well to training.  "We were monitoring our players during the Covid-19 break and I had given them an individual training schedule. We are not badly off but we are not yet there. However, I believe in two weeks time, we will be where we want to be although it's always a challenge being without a tournament or friendly to gauge players' fitness," he noted.