Disunity, poor leadership and wrong priorities are to blame for high poverty in the Western region, National Assembly Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe has said. Wangwe said there is a big problem that requires a serious discourse to save residents from grinding poverty. He cited a lack of unity among leaders as a major problem that has killed the community's bargaining power at the national level, hence getting fewer development projects. "The national cake is shared in Parliament and if your parliamentary strength is weak, then you get nothing. Wrong politics have always given us the wrong leadership. We're unable to be placed in strategic house committees where we can push our agenda," he said. The region’s economy is in tatters with the imminent collapse of the sugar industry, which supports the livelihoods of millions in the three counties of Kakamega, Busia and Bungoma. Leaders from the province have traditionally been divided every election year and have failed to push the region's development agenda while scattered in different political formations. The revival of troubled Mumias Sugar Company has since stalled as the local leadership championed different approaches, while others sought to make political capital out of the plans. Nzoia Sugar Company is equally on its knees and it is only a matter of time before it closes up shop. The closure of the premier mill rendered thousands of people jobless and left most residents, who are sugar cane farmers, without a livelihood. On January 9 during the burial of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi's mother Hannah Atsianzale, President Uhuru Kenyatta admonished the local leadership for politicking. "I have been sitting here for the last six hours and the only thing I hear is politics and nothing else," the head of state said. During the function, only Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula asked the President to intervene and fix the sugar sector crisis. The rest focused on 2022 succession politics. In May last year, a team led by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati attended a meeting at Cotu boss Francis Atwoli's Kajiado home to spearhead the region's development agenda. They later traversed the region. This was followed by visits by several Cabinet secretaries on specific development missions. However, little has changed. For Wangwe, it is not enough to say the region is behind ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, ODM's Raila Odinga or DP William Ruto. "We need to be bold enough and tell Raila and Ruto that they should not to come to Western without Mudavadi," he said. Wangwe said Navakholo, Ikolomani and Mumias East constituencies received some development when they were closer to DP William Ruto. "When Raila arrived through the handshake, we are only seeing development in Nyanza and nothing in Western, despite Luhyas having shouted the loudest in support of Nasa in 2017. We can only get out of this problem by rallying behind one of our own and choose a destiny," he said. Mudavadi and Wetang’ula yesterday made their first political statement that they had chosen to work together by jointly presenting Ford Kenya candidate for Kabuchai Kalasinga Majimbo. They also presented the ANC candidate for Matungu Peter Nabulindo. Ikolomani MP Bernard Shinali said the leadership has let residents down. He said leaders have failed to articulate the region's development agenda and instead engaged in parochial politics that have left wananchi helpless.