 The Dock Workers Union elections scheduled for April 2 has attracted 13 candidates who are seeking to unseat secretary general Simon Sang. Sang has held the position for 15 years and will be seeking to prolong his term when election are held. He took over from former Changamwe MP Kennedy Kiliku in 2006. Kiliku was at the helm of the union from 2001. The official campaign period will be announced later this month. The officeholders determine when the election period should start and when the elections will be held. Sang’s reign has been dominated by leadership wrangles over the past few years, with the union chairman Mohammed Sheria leading an onslaught against him. In 2014, Sang led the union out of the Central Organisation for Trade Unions (Cotu) for the newly formed rival outfit Trade Union Congress of Kenya (TUC-K). However, two years later, he led the union back to Cotu after finding TUC-K terms unfavourable. Opponents accuse Sang of delaying CBA negotiations currently ongoing to push it to near the elections so that he can use it as a campaign tool. Sang dismisses the claims, saying he has been fighting for better remunerations for workers. “Right now they will say anything to tarnish my name,” he said. Apart from the hefty financial package, the secretary general wields immense power and influence on port operations, recruitment of workers and even local politics. The holder takes home at least Sh800,000 every month in salaries and allowances and also controls about 7,000 union members. Politicians often seek the support of workers through the office holders. The officials enjoy house and travel allowances and are entitled to first-class air ticket to Nairobi and other places for official meetings. In the past, one had to be a port employee to vie for the secretary general's position but that requirement has since been scrapped. If the aspirant is a port employee, they have to resign first. Powerful, current and past politicians have tried their hand in the seat. Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, then a lawyer, and former Cabinet minister Karisa Maitha ran for the seat during the Moi regime. Both failed to capture it but their candidature point to the nature of the attraction the seat wields. Those who have shown interest in Sang’s position include former port employee Abubakar Mohammed Abdullahi and ex-policeman and current zone manager in the KPA security department Siyat Abdullahi. Alex Ndege, a technician in the Harbour Crane section of the Convectional Cargo Engineering department is also interested. Others are Harry Arigi, Said Chande, Alphaeus Aluoch, Edward Opiyo, Abubakar Abubakar, Jorum Kiilu, Ezra Okong’o, Robinson Thoya, Peter Opiyo and Harrison Lusigi. Sang is confident of retaining his seat, but there is immense competition. His assistant between 2010 and 2015, Abubakar Mohammed Abdullahi and Siyat, have upped their campaigns and are threatening his reign. Abubakar blames Sang for his sacking, alongside 27 others, in 2015 when he participated in a strike over NHIF remittance. Speaking to the Star on Tuesday, Abubakar said his boss had a hand in his dismissal. He now wants to oust Sang saying the current leadership has done nothing for the workers. “Port politics is about the welfare of the workers. If the welfare is not looked after, then there is no need for the union. I lost my job because I was fighting for the rights of the workers,” Abubakar said. “The current officials have failed. They have turned it into a personal benefit tool,” he said. Siyat has gained significant backing from the influential Somali business community in Mombasa. The community, chaired by Abdirahman Yusuf, says they will do whatever it takes to ensure Siyat topples Sang. Yusuf told the Star the union wrangles have a significant effect on the business. He wants all KPA employees including managers unionised. Bob Ria, the son of former Kenya Ferry Services managing director John Ria, has set his eyes on the chairmanship. He is the current equipment operator in the operations department. The chairman position has so far attracted seven aspirants including incumbent Sheria.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris