For the umpteenth time, former AFC Leopards skipper Martin Imbalambala is desperately appealing for financial help to enable him seek specialised eye treatment. Imbalambala partially lost his sight in 2018 and efforts to medically restore his ability to see have been futile and is now crying for help to get a second opinion, preferably abroad. In July last year, the football fraternity and well-wishers came to the aid of the former midfielder who was wasting away in his home town,Chavakali. Imbalambala says after his sorry state was highlighted by the media, Kenyans from all walks of life, groups and the county government of Vihiga offered him a shoulder to lean on but have since locked their financial taps. While the former Kakamega Homeboyz midfielder is thankful for the assistance he received, he worryingly notes that his sight has not improved despite strictly adhering to the medication throughout. "I have tried from  time to time to avoid being a bother to people's lives but truth be told, I fear if I don't get specialised treatment, I may end up losing sight completely. "Last year, I received immense support after my plight was highlighted but I can't move on with life on my own since I am visually impaired. "The doctor told me I may take longer to heal but I fear I may lose the battle at the end of the day if I don't get a second opinion from other hospitals in the country and abroad," he pleaded Besides calling for help, Imbalambala is pleading for economic empowerment in a bid to become self-reliant again. "Most of the well-wishers who pledged to assist me never kept their promise while others want to use me for political reasons. However, I ask for empowerment which will go a long way in ensuring that I can fend for my family going forward," he said In the meantime, the former Nakumatt player expressed his gratitude to former Football Kenya Federation vice president hopeful Athanas Obalo for faithfully catering for his monthly medication. He also picked Leopards fans to thank for going out of their ways in ensuring that he could afford basic needs. "I sincerely thank Obalo and his friends for his efforts in ensuring that drugs every month. Leopards fans have also been supportive throughout ," he added.