The battle for the Matungu and Kabuchai parliamentary seats has kicked off in earnest as aspirants presented their nominations certificates to the electoral body ahead of the March 4 polls. Some independent aspirants, who had hoped to vie on various party tickets but were unable to secure nomination were on Monday considering pulling out to support rivals. “We are negotiating with a rival aspirant. Hopefully, we will give a word to our supporters on Tuesday,” said Athman Wangara. Wangara was among hopefuls who had wanted to contest on ANC ticket but the party handed Peter Nabulindo a direct nomination. Newly formed United Democratic Alliance (UDA), which is associated with Deputy President William Ruto is reported to have asked some independent candidates in Matungu to drop their bid in favour of its candidate Alex Lanya. Paul Posho, who had hoped to contest on an ODM ticket, dropped his bid as an independent candidate and declared he would support Lanya. ODM handed former MP David Were a direct ticket. The party will not be fielding a candidate in Kabuchai. Posho has appealed his supporters to rally behind the UDA candidate. “We have scheduled a meeting with UDA leadership with the view of defecting to UDA party and getting incorporated in the party structures,” Posho's campaign coordinator Stephen Lungwe said. Meanwhile, ANC and Ford Kenya candidates presented their papers the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) accompanied by party leaders Musalia Mudavadi and Moses Wetang'ula respectively. Joseph Majimbo will fly the Ford Kenya ticket in Kabuchai. Mudavadi assured locals that he would work together with his Ford Kenya counterpart even after the by-elections. “We are going to walk together. We are going to stand together. The unity of the region is the message we are sending. What is this interest that people are looking for in this region. We will ashame them,” Mudavadi added. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula are in a deal to ensure they do not lose Matungu and Kabuchai seats. Ford Kenya will not field a candidate in the Matungu while ANC will not participate in the Kabuchai poll. Former Kenya Revenue Authority board member Evans Kakai will fly UDA's ticket for the Kabuchai seat. Wetang'ula will face a gruesome battle since Kabuchai is bordered by Ruto allied MPs who include John Waluke (Sirisia), Didmus Barasa Kimilili, Dan Wanyama (Webuye West,) Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula). “We have the confidence that Kakai will win the seat. I am on the ground and I know what the people of Kabuchai want,” Waluke told the Star. This will be the first time UDA is fielding candidates after it changed its name from the Party for Reforms and Development (PDR). In a bid to win allies and rally support for the Building Bridges Initiative, Jubilee Party withdrew from Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies and Machakos senatorial seat. The by-elections were occasioned by the deaths of MPs Justus Murunga (Matungu), James Lusweti (Kabuchai) and Boniface Kabaka (Machakos County)