Major development projects and a by-election await residents of Nairobi this year. Last year marked the end of the reign of Governor Mike Sonko after he was impeached on December 17, 2020. County assembly Speaker Benson Mutura took over as the acting governor for 60 days. Next month city residents will be going back to the ballot to elect a new governor as required by law. Already a vicious battle is shaping up for the seat with prominent political figures showing interest to succeed Sonko. ThirdWay Alliance has  exiled lawyer Miguna Miguna as its candidate while engineer Kimori Machoka, a former CEC under former Governor Evans Kidero, will be running as an independent candidate. Ex-Dagorreti MP Dennis Waweru and businesswoman Agnes Kagure have been cleared by the Jubilee Party for the by-election. Former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu had declared interest in vying in the Nairobi gubernatorial seat. However, Last week IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati ruled him out. “Similarly under Chapter 6, Article 75 and 180 of the Constitution read together with Article 193, it is very clear that a person or an individual who has been impeached cannot run for an elective position,” he said. This also applies to Sonko if he had wanted to contest again. The IEBC will receive nomination papers from candidates cleared by political parties on January 18 and 19 ahead of the by-election on February 18. Away from politics, major development projects under the Nairobi Metropolitan Service are expected to be launched while others take shape. The much-anticipated 24 health facilities in Nairobi’s informal settlements are expected to be commissioned by next month. During last year’s Jamhuri Day celebrations at Nyayo Stadium, President Uhuru Kenyatta announced that the Sh2 billion projects will be completed early this year. “I note with satisfaction that the NMS is on course to deliver the 24 facilities by end of January 2021. The idea is to take health services as close to the people as is possible,” he said. Initially, the 24 hospitals, levels 2 and 3, were to be completed and commissioned last month. However, NMS director general Mohammed Badi noted that most of the existing hospitals and dispensaries in informal areas are accommodated either in a church or on school land. “Our target was to complete the 24 hospitals this month, but the main challenge was most of the slums in Nairobi are full. There is no empty space to build the hospitals, “he said. The health facilities are in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Mukuru kwa Rueben, Kibra and Githurai. NMS director of health services Dr Josephine Mbae said in November that 19 out of the 24 health facilities would be built from scratch while the rest would be rehabilitated. Ten out of the 24 facilities being built entirely will be level 2 hospitals and the rest will be level 3. Badi will this year lead the Central Business District decongestion after completion of new bus termini. Last year in September, Badi had pledged that by end of November all matatus would be banned from accessing the CBD. However, NMS blamed design issues and consultation with stakeholders as some of the challenges that slowed down the progress of construction. At the moment, works are almost complete at Green Park, Desai and Park Road termini. NMS director of Transport and Public Works Michael Ochieng revealed that the relocation of matatus from CBD will be done in phases as from this month. Green Park will be the first terminus to be launched and according to Badi its design will be replicated in the other termini that NMS plans to construct along Workshop Road and in Westlands, Landhies–Muthurwa and Globe roundabout. According to the decongestion strategy, matatus using Waiyaki Way will pick up and drop off passengers at Fig Tree terminus in Ngara. A terminus at Muthurwa-Ladhies will serve matatus from Jogoo and Lusaka roads. The NMS will then see all matatus currently using Tea Room and Accra Road plying Thika Superhighway and long-distance matatus from Mt Kenya move to Desai and Park road termini in Ngara. The NMS has also set aside space at the junction of Bunyala and Workshop roads for matatus using Mombasa Road – South B, South C, Industrial Area, Imara Daima, Athi River, Kitengela and Machakos. NMS noted that work on the terminus will take not more than a month immediately the groundbreaking is done. It will also launch an integrated electronic system in the new termini to be used by matatus and commuters. The digital platform will notify matatu owners when PSVs can make their way to the termini and when commuters can be picked up and dropped off. At the same time, NMS will start the construction of a traffic control centre at City Cabanas to ease congestion on key roads. President Kenyatta last November directed Badi to set up 100 new junctions and build a new traffic management centre. “The control centre will utilise traffic cameras and censors and harmonise location data to provide a synchronised signal at 100 new junctions in addition to the existing traffic lights,” Uhuru said. The NMS will also redesign and signalise 25 new intersections in partnership with Kenya Urban Roads Authority and Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority to enhance traffic management through the rehabilitation and reintroduction of synchronised traffic lights across the city. The first block of 160 units of the Pangani Affordable Housing Project are scheduled to be handed over in February 2021, nine months after the groundbreaking ceremony. As of December 1, 2020, already nine floors had been completed. The pace of the construction according to NMS and the county government of Nairobi is one storey in six days. The Sh25 billion Pangani development is part of the government's low –cost housing project. The eight blocks will have 1,562 apartments standing on 5.2 acres worth Sh4 billion. This will be the first affordable housing project under the county government. Edited by Henry Makori