Former Gor Mahia coach Frank Nuttal says he helped shape the path of Kenyan soccer star Michael Olunga by fielding him against the wishes and expectations of many. Speaking on Monday, Nuttal who clinched the 2015 Kenyan Premier League with Olunga, narrated how the forward's resilience eventually paid off after he dug in and shook off negative criticism from those who had little faith in his abilities. “Congratulations and good luck to Michael Olunga on his recent move to Qatar. At Gor Mahia, in our unbeaten season of 2015, he scored a total of 35 goals for club and country,” said Nutall. Nuttal said a number of people persuaded him to omit the Al-Duhail SC striker from the line-ups he named for Kenyan Premier League matches in the misguided perception that the forward wasn't good enough to feature in any of them. “By the way, many people used to tell me not pick him; that he wasn’t good enough;  that he wouldn’t score goals! Thank goodness that I thought differently. "After one season, he moved to Sweden. He then transferred to China, Spain, Japan and now Qatar where he is currently playing in Fifa World Club Championship. He fully deserves and Kenya should be truly very proud of him. I certainly am! At 27, there’s a lot more to come from Michael. Keep it going big man!” Nuttal added that Olunga had to grapple with endless challenges while at Gor Mahia. “During this time, he was also studying engineering at university and going without salary due to financial difficulties at the club. He would often turn up for training drained by exams and having no money, so I would tell him to get a massage and have a sleep at the back of the grandstand but just be ready for the next match. He always was!” Prior to joining Qatar's Al Duhail SC, Olunga had an impressive spell with Kashiwa Reysol of Japan and he capped off his stay at the club by scooping both the Most Valuable Player and Golden Boot in the 2020 J1-League season. He is yet to celebrate a goal in the two matches he has played but the management have, however, expressed faith in him. Duhail's executive director Adnan Al Ali said Olunga will be instrumental in their next campaign as against Al Ahly in the Fifa Club World Cup.  