The Wheelbarrow Party! That's what the recently registered United Democratic Alliance (UDA) with its wheelbarrow symbol is called. The wheelbarrow is the  populist symbol of Ruto's hustler nation movement and its rivalry with the the so-called dynasties. Hustlers and wheelbarrows make the elite nervous and they call them a ploy to deceive the wananchi. Ruto gives out wheelbarrows and other equipment to help unemployed people start businesses - and the idea is catching on fast. And it has excited Rift Valley allies and backers of Deputy President William Ruto. They hope it will be his ticket to clinch the presidency in 2022. Ruto himself has said he may exit Jubilee and his allies also have strongly hinted he may join the new outfit following splits in the Jubilee Party and differences with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Rift Valley is Ruto’s home and his political backyard. His popularity there helped sweep the Uhuru-Ruto ticket to power twice, in 2013 and 2017. UDA with its wheelbarrow symbol were registered two weeks ago. Former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama is the national chairman. “UDA has just been mentioned somewhere and it has already given some people sleepless nights. We wonder why they should panic yet we have not done anything yet, " Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said. He said backers would support Ruto for the presidency if he runs on the UDA ticket because "Jubilee had been hijacked by some individuals used to undermine the DP." “We will stage a fight and ensure we are completely done with Jubilee because we had a share in it. We will fight them and ensure if they go away with the iron sheets we will take away the nails, doors and windows, " Cherargei said in Nandi county. Emua Dikir MP Johana Ngeno said although he was elected on a Kanu ticket, he would be the first to jump ship and join UDA. “I have even alerted Kanu chairman Gideon Moi that I am heading to UDA,"  Ngeno said. Jubilee deputy secretary general Caleb Kositany declined to comment on the new party but accused some individuals of grabbing Jubilee to frustrate the DP. “Some of those who grabbed Jubilee do not even know how the party was formed. They are just being used to wreck it," Kositany said. Some youth leaders in Rift Valley led by Joseph Chumba said UDA would take Rift Valley and other parts of the country by storm should Ruto decide to join the party. “If Ruto will be in UDA, then that will be a done game in this region. All others will have to seek election through UDA or become politically irrelevant," Chumba said. Allies familiar with the DP's strategy have been meeting in Eldoret and Nairobi to strategise on the official launch of UDA soon. Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok said the wheelbarrow represents the economy of ordinary Kenyans who have been sidelined for many years. (Edited by V. Graham) 