 Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has pulled a win after the High Court agreed with his application that the trial court unfairly dismissed issues he had raised after the prosecution amended the charge sheet in his Sh58 million graft case. Justice James Wakiaga said trial courts should be slow in advising or making suggestions to the prosecution so as to be seen to be a neutral arbitrator in disputes taken to court. Kidero had filed for a review challenging orders by chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti requiring the Director of Public Prosecutions to present and prepare new charge sheets against the former governor and his co-accused persons. Ogoti had on December 4, 2019 issued a ruling directing the prosecution to amend the charges facing Kidero and others in the Sh58 million corruption case. The prosecution subsequently presented before court a fresh charge sheet which amended the period of the alleged commission of the offence among others. But Kidero and his co-accused declined to plead to the charges and instead raised several objections. One of them was that the prosecution had amended the period of the charge sheet through the backdoor. Kidero said the trial court did not determine the question of the defective charges but dismissed it on the basis that it was incompetent. On Friday, Wakiaga said the issues raised by Kidero were new and had not been dealt with in another application by Justice Mumbi Ngugi as earlier claimed by the prosecution. He said Ogoti failed to accord them right to fair hearing when he dismissed the issues on the charges being defective without giving satisfactory reasons. “My understanding of Kidero's complaint was that the trial court casually dismissed their objections without giving reasons but only ruling that it was “incompetent and annoying and deserves to be dismissed”, Wakiaga said. The issues raised by Kidero which required the courts determination touched on whether the fresh charge sheet was amended or substituted and whether it was defective among other things. Wakiaga said whereas the trial court had the right to dismiss those issues as raised by Kidero, they were still entitled to be given reasons for such a decision. “A judicial officer is under a general duty to provide reasons for his or her decision, to allow all the parties to see the extent to which their arguments had been understood and accepted or rejected by the court.” He said the court did not take into account the specific fresh issues raised by Kidero, neither did the magistrate give reason for rejecting or dismissing their objections. “The trials court finding that the objection raised by Kidero was ‘incompetent’ and ‘vexatious’ was improper and did not ensure the fair administration of justice as required under the Constitution,” Wakiaga said. The High Court said issues raised by Kidero were not properly handled by the trial court and that the reasons given for dismissing the same were inadequate.  Wakiaga overturned the decision and sent the file back to the trial court to make a determination on all the issues raised by Kidero. “This being a revision application, the only logical conclusion is to remit the matter to the trial court, for fresh consideration and further proceedings taking into account the issues raised in the objection,” he said. Kidero was charged alongside former chief of staff George Wainaina Njogu, former Nairobi mayor John Ndirangu Kariuki and former councillor Paul Mutunga Mutungi for conspiring to defraud City Hall of Sh58 million in 2014.  Edited by P.O