Manchester United’s improved mentality is helping them grind out results in tight games this season, manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said after Wednesday’s 2-1 win at Fulham took them top of the Premier League. United went behind early to Ademola Lookman’s clinical finish but responded through Edinson Cavani’s fourth away goal of the league campaign. Paul Pogba then sealed all three points with a stunning strike. “We’ve done better in tighter games. We’ve won loads of 1-0s and 2-1s. When you add those up at the end of the season it means many points,” Solskjaer told reporters. “That was a point we spoke about early on before the season had started, that we needed to stop getting draws and win more games. We’ve shown great improvement in mentality as well as physical robustness.” Solskjaer’s side are two points clear of Manchester City, who have played a game less. While much of the praise was reserved for Pogba, Solskjaer also hailed Cavani’s influence since arriving on a free transfer in October after his contract at Paris St Germain expired. “Cavani is a centre forward you want in the box, his movement is incredible,” Solskjaer said. “I almost get frustrated at times when he goes wide to put crosses in because he’s the one you want in there. Sometimes I have to ask him to do less running. “He compliments Marcus Rashford, Mason Greenwood and Anthony Martial really well.” United face Liverpool in the fourth round of the FA Cup on Sunday before taking on Sheffield United in the league next Wednesday. Meanwhile, Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer may not be fully convinced Paul Pogba can hold down the central midfield role but his recent performances prove that when the Frenchman is in form there are few better, former defender Rio Ferdinand said. Pogba scored with a blistering left-foot shot as United defeated Fulham 2-1 on Wednesday to return to the top of the Premier League table. He also scored the winner against Burnley last week. "I don't think Ole completely trusts him in the centre of midfield with the pace that some sides counter with ... but in this game they felt they would dominate and so he can allow him to do it," Ferdinand told BT Sport. "The big difference is that he is playing quick, ... the efficiency he is playing with is amazing. One of the best when he is in this form." Ferdinand said Pogba's ego would have "taken a battering" as playmaker Bruno Fernandes took the plaudits, while he was struggling for regular first-team opportunities earlier in the season. "He would've been jealous, his pride would've been hurt," Ferdinand said. "But he loves the game and wants to showcase his talent. If he's got the platform, the players around him that allow him to thrive, he can do it." (Reporting by Hardik Vyas in Bengaluru;Editing by Peter Rutherford )