The Kenya National Union of Teachers has vowed to reject the reintroduction of corporal punishment in schools saying it will create conflicts between teachers and learners. Knut Secretary-General, Wilson Sossion said the reintroduction of the cane would risk the lives of teachers, especially from teenagers. Speaking in Nakuru on Saturday evening after branch union elections at Afraha High School, Sossion said the government should post police officers in all the schools to implement the order. The unionists called on the government to abolish all boarding schools to allow parents to take their rightful place in disciplining their children. Sossion at the same time accused the government of killing strong workers’ unions in a bid to exploit workers. He asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and put the Teachers Service Commission in order. He said the check-off for Knut should be returned in totality as it was the only system that members could remit their dues and affiliate to a trade union. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha last week called for the reintroduction of corporal punishment in schools to stem runaway indiscipline among students. He said that though appearing atavistic, capital punishment holds the key to settling cases where "students have grown horns." The CS said school arson and attacks on teachers are on the rise, indicating a 'society going to the dogs'. "I may appear old school but I think we are at a time when we need to discuss how we can bring sanity in our schools and maybe bring the cane on board once more," Magoha said. Capital punishment if rightly used can significantly reduce many of the indiscipline cases in learning centres, he said. He urged parents to "rein in their children from home" as part of efforts to reduce deviance. "We are not going to accept that schools be dumping grounds for students who lack proper nurture and good foundation at their homes. It is such parents who again turn against teachers, accusing them of not doing enough to control their children. That should stop," he said.