The scramble to be named ODM deputy governor candidate intensified as Jubilee moved closer to announcing its governor aspirant in the Nairobi by-election. Lobbying went a notch higher for ODM as Jubilee continued to vet the names of members who have shown interest. The two parties will be fielding a joint candidate in the by-election. ODM said the seat belonged to Jubilee and as such it will back its candidate. The Orange party will field a running mate. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju said they are still in the process of vetting members who have shown interest in contesting for the seat. “We are vetting the candidates who have shown interest. As soon as we are done with the vetting, we will conduct interviews. Jubilee wants to field the best candidate because we cannot lose this seat,” he said. Tuju told the Star that ODM was, however, yet to inform him of the person they have picked as the running mate. “The only thing that is troubling us is the court case. We are studying it to see what it means for us to decide whether we should organise ourselves now or wait until the matter is settled,” he said. Former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru and businesswoman Agnes Kagure want to contest on the Jubilee ticket. Justice Anthony Mrima on Monday suspended the special Gazette notice issued by the IEBC calling for a by-election in February following the impeachment of Mike Sonko. Sonko moved to court challenging his removal from office, claiming that due process was not followed. Several names have popped up as possible running mate to the Jubilee candidate. They include secretary general Edwin Sifuna, Women's League chairperson Beth Syengo and former Homa Bay senator aspirant Fred Rabongo. Rabongo came third in the race for the Homa Bay senator seat during the 2015 by-election that was occasioned by the death of Otieno Kajwang. An astute businessman, Rabongo said he is ready to serve residents of Nairobi if the party finds him fit to serve the people in that position. “I am a diehard member of ODM and I have worked and supported the party. Having run for Homa Bay senator twice and with my experience and success in business, I think I have what it takes to serve the people of Nairobi as their deputy Governor,” he said. Rabongo was among the 15 Kenyan entrepreneurs, including Manu Chandaria and SK Macharia, who were profiled in a book published by East Africa Publishers as the most promising business people in the region. He is also a former National Social Security Fund (NSSF) managing trustee. Sifuna said he is open to the offer should ODM settle on him as the deputy governor candidate. Sifuna has been seen to appeal to the huge Luhya vote bloc. A considerable number of ODM officials are said to be vouching for Syengo to get the ticket. Tuju assured those who have shown interest of a free and fair process. “At the moment, only two have shown interest. There are others who have put across their intent, but we have two serious ones as of now,” he added.