 Political leaders backing the BBI have failed to enlighten Kenyans on the benefits of the proposed law changes, allowing “false prophets” to mislead the wananchi on its contents. Othaya MP Gichuki Mugambi said people are yet to understand the benefits contained in the Building Bridges Initiative report because of the many lies they have been told about it. “I regret that as leaders, we did not move with speed early enough. We ought to have had a conversation about the BBI and inform Kenyans on the contents of the document so they get to understand it,” Mugambi said. Mugambi termed untrue claims that the BBI was meant to create positions for some politicians. He said said it is misleading to claim that government resources have been channelled to matters BBI, saying all state projects are going on as planned. The MP spoke when he drummed up support for the BBI in his constituency on Friday. Residents told him that what he was telling them was different from what they had heard earlier. However, the MP said it is time leaders articulate the benefits of the document to their people so that they can support it. “Our leaders should tell Kenyans the truth about the BBI,” he said. The lawmaker urges voters to pass the document during the referendum as it will guarantee better life for future generations. He said the BBI was an initiative of President Uhuru Kenyatta after their handshake with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and will be one of the biggest legacies he will leave to Central region when retires. "The BBI will give the region more MPs and resources and end unfair representation and also introduce fairness in distribution of national resources." The 2010 Constitution gave Central region only seven parliamentary seats out of the extra 80 created by the document. The constitution increased the number of constituencies from 210 to 290. In the BBI, Central region will get an additional 17 parliamentary seats. “Protected constituencies such as Othaya will also be entrenched as fully fledged constituencies,” Mugambi said. He called on residents to consider the many benefits in the BBI instead of listening to misleading politicians. Mugambi also criticised politicians whom he said had put the region in a campaign mode. "It is wrong for our people to engage in endless politicking when we have the Presidency. We should take advantage of that leadership and work hard," he said. The MP disbursed NG-CDF bursary cheques worth Sh30 million to 3,724 needy students across the constituency.  Edited by P.O