With large deliveries of Covid-19 vaccines to Africa expected to begin late next month, two pharmaceutical firms have been accused of giving the continent a raw deal. Doctors Without Borders, a health lobby with regional offices in Nairobi, says what Pfizer and BioNTech have offered Africa is just a 'pittance'. The two jointly have the most preferred vaccine with about 95 per cent efficacy. It is also the only joint vaccine to have received a World Health Organization emergency approval, so far. Last week, the two joined the Covax facility to send vaccines to poor countries but said they will offer only 40 million doses this year, or two per cent of their 2021 production. MSF said in a statement that rather than continuing to prioritise deals with high-income countries, Pfizer must make more doses available to the Covax facility. MSF said the development of the Pfizer vaccine was supported by a grant of nearly $443 million from the German government through its partner BioNTech, and a loan of over $118 million from the European Investment Bank. “Pharma is playing business-as-usual: the deal (with Covax) is only two per cent of Pfizer and BioNTech’s estimated total doses – a pittance, considering their production capacity and the bilateral deals they’ve already struck with high-income countries,” MSF said in a statement. At least 75 per cent of Pfizer’s vaccine doses have been secured by high-income countries, and of the more than 27.2 million doses delivered so far, high-income countries have received almost 27 million. Middle-income countries have only received close to 250,000 doses but low-income countries have received none. "Despite calls from several heads of state for global solidarity at the beginning of the pandemic, what we see today is a far cry from a picture of equity," said Dana Gill, US Policy Advisor on MSF Access Campaign. The earliest Kenya can receive the Covid-19 vaccine is the third week of February, according to projections given by Gavi. The vaccine alliance last week said the WHO must first grant the AstraZeneca vaccine emergency use listing, after reviewing its quality, safety, efficacy and performance data. Kenya has ordered 24 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine, enough for 20 per cent of the country’s population. However, Gavi said it will initially supply just a few doses to cover frontline workers and people with pre-existing health conditions. Gavi said it will next week indicate approximately how many doses each country will receive initially, to help them plan. “This indicative allocation will provide interim guidance to participants – offering a minimum planning scenario to enable preparations for the final allocation of the number of doses each participant will receive,” it said in a statement.