Olympic Primary School stopped admitting more students to prevent imminent disaster, Kibra MP Imran Okoth has said. The school currently has more than 4,000 pupils, its facilities are overstretched and teachers overworked. But with most private schools in the area closed due to Covid-19 disruptions, many more pupils sought admission at Olympic. Consequently, the Ministry of Education agreed with local leaders to direct parents to other schools in the area for admission to relieve the pressure on Olympic. Okoth promised to put up more classrooms after mapping the needs of local schools so they can admit extra pupils. “We saw what happened in Kakamega Primary when there was a stampede. This school has a lot of pupils and sometimes it is not good to wait until something happens to talk about it. We must take precaution early enough,” Okoth said. Fourteen pupils died in the stampede in Kakamega Primary as they rushed down a flight of stairs at the end of a school day. Okoth said his office has built 12 more classrooms at Toi Primary to boost enrolment. “Since the 2007-08 post-election violence, the school has had a low enrolment of pupils. It has a capacity to handle more than 3,000 pupils but if you go there right now there are just 1,200 pupils,” he said. The legislator urged parents to send their children to public schools as some private education institutions are only out to make money. “We are saddened that our parents use a lot of money to take their children to private schools, but I must say there are only a few that are doing well,” he said. “Not all of them are bad. There are those that have the interests of our children at heart.” Similarly, he said some parents prefer Olympic Primary because of its exemplary KCPE performance, putting more pressure on teachers to enrol them. Okoth acknowledged that Lindi and Maili Saba wards lack any public schools, forcing many children to walk for long distances to seek education. Some go all the way to Mbagathi, Lang’ata, or Kibera primary schools. “It is important to have schools in those wards, but planning has not yet taken place. You cannot tell where to construct the school so we have to wait for planning. As we do so, we have to expand those that are already existing to accommodate a large number of students,” Okoth said. He said plans are underway to put up a boys school at Woodley. Construction is expected to begin at the end of this month. A new structure is also coming up at Raila Educational Centre to expand space. (edited by o. owino)