The NCPB has bought only 3,000 bags of maize in three weeks from farmers who are demanding more than Sh3,200 a bag. The government increased maize prices from Sh2,500 to Sh2,700 per bag at NCPB depots, but farmers say that's not enough for them to make a profit. Chairman of Parliament's Committee on Agriculture Silas Tiren said they are negotiating with the government to raise prices to more than Sh3,200 per 90kg bag. Tiren is the MP for Moiben. The government has given Sh3 billion to the NCPB to buy one million bags of maize but few farmers have accepted the price. The board plans to purchase the maize to help replenish the Strategic Grain Reserves. “Farmers appreciate the gesture to increase the price by Sh200 per bag But it's still quite low to enable them to make some profit," Tiren said when he met farmers' representatives at the Eldoret NCPB depot on Tuesday. He was with director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo. Tiren and Menjo said the farmers want Sh3,200 per bag. "If it's increased to more than Sh3,000 per bag, then millers and other interested middlemen will also have to increase their prices. That will stabilise the market and enable farmers to make profit and that will increase production," Menjo said. The farmers have also urged the government to ensure there will be no maize imports because they had a good harvest and a shortage is unlikely in the near future. Last year, Kenyan farmers harvested more than 40 million bags of maize, an increase from the previous year when production had dropped to fewer than 36 million bags. Tiren said the government should not consider importing maize until local production is exhausted. He said once the price is further increased at NCPB, the farmers would deliver more produce. The board has adequate facilities to buy and store more than eight  million bags of maize under SGR. Farmers have welcomed the ongoing reforms in the sector, which they say will increase production. Tiren said they want similar reforms in tea, sugar cane and rice, protecting farmers from importation and exploitation by middlemen. He said they would hold talks with Agriculture CS Peter Munya and others to discuss problems in the agriculture sector. (Edited by V. Graham) 