Kadii Bakari (not her real name) was raped by a boda boda rider when she delivered water to his house – an activity she had taken up to make money when schools closed. The 14-year-old Kiwandani Primary School pupil is pregnant and has yet to return to school weeks after reopening from the Covid-19 closure on January 4. Bakari is but one of 946 schoolgirls in Kilifi county who fell pregnant in the period between April and December last year. Not far from Kadii’s homestead, Fatma, a Form 1 student at Korosho Secondary School delivered a pre-term baby through caesarean section following pregnancy complications. According to Kilifi county commissioner Kutswa Olaka 640 of the pregnant girls are in primary and the other 306 in high school. ODM leader Raila Odinga's 2022 candidature could jolt a plan by Nasa principals to front a single presidential candidate to take on Deputy President William Ruto. On Wednesday, ODM revealed it would kick off the process of selecting its Presidential candidate - a procedural technicality that would culminate in the endorsement of Raila as its 2022 flagbearer. President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession strategists are said to have been working on a grand political scheme to stop Ruto's ascension to State House including pushing for a joint Nasa candidate. The Nasa trio of Musalia Mudavadi, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula, the Star has established, could cobble the third force without Raila if the ODM boss insists on running. On Wednesday, it emerged that there are fears that opposition bigwigs might suffer a humiliating defeat in the hands of Ruto should they part ways. Kenya could lose its reputation in the fresh produce export markets unless producers maintain the required international standards, the government has cautioned. Trade and Enterprise Development Cabinet Secretary Betty Maina said some farmers are harvesting produce before maturity, leading to intervention or recall of exports. The CS said some producers also spray crops a few days before they are exported. This leads to the produce being locked out of the export markets which subsequently hurts Kenya's reputation. She said such cases are stalling the government's efforts to secure trade deals and markets for Kenyan exports. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi will be facing off with ODM chief Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto in the upcoming Matungu by-election. Each of the three political bigwigs has a candidate in a race likely to shape the 2022 presidential race in Western Kenya. MP Justus Murunga’s widow Christabel Amunga and son Eugene Ambwere are among 15 candidates cleared by the IEBC for the upcoming Matungu by-election. They are among the independent candidates with the others being Bernard Wakoli, Gregory Atoko, Kevin Nectus, Wilberforce Lutta, Athman Wangara, Anzelimo Kongoti and Samuel Munyekenye. Also cleared for the race are Peter Nabulindo (ANC), David Were (ODM), Alex Lanya (UDA), Charles Kasamani (UDP), Paul Achayo (MDG) and Faida Auma of Maendeleo Chap Chap. The Matungu by-election was occasioned by the deaths of Murunga and James Lusweti last year. The United States has a new President after Joe Biden took the oath of office on Wednesday in an extraordinary ceremony scaled down due to Covid-19 and recent security threats. The ceremony also saw America get the first woman vice-president Kamala Harris who is also a person of colour. Outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump departed the White House for the last time on Wednesday morning, Washington time. He was late leaving the White House and could be heard saying, "The greatest honour ever" as he addressed the media before leaving enroute to Florida.