A section of Kirinyaga MCAs has criticised a move by a group of Mt Kenya MPs to endorse county Senator Charles Kibiru to lead BBI campaigns in the region. The MCAS say the campaign is deemed to fail with Kibiru as the leader because he suffers from ‘popularity deficiency’ coupled with 'lack of political charm and clout' to woo the region. Kibiru was selected by the region leaders to chair a five-member team that will spearhead the BBI Campaigns to popularise it. He will be assisted by Igembe North‘s Maoka Maore .Others are Embu Woman Representative Jane Wanjuki (secretary), Limuru MP  Peter Mwathi (organising secretary )and Kigumo MP Ruth Mwaniki as his assistant . Led by Majority leader Kamau Murango, the ward reps launched a scathing attack on Kibiru, saying his impact has not been felt on the ground due to his absenteeism and lukewarm attitude towards county matters. They said he is the wrong person to lead the initiative. “Ever since some leaders were elected in office, they took off! They don’t bother getting back to the ground to check how their subjects are doing to the point that wananchi don’t know them,” Murango said. "I have never seen my senator,” Wamumu MCA John Kanga said. “I think due to reasons of the senator being an independent candidate, I didn’t meet him during the 2017 jubilee primaries and during the campaign period.” He advised Kirinyaga residents to from next year’s general election give leadership mandate to people who will be concerned and available when called upon. Baragwi MCA David Mathenge said the senator’s position in the team was too big a pair of shoes for him to fill because he lacks charisma and has at no point drummed up support for the initiative in his own county. His Mukuure ward counterpart Elisha Mwangi said BBI should not be forced down the throats of the region's residents. He, however, urged Kibiru and his team to oversee the publishing of copies of the document to be distributed to Kenyans. This, he said, would will help them make informed decisions before the team starts campaigns in the region. The MCAs spoke in Njukiini ward during the issuance of bursaries worth Sh3.3 million that will help sponsor 2,200 students. Kibiru says the initiative has the support of 91 parliamentarians from the region, against 15. The team is scheduled to reach out to opinion leaders at the grassroots level who will help in educating the masses about its contents. Edited by EKibii 