Baringo Senator Gideon Moi is facing a back-breaking task in his bid to rejuvenate Kanu — the country’s oldest political party, which his father, the late President Daniel Moi, steered for more than two decades. Gideon, Moi’s lastborn son and Kanu chairman, was handed his father's rungu, popularly known as Fimbo ya Nyayo, to succeed the late President as the party’s supremo and revitalise the outfit. The rungu was synonymous with Moi's reign, which came to an end in 2002, the same year Kanu’s presidential candidate Uhuru Kenyatta, now President, lost to a united opposition under Narc, throwing the party into political oblivion for the first time since Independence. During Mzee Moi’s burial at his Kabarak home, Nakuru county, in February last year, his eldest son Raymond (Jonathan having died), gave the ‘political baton’ to his younger brother Gideon, making the senator his father's heir insofar as national politics is concerned. “Jogoo mwenyeye amelala. Na kama amelala, ninapea huyu ile rungu... na yeye akiregarega… si mimi niko hapa... Kwani mimi ni statue? (The cock is gone. So I now give Gideon this baton. If he doesn't put it to good use, I will be here to take it back),” said Raymond, who is the Rongai MP. Fimbo ya Nyayo was a symbol of power, leadership and national cohesion. The late President carried it on his right-hand wherever he was for the 24 years he was in power. But the handover came at a time the fortunes of the outfit had already dwindled in the face of cutthroat competition in the political arena. Gideon, while receiving the baton, acknowledged the daunting task of turning around the party’s competitiveness ahead of the 2022 General Election. “I was not expecting this... hata kushika hii rungu... nitashika and I will do my best… so help me God,” Gideon said. Will he succeed? Political pundits say he has a mountain to climb. He already faces a battle royal in his Rift Valley backyard against his political nemesis DP William Ruto. It won't be easy to topple the DP. On Saturday, Gideon encountered rowdy youths who blocked his team as he went for a dawn meeting with Talai clan elders in Nandi. Talai elders last year met Ruto and blessed him as the Kalenjin spokesman and leader. Hundreds of youth blocked roads, leading to Kapsisiywa where Gideon had been invited by a section of the elders for blessings amid intensifying rivalry between him and the DP over control of the Kalenjin community ahead of the 2022 polls. The goings-on aside, political observers say Gideon’s ‘cold’ stature, stiff political competition from Ruto in his Rift Valley backyard and Kanu’s burden of historical ills are the key factors barricading the party’s rejuvenation. Kanu, which ruled the country for 39 years from 1963 to 2002, has had a really dark side. Its longest-serving leader, Moi, was accused of oppression, with dissidents subjected to detention without trial. “To be able to restore Kanu to its former glory, Gideon Moi should be able to marshal support from his backyard, that is Rift Valley because that's where his party enjoys the greatest support,” analyst Eric Mutuma said. In the absence of absolute control of the Rift Valley, which would require him to box Ruto out of the region politically, Mutuma reckoned that it will be a tall order for Gideon to revamp the party. “From all indications, right now, Gideon Moi is not the kingpin of Rift Valley. He does not speak for the Rift Valley. I doubt whether he controls any section of the region. It is an uphill task for him to try to outdo Ruto and revitalise the party,” he reiterated. Analyst Mark Bichachi echoed the sentiments, saying Gideon must devise a working strategy to market the party that is fast losing taste among most Kenyans. “If Gideon wants to revive Kanu as a personality cult as many parties are, he needs to do a lot. He has to take on Ruto — something he either seems unwilling to do or is slow to do. “In that regard, he would be in big trouble if he does not have a tribal base from which to launch his personality cult. But if he wants to develop a party, then he has a bigger opportunity. He can use Kanu’s history and resources to build another vibrant party, recruit young people and rebrand the outfit,” Bichachi said. The stiff opposition from Ruto, undisputedly the political kingpin in Kalenjinland, could be Gideon's Achilles heel. The DP has neutralised senior Moi’s influence in the region, with leaders and the electorate following him almost to a man. However, Kanu’s stalwarts disagree. Secretary-general Nick Salat and Tiaty MP William Kamket say since officially assuming the mantle, Gideon has endeavoured to put the party on the path towards transformation and popularisation. They said the party leader has embarked on aggressive activities that will culminate in rebranding and changing of the party slogan to make it ‘great again’ and shed off the emotional baggage associated with it. The chairman has been meeting with party delegates across the country, repainting and rebranding party offices and opening new ones, recruiting members, filling vacant positions, and marketing the party in readiness for the 2022 polls. “We have come full circle. We are retracing our routes. We are changing the name to Kanu-Fresh,” Kamket told the Star. Salat said the party is deeply involved in BBI activities while maintaining its identity as part of a wider rejuvenation plan ahead of the 2022 political duel. “We want to get out there in the outfit of Kanu. We don’t want to lose our identity in all this,” he said. He said a top Kanu organ has endorsed the change of the party slogan from Jogoo to Kanu Sasa or Kanu Fresh, with the same expected to be subjected to a vote by party delegates. “If we say, the majority of people in this country are youth, those people were born probably when Kanu was already out of power. It is how we present our party before the electorate that matters,” he said. Javas Bigambo, a political commentator, said Gideon may revamp the party but only if he leads the outfit through a different and strong ideological path for repositioning and seeking public forgiveness for the ills that the party committed throughout the period of its political glory. “He may also need to get firebrand party officials from other tribes and regions. Without that, the party will continue limping because of the burden of the history,” he said.  Edited by F'Orieny