Former Harambee Stars winger Kevin 'Ade' Omondi and Peter Nzuki are hunting for new homes after parting ways with eleven-time Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker. The duo were rendered free agents after their contracts with the brewers expired on December 31, 2020. The two joined the Ruaraka0-based club in 2018 on two-year contracts and according to club chairman Daniel Aduda, their contracts will not be renewed. Omondi, who joined Tusker from Gor Mahia endured a relatively tough stay at the club as a knee surgery saw him sit out for eight months until February last year. Moreover, the competition for playing time from the youthful trio of Boniface Muchiri, Brian Marita and Luke Namanda limited his chances of regular action. Nzuki, on the other hand, earned a move to the club courtesy of the flashes of brilliance and leadership skills he displayed while at Nakumatt. Until the expiry of his contract, he served as the first assistant captain at the club, deputising Ugandan midfielder Hashim Sempala. "Both Nzuki and Omondi have left the club after their contracts ended in 2020. We opted not to renew them on different grounds but we wish them well in their careers," said Aduda. Meanwhile, former Sony Sugar midfielder Apollo Otieno will count himself lucky as his stay was extended by two years. Otieno joined Tusker in 2018 from the sugar millers, who currently ply their trade in the National Super League. "We have extended Otieno's contract, which was to end last month, by two years," revealed Aduda. Elsewhere, Bandari are expected to unveil Rwandese coach Andre Mbungo today. The dockers opted for the former AFC Leopards gaffer after losing Ken Odhiambo to league rivals Sofapaka last month. Sources at the club indicate that Gor assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo and Mathare United head coach Salim Ali are battling to deputise Mbungo, who left the den in December 2019. At the same time, the club is scheduled to name Albert Ogari as their team manager. Ogari will fill in the void left by Wilson Oburu, who was redeployed to serve as the goalkeeper trainer following the departure of Razak Siwa. The latter, alongside long-serving assistant coach Nassoro Mwakoba, left the club at the start of the month after their contracts expired.