Popular Mugithi star Mighty Salim, who succumbed to kidney failure on Sunday evening, will be buried on February the 2nd at his father’s farm in Subukia constituency. Mighty Salim was the younger brother to the late Salim Junior, who coincidentally was also buried on 2nd in 2016. Speaking to Star on the phone on Wednesday, musician Kamande wa Kioi said the burial event will be conducted at Subukia market park, then later he will be buried at Arash, a few kilometres from Subukia market. Kamande further said artistes and friends will hold a farewell concert at Dragon lounge in Githurai 44 to celebrate his life. “It’s true the burial will be on Tuesday next week at his family farm in Subukia, and thousands of Kenyans are expected to attend as a way of giving him the last respects. Also on Sunday, artistes will hold a concert to celebrate him ahead of the burial," he said. Kamande said Salim's music will always be celebrated by generations as, together with his late brother, he made the Mugithi genre to be established locally and internationally. “When you mention Mugithi, the first person who comes to mind is Salim Junior and Mighty Salim. We will forever keep them in our minds,” he said. In 2019, Mighty Salim had complained that artistes and friends have left him to die after they failed to raise Sh2.5 million needed for his treatment. "When an artiste dies, you are the first to announce and send condolences. I have been to all your stations and made many calls asking for help. I might not succeed or live forever, my life is in God's hands. Dead or alive, that is God's will," he posted. He had further claimed that a popular Mount Kenya politician issued him fake cheques. The late artiste has left behind a wife and four children, as well as siblings who are also in the entertainment industry. They are Sarafina Salim, Salim Young of the 'Indo njega niiri ene' fame, Naomi Salim as well as Kajei Salim. Taking to social media on Monday, Salim Young, who is his younger brother, said funeral plans are under way. “Due to the untimely demise of Timothy Njuguna (Mighty Salim) family, friends and well-wishers will be meeting at Blue Spring hotel from 6pm,” he posted. Kajei Salim confirmed through his Facebook page that there will be a farewell Mugithi concert on Sunday. Among the artistes who will attend are Samidoh, Evans Demathew, Joyce Wa Mama and Muigai Njoroge.