Friendship Containers Manufacturing Ltd, East Africa’s leading producer of comprehensive metal packaging solutions, has launched a new production plant at Tatu Industrial Park. The plant, which sits on a five-acre plot in the 5,000-acre Tatu City Special Economic Zone, produces a range of plain and decorated metal containers and closures for professional commodities and household consumables. “Our new home in the Tatu City Special Economic Zone has not only given us ample space to expand our operations but also a business-friendly environment that facilitates local, regional and international trade,” said Arun Shah, Managing Director of Friendship. Friendship has a proven track record of supplying high-quality goods to its customers all over East Africa for the last 43 years. “The demand for Tatu Industrial Park has never been stronger, thanks to our world-class infrastructure and a conducive trading environment,” said Tito Oduk, Director, Industrial Operations, Tatu City. "We are pleased to welcome Friendship to Tatu City and support their contribution to Kenya’s economic growth.” Tatu City is a 5,000-acre, mixed-use development with homes, schools, offices, a shopping district, medical clinics, nature areas, a sport and entertainment complex and manufacturing area for more than 250,000 residents and tens of thousands of day visitors. Schools and businesses are already open at Tatu City, and a range of houses that suits all incomes. Located 30 minutes from Westlands, Tatu City represents a new way of living for  Kenyans, creating a unique live, work and play environment that is free from traffic congestion and long-distance commuting. Friendship Container Manufacturers started from modest beginnings in 1978, and has grown into a leading fully comprehensive packaging company, manufacturing both metal and rigid plastic packaging for varied packaging solution. Product in the range include metal cans and closers for the food as well as professional product. Rigid injection molded container and compression molded caps for both food and beverage packaging.