An Anti-Stock Theft Unit police officer was Thursday killed in fresh bandits attack in Chemoe, Baringo North subcounty. Officer Patrick Kingori was shot in the stomach at around 10am. He died at 3pm as he was being rushed to Nakuru General Hospital. He had first been taken to Yatya dispensary, then Marigat Subcounty Hospital, before he was referred to the Nakuru hospital. Another officer suffered minor injuries in the head and hand. He was treated at Marigat Subcounty Hospital and discharged. Baringo North police boss Fredrick Odinga said on Friday that the officers were ambushed as they collected firewood in Sang’orok on the border of Baringo North and Tiaty subcounties. “He was among 10 ASTU officers who were on normal security patrol. The bandits laid ambush and sprayed the officers with bullets,” he said. There was fierce exchange of fire and the bandits fled into the bushes, Odinga said. Chemoe resident Richard Chepchomei said tension is high in the area as locals’ fear more attacks might occur. “If trained police officers are being attacked by bandits and killed, then how safe are we?” he asked. “If the situation persists, then we fear schools here might not be opened next week.” Volatile villages in the area include Kagir, Yatya, Chemoe, Ng’aratuko, Chepkesin, Chepkew, Kapturo and Siakanin. Chepchomei blamed the situation on the government withdrawal of the National Police Reservists (NPR) who used to assist police officers in beefing up security. He urged the government to deploy more officers to the area and conduct a thorough disarmament operation. Odinga also called for disarmament and intensive security patrols, saying it is the only way to eradicate banditry. “The idea ought to be supported by all leaders to end the menace once and for all,” he said. Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol said the insecurity in Baringo is a disaster. "We want the government to come out clearly and tell us why it is silent while we continue losing our livestock and people’s lives to armed bandits,” he said.  