The Luhya community will vote together in 2022 to redeem itself politically, political scientist Amukowa Anangwe has said. Anangwe said that all indications are that the community will vote for ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi to a man to be respected and become attractive to other communities in bargaining for power. "We must vote for our own this time around. Next year, over 70 per cent of the Luhyas will vote in the same direction," he said. Anangwe said the divisions among leaders are what creates misconceptions by Kenyans that the Luhya community is divided, but the voters are united. He said the Luhya unity narrative was a creation of those opposed to the community's ascent to power to serve their interests. He spoke during the burial service for Mama Truphena Melina at Eshiembekho village in Lurambi subcounty on Saturday. Nalima was the mother to Kenya Trade Agency board member and former Agriculture PS Wilson Songs. The community has always voted in different directions denying its leaders the chance to ascend to national leadership. The Luhya voted overwhelmingly for Raila Odinga in 2007. It preferred Odinga against Mudavadi who was running for the top seat in 2013 on a UDF ticket. Luhyas together again voted for Raila on Nasa ticket in 2017. Currently, the community's allegiance is divided between Mudavadi, Wetang'ula, Raila and Deputy President William Ruto. National Assembly Majority Whip Emmanuel Wangwe a week ago said the local leadership let down the electorate by failing to push for development for the region due to inherent divisions. "The national cake is shared in Parliament and if your parliamentary strength is weak then you get nothing. Wrong politics have always given us the wrong leadership. We're unable to be placed in strategic House committees where we can push our agenda" he said. "We need to be bold enough and tell Raila and Ruto that they should not come to Western without Mudavadi". Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula have joined forces to ring fence the vote-rich region ahead of the 2022 Uhuru succession race. Edited by Henry Makori