 The Tax Appeals Tribunal has ordered Paleah Stores to pay Sh9.3 billion to Kenya Revenue Authority in a tax case. In a judgement delivered on January 22, the tribunal ruled that Paleah Stores owed KRA the money in tax arrears. The amount constitutes of Sh1,361,746,295 corporation tax and Sh7,891,387,842 in value added tax inclusive of interest and penalties. Paleah Stores had appealed to the tribunal in May 2017 contesting assessment and demand of the taxes by the KRA for the years of income between 2008 and 2014. The company admitted in its statement of facts that it was a victim of bad professional advice, leading to its accounts and tax returns not reflecting the correct position of its operations for the stated years. It, however, contested the tax assessments on the grounds that KRA did not consider its input tax claims, operational expenses and that the computation of the taxes was unfair. The tax assessments and demands arose out of an investigation and a tax audit carried out on Paleah Stores by KRA for the years of income between 2008 to 2014. Based on the company's appeal, the tribunal framed three issues for determination. The tribunal observed that Paleah Stores had not complied with its statutory obligations of keeping proper records for computing tax. This necessitated KRA to obtain information from third parties such as Paleah Stores’ suppliers and bankers. “In absence of complete records, the appellant and the respondent agreed to use the banking method to compute income for corporation tax, sales for output tax and purchases for input VAT,” Paleah said in its statement. The banking method revealed that the company had undeclared income tax and VAT which it failed to prove was excessive. “In the instant case, the appellant has not proved to the satisfaction of the tribunal that the respondent’s additional income tax assessments for 2008 to 2014 years of income were excessive. From the foregoing, the tribunal is of the considered view that the respondent did not err in law and fact by issuing additional income tax assessments on the appellant,” the tribunal held. Paleah Stores admitted that it did not keep proper VAT records. The company did not contest that it made its VAT claims outside the allowed statutory periods. Based on the computations, Paleah Stores's entire claim for input VAT was disallowed. The tribunal observed that the company failed to specify the exact nature of unfairness as alleged. KRA demonstrated all procedural requirements. The tribunal ruled that KRA adequately lived up to its mandate and did not act unfairly. 