 ODM leader Raila Odinga has warned that Deputy President William Ruto will take the country to the dogs with his sloganeering, which he says is dividing the country into social classes. The opposition chief blasted Ruto’s dynasty versus hustler rallying call, saying it is a dangerous trajectory that has the potential of "upsetting the peace and stability of our nation." The DP has hinged his 2022 presidential campaigns around the hustler movement, which is meant to appeal to the majority of poor who he considers to be hard-working Kenyans always looking for opportunities. But Raila said the move is a time-bomb and must not be allowed to take root. He gave the example of Germany’s Adolf Hilter who rallied the country on anti-Jews slogan and ended up plunging the European nation into a bloodbath. The ODM party leader said Hitler’s script of 1930s almost saw Germany on self-destruction mode due to the reckless anti-Jews slogan. “Germany was just emerging from the effects of the Second World War. Things were terrible. During the great depression, things were so tough in Europe and a young man came up and said these people cannot do it they have no ideas, I have the solution; to do it first there are leeches in our society and we need to get rid of them,” Raila said. He added, “Jews are the problem; Give me 10 years and I will give you a new Germany and he took power democratically. After dealing with the Jews the whole world went to war by the end of it, it was a different Germany and not the Germany he promised them.” Raila cautioned against the "divisive" hustler narrative adding that if not tamed in good time then Kenya will find itself where Germany was in the 1930s. “Sloganeering is a very dangerous thing; our people must not allow our country to go to the dogs. This country deserves better and that is why we are saying we need a unity of purpose among the people of Kenya,” he said. The AU special envoy on infrastructure was addressing student leaders from various universities across the country in Nairobi. He called on the students to stand firm against campaigns that are only meant to divide the country along class lines. “You have a responsibility to rescue this country from those who want to destroy it and make Kenya become a great nation. This country deserves better and this is also what we want to bequeath the future generation,” Raila said. He called on youths to rally behind the BBI as it promises a sustainable solution to many problems facing young people. “That is why we started with BBI, it is a document that lays the foundation for the social economic transformation of our country.” The Nasa leader was accompanied by Siaya Senator James Orengo, MPs Esther Passaris (Nairobi), Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita), Mishi Mboko (Likoni), Babu Owino (Embakasi East) and businesswoman Agnes Kagure. Raila also criticised Ruto for using questionable wealth to run his hustler project at a time the government is choking with high-profile corruption. “The level of corruption is too high in the government and that is what has continued to impoverish our people,” he said. He claimed the SGR project - the brainchild of the Grand Coalition Government – was inflated by the Jubilee administration from Sh227 billion to Sh380 billion. He said the proceeds were part of the tokenism being dished to unsuspecting Kenyans.  Edited by P.O