The government has been urged to urgently resettle more than 3,000 families displaced by the swelling Lake Nakuru in Barut and Mwariki estates of Nakuru Town West subcounty. Area MP Samuel Arama said the displaced families might be tempted to go back to their farms now that the water has slightly receded to the Lake Nakuru National Park. He observed that the danger of the lake swelling again during the forthcoming long rains was imminent, with the families risking losing their properties and being displaced once again. “The water has receded a bit and it is within the park's demarcation. The people who are currently living in rental houses might be tempted to go back to their farms if their resettlement is delayed,” Arama said. He said the families cannot be left to go back to their water-logged farms because, besides being dangerous for construction, there is the risk of the lake swelling again during the long rains. The MP said the government has set aside Sh500 million for resettlement of people displaced by lakes Naivasha, Nakuru and Baringo but the money could not be disbursed before going through the necessary procedures. “The disbursement has to wait for a supplementary budget to be passed and this can only happen when Parliament resumes,” he said. He added that efforts to stop illegal fishing in Lake Nakuru had proved futile as the residents are making good business from the sales while others do not have alternative means of livelihood after their farms were flooded. “It is the mandate of Kenya Wildlife Service to stop the fishing especially now that the water has receded to the park. Even the local administration and the police cannot go inside the reserve to stop the vice,” he said. Arama proposed that the families be given money to buy alternative land at their place of choice instead of the government buying them land. While touring Lake Nakuru National Park a week ago, government spokesperson Cyrus Oguna confirmed that the government has set aside Sh500 million for the resettlement of the victims of swelling lakes. He did not elaborate on the criteria of disbursement to individuals. He said the government continued giving humanitarian aid which included food, mosquito nets, bedding and other household items to the families. Arama said efforts to caution the fishermen and fishmongers that the fish was unsafe for human consumption had failed. The Kenya Maritime and Fisheries Research Institute has confirmed the contamination of the fish. On Tuesday, Agriculture Chief Administrative Secretary Linah Jebii Kilimo said heavy pollution from Nakuru town and the farms upstream could have caused the problem. Edited by Henry Makori