Budget smartphone firm Realme has broken a record in Kenya as among the few brands that have launched more than six new smartphones in the market within a span of four months. Globally, it has hit 50 million shipments since its inception. Notably, units were shipped during the third quarter of 2020, surpassing giants such as Samsung, Apple, and Huawei. The smartphone maker has so far launched Realme C3, Realme C11, Realme C15, Realme C12, Realme 6, and Realme 7i in the Kenyan market. In establishing the Realme brand, the smartphone maker also introduced Realme Buds Q, and Realme Air Buds Neo. Since its inception in August 2018, Realme has positioned itself as a leader in releasing smartphones that focus on the new trends in the market while sustaining high levels of security features for customers’ data. ''One thing that has placed Realme ahead of other players is its ability to efficiently bring cutting-edge technologies and features to the budget smartphone segment, and the “cool” marketing strategy to influence its target consumer segment,'' the firm said in a statement. In Kenya, the brand gained popularity from the power of batteries in their smartphones. Some of the Realme brands have massive batteries with a capacity as high as 6000mAh that charges faster and takes longer to discharge. Realme C12, for instance, has a battery that is capable of lasting 57 days on standby. The fact that the majority of the Realme smartphones launched in Kenya were entry-level phones, as well as being pocket-friendly despite the high-end features, appealed to the majority of Kenyans to grab the opportunity to own a smartphone. ''As Kenyans increasingly become gamers by use of their phones, the integration of an Helio feature, giving the Realme phones high performance as one plays couldn’t come at a better time,'' the firm said. Despite the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic that has hit-hard on various sectors around the world, the brand has sustained its growth. It grew 300 per cent during the third quarter in the Indian smartphone market, cutting 15 per cent of the market share to itself. The brand has also found its way up the ladder in countries such as the Philippines, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand, and Vietnam, growing 196 per cent on a year-to-year basis and 47 per cent on a quarter-to-quarter basis.