Deputy President William Ruto’s allies have hit out at ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his party for calling for the DP’s impeachment. Last Wednesday, Mudavadi backed a push by a section of his party members, led by his deputy Ayub Savula, to oust Ruto for allegedly disrespecting the President. “It is unacceptable for the DP to sabotage the very government he is part of by creating disaffection and inciting rebellion. That is why he should be impeached,” the former vice president said during an interview with a radio station. But the DP’s men have come out guns blazing, scathingly attacking him and his party for their push to remove the country’s second in command from office by impeachment. Led by former National Assembly Chief Whip Benjamin Washiali, they termed Mudavadi and ANC ‘confused' and asked them to keep off the affairs of Jubilee party. “Who is supposed to complain [if the DP is disrespecting the President]? Is it ANC or members of Jubilee? That is a sign of a confused party,” Washiali, an ardent supporter of the DP, hit back. While downplaying the ANC’s threats, the Mumias East MP said the party has no basis to meddle in the internal affairs of the ruling party. “They cannot succeed because of the numbers in Parliament… the person they are thinking they can impeach does not come from their party,” he said. “When a man is quarrelling with his family in a different house, the best a neighbour can do is to give guidance …” Washiali said instead of ‘wasting time’ on impeaching the DP, ANC should take advantage of the wreckage in Jubilee to net members from the ruling party to strengthen itself. Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei said Mudavadi and his party are in a ‘state of confusion.’ “Musalia Mudavadi is in a state of confusion or panic or excitement in equal measure. Why should he even think of impeaching the DP when his own party needs to be helped?” he posed. At the interview, Mudavadi said it is hypocritical of the DP to keep criticising a government he serves in and called on him to resign. Ruto has been under attack from President Uhuru Kenyatta’s allies after the opposed the President’s handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga and the push to amend the constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) process. The DP has also claimed the Jubilee administration, which he helped put up, has failed to deliver on its pledges. He has blamed the opposition for derailing government’s plans through the BBI and changed it [opposition] to own up.