@alalmaurice Rice farmers in Kisumu county have benefitted from more than 27,836 bags of fertiliser donated by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. The donation, issued on Friday at National Irrigation Authority (NIA) office in Ahero, is aimed at cushioning the farmers from the fallout of Covid-19 and April-May 2020 floods. Water, Sanitation and Irrigation Principal Secretary Joseph Irungu and JICA Senior Representative Yasuda Tomoyuki handed the bags of specialised rice-cropping Baraka fertiliser to farmers. The beneficiaries were drawn from Ahero, West Kano and South-West Kano under the Western Kenya Irrigation Schemes (WKIS). Last year, more than 7, 500 farmers in the schemes lost their yields to raging floods in Nyando. The disaster was a huge setback as about 4,000 acres were destroyed after the Nyando River burst its banks and flooded plantations. The rice destroyed was worth Sh800 million at Ahero and West Kano irrigation schemes. The floods also damaged NIA infrastructure. Irungu, who was accompanied by MPs Onyango Koyoo (Muhoroni) and Jared Okelo (Nyando), thanked JICA for supporting the farmers. Present were NIA chief executive officer Gitonga Mugambi, Kisumu Agriculture executive Gilchrist Okuom, Western Kenya senior schemes manager Joel Tanui and National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority chairman Erick Okeyo. The PS said the government is committed to supporting farmers to ensure maximum food security. “We are opening areas that were flooded to enable farmers to continue with their farming activities,” Irungu said. He said the multi-billion Koru-Soin dam will address the flooding menace in Nyando and Muhoroni and provide adequate water for irrigation. Yasuda said the fertiliser will help farmers recover from the effects of floods and the coronavirus. He also lauded the national and county governments for their efforts to support the affected farmers. “JICA and the Kenyan government have a longstanding working relation towards better agricultural development, and WKIS form part of our current project sites for rice activities in addition to Mwea in Kirinyaga county,” Yasuda said. Currently, JICA and the government are implementing the rice project named CaDPERP to customise in Western Kenya the rice cropping techniques that we developed in Mwea. The project is aimed at improving productivity and expand the market in the region, which has the biggest rice production potential in Kenya. “This fertiliser donation is a mark of the depth of friendship between the people of Japan and Kenya, and we believe it will go a long way to boost the agricultural productivity of beneficiary farmers and food security in the country,” Yasuda said. He said JICA will continue to cooperate with Kenya to develop further agricultural infrastructure and capacity of farmers in the Western region towards achieving the agenda on food and nutrition security in the country. He said they have great plans for the region in the coming years. Yasuda urged rice farmers to continue working hard and adopting modern farming methods to increase their harvests.  Edited by F'Orieny