Is Kenya Power CEO Bernard Ngugi aware of the frustrations residents of a county in Nyanza and its environs are going through? The residents say blackouts have become the order of the day. They lament the outages are disrupting crucial services, including in major hospitals. They are also seeking investigations into delayed approvals of applications for connections. They claim some KPLC employees could be colluding with cartels to delay connections, thus fleecing unsuspecting customers of cash before the works are approved. Just what is motivating the formation of a regional party in one of the political bastions controlled by ODM leader Raila Odinga? Well, a mole has whispered that some politicians in the region are unhappy with Raila’s association and preference for a politician allied to another political grouping. They say the politician, who hails from Mt Kenya, does not have political clout but has captured the attention of Raila, leaving them in the dark. They claim they have fought for the ODM boss and demand to be at the negotiating table. A politician is scheming to thwart a Cabinet Secretary's installation as a community spokesman. The MP is said to be mobilising elected leaders to boycott a major ceremony being planned by elders to crown the CS. The MP held a meeting with some former lawmakers from the region at a Nairobi hotel on Tuesday evening moments after the CS met most elected leaders from his backyard. The plan is to mount an onslaught that can deny the ceremony legitimacy, especially if shunned by elected leaders. Only time will tell if the plan will succeed. Bar owners in a town in Western Kenya are up in arms against a senior police officer whom they accuse of being behind an extortion ring. They told Corridors that officers working for a top cop usually storm bars that do not part with a daily fee and carry away drinks as a warning. It is said those who continue to be 'disobedient' have their customers arbitrarily arrested for flouting social distancing rules but are never booked at any police station. The operators now stare at business shutdowns in the face as their customers no longer stop by for a drink for fear of arrest.