A director of a company distributing Danish beer in Kenya is in court to stop his prosecution over allegations of obtaining money by false pretense. Christopher White is also asking the court to compel police to release his passport, which they are holding. White together with Danish brewing company EA Limited and King Beverage Limited have sued the Inspector General  of Police, Director of Criminal Investigations, the AG, DPP and chief magistrate's court Milimani. White is a director of the Danish brewing company EA Limited. According to suit papers, on December 2, 2019 the Danish company and King Beverages entered a distribution agreement with Patiala Distributors Limited. Over a period of time Patiala paid King Beverages Sh102 million for supply of 30,000 cases of Tuborg beer. But sometime in December 2019, Patiala took 10,000 cases of beer and asked the other two companies to keep the balance of 20,000 in storage due to space constraints in its warehouse. Three months later, the Covid-19 pandemic struck, leading to a slowdown in selling of alcoholic products by Patiala. By the time they were sold, the 20,000 cases held by the two companies were nearing expiry. After discussions the two companies agreed to refund the moneys paid by Patiala. But to their surprise on October 30, 2020, while White was in the company of a director of Patiala discussing commercial issues about a shipment, armed officers apprehended him on allegations of possession of illegal firearms. The police officers then drove him to his residence along General Mathenge Road in Nairobi and searched for illegal firearms. White said that in the process of conducting the search the officers intimidated his infant child. The officers, he said, went straight to where he keeps his office items and took away company seals, stamps and a dysfunctional laptop and left without touching anything else. He said the officers later grilled him on wild allegations of him being a Russian spy, lack of religious faith, tax and immigration status. Later on the officers, he said, disclosed their true mission when they started questioning him about allegedly obtaining money by false pretense He explains in his suit papers filed under certificate of urgency that the officers forced him to write approximately 102 post-dated cheques for a sum of Sh102 million. The cheques were banked and they all bounced. He now says he has no intention of refunding the money to Patiala. He also says the distributorship agreement was between companies and he did not execute them. Despite that, he says, he is the only one who has been charged with a criminal offence and if the court does not intervene his constitutional rights will be violated.