The State has dismissed Mandera Governor Ali Roba's claim that insecurity has become rampant in the border region with al Shabaab militants controlling key roads in the county. Roba on Saturday expressed his disappointment in the manner in which the state was was handling insecurity in the county. A visibly angry Roba who has been vocal on matter security singled out various instances where al shabaab militant have staged attacks. He sensationally claimed that all the main roads in the county were being controlled by al shabaab who target public service vehicles, kill innocent people and often destroy communication masts. “Whenever I speak about the insecurity challenges we are facing as a region, the security chiefs among them regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana and the county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha are busy denying that there is a problem. How can I keep quite when it is obvious that there is a problem,” Roba said. In a statement on Saturday, the Interior ministry said many gains have been made in countering attacks in the region contrary to the governor's claims. "Since 2013, Mandera county has registered steady gains through our security forces who have been repulsing and deterring threats to lives and property," Northeastern regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana said. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Lafey MP Abdi Mude whose constituency has also been affected by the attacked defended Roba saying that even the national government had earlier acknowledged the existence of a problem that needed to be fixed. “As leaders, we have time and again complained to the government about the insecurity in the area. The problem boils down to those charged with handling matters security," the MP said. “I wonder why the government always want to live in denial. Now that Governor Roba has come out to openly say that there is a problem, some security chiefs are busy denying that there is a problem. I find that quite unfortunate.” Mandera residents Abdi Ali lauded the governor ‘for being bold enough’ and coming out to openly question the manner in which the national government was handling terrorism in the region. “It is said it is the wearer of the shoe who knows where it pinches most. Governor Roba is the one on the ground, he knows how insecurity has badly affected our county and so when he speaks with a lot of emotions people should understand where he is coming from. The security chiefs are a big let down,” Ali said. Last week, al Shabaab militants attacked an ambulance evacuating an expectant mother to hospital, killed her husband and injured the driver and a nurse. Luckily, the woman managed to escape to a nearby bush. The attackers later torched the ambulance that was owned by the county government. Omar Adan Buul, an assistant chief who was vocal against al Shabaab, was abducted on December 18 and beheaded in Wajir county along the border with Mandera. His head was thrown into the bush. A police post was attacked and a new building flattened by explosives. Mobile phone transmission stations are regularly attacked and masts felled, cutting off residents from the rest of the country and world.  Edited by P.O