Thika Sports Club will host the opening round of the new NCBA Golf Series on January 30, as the bank injected over Sh22 million towards this year's series. The program will feature both senior and junior teams. Speaking during the launch at Royal Nairobi Golf Club,  NCBA managing director  John Gachora said the bank is keen on partnerships and sponsorships that drive transformation, with sports being a key area of focus. "Sports sponsorship remains an important area for us because of its role in transforming the lives of Kenyans. We are committed to facilitating the growth of golf locally and make Kenya an international golf destination," said Gachora. "Sports sponsorship is a key avenue towards reaching out to our stakeholders across the country. Our golf sponsorship novelty over the years is an avenue of networking with our current and potential customers. " The junior series will feature two events at Karen Country Club in August and Muthaiga Golf Club in December. Gachora said the increasing number of golfing customers enabled the company to introduce a year-long event. "As NCBA, we are now a much bigger entity, with a bigger number of golfing customers. We had to rethink our approach to ensure we reach out to everyone across the country. That is why we are introducing an all-year-round amateur competition across various golf clubs, dubbed NCBA Golf Series." The main series will run alongside the NCBA Junior Golf Series. The 20-leg, year-long amateur series will traverse several clubs across the country with Karen Country Club hosting the grand finale on December 3. The junior tournament will feature players between 6-18 years and will include a two-day golf clinic intended to shore up the junior competition. Kenya Golf Union Chairman Ben Omollo said: "The best way to build for the future is to develop the untapped talent and I am impressed with NCBA's move. We have to lay down infrastructure to ensure golf is incorporated into schools so that it can be spread from its stronghold to the marginalised areas."