Multiple Kiambaa murder suspect Lawrence Simon Warunge would hardly eat at home and preferred food from a small village eatery, popularly known as kibanda. The eatery is patronised by construction workers and boda boda riders. Lucy Muthoni, popularly known as Wa Ndung’u, runs the local eatery. She sells githeri, beans, rice and tea to her customers. Muthoni told the Star on Tuesday that the 23-year-old university student was one of her regular customers. “He liked to buy KDF mandazi a lot. He would also buy githeri, cooked rice, chapati and tea. He would not eat the food here. He normally took the food home,” Muthoni said. The food kiosk is only 300 metres from his parents' multi-million-shilling home in Karura. At one point, Wa Ndung’u said, another woman in the area asked the young Warunge why he was buying food from a kibanda yet he lived in his parents' home. “He responded that it was because he was working,” she said. "We laughed and let it slide." Wa Ndung’u said the young man would mostly be alone. He was mostly silent and never showed any signs of anger or violence. "He appeared harmless, though silent," Angeline Wanjiru, another resident, said. “He mostly passed here going to Ndenderu or Wangige alone. I however didn’t think it was an issue to see him alone most of the time.” But since December last year, she never saw him until news broke of his alleged involvement in the murders of his family members. Warunge is being detained by police in connection with the murder of his father Nicholas Warunge, mother Anne Njoroge, brother Christian Njenga, cousin Nicholas Njenga and construction worker Kinyanjui Wambaa. The five were murdered on January 5. Burial preparations are in top gear at Warunge' home. Warunge and his three family members are set to be buried on Saturday. A funeral service will be conducted at Wangunyu Primary School, Karura Ka Murimo, off Wangige-Ndenderu Road starting at 11am.  The family said the burial ceremony at the home would be private. Construction worker Kinyanjui was buried on Wednesday at Gathiga cemetery.