To one principal, teaching is not just imparting knowledge, it is a knighthood. And a school is more than a learning institution, it's a  community, a family. When Indimuli Kahi took the reigns at Machakos Boys in2018, he noticed a familiar scenario: an enormous number of bright and needy students who drop out without support. This pushed him to build a revolving fund with teachers and learners  voluntarily contributing to create a kitty that has since been the saviour for many students from poor backgrounds. It was not a new idea for him, having spent 35 years in the teaching fraternity and rising through the ranks to be a school head. Kahi told the Star in an interview most of the support given to needy students joining secondary school is short-lived. Challenges start as early as second term and you realise they cannot raise fees and they are disturbed. Some are courageous enough to come and tell the truth but others suffer in silence,” Kahi said. So when he joined Machakos Boys and found a similar situation, he gathered his colleagues, the teachers, to address the problem. His plan is simple, it's pegged to dedication and free will from the school community. This had already proved successful in two schools he headed, Vihiga and Chavakali Secondary. First, he proposed a monthly contribution of Sh200 from teachers through a kitty set up and managed by the school. The account was also circulated to other members of staff and parents. “Teachers and workers in school hold the institutions and students very close to their hearts. In fact, they turn out to be a family with compassion and empathy. "If well rallied, they live like a community, supporting each other,” Kahi said. He also mobilised learners to spare at least Sh50 from their pocket money when schools reopened. It was collected by teachers and given to the chairman of the kitty. Last year alone, the school fraternity supported 40 students by paying their school fees, having collected Sh580,000. The kitty is run by a committee with representatives from parents, the BoM and class teachers who identify the needy students to be supported. Kahi is the patron. Where need be, the committee visits  learners' homes to assess their financial situation. The school also holds harambees for the kitty during the school's thanksgiving day. Kahi said when he left Chavakali Secondary School, its kitty had about Sh2 million. "We have witnessed great support from parents as well, others donated more than the Sh200 we requested; others even ask to sponsor individual students in the institution," Kahi said. Requests are made of parents with ability to pay, but not everyone is able. Currently, the kitty has Sh280,000 available, the rest having been paid out. He says one of the biggest challenges is that the number of needy cases is increasing but the kitty does not grow at the same pace. They also have to remind some members to contribute and some learners are left out, crying foul. Kahi encourages other schools to create projects to help other children. "I would like to see the kitty grow and call the old boys to come back in and take the project as their baby, to grow the kitty and help others." (Edited by V. Graham)