Scholarships are up for grabs for rugby players at the prestigious University of Saint Andrew's in Scotland, according to Kenya Rugby Union. While announcing the scholarships, KRU said those eligible for the opportunity  are players who have played for the national team at any level. However,  KRU noted that the players should have completed a degree at any university and be interested in pursuing a post-graduate degree at Saint Andrew's and play for the University’s rugby side. “The university will partly sponsor the course but depending on the calibre of the player, they may be willing to fund the entire cost of the course for one year,” KRU said in a statement. “Interested candidates should send their expression of interest to ceo@kru.co.ke clearly stating the course they intend to pursue at the University of Saint Andrews, as well as willingness to bear the expected costs of the program,” the statement further states. Available courses for scholarships can be viewed on their website The University of St Andrews Rugby Football Club is one of the oldest sports clubs at the university having been established in 1858. It is the sixth oldest rugby club in the world. The club is a founder member of the Scottish Rugby Union (SRU) and has been an integral part of the University for 160 years. The club has gone on to produce 23 international rugby players who between them have gained 150 international caps, including four British & Irish Lions and eight players who have represented the Barbarians. The women’s team was established in 1985. Elsewhere, Strathmore Leos have resumed training ahead of the playoffs set for next month. The Leos took a Christmas and New Year break but resumed training yesterday Louis Kisia's charges won the regular season on 76 points to book a  semifinal place against either USIU or Northern Suburbs while MMUST finished second on 67 and were to face either Mean Machine or Egerton Wasps in semis. “We resumed training today (Thursday) since everyone is available. We’ll conduct training in batches in respect to return to play protocols provided by World Rugby and Kenya Rugby Union.”