Parents in Lamu have expressed concerns over the safety of their children as schools re-open for the new term this week amidst rising cases of Covid-19. Many schools in remote areas are still faced with immense infrastructural challenges and parents doubt they will be able to enforce all Covid-19 protocols to keep learners safe. Primary schools like Bobo, Juhudi, Salama, Amkeni, Bar’goni, Ishakani, Kiunga, Poromoko, Kakathe, Maleli, Katsaka Kairu, Manda and Kiwayu have inadequate classrooms, toilets among other crucial infrastructure. Schools in terror prone areas like Pandanguo, Bodhai, Milimani, Mangai, Mararani, Basuba and Kiangwe are faced with similar challenges mainly lack of adequate classrooms and a shortage of teachers. Schools in these areas have been closed since 2015 owing to constant al Shabaab terror attacks which caused all teachers to flee for safety never to return. The government has been unable to deploy teachers as many still fear the threat of the militants. Parents in the county have accused Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha of neglect and endangering lives for allowing schools to re-open without adequate preparations. Rehema Chaluma, a parent at Mangai Primary School in Boni, expressed concern that it would be impossible for learners to practice social distancing and observe other Covid-19 protocols due to the infrastructural challenges in their schools. “We are worried over the situation that might cause an outbreak of Covid-19 in schools and result in deaths and paranoia among learners and teachers. Our schools here have nothing and, naturally because of the pandemic ,we expected the government to put in place some measures before re-opening. We are so disappointed in the CS Magoha,” Chaluma said. The parents also want the TSC to deploy more teachers to cater to the high number of learners in the areas. Mohamed Salamin, a parent at Basuba Primary School in Boni forest, said the school had only two TSC teachers before the pandemic. “Two is not even close to enough. We need more teachers here, at least ten. The pandemic obviously means increased workload for teachers,” Salamin said. Lamu has more day than boarding schools which have limited space that cannot allow for social distancing. Parents want the government to build more classrooms and increase the number of desks and other materials before the schools turn into Covid-19 spreading centres. “Many schools don’t even have toilets. In some schools, learners sit on the floor while in others learners still sit under trees. How can we just re-open like nothing is happening yet the pandemic is real?” said Aboud Ali, a parent at Pandanguo Primary School. The parents also revealed that some of the schools have not been provided with face masks, sanitiser and soap for learners ahead of the re-opening. They asked the government to spare parents the burden of purchasing such items. Edited by Henry Makori