Deputy President William Ruto has said he will not allow Kenya to be taken back to the politics of ethnicity. He said Jubilee had made several steps forward in reforming the country’s way of doing of politics by bringing everyone on board. However, he argued, the gains made were under threat as the ruling party disintegrates. “They are killing Jubilee so that we can go back to tribal political outfits,” said  Ruto. He spoke on Saturday in Kajiado County where he held a consultative meeting with grassroot leaders and residents. Ruto was accompanied by Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok, former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and more than 40 members of Parliament. The Deputy President noted that he will continue pushing for issues-based politics. “We want a Kenya where everyone takes part in the decision-making,” he observed. “That is why we are focused on changing our form of politics.” With politics based on ideologies, Ruto said the economic prospects of the country will be changed, and the sticky unemployment problem tackled. Murkomen said Kenya’s new leadership in 2022 will be looking for a fair representation of everyone, with ordinary people being placed in the decision-making table of the country. “We want to take a new path where the rule of law is respected. As it is, the constitutional order of this country has been shredded because of the Handshake,” he argued. His sentiments were supported by Mwaura who noted that  Ruto will be forming the next government which will be driven by issues and ideologies. “Our development programmes will be anchored on four pillars that will transform our country. For the first time in our history, we will be having a non-tribal economic dialogue,” noted the Nominated Senator. Ichung’wa called on those pushing for the review of the constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative to fully implement and respect the current Constitution. On his part, Duale said the respect to the law of the land was a critical ingredient in the transformation agenda of the country. He noted that the current laws must be equally enforced and independently adjudicated to make Kenya move forward. “Whatever our position in the society, we must be accountable to our laws. That is why it is regrettable that the people pushing for the review of the constitution are the same ones breaching our Constitution,” explained Duale. Nanok termed the recent appointment of the Nairobi County Deputy Governor as criminal “that goes against the spirit of our Constitution”. “Let Nairobians be given a chance to freely exercise their democratic rights by voting for whoever they think will serve their interests well,” he noted. Nanok told Kenyans all was not lost as the “wheelbarrow economics” will reverse the current economic slump. Gachagua said Mt Kenya was firmly behind Ruto because of his rich development track-record. On her part, Ms Ngirici said Kenya’s next President is the one who will address the needs of the ordinary people. Former Nairobi Governor said he will not tire to say the truth that will free Kenyans from the hands of the dictatorial tendencies.