A police officer who shot his friend in Nyari Estate has been released on bail. Edgar Mokamba who pleaded to the charges on Tuesday was released on a Sh2 million bail. Mokamba who was not present in the virtual court was warned not to contact or interfere with witnesses in the case. Justice Daniel Ogembo said he had received information from Industrial area remand that Mokamba was in quarantine and that is why he was not before the court. Due to COVID-19, all accused persons who are remanded in any prison have to undergo 14 days quarantine before they are allowed to mingle with the other inmates. When he was charged his lawyer Danstan Omari had asked the court to allow Mokamba to be detained at Gigiri Police station. Omari said if he is taken to remand he has to go through quarantine and that will take time to get released. However, the prosecution said Gigiri has no facilities to continue holding the accused and asked the court to allow him to go to remand. Mokamba was taken to industrial area remand and a mention date was taken for the pre-bail report. On Friday, the prosecution told the court that they had received the report. Justice Ogembo said he was releasing him on bail even though he was away because his lawyers were in court and the prosecution was not opposed to bail. In the case, it is alleged that on December 29 last year at Nyari Estate he shot and killed Zachary Makuto. The state did not object to his release on bail but had asked the court to order for a pre-bail report so that they know where he will be staying during the pendency of the trial. Omari told the court that due to the good gesture by the prosecution not to object bail, Mokamba was willing to take a plea bargain. Omari said his client had accidentally shot the deceased and they will opt for plea bargaining at the right time. Mokamba who was arrested on December 30 is alleged to have fired 10 bullets in unclear circumstances on that night. Omari said his client is apologizing to the citizens for mishandling his gun saying the deceased was his personal friend for many years and he had no intention of killing him.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris