The Nairobi Metropolitan Area Transport Authority has released the schedule for the Bus Rapid Transport system that will begin operations within the city. The schedule, which was released on Friday, contains the routes to be used by the BRT buses and the time. Namata will first deploy 12 buses to five routes, namely,  Nyati, Kifaru, Chui, Simba and Ndovu. The buses will ferry commuters from and to the estates into and out of the busy Central Business District. The five routes cover the entire CBD, Upper Hill and go into various city estates. The 20km  Ndovu Line 1 (expressway)  will run from Kangemi at 6am, through Westlands at 6.15 am, head to Nairobi West at 6.45 a.m and NextGen Mall at 7am, terminating the journey at 7.15 am. With the same route, a similar schedule will run from Imara Daima and end in Kangemi at 715 a.m. The line has a second trip staring at 7am until 8.30am using the same route from Kangemi to Imara Daima and vice versa. The same routine schedule will be used in the other four lines. Line 2 (Simba) which  will run from Bomas of Kenya passes through T-Mall into the CBD as it heads to the  Thika Superhighway to Ruiru town. The 18.9km Line 3 ( Chui) runs from Show Ground in Ngong to Njiru via Dandora. .Line 4 (Kifaru), which will be a 14km stretch, will run from Mama Lucy Hospital to Donholm then head to CBD via Jogoo Road, T-Mall then to Bomas of Kenya as it heads towards Karen then to Kikuyu. Line 5 (Nyati) will start from Ridgeways on Kiambu Road to Balozi at Allsops and end up in Imara Daima. The BRT is part of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan which is being implemented to end vehicular congestion in the CBD. After launching the Nairobi Commuter Rail System last year November, President Uhuru Kenyatta noted that the next focus is implementation of the Bus Rapid Transport. The two systems will complement each other when fully operational. Uhuru announced he had gazetted 12 mobility corridors, seven of them for core mass rapid transportation linking Limuru, Ngong Town, Kenol, Murang’a, Kiambu, Ruai, JKIA and Konza technocity. “The remaining five comprise rapid transport corridors along Line 2, which have been contracted and works on them will begin soon,” he said. The Head of State said the national government will ensure the corridors are secured in law. “We will ensure the future expansion of the transport network will be done more easily at a much-reduced cost,” Uhuru added. Last year October, Namata director general Francis Gitau said detailed designs for Line 3 (Chui) are ready. This line will start from Njiru through Dandora to the Nairobi Central Railway Station and onwards to Kenyatta National Hospital, Jamhuri Show Ground and Ngong town through Ngong Road. “We have a company that has already reviewed the designs which were done in 2015. Initially, the line was to terminate at the (Jamhuri) Show Ground but Namata will extend it to Ngong,” Gitau said. The line will be funded by the European Union at an estimated cost of Sh40 billion. The corridors are to be marked by red lines. Currently, only a lane along Thika Superhighway has been marked. In August 2020, Kenya signed an agreement with South Korea under which the Asian country will finance development projects among them BRT Line 5 (Outer Ring Road) at a cost of Sh6.4 billion. Once complete, all the corridors are expected to hold up to 950 high capacity buses. Edited by Henry Makori