Amani National Congress party leader Musalia Mudavadi has asked Kenyans not to gamble with leadership next year as the country needs stability. Mudavadi on Saturday said the country requires the right leadership in all sectors from the grassroots to the summit, hence Kenyans should use the remaining one-and-a-half years to the 2022 election to identify the right leaders. "We have the problem of glorifying impunity and leaving behind good leaders. Let us not gamble with leadership. Betting of leadership positions must stop; go for the right leaders to salvage the country from sinking," he said. "What we need is a serious, genuine and committed leadership from the grassroots to the helm and I fit the bill. We're wasting a lot of time on cheap politics." Mudavadi said the government is broke and Kenyans should brace themselves for higher taxes of up to 18 per cent in value-added tax. The former Vice President spoke during the burial service for Mama Dinah Muchelule—the mother of High Court judge Aggrey Muchelule—at Emalindi Primary School in Khwisero constituency. Cotu boss Francis Atwoli, acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, Court of Appeal president William Ouko, over 20 judges an about 30 magistrates attended the funeral. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, MPs Alfred Agoi (Sabatia), Christopher Aseka (Khwisero), Beatrice Adagala (Vihiga woman rep), Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini) and Senator Cleophas Malala were also present. Mudavadi said the Judicial Service Commission (JSC) should be given a free hand to select the next Chief Justice after advertising the position. Ex-CJ David Maraga retired early this month. "It is important to make sure the process is devoid of interference by politicians to yield the right person since the Judiciary is the anchor of the rule of law in any country," he said. Atwoli said Kenyans should reject the hustler-dynasty narrative, terming it a serious threat to the country's stability. "Those opposed to President Uhuru Kenyatta's suggestion of a rotational presidency are interested in raw power. "People are talking about the blue-chip and digital economy that is the game-changer in securing our unemployed youth jobs and uplifting their living standards. This politics of wheelbarrows will not take us anywhere," he said. The trade unionist said only Mudavadi is best suited to succeed President Kenyatta. "Mudavadi, you are an appointed leader. Do not walk alone, go out and make friends and bring everyone on board. This is your time, don't squander it," he said. Malala said it was time for a  person from another ethnic group ascended to power after 57-year rule by people from two communities. "We, as the Luhya community, have had all other positions, including Vice President and deputy premier but what we have never had is the presidency and that is what we are looking for. Mudavadi is tested and proven," he said.