President Uhuru Kenyatta started his four-day tour of Central in high gear, saying he has never said he would not back Deputy President William Ruto when his term in office comes to an end. Speaking in Sagana Lodge on Friday when he met leaders drawn from the Mt Kenya region, the President said, “I have never said I will not support William Ruto; why do you keep insulting me? Yes, I said kumi kumi, yangu kumi iliisha lini? (I said 10-10, but when did my 10 years end?). "I have been busy with work, doing what you asked me to do. The rest have been making noise." Uhuru said he will use his remaining time in office to ensure there is no more bloodshed after elections. He said that BBI is not meant to fight or help anyone politically, but rather to help Kenyans. He urged leaders to pass the BBI bill. "Pitisheni hii BBI itasaidia watu waliowachagua (Pass the BBI bill for it will help those who voted for you)," Uhuru said. The president told MCAs that they will receive ward funds if BBI goes through and even if they disagree with their governors, they will still have money to work and do development for the people who elected them. "Don't be misled. Don't be divided." During the meeting, MCAs were taken through the BBI document by lawyer Tom Macharia. He explained to them the benefits of the proposed constitutional amendments to the region, including the representation and sharing of resources. The president is on his four-day visit to the region, where he is expected to drum up full support to the BBI. On Saturday, Uhuru will meet with leaders from the region at Sagana State Lodge, Dena said in a statement. The closed-door meeting, whose main agenda is development, will be open to all invited Central Kenya leaders. He will also launch several complete national government development projects and inspect ongoing programmes. The President's itinerary on the inspection of projects and the meet-the-people visits will be shared with the media by the office on a rolling basis.