The Kenya Volleyball Federation will bid to host one of the numerous continental tournaments organised by the Confederation of African Volleyball this year. KVF president Waithaka Kioni said the federation's national executive committee is set to meet and identify specific tournaments to bid for, before the January 15 deadline. "We will definitely place a bid for one of the tournaments before the set deadline. You know it is not a one-man decision hence the need for the NEC meeting to find a way forward," Kioni said. Were the country to host any CAVB continental showpiece, Kioni said Moi Stadium, Kasarani would be the overwhelming choice for a venue. "Kasarani Stadium is the only one with a suitable indoor arena in the country that would host an event of such a magnitude," he said. CAVB released their calendar of events for 2021 last week and subsequently invited interested national federations, cities and clubs to email their bids to host one or several of the events. CAVB's packed calendar of activities includes the junior Africa Nations Championships (men and women), African Club Championship (men and women), 2022 World Championship Zonal Qualifiers and the senior Africa Nations Championship (men and women). So far, Uganda has been confirmed as host of the Africa Nations Championships Women Under-20 whereas Nigeria will host the under-18 championship for the same tourney. Tunisia and Egypt will host the African Nations Championship Youth Boys u-19 and African Nations Championship Junior Men U-21 respectively. Kioni said Kenya stands to benefit immensely from hosting one of the tourneys by providing local players with an international platform to showcase their talents. "The benefits of hosting such an event are obvious. One, it will promote the growth of volleyball in the country by opening up our local talents to international coaches. It will also market the country and enhance revenue for the duration of the event," he said. Besides making a mark on the continental scene, the local volleyball league will commence on January 23 with eight ladies' teams and 13 men's teams having confirmed participation. Kenya's congested calendar also includes a third appearance at the Tokyo Olympics for the national women's volleyball team, Malkia Strikers.