Failure by the national and county governments to speak in one voice has been blamed for the prolonged strike in the health sector. With the health unions now seeking the help of the Central Organisation of Trade Union and the Inter-Religious Council to get a lasting solution to the strike that has been ongoing for the past 45 days, the two levels of government have only been huffing and puffing. Despite a return-to-work agreement having been arrived at more than two weeks ago in a meeting initiated between the ministries of Labour and Health, counties have come out with a contrary opinion. A meeting scheduled between the two levels of government last Monday to hasten the signing of the agreement failed to take place, with Health CS Mutahi Kagwe now leaving the matter to the counties to solve. “There is no confusion; workers who work for the county governments will deal with county governments in terms of their welfare, insurance and working environment,” he said. Kagwe has maintained that as a parent ministry, they agreed to be arbitrators and to engage both county governments and health workers to bring out a harmonious working relationship but have no intention of taking roles of county governments. “We continue from a policy and philosophy point of view to urge that the counties engage and agree on various working protocols with the healthcare worker; but as I said, we will not interfere and cannot in law go and tell a county government whether to hire or fire any of its healthcare workers,” he maintained. But the Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims (Supkem), in a letter to the chairman of the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee, has expressed concern about the disruptions experienced in the health sector, especially at this time of the Covid-19 pandemic. The letter by acting national chairman Hassan ole Naado has been copied to the Head of Public Service, the CSs for National Treasury and Labour, the CoG chair, Cotu secretary-general, KUCO secretary-general and the executive director of the Inter-Religious Council of Kenya. “Our view is that the national and county governments are not pulling in the same direction on this very critical issue. We are of this view because we are treated to conflicting reports—that the matter has been resolved and an RTWF being agreed upon, only to hear the CoG holding a contrary opinion,” Naado said. The CoG has come out claiming the counties were not consulted, adding that they have no budgetary allocation to implement the agreement. “Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health appears to have opted out of the issue, leaving it to the counties to resolve. The Treasury, for its part, issues reports that indicate that we are in a tight economic condition,” Naado said. He is of the opinion that the difference between the two levels of government is causing untold suffering to the public and the health workers, yet all these institutions are supposed to look after the welfare of citizens. Naado said the resolution of the matter requires a multi-agency approach as an extreme priority as it is quickly turning into a national disaster. “In looking at this issue, national interest should be topmost. If we have a financial crunch as repeatedly indicated by the Treasury, then it is time a national conversation is held so we can all rally together and pull out of this crisis,” he said. "But doing so will also mean facing up to some difficult questions because belt-tightening has to be felt in every sphere of the public management and the sore point will include the issue of expenditure on the BBI and the soaring public debt triggered by expenditure on infrastructure projects.” The nurses and clinical officers say they are ready to accord Cotu and inter-religious teams all the support they need to ensure a lasting solution to the stalemate. “As a union, we want to assure Cotu SG Francis Atwoli that we shall cooperate with him if there is any information he wants from our union so he can use it to bring parties together. As a union, we are ready to meet the Council of Governors any time,” KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako said. National Nurses Association of Kenya president Alfred Obengo said the goal shifts between the national and county governments, who are custodians of employment, on the subject of resolving the ongoing strike is disheartening. 