@MANUELODENY Migori politicians hoping to succeed Governor Okoth Obado have been assured of a free and fair nomination. ODM chairman John Mbadi said the process will be credible. Critics of the exercise have previously complained that shambolic nominations deny the party the opportunity to field popular candidates. “There is nothing I want politically from Migori and the call for free and fair nominations cuts across Kenya, not only Migori. I want to assure all hopefuls will get an equal chance after seeking the mandate from the people,” Mbadi said. "I am the only party chairman in Kenya who went to court over the nomination process and followed even the party laws. This shows our democracy was rigorous.” He said almost all aspirants seeking the Migori seat are his and party leader Raila Odinga's political and personal friends. “But that should show them that they should seek a mandate from the people and voters and know the process will be fair. What we call for is unity among all leaders,” the Suba South MP said. He was speaking during the burial of Mzee Walter Adede in Migori town. Several hopefuls were present. His unity sentiments were separately shared by Obado, who, at his Rapogi rural home during New Year celebrations, urged leaders to preach harmony. Aspirants have intensified their campaigns, with some already labelling their rivals trolls. "We are from battling the Covid-19 virus which derails the development agenda, especially in the sugarcane sector. We all need unity among leaders to pull our mandate among the people,” Obado said. Senator Ochillo Ayacko and Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo are among those who have been traversing the county to market their bids. Others who have declared interest in the seat include former Nyatike MP Edick Anyanga and former Rongo MP Dalmas Otieno. Anyanga is currently a member of the National Government Constituency Development Fund, while Otieno is a member of the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. “Right now I am a government officer and I am yet to resign, so I am not allowed to speak and take part in politics publicly. When that time comes, I will speak,” Anyanga said. Otieno told the Star on the phone that he will declare his candidature in February. Former Migori MP John Pesa has also entered the fray and says he is best placed to succeed Obado. Migori speaker Boaz Okoth, county secretary Christopher Rusana, businessman Owiso Ngao and US-based academic Mark Ogutu are also keen on throwing their hats in the ring.