The government has embarked on a project geared towards increasing rice production in the Mwea Tebere rice irrigation scheme. The project in the Kiamanyeki section includes putting under irrigation an addition 1,200 acres, survey, design and developing infrastructure for a proper distribution of water in the paddy. National Irrigation Authority says that so far under the phase, 800 acres have been put to test in the 2019-20 cropping season and yielded 2.5 tonnes of rice per acre. “The harvest is a significant addition to the scheme production. In the next season, we will put under production the whole area which we have already laid out infrastructure,” NIA boss Innocent Ariemba said. Ariemba said that through the Sh60,000 per acre development programme undertaken, sufficient water from the Murumbara river is being supplied to the farms. He, however, lamented about the poor road network in most parts of the paddies. Farmers have for long lamented about the dilapidated state of the roads, with some forced to hire tractors to carry their harvest as donkeys cannot manoeuvre through the muddy roads Ariemba said said the NIA board will from next financial year gradually start improving the roads and irrigate rice on another 2,000 acres. Tebere ward MCA Gudson Muchina hailed the programme, noting that the addition 800 acres had increased rice production and opened up employment opportunities for residents. “This project faced a lot of challenges, among them, a court case and were it not for the area leadership in collaboration with the board leadership, this project would have delayed," Muchina said. He urged the national government to continue supporting the board as the rice farmers continue working hand in hand with the board to ensure the project succeeds. One of the farmers praised the authority for intervening and making sure that they are supplied with sufficient water during the planting season. “This eased a lot of suffering. Before then, farmers were always in a panic mode wondering how to get water. We attempted to form groups to deal with the water shortage issue but we failed. We are, however, grateful that the board has assisted us,” he said. He also urged the authority to speed up its road rehabilitation programme to enable farmers ferry produce from their farms without struggling. 