Two men who killed their neighbour for calling their grandmother a witch will each serve 30 years in jail after the court found them guilty of murder. Ramadhan Kazungu and Katana Kombe were convicted after the prosecution proved that they killed Bidii Charo in 2018 in Malindi. High Court judge Rueben Nyakundi on December 22, 2020, ruled that upon weighing aggravating factors, it was a fact that the two killed the neighbour. “I sentence each of the convicts to 30-year imprisonment with effect from August 1, 2018. I hope this sentence provides a measure of peace for the family of the deceased,” the judge ruled. The evidence against the two was that a first witness was at home with Charo. They were to travel together to a charcoal burning site. The witness left to have a meal, leaving behind his radio at about 10pm. However, when he came back, Charo was not on site.  He later learnt that Charo had been attacked to death. When he visited the scene, he saw a wounded Charo on the ground holding his hand alleging that Kazungu had inflicted the injuries on him. At the same time, he saw Kombe metres away. He called out for help to assist in taking Charo to Malindi Hospital. According to a postmortem report, Charo suffered multiple cut wounds in the head.  A pathologist opined that he died from severe head injuries. In their defence, Kazungu said that on that fateful night, Charo called his grandmother a witch. They demanded he explain why he was referring to their grandmother as a witch. According to Kazungu, without an answer, the deceased drew a nail and used it to inflict harm on Kombe. He said he reported the matter to a clan elder but on arriving at his house late in the night, he advised that the conflict be resolved the following day. That was the last time he saw Charo. He said three days later, he received information that Charo had been attacked. He denied participating in the assault. Kombe also denied the offence but in his evidence alluded to the existence of bad blood between his grandmother and Charo.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris