Residents next year will be required to sort garbage into recyclable materials - metal, glass, plastic and paper. Organic garbage will be handled separately and burnt to generate electricity. Garbage collection will change from the current linear system - in which residents simply dump all garbage together - to a circular system. The aim is to Reduce, Reuse and Recycle - the 3Rs. NMS director general Mohammed Badi told the Star after the National Assembly passes a recycling law, residents will be required to separate waste materials from recyclable materials. Kenya uses a wasteful Linear Integrated Waste Management System in which all waste is collected together, put in bags and collected by garbage contractors. Residents have said sorting and recycling is too much trouble and said it's the city's responsibility. Before the circular sorting system is established, civic education will be carried out for a least a year. Residents will be given different coloured bags or containers for metal, glass, plastic, papers and organic waste. “By using the circular system raw materials will be recycled to a high standard and resources used will be minimised. Plastic and papers will go to recycling plants because you cannot burn plastics," Badi said. Once the garbage is collected from households, it will be taken to a sorting area before disposal. NMS will employ street children to separate solid recyclables from other garbage before they are taken to the Dandora dumpsite. “Despite the law commanding us to change from linear to circular, the public needs to know how and why the separation of the waste needs to take place. Once the law is passed by Parliament, then we must give Nairobi citizens at least one year of civil education," Badi explained. From the sorting area, the waste garbage will be taken to Dandora dumpsite and will be burnt to produce energy. The director general said plans are on course with the Ministry of Energy to turn Nairobi’s oldest dumpsite, Dandora, into a modern site. In August last year, the NMS said it had struck a deal with KenGen to generate electricity from the Dandora dumpsite. The garbage-powered electricity plant will help solve the county’s garbage problem and increase the supply of renewable energy. “If we have a proper mechanism for garbage collection, then Nairobi can reuse waste. NMS has an agreement with the Energy ministry because putting up a factory is a heavy investment," Badi said. He said initially NMS had projected a Public-Private Partnership but said the Ministry of Energy had agreed to build the factory in Dandora to ensure it can harvest the energy. “The process is out, we have an agreement with the ministry. They will build the factory and NMS will supply them with garbage." Planning will start this month and tendering will be local. The project was supposed to start last month but encountered a tendering delay. If the project succeeds, Nairobi will be in the same league as Durban in South Africa and Addis Ababa in Ethiopia that generate electricity on a large scale from garbage. In 2010, a survey by the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the Dandora dumpsite is filled to more than three times its capacity. The dumpsite holds more than 1.8 million tons of solid waste against a 500,000-ton capacity. More than 2,500 tons are deposited daily. In August 2016, Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero struck a deal with the German firm, EMC Solutions, to build a Sh28 billion electricity generation plant at the dumpsite. It failed to materialise  because the city lacked a title deed. His successor, Mike Sonko, revived the plan in July 2018, saying the city was in the final stages of awarding the contract. It wasn't awarded. In October 2019, City Hall said it intended to convert the Dandora dumpsite into a recreational park after it is decommissioned. This is one of the highlights of the County Annual Development Plan 2020-21. Still, in October, the county announced the signing of a deal with Denmark's Environment Protection Agency and the 2030 Water Resources Group to manage waste. Danish head of division at the Environment Protection Agency Annette Samuelsen had said Denmark was willing to work with Nairobi in implementing modern solid water management systems and handling industrial waste. Nothing has been heard of the deal since then. (Edited by V. Graham)