The youth and teachers have been advised not to fear taking loans to establish small businesses for economic revival. Public policy and financial management stakeholders are worried that the economic situation has been worsened by the effects of Covid-19, rendering employees in some sectors jobless. Some experts have expressed concerns over government failure to develop proper policy framework. “I have seen a makanga who started saving very small amounts of money in Solution Sacco grow from job seeker to owning a fleet of vehicles that currently ply the Meru-Nairobi highway, the sacco's CEO Daniel Marete told journalists at Gitoro Conference CEntre on Saturday after chairing the annual general meeting. "I encourage our youths especially boda boda riders to start investing by saving their Sh50 out of Sh200 they probably earn in a day.” Meru branch secretary Caxton Miungi and Mugambi Sandi who is  in charge of cooperatives in the county government asked teachers to take investment seriously. Marete told the youth to shun unproductive leisure like smoking and chewing miraa and instead focus on investing for a greater future. Marete said after taking precautionary measures against the impact of coronavirus, their financial institution’s revenue rose to at least Sh1 billion. He said their assets have appreciated to Sh5.6 billion as loan portfolio increased to Sh4.7 billion. “We expect the economy to start recovering. We shall continue to invest in technology to deliver members' financial needs,” he said. Solution Sacco treasurer Humphrey Mwenda said due to Covid-19, a protracted global recession continues to undermine Kenya’s export markets, agriculture and remittances from abroad. Sacco chairman Francis Murithi said they have been forced by effects of Covid to adjust the businesses operating mode to embrace technology and other channels to reach their customers. "Loss of businesses and livelihoods will continue to reverberate for a long time. Due to the pandemic, the economic growth rates scaled down to negative 1% in the year 2020,” Murithi said.