The Orange Democratic Movement has ruled out joining Amani National Congress in impeaching Deputy President William Ruto. ANC has asked Ruto to resign or face impeachment for allegedly undermining his boss President Uhuru Kenyatta. On Thursday, ODM said it was certain that the Deputy President would not resign but maintained that it would not be part of the process to impeach him. “We are not interested in sideshows. Our focus is to drum support for the Building Bridges Initiative. Let them embark on that process on their own,” ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna said. He, however, said the best thing one would do if they are in disagreement with their boss is to resign. “If you have any moral ground, when you differ with the political party on which you were elected, the thing to do is to resign. But there’s no principle when it comes to William Ruto, so we don’t expect him to resign,” he added. Jubilee Party has said it has not had any discussions regarding the calls by ANC. On Tuesday, ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula said the DP's recent attack on  Uhuru over remarks in Vihiga on Saturday warranted calls for his resignation. Speaking in Sabatia constituency, Vihiga county during the burial of ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi’s mother Hannah Atsianzale on Saturday, Uhuru said the Kikuyu and Kalenjin communities should allow others to produce a president. The two communities have produced the country’s four presidents since Independence Ruto reacted angrily, saying he supported Uhuru thrice knowing very well that he was a Kikuyu and the son of a former President. Savula said the President only meant that Kenya has leaders from other communities who can lead the country when he addressed mourners in Vihiga last weekend. Three parties under the banner Kongamano La Mageuzi have weighed in on the matter and asked Uhuru to apologise for his remarks, saying they were against the spirit of inclusivity. United Green Movement, Ukweli Party and Communist Party of Kenya said no one should appear to be locked out of the 2022 presidential race because of their ethnic background. UGM co-party leader Agostino Neto said Kenyans who merit to vie for the top seat should not be blocked because they are Kikuyu or Kalenjin. Neto said the remarks undermine the right to seek elective positions as guaranteed by the Constitution. “Uhuru should be sorry for his remarks. He may have been emotional because he was in a funeral but we ask him to retract his statement,” he stated. He added that Uhuru should be the last person to suggest that Kalenjins and Kikuyus seeking the presidency should pave way for people from other tribes. “Why is the President saying it now? He should have said it when he was seeking the presidency in 2013,” Neto added. Lang’ata MP Nixon Korir, an ally of the deputy president, said the threats by ANC to impeach Ruto were far-fetched. “ANC just got excited with the remarks the Head of State made in Vihiga at the weekend. Where will they get the numbers to impeach the Deputy President?” he asked. Savula, however, said he is able to marshal the numbers needed to impeach the Deputy President. An impeachment motion would be successful if it is supported by at least two-thirds of all the members of the National Assembly.  