Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko now says he is ready to table evidence of how the 'deep state' allegedly sponsored violence in the 2017 election. While responding to Interior PS Karanja Kibicho, Sonko said he is waiting for an invitation from the DCI  to record his statement. Sonko claimed that in 2017 during ODM demonstrations, he and Kibicho, and printed ODM T-shirts. "We then bought second-hand vehicles and burnt them so that people would say it's ODM. It was the deep state and the system," he said. Sonko made the allegations on Sunday when he accompanied Deputy President William Ruto as he visited Dagoretti. However, the PS after recording a statement at the DCI  dared  Sonko to provide evidence to back his claims. “Enough is enough. I did not get to the DCI as the Interior PS but as Kibicho and Sonko shall give me answers if there is law in this country. Where were we with him?” Kibicho said on Monday. "He must prove one by one because I am a Kenyan who deserves to be treated properly as well. Enough is enough. Sonko will provide me answers. He better prepare some good lawyer… he will have to deal with character assassination as well  and I am going for libel this week.” But the vocal ex-governor said, "I've learned from reliable media reports that Interior PS Karanja Kibicho presented himself to the DCI ostensibly to record a statement, even without an invitation, after the revelations I made yesterday while addressing the public in Dagoretti". "I've also gathered that he plans to move to court this week purportedly to sue over my statement yesterday. My brief response to him is simple: BRING IT ON! Throughout my public life, I've NEVER made any allegations that I can't substantiate including the truth I spoke yesterday," he added. Sonko said he was the main mobilizer in Nairobi for the so-called 'system'. "I, therefore, look forward to an invitation from DCI Kenya to record my statement, and for the PS to move to court quickly so that I can table ALL the evidence I have for Kenyans to see and judge for themselves," he said.