I don’t know on what basis one would come to an outrageous conclusion that Raila Odinga’s best days are over. As it is, Raila remains one of the most charismatic and visionary leaders we have ever had in this country. There has been no better time for Raila to lead the country than now. The country is undergoing a transition like no other. A transition that requires unity of purpose. One that requires national unity. There is no better person to midwife that transition than Raila. Raila’s reform credentials are unrivalled, not only in Kenya but, perhaps, in the entire Africa. He has been rightfully compared to Nelson Mandela. It is not for nothing. It is for the fact that he has a consistent history of agitation for positive change in the country and beyond. So, anybody arguing that it is not the right time for him to lead the country is simply trying to engage in ‘revisionism’ of history. ODM is the only party in Kenya with functioning organs. It is the only party that has outlived or survived; not one, not two but three national elections. There is no party in Kenya with that history. It is the party that stands for emancipation of the common person. It is the true party for not only the downtrodden, but all Kenyans. It is because ODM embodies the spirit of social justice and harmony. We have got the structures and the systems in place to present a formidable candidate in Raila’s stature to win this coming election. We remain strong in our traditional constituencies and we have got a strategy to expand our territories beyond our traditional bases. There is no harm in going through the process (election) in partnership with like-minded forces. It may not be certain the true form and nature of the political formation that will get to the next election and capture power, but the fact is that as ODM, we are going to be part and parcel of it with Raila as our flagbearer. We welcome anybody else who would want to present themselves for this election, from whichever party or coalition. But we want to promise them, they must be prepared for a bruising battle. The Ugunja MP and ODM secretary for political affairs spoke to the Star