Nokia has announced a new addition to the family. Nokia C1 Plus is available on sale in Kenya starting today and comes in blue and red color options, priced at a Sh8,999 for 1/16GB configuration. The new Nokia C1 Plus is the lowest cost 4G Nokia smartphone yet elevating the standard of introductory smartphone experiences and bringing quality that you can truly feel. The Nokia C1 Plus, brings 4G connectivity to the introductory level of the C-series, offering wider experiences to even more users around the world. In a statement on Thursday, Nokia said fans can enjoy sharp content throughout – energising selfies and videos, apps and texts that pop, and immersive entertainment delivered to you crisp and clean. "Enjoy style that lasts inside and out with a sleek, solid polycarbonate body that continues to honour the award-winning durability Nokia phones are known for, and a 2,500 mAh1 battery that you can rely on all day," the company said. Boosted by 4G, the experiences on the Nokia C1 Plus are smooth and clear with data speeds up to 10 times faster than its predecessor. For added security and convenience, face unlock will give you – and only you – access to everything you need at just a glance, and improved storage. The Nokia C1 Plus comes with Android 10 (Go edition), leaving plenty of room for your favourite things – with lighter apps and less bloatware, meaning you can store up to 3000 songs or 13 hours of HD video. Senior Business Manager Gopher Ogembo said, “ With the new NokiaC1 Plus, we offer reassurance that your new smartphone will go the distance and the certainty that you can trust it to connect anywhere.” Boost your creations and enjoy the view The Nokia C1 Plus lets you dive right into 5.45” of HD+ clarity. Whether you’re using apps, reading or watching videos – everything you see will be crisp and clean. The powerful front-facing flash will give you beautifully lit shots around the clock so you can take your selfie game to the next level and the 5MP rear and front cameras supported by HDR imaging will bring your photos and videos to life whether you’re snapping food art or filming the next big TikTok. Brilliant and reliable to the core Coming with an all-day battery, the phone gives you hours of entertainment on the go, without battery anxiety. And, staying true to the Nokia phone award-winning durability, the Nokia C1 Plus was also made to last – coming with a durable polycarbonate shell that’s resistant to daily bumps and knocks yet looks sleek in a timeless design that’s true to its Finnish roots. Following a rigorous manufacturing standard that asks for over 50 tests just for hardware durability, you can trust that the Nokia C1 Plus is just as strong on the outside as it is on the inside. Lighter and faster with Android 10 (Go edition) and 4G Android 10 (Go edition) gives you more security, more storage and more data saved each month, leaving you plenty of space for the things you love – store up to 3000 songs or 13 hours of HD video. With biometric face unlock, your information will be safer and easier to access – you’ll be the only one with access to what you need when you need it – all at a quick glance. Plus, thanks to 4G connectivity you’ll be able to take advantage of clearer calls, smoother performance and data speeds up to 10 times faster than 3G.  Get the best out of the Google Go app – for example, use Lens to quickly translate text using your camera, or hear words read out loud.