The maize balance sheet projected to end in February showed a surplus of about 15 million bags. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga on Wednesday said this is based on about 300,000 bags imported by the private sector/millers. In addition to the ongoing long rains harvest and part of short rains harvest from the West of the Rift Valley harvests. Boga said the country is expecting 42 million bags of maize from this year's harvest. He spoke in an interview with the Star. The food and nutrition report from the Ministry of Agriculture revealed a projected surplus of 5.8 million bags of beans by the end of February. “This is based on 200,000 bags estimated imports by the private sector and relief agencies and 3.4 million bags estimated harvests from the short rains by the end of February,” the report reads. The wheat balance sheet showed a surplus of 6.5 million bags as a result of local production supplemented by imports. Boga said the country relies on importation of about 70 per cent to sustain the two million bags consumed per month. The report further showed there will be a small surplus of 110,000 bags of rice-based on estimated imports by the private sector and relief agencies in addition to harvests from the long rains and main crop planted in July 2020—which is harvested in the November–December period. The PS said overall food commodity prices started declining with major harvesting taking place and increasing availability of staple commodities at the household level. “From the markets reported, a bag of maize was retailing at an average price of Sh2,625 per 90kg bag and below. Farmgate prices are ranging from Sh2,000 to Sh2,200 in the major maize-growing areas of the North Rift and western regions,” he said. The food security status report for January 2021 showed the dry spell of December 2020 ruined most food crops, especially in the Coast, Eastern and parts of Central. “Some crops such as beans and other pulses have been severely affected. In the first week of January 2021, several parts of Coast, Eastern and Central regions (that highly depend on the short rains) received some showers that have improved conditions of some food crops, especially maize, sorghum, millet and root crops,” Boga said.