The Church and Clergy Association of Kenya (CCAK) has decried rising political temperatures and warned that the trend could lead the nation to anarchy. CCAK, an umbrella body that brings together churches and over 1,000 religious leaders said verbal exchanges being witnessed in rallies organised by top politicians risked causing divisions in the country. “The political class is on the loose and could lead this nation to anarchy if the trend does not stop,” said CCAK chair Hudson Ndeda. He said the country is emerging from the rubbles of a pandemic and leaders must be watchful of what they say in public. “We demand civility in our politics, tolerance to divergent opinions and fidelity to the rule of law,” Ndeda said. Speaking at a press conference in Nairobi, Ndeda said the referendum debate and eventual general elections next year should not obscure Vision 2030 “The level of energy being witnessed if directed to meaningful development could lead this nation to higher levels. The political noise is so loud that Kenyans hardly make sense of what the leaders are saying,” he stated. Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga have lately been trading barbs over the performance of Jubilee administration as they address their supporters in rallies. On Wednesday, Raila’s rally in Githurai, Nairobi, was disrupted by stone-pelting youths who chanted pro- Ruto’s hustler slogans. Traders in the area were forced to close down fearing looting and destruction of property. CCAK secretary-general Geoffrey Gichuki said it was regrettable that politicians from both divides are disregarding a presidential directive banning all political gatherings. “This could erode the gains made in the fight against Covid-19. Churches had to forego New Year night vigils. How come the government is unable to obey its own directives and demands Kenyans to comply,”  Gichuki said. Ndeda said the church will not be silent on the affairs of the nation that affect peaceful coexistence of the people. “The church is ready to assist the government to inculcate value system that strengthens the social, economic and political fabric of the nation,” he said. He added: “Mr President, guide the nation through what appears to be stormy political waters” On the BBI, CCAK urged members of county assemblies to rise to the occasion and debate the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020. “The bait in the document giving you control of five per cent of the devolved funds should not compromise your integrity on the way you vote,” Ndeda said. He maintained that the views of the church were not included in the document. “Until all Kenyans are included, the BBI will remain a document and not a guide,” he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris