Kiambaa residents have called for the criminalisation of the hustler versus dynasty narrative, saying it will plunge the country into chaos. They said the narrative is being used to divide the country. They spoke during a forum to discuss the contentious issues contained in the BBI report on Tuesday in Kiambaa constituency. Lawyer Mburu Machua and area MP Paul Koinange and other leaders led the forum. “Kenyans have started taking sides of where they belong either on hustler or dynasty side and this is very dangerous for the country’s unity. This narrative should be done away with,”  Carol Wanjiku, a resident said. Eric Mutura said the Rwandan genocide started with the same narrative being used in Kenya which should not be condoned. “In 2007 it all started by the narrative of its 47 against one and it was rumoured that one community is the richest and also the said community gets free money from the banks and that led to incitement,” Mutura said. He said that parliamentarians should legislate so the hustler versus dynasty slogan is criminalised. “Anyone found to be speaking of this narrative should be arrested, taken to court and jailed. We want peace and not some story that will bring deaths in the country,” Mutura said. Paul Koinange who is also the Parliamentary Administration and Security Committee chairman said the narrative is dangerous and if it is going to be allowed to take root, it will mess up the country. “In Kenya, people love to work hard to earn a living and we are not going to allow anybody to come and change our people’s mindset,” Koinange said. He said as parliamentarians, they can declare those utterances part of hate speech. “In places like Kapedo, this is the same thing that it is happening. People think that it is about stealing of cattle but these are people doing business which is dangerous and this business makes them cartels killing any person who comes between them,” Koinange said. He said leaders should not allow this narrative because it will poison people’s minds. However, the residents made a declaration to support the BBI which is a fulfilment of the people of Mt Kenya's wishes.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris