Teachers above 58 years can stay at home but the ministry will not stop anyone who goes to school anyway, Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang has said. Belio said the government is aware of the greater Covid-19 risk for older teachers and advised those who report to school to be extra vigilant. “What is important is for them is to be careful; age should not be an issue so long as they adhere to the health measures,” Belio said in Mogogosiek, Konoin. The PS was touring the area to check the progress of the distribution of desks to schools. Belio said the government has put in place the measures to ensure the good health of teachers and students in all public schools. The PS said the government has delivered 60 per cent of desks to both primary and secondary schools across the country. The initiative is in line with the government’s plan of ensuring social distancing is maintained to prevent the spread of the coronavirus in the learning institutions. Belio said that Sh700 million has been paid out to the contracted jua kali artisan suppliers across the country. “What we wanted is having our children in schools sit in a comfortable learning environment as we strive to ensure the health protocols are adhered to,” he said. The ministry, he noted, budgeted Sh1.9 billion towards the process as part of the stimulus programme to ensure the local investors benefit. “All those who were awarded contracts and have supplied the desks have already been paid and that is an income to them and community because we know they have employed many young people to assist them,” Belio said. The PS said by Tuesday the country had attained more than 94 per cent attendance in secondary schools and 95 per cent in primary. Belio was accompanied by county commissioner Susan Waweru, county education director Indiatsi Mabale and his TSC counterpart Charles Nyaumah among other education officers. He said the 6,000 teachers recently recruited have already reported to their respective schools. Another 12,000 interns engaged by the government are set to report soon. The PS also asked parents to support schools by remitting fees "even if it means on instalments".  (edited by o. owino) 