Algerian champions CR Belouizdad arrived in the country on Sunday night for their return Caf Champions League first round tie against Kenya's representatives Gor Mahia. The sides are set to lock horns at Nyayo Stadium on Wednesday from 3 pm behind closed doors and Gor will need at least 7 goals in the match to progress to the money-minting group stage. Belouizdad ran over the Kenyans in the first round of their encounter, thrashing them 6-0 when the two teams faced off in Algiers a week ago. The defeat has dampened the mood at the camp and whipped up strong emotions  with club treasurer Dolphin Odhiambo having initially lashed out at stand-in coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo for 'lacking strategy and being too rigid during the match'. Even as the side prepares for the Wednesday encounter, there is fear that the situation could deteriorate further given a section of the players are said to be on a go-slow. A player, who spoke to the Star on condition of anonymity, revealed that only six players had turned out for practice when the team last met for training. "I highly doubt if the team will put up a decent performance on Wednesday. The players have not been training properly as a unit and only six players turned out for training the last time we met," he said. Former club organising secretary Judith Nyangi attempted to ameliorate the situation yesterday morning by spearheading campaign to facilitate transportation of players for training. ‘Pamzo’ has, however, played down the fears, observing that he will not condone any further attempts at go slows, adding that he will pick players who are ready for the assignment. "I ask the players to remain focused as the management addresses their concerns. I also wish to appeal to the management to speed up the process," said Pamzo. Gor will have a feel of the pitch today at 10 am before their opponents take to the venue later in the afternoon. Meanwhile, the Confederation of African Football (Caf) have released the list of match officials tasked with the tie. Bernard Hensel Camille from Sychelles has been appointed the centre referee and will be assisted by compatriots Hensley Danny Petrousse, Steve Marie and Eldrick Matthieu Adelaide. Zam Ali from Zanzibar will act as the Match Commissioner while Tusker FC team doctor Dr. Wycliffe Makanga has been appointed Covid-19 Officer.