Tiaty MP, William Kamket is expected tomorrow at the Provincial Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters in Nakuru for questioning in connection with the Kapedo conflicts that have left people dead among them a senior police officer. Kamket was arrested last week after he joined other leaders in the region in urging the State to de-escalate operation in the volatile region. He was arrested in Nairobi the following day although he was later released five hours with orders to present himself to the DCI Nakuru. Kapedo has always been volatile but the situation boiled over when a senior General Service Unit officer, Emadau Tebakol was shot dead in an ambush by bandits on January 17. Three other officers were seriously wounded in the incident that occurred minutes after Tebakol addressed a peace meeting in the area. Five days later, on January 22, another two officers were shot dead by suspect bandits as they ferried food rations to police camps in the area causing a heavy security operation. The operation includes investigations and arrests of leaders suspected to be fueling the violence. On Thursday, another local leader, Silale Member of County Assembly Nelson Lotela was grilled by the DCI in connection with the same violence. It was was the second time Lotela was being questioned over the issue in the past two weeks. “I do not understand why I am being arrested or questioned every time there are conflicts in Kapedo North or Kapedo West,” said. Lotela is expected back at DCI Nakuru on February 4 for further grilling. Rift Valley Regional Commissioner, George Natembeya has said seven people have been arrested following the two weeks violence in the region. “Calm had been restored and all the five schools primary and secondary schools closed due to the conflicts would be re-opened,” he said. Natembeya said the reopening would allow KCPE and KCSE examinations candidates to prepare for the forthcoming examinations. He said the operation to flush out the bandits was ongoing with the suspects being pursued in to the neighbouring counties of West Pokot and Laikipia.