The Kisumu county government has demolished illegal structures at the old Makasembo estate near Kisumu National Polytechnic. Kisumu city acting manager Abala Wanga said the structures were illegally erected by tenants living at the estate. Owners of the structures rented them to students. Wanga said the demolition followed the expiry of a vacate notice issued to owners of the makeshift structures. Makasembo is one of estates the county government has identified for the development of modern affordable housing project. The county also demolished the Seventh Day Adventist Church next to Jesus Celebration Centre after they failed to heed to notice of vacation. Wanga said the church management had been given notice to vacate the land. A bulldozer descended on the church with chairs inside as a section of faithful watched in shock. It is located on a road reserve, according to the city management records. On Monday, part of Jesus Celebration Centre was demolished as the county government continues to repossess grabbed public land. These include parking lots, playing grounds, recreational parks and city houses. The church is built on part of the land meant for Moi Stadium. Wanga said they will not relent on efforts to reclaim all the grabbed or illegally acquired property. "We are not going to spare anybody who grabbed land, city houses and playing grounds," he said. The city manager said that they are going after all grabbers irrespective of their status in society. Wanga said the grabbers include former powerful politicians.  He asked those who grabbed public property to willingly surrender them before forceful repossession. The city also brought down structures on land next to Tom Mboya Labour College which had been grabbed by various people including a former minister who served during the Moi era. On December 22, Wanga directed owners of structures along the Kisumu-Kakamega road and residential area to vacate within seven days. “The county government shall move and remove on its own such structures without further reference to the owners and at their own risk as to cost incidental thereto,” the notice said. The city, however, clarified that structures owned by Shajanand along Kisumu-Kakamega road were validly approved are exempt from demolition. Wanga said the demolitions will pave way for the beautification of the city and building of walkways as Kisumu is set to host 2021 Africities summit scheduled for November 16 to 20. On December 17, the city demolished Neno Evangelism Church and an extension of Mamba hotel which are located on a road reserve. Wanga said the church management had been given notice to vacate the land.