Famous Akorino singer Allan Aaron and his wife Ann Shiko are no longer together. Allan hit the limelight after his collabo 'Kiriro' with Daddy Owen. Speaking to Kenya Diaspora Media, Allan's wife said he left him after he got himself a visa and went to America. "He was very okay when he was leaving but after a few months, he started being too busy for me. When I call he doesn't pick my calls nor respond to my messages. He stopped talking to us his family and even blocked me on the phone and social media." Shiko said she started struggling to raise their kids, although her husband had promised to help her expand the business they had started in Nairobi. She added that they stopped talking for months until one of their friends from the US lost a brother and so as a family friend Shiko attended. "I met some of his musician friends in the burial and I told them that he was doing so well in America without knowing that he would be in that funeral," she said. "Even my dad who attended the burial knew everything was okay but deep inside me, I was struggling. I had shut down our small business and my kids were not doing so well since he had stopped supporting us." The friend whose brother had died was the one who told her Allan was on his way there. "I was so shocked to hear that. Just when I thought about why he had decided to come without telling me, I turned and saw him, looking healthy and very smart." She started feeling uneasy and decided to walk some metres away from where the burial was taking place. Shiko said she saw their car that they had left at his parent's home parked there. His mother, brother and brother were in. "I asked myself how his parents had come from Elburgon to pick him at the airport, yet I am in Nairobi and I was not aware he was coming," she said, adding that it was then that she realised everything was not well. After the burial, she ran home, expecting to find Allan there, but to her shock, he did not join his family. "I had even prepared my kids that their dad was coming. I cooked food for him only for us to feast alone without him." "I did not call him but I called his dad to ask him to request Allan to send money for his children." She said Allan showed up two weeks later with a suitcase to pick his clothes from their house. "He did not even greet me but went straight to the bedroom and started packing his clothes. He also unmounted the television, leaving the children so stranded." After asking him why he was going, Allan said it was over between them. Shiko is now raising her four children alone. When Word Is reached out to the star, he did not pick our calls.