Hate leaflets are circulating in Eldoret, warning some communities to leave  because of land-related conflicts. Eldoret police were investigating the distribution of leaflets written in Kiswahili in some parts of town where security has been stepped up after residents expressed fear. The leaflets have mostly been circulated in Kipkarean area where senior security officials visited to assess the situation and possible threats. Kipkaren is in Kapseret constituency represented by MP Oscar Sudi. The leaflets warned some communities to leave because of land-related conflicts. “Police are pursuing the matter and there should be no cause for alarm because we have intensified security and will arrest those responsible," Kapseret OCPD Francis Warui said. Residents led by former Councilor David Kipleting held a meeting and condemned circulation of the leaflets. “We have all along lived in peace and unity and we will not allow some individuals to cause divisions or panic among us," Kipleting said. Some residents said the leaflets had been left at their doorsteps and they had reported the threats to police. Sudi had been expected to address residents but postponed the meeting. His aides visited the area and urged residents to remain peaceful and ignore the leaflets. Only two weeks ago the National Council of Churches of Kenya warned against increasing use of hate speech and "tribal utterances" by political leaders as the country moves towards the planned referendum and the 2022 General Elections. NCCK officials in Rift Valley led by Venerable Solomon Chelalal said Kenyans  should reject leaders who thrive on backward politics, especially during elections. He said the council would help monitor and report leaders and anyone else planning to incite Kenyans. The Bishops and Muslim Imams and Preachers in Rift Valley have also launched joint peace initiatives to educate and sensitise politicians about the need to change their divisive ways and promote harmony. Catholic Bishop of Eldoret Dominic Kimengich and Chairman of the Muslim Imams Abubakar Bini said they would start peace meetings with  political leaders and all communities. “We want our people to live in peace and as leaders we should not allow any incitement," Kimengich saud. He said some political leaders were using politics to incite and divide communities. (Edited by V. Graham) 