Hundreds of families have fled, school and businesses have closed during the fierce security operation to flush out criminals in Kapedo on the border of Baringo and Turkana. More than 2,000 learners are out of class, many are in makeshift IDP camps, after more than 15 schools where shut down in volatile areas of Kapedo and Tiaty subcounty, Baringo. At least 10,000 people have been displaced. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i says the attacks are carried out by organised criminal gangs, not 'ordinary' bandits as in the past. “The lives of our children are more important than learning so they will have to remain at home until normalcy is returned,” Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha said on Monday. The schools closed indefinitely in Tiaty are Katuwit, Chepilat, Lemuyek, Chesirimion, Ng’inyang, Chemolingot, Cheptunoiyo, Chemeril, Naudo, Nalegat, Chesirimnyon, Kositei,  Komolion and Chepkalacha primary schools. Others are Kapedo Mixed Secondary, Kapedo and Silale primary schools - the area has been locked off. The Marigat-Chemolingot-Kapedo road is blocked to civilian traffic The situation worsened after the abduction and killing of senior Teachers Service Commission officer Paul Kosgei last week. He was among the five people whose bodies, riddled with bullets, were found dumped in the Arabal bush, Baringo South subcounty. Other victims included a primary school head teacher and Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission official. They were murdered a few days after two senior police officers - among them GSU superintendent Emadau Tamkol - and a number of civilians were ambushed and killed by criminals. Tension is high in Loruk, Ng’aratuko, Kagir, Chemoe, Kosile, Kaborion, Bartabwa, Kapturo and Yatya villages at the border of Tiaty and Baringo North subcounties. “The armed bandits are now living, grazing and watering their animals in these areas near our homesteads. The government should be made aware and protect us,” Bartabwa resident Lotwala Yatich said. A Loruk Primary School teacher, speaking anonymously for fear of his life, said teachers fear the bandits and criminals may strike in retaliation at any time. "They might storm our school, so we really need to be provided with enough security,” he said. On Tuesday, however, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya confirmed that a number of bandits-criminals were already fleeing the security operation. “They were so daring initially but if they are man enough, why are they now running away? We know where they have fled to and we shall follow them to their hideouts," Natembeya said. He said there is no cause for alarm, saying the situation is under control. "Enough security officers have been deployed to the area." However, the Kenya National Union of Teachers Baringo branch secretary Joshua Cheptarus urged teachers to leave and not to return to their work stations until they are assured of their safety. “Nothing is worth your life; our teachers should get out, report to the TSC and state to them clearly they are no longer willing to go back and work in these insecurity-torn areas," Cheptarus said. He was backed by the Kenya Union of Post Primary Education Teachers national vice treasurer Ronald Tonui. "Enough is enough," he said. "Teachers should be withdrawn from banditry-prone areas immediately. Teachers in these areas should be allowed to break and go home, only to resume back when security has been beefed up.” HUMANITARIAN APPEAL Over 10,000 attack victims are now in dire need of humanitarian aid, including food, water, medicine, shelter, utensils, mosquito nets because of the ongoing security operation. On Monday, CS Matiang'i said the trouble is not banditry, as it used to be called. "Everything seems to have graduated and turned totally into criminal acts," he said. The CS said the government currently isn’t as focused on humanitarian issues as on ridding the area of criminals. “As a government, we have engaged the locals with more than enough peace talks, it is time now to act and everyone knows what is expected in a forceful operation,” Matiang'i said. He said the government isn’t going to exit soon, instead, the operation will continue until the Baringo-Kapedo attacks become a thing of the past. (Edited by V. Graham)