Overcoming leprosy involves more than early diagnosis and prompt treatment. It requires changing mindsets so that leprosy is no longer a source of shame or prejudice. World Leprosy Day is marked internationally every year on the last Sunday of January to increase awareness of the disease. The date was chosen by French humanitarian Raoul Follereau as a tribute to the life of Mahatma Gandhi who had compassion for people afflicted with the disease. Known to be among the world’s most feared diseases, leprosy is caused by a bacteria known as microbacterium leprae. It is classified as an airborne and communicable disease. According to the Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, symptoms of leprosy mainly affect the skin, nerves and mucous membranes (the soft, moist areas inside the body’s openings). They include discoloured patches of skin, usually flat, that may be numb and look faded (lighter than the surrounding skin), growths (nodules) on the skin, thick stiff or dry skin, painless ulcers on the soles of feet, painless swelling or lumps on the face or earlobes and loss of eyebrows or eyelashes. If untreated, the disease causes paralysis and crippling of the hands and feet, nerve damage, shortening of toes and fingers due to reabsorption, chronic non-healing ulcers on the bottoms of the feet, blindness, loss of eyebrows and nose disfigurement. Despite experts saying that Kenya is on the right track towards the elimination of neglected tropical diseases, reports of a possible outbreak of leprosy in the country fuelled so much fear. “Officially, we know that we have eliminated leprosy, but we are getting some reports of concern. There are people sending pictures and when we look at them we ask ourselves, could it be reemerging?” Dr Sultani Matendechero. Matendechero is the head of Division of Vector-Borne and Neglected Tropical Diseases at the Health ministry. “We are now trying to see how we can conduct surveys before we start seeing lepers on the streets. We want to conduct surveys, go out there and establish whether the disease is there so that we can intervene as soon as possible,” the medic reiterated. Kenya achieved the World Health Organization leprosy elimination target in 1989 with cases reducing dramatically from 6,558 in 1986 to 80 in 2012. WHO in April issued a warning that cases of leprosy are on the rise despite the disease having been eliminated from the country in 1989. The organisation said cases have been on the rise since 2012 with risk of contracting the disease high in Kwale, Kilifi and Homa Bay counties. According to WHO Goodwill Ambassador for Leprosy Elimination Yohei Sasakawa, there are still some 200,000 new cases diagnosed worldwide each year and millions of people are living with some form of disability as a result of leprosy. “Over the past year, the headlines have been dominated by COVID-19. It is easy to overlook other diseases, especially a disease such as leprosy that many people think is a disease of the past,” Sasakawa said. “We must remove all barriers in the way of those seeking medical care. We must eliminate the obstacles that prevent affected individuals and their families from living in dignity and enjoying all their basic human rights as full members of society.” According to Sasakawa, people affected by leprosy continue to face discrimination, reinforced in some countries by outdated laws that make leprosy grounds for divorce, prevent people with the disease from participating in public life or place other restrictions on their activities.