The National Government Constituency Development Fund Board has proposed an increase in the percentage of the national budget set aside for constituencies. Currently, the government allocates 2.5 per cent of the national budget to the NG-CDF for the 290 constituencies. This translates into about Sh41 billion in total and an average of Sh137 million per constituency. The board says it is satisfied with the prudent use of the funds across the country and that value for the money is being felt at the grassroots level. Board members, led by chairman Robert Masese, CEO Yusuf Buno and director Isabel Waiyaki, on Tuesday joined Gatundu North MP Wanjiku Kibe and residents in the commissioning of Igamba Primary School. They praised the work being done by the area NG-CDF office. The officials said such development projects, especially in the education sector, are much needed in most areas more so during this Covid-19 crisis where social distancing is highly required and necessary among learners, hence increasing allocation would come in handy. “As the oversight authority, we have been doing monitoring and evaluation of all the 290 constituencies' NG-CDF to ensure the money allocated to them is prudently utilised and that value for money is being felt by locals. However, needs within the constituencies are many and cannot be solved by the allocation they receive and therefore we hope the money can be increased,” Dr Waiyaki said. CEO Buno said all constituency NG-CDF boards in the country have undergone rigorous training in proper management and utilisation of the funds to ensure the money is spent on its intended purpose. "Management of the fund has really improved since 2013 when we started getting audit reports for all constituencies from the Auditor General. The kitty has brought major developments to the grassroots and more are still in the pipeline,” Buno said. Chairman Masese called on those entrusted with managing the funds at the constituency levels to exercise high levels of integrity and ensure the funds help locals. Even though the officials did not say how much increase they would prefer, MP Kibe urged the government to raise the kitty allocation to five per cent of the national budget. “We have managed to do a lot of development work with the current allocation but I’m saying that more developments in the education, security and health sectors would be witnessed if the kitty is doubled. "The CDF kitty is strictly managed and is not misused, hence the many developments being witnessed in constituencies,” Kibe said. She called for stringent measures to be taken against unscrupulous individuals who spend the cash to enrich themselves at the expense of wananchi. The lawmaker noted that the Gatundu North NG-CDF spent Sh12 million to build the new school, adding that some Sh6 million has been set aside in this financial year for its expansion. “We bought the land where the school is built and constructed some seven classrooms and lavatories. We also bought desks for our pupils and plans are underway to expand the school. The money for expansion has already being factored in our budget for this financial year,” she said.