Former Kisumu Central MP Ken Obura has lashed out at Governor Anyang' Nyong'o's administration for what he termed poor handling of health services. Obura, the East African Community and Regional Development CAS, on Thursday said the governors’ tenure has been characterised by persistent healthcare workers’ strikes that keep disrupting services. “Since his election in 2017, there has been constant strike within the county by health workers on issues that the administration can address,” he said. Obura addressing Ahero town dwellers. He termed it unfortunate that after every few months, residents have to suffer because of the health workers' strike. “Their grievances are issues that can be addressed,” he said. Obura seeks to wrest the seat from Nyong'o. He announced his bid this week. He pledged to make healthcare one of his development pillars and tackle strikes. Obura also dismissed claims that Nyong'o will automatically get the ODM ticket, saying those are propaganda. He said he is ready to face him in the primaries. “From now you will hear so many things, including those fighting for the position being [DP William] Ruto's men. Those are propaganda that people will use,” he told residents. On Monday, Obura made stopovers in Kisumu where he visited Juakali traders before addressing residents at the Kisumu bus park and on Oginga Odinga Street to popularise his candidature. He expressed confidence that he will be victorious, saying he has the capacity to govern the county based on his development record when he served as MP. Obura will ride on his development record, especially in education, having built schools during his five-year tenure as Kisumu Central MP. He has been traversing the county and reaching out to opinion leaders, youths and the business community to bolster his bid. He said he will revamp road networks and support small and medium-sized enterprises. The aspirant criticised the demolition of structures belonging to small-scale traders during the Covid-19 pandemic which has hurt the economy. “We are not opposing the ongoing developments in Kisumu. But all we are asking is for the county government to engage locals and find those affected an alternative space,” Obura said. He said Nyong’o had the time to relocate affected traders before demolishing their business structures. “The livelihoods of hundreds of people in the city have been destroyed. They have school fees to pay and feed their family. Where will they get help when their businesses are destroyed?” he asked. Meanwhile, Obura praised the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, saying it has led to several development projects in Kisumu. He urged residents to rally behind the two leaders to support the BBI, which will ensure more development funds go to the grassroots.