The National Police Service has allayed fears that the ongoing operation in Kapedo has violated human rights, saying it was being carried out within the law. There have been fears of human rights violations in the operation launched early last week. So far, the operation has seen seven people arrested while at least 35 firearms have been recovered from, police spokesman Charles Owino said. Owino said there's no policy to kill or torture people but cautioned that security officers will deal firmly with armed bandits. “Let them surrender the illegal weapons they have. No one will be punished for surrendering the arms,” he said. Since the operation that was prompted by the killing of the GSU deputy director of operations on January 17, two more officers have been killed increasing the number of those murdered to at least ten. A leading suspect was Wednesday killed in the area and later found with an AK47 rifle and Sh50,000. The man was gunned down as he planned to attack a team that was patrolling the area. “To our surprise, some of these pastoral communities have turned against the very police officers that are meant to protect them,” Owino said during a press conference in Nairobi on Friday. He said the multi-agency operation will be conducted “for a long time”, until all the rogue elements are weeded out, of an area known for its tough terrain and influx of guns in the wrong hands. “It is important to note that cattle rustling has advanced from a traditional component during initiation to a commercial enterprise where very wealthy and influential individuals are financing the crime,” he said. "This, therefore means that today’s cattle rustlers are simply criminals for hire. Following this scheme, we have seen continuous killing of police officers undertaking their noble duty of protecting the people." The operation is covering Kapedo and Arabal areas where police aim to bring the killers to book and recover illicit arms and stolen animals. “The National Police Service wishes to put the financiers of cattle rustling on notice that their days are numbered,” Owino said. Without divulging much details, he said police were narrowing down on individuals believed to be behind the killings. The area has for years known no peace as rival communities engage in never-ending clashes. In November 2014, 21 police officers were killed during an ambush attack in Kapedo area. Some 42 others had been killed in the same area in 2009. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has declared a dusk-to-dawn curfew in the area to enhance the ongoing operation. He declared Kapedo a disturbed zone.  Edited by P.O