Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i has directed administrators in Kericho to crackdown on all illicit brew dens to improve security. “From today (Tuesday) you should raid all the dens and arrest all those behind these businesses,” he said. He also ordered that all officers who have served in one station for more than five years be transferred. The CS attributed runway insecurity to those selling chang'aa, busaa, bhang and operating gambling activities in most urban centres in the county. He said most of these dens have been hideouts for criminals. Matiang'i said he had received reports that some officers were colluding with criminals, hence the reason illegal brew business has been thriving. “These are the joints that have been harbouring criminals and frustrating government efforts to fight the spread of Covid-19,” the CS said. The CS urged residents to work closely with security agents by reporting those behind the illicit businesses. “Help security agents by reporting suspected aliens and those who collude with them in the illegal business," Matiang'i said. Matiang'i regretted that some individuals, more so those who frequent entertainment joints, no longer adhere to Ministry of Health protocols in the war on the pandemic. Matiang'i was addressing subcounty commissioners, chiefs and assistant chiefs outside Kericho county commissioner's office. The administrators were from the county's six subcounties of Ainamoi, Belgut, Bureti, Kipkelion East, Kipkelion West and Sigowet/Soin. He was accompanied by among others Cabinet secretaries Charles Keter (Energy), Betty Maina (Industrialisation) and Post-Training and Skills Development PS Alfred Cheruiyot. Others included Deputy Inspector General of Administration Police Noor Gabow, Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya, Rift Valley police commander Marcus Ocholla, Kericho county commissioner Kamau Karugo and county police commander Silas Gichure. Matiang'i praised Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony for partnering with the national government on development projects. He wound up his Kericho tour at Kimugu Primary School where he expressed satisfaction with the way the school administration had adhered to Covid-19 protocols. The CS directed chiefs to ensure all the 91 pregnant schoolgirls in the county go back to school.