Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed has assured the Kenyan team to the rescheduled Tokyo Olympics they will soon receive additional funds for their preparations. Amina said the Cabinet will soon approve an expanded budget for Team Kenya before the funds can be immediately put to use. "We already have the funds and what remains is for the Cabinet to approve the budget after receiving a memo on the same because it has to be done at that level. We are going to make sure that NOC-K have the resources in good time," Amina said. She reiterated the government's commitment to provide Kenyan Olympians with everything they need without leaving anything to chance despite the financial impacts of Covid-19 on the economy. "We don’t want a situation where our athletes have no uniforms, tracksuits and ceremonial attires. We will ensure they have everything they need so that they do not have any excuse for not performing well," she said. Amina was speaking yesterday in Eldoret while on an inspection tour of Kipchoge Keino Stadium during which she was warned the contractor of dire consequences if works on the historic stadium continues to stall. "We have issued a new deadline and I have told the contractor to ship out if unable to complete this stadium on time. We are hoping this facility can be used in the last two to three months before Olympics. I hope this time the contractor will not let us down," she said. She also warned of severe punishments for people engaging in a match-fixing, describing it as a serious vice, which is tarnishing the good name of hardworking sportspersons. "There is no difference between doping and match-fixing. We cannot allow our young talent to be exposed to it.  You are going to see what measures we are going to take to deal with it," Amina said. Her comments come in the wake of an incident in Kisumu on Saturday where a Ugandan, Ronald Mugisha, was arrested in a hotel while allegedly trying to bribe four Western Stima players to throw away their Kenya Premier League fixture against Kenya Commercial Bank.