Almost out of nowhere, Nakuru All Stars rose from the National Super League to take the top-flight league by storm, thanks to a mesmerizing double act of two of their forwards. One half of the deadly duo that captured the imagination of the Kenyan football loving public was Boniface Akenga. His partner in crime was John ‘Softie’ Ndirangu. “It was a special moment for us as young upcoming players to feature in the Kenyan Premier League for our hometown club. It was even more special for the people of Nakuru because they had their own team to support with players they saw growing up in the area,” reminisced the Mathare United player. Akenga grew up in Nakuru playing for a football team called ‘The Walk’ managed by female coach Night Atieno and the late Asha Siakagi. He grew up in the game adoring legendary Harambee Stars’ striker Dennis Oliech. “I looked up to Oliech when I started playing football. He was the first true superstar for many of us that time and I can say he played a major role in me taking up football as a career,” said Akenga. Though it was Oliech who was his role model, it was coach Peter Okidi who gave him the platform to showcase his talent. “Coach Okidi believed in me at a very young age. He trusted us to achieve his goal of taking All Stars to the KPL despite our age. He took me from the Under-23 team of  Nakuru All Stars when I was a teenager in Form 3 up to the senior team,” said Akenga. Incidentally, his first top-flight match was a clash against a side that had adopted Nakuru as their home ground, Ulinzi Stars. “That is a testament to the belief Okidi had in us to put me straight into my senior debut against Ulinzi who were perennial title contenders.” He continued: “It was not easy decision for him to trust me to play against such a top team. That gave me confidence and it pushed me to work harder not to let him down.” Challenges were plenty when they started off. Injuries bogged him down as he had to fight for his place and this affected the consistency that could be brought about by playing regularly. “Sometimes we had financial challenges but I believe all that made me grow up swiftly as a player,” he said. Though he has had many memorable moments in the game, it is his first and only top-flight hat-trick that stands out to date. “I still get goose bumps when I remember that match against KCB. Everything worked out perfectly and their goalkeeper Sammy Okinda could not live with me that day. It was a special moment for me and I will never forget.” Though his ambitions of being a regular in the Harambee Stars squad is yet to materialise and his hopes of playing football outside the country not achieved, Akenga has no regrets about the path his career has taken so far. “Many players across the country dream of playing in the KPL but never manage. I don’t take it for granted and I can’t regret because I know how fortunate I am,” stated Akenga. After impressive performances for his beloved All Stars, natural progression meant moves to bigger clubs would come calling. Then moneybags Nakumatt FC became his home before further switches to coastal outfit Bandari, Kariobangi Sharks and Police FC followed up prior to his eventual move to The Slum Boys. His slump at Sharks was a particular low moment for Akenga who had to move a peg down to rediscover his best form by signing for Police FC in the National Super League. “Many things contributed to my form going down but I never doubted my ability. I knew if I worked hard and focused on my game another opportunity to play in the Premier League would come and I am glad to be part of a young ambitious Mathare team,” he said. With the Slum Boys having got their first league win against Zoo Kericho on Monday, Akenga insists they can’t look back and have to continue churning out results. “The results have not reflected our performances but against Zoo, we had a flying start to the game and long may it continue.” Understandably with club boss Bob Munro on the war-parth with football leaders at FKF particularly regarding the management of the top tier league Akenga was not keen to talk about the status of football in the country. “I am a player and my focus is to work hard and help my team whenever I am called upon,” he said. The forward maintained that he is determined to rediscover his best form with The Slum Boys. “I am working hard and God willing you will see my best form yet,” he vowed.  PLAYER PROFILE  First name: Boniface Surname: Akenga Previous Team: Nakuru All Stars MT Kenya United Bandari Kariobangi Sharks Police FC Nationality: Kenyan Position: Forward Birth date: May 5,1995 (26 years old)