A litany of court cases and behind-the-scenes manoeuvres by influential power players have thrown the Nairobi governor contest into disarray. The likelihood of a by-election taking place seems to be fading and Nairobians might just be spared a gruelling political duel. The February 18 by-election was suspended by the High Court on Monday—the first major hurdle—until a petition filed by impeached Governor Mike Sonko is determined. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s allies are promising fireworks in Mt Kenya in renewed efforts to popularise the Building Bridges Initiative in the region. They are wooing MCAs to be a core component of the engine that will drive the BBI campaigns. The plan is to defeat the ‘misconceptions around the BBI’, especially in the face of the recent explosive letter by Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata. Private schools are seeking a bailout from the government as mass exit has hit them since the full reopening of learning institutions on Monday. Kenya Private School Association chief executive Peter Ndoro on Wednesday said some of the institutions are in a catch22 situation, with about 300 institutions closing shop since march. "This is a sector that has been completely shut down. Schools do not have alternative sources of income apart from the school fees paid," he told the Star in a phone interview. India has reversed its earlier decision and lifted the ban on export of Covid-19 vaccines. However, options for Kenya and other African countries are dwindling after US pharmaceutical firm Moderna said it has no plans to supply the continent this year. Pfizer said it can only sell Africa 50 million doses in 2021. Corruption and abuse of office complaints before the Judicial Service Commission cannot stop me from acting as Chief Justice, Deputy CJ Philomena Mwilu has told a court. Mwilu told Justice Anthony Mrima that a judge’s integrity does not diminish or end nor does she stop serving on account of pending complaints for her removal. Through her lawyers Nelson Havi and Julie Soweto she said her case cannot be any different.