The Building Bridges Initiative referendum would flop if the vote was held today, a new poll has shown. A survey by polling firm Tifa shows that 32 per cent of Kenyans would vote 'NO' to shoot down the vote. The poll shows that only 29 per cent of registered voters will vote 'YES' in support of the BBI referendum. Another 26 per cent of voters said they will not participate in the BBI referendum with 16 per cent of Kenyans unsure if they will vote or not. In voting 'YES', 19 per cent said they will approve the referendum because of more money to counties while 15 per cent agreed with the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister posts for more inclusivity. At least five per cent will do so because of the benefits to youth, another five per cent because of the position of Official Leader of Opposition for runners-up in the polls while 40 per cent had no specific reason given. Of those who would vote 'NO', 32 per cent said they will vote that way because they lack enough information on the BBI proposals. Twenty percent believe it is the wrong priority amidst other challenges the country is facing while 9 percent cited increased political tension and divisions. Six per cent said BBI is increasing political power for Presidency which is a threat to democracy. The poll was conducted with a sample size of 1,550 respondents  with a margin of error of +/- 2 per cent. The results pose a major setback for the BBI proponents lead by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga who are pushing for constitutional changes. The poll outcome would embolden Deputy President William Ruto's hustler nation brigade which has been rallying Kenyans to reject the proposed law review. Notably, a combination of those who would not vote and the unsure group represents 42 per cent of Kenyans. "This means that there is still a considerable work that needs to be done by champions of both of yes or no campaigns to win over Kenyans to their side,” the survey concludes. The survey established that 68 per cent of those who will not vote either way will do so because of lack information on the BBI proposals. Interestingly, at least 10 per cent of Kenyans believe it will be rigged to ensure its passage by those pushing for constitutional changes. The data was collected between December 8-19, 2020, almost two weeks before Muranga Senator Irungu Kangata wrote a damning letter to Uhuru, warning that BBI could flop in the Mt Kenya region.