Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has said that her administration is on course in delivering her election campaign pledges as her major flagship projects near completion. Speaking after chairing the county cabinet meeting on Tuesday, the governor said that her administration is committed to ensuring that the pledges she made before elections were completed as projected. She said that among the issues discussed in the cabinet meeting was the county’s development financing options that would ensure that all the major projects were completed. The sentiments echo her address at St. Thomas ACK Church, Kerugoya, where she enumerated some of the life-changing projects that her government has implemented within the three years that she has been in office. Waiguru said that Kerugoya is considered as the major town of Kirinyaga County and therefore many of the transformational development projects that have been implemented there are geared towards raising its standards. She said that that one of her flagship projects has been the upgrading of Kerugoya County Hospital from a Level Four to a Level Five hospital. This, she said, is about to be achieved through the construction of a five-storey modern medical complex at the hospital which is expected to be completed by July this year. The governor said that upon completion, the hospital will have a fully equipped ICU and an HDU with a capacity of at least 15 beds, among other amenities available in any high-end medical facility. “This will enable us to offer the required medical services to our residents and we will no longer have to refer them for services in neighbouring counties such as Embu and Nyeri. In Kirinyaga County’s development blueprint that is dubbed the “The Mountain Cities”, Kirinyaga Central Constituency in which Kerogoya hospital lies, has been captured as the county’s ‘Wellness City’ in which the county residents can access the highest level of medical care services. Governor Waiguru also thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta and the National Government for the support given to the county’s health sector. She said that the money given for Covid-19 management has been put in to accelerate the completion of the medical complex in which one wing will be set aside as an isolation centre. “Instead of putting up temporary isolation centres such as tents, we decided to invest in a more comprehensive and sustainable arrangement that includes equipping of the new upcoming hospital. We already have 300 beds and ventilator machines ready for the complex” said the governor, adding that the hospital will be a game-changer in the level of medical services the county offers. She added that the medical complex will also have a special mother’s unit which will enhance mother and childcare services in the county. The governor also said that the ongoing facelift projects witnessed in Kerugoya Town which include the construction of modern car parks, pedestrian walkways and cabro paving of town’s streets and beautification projects were meant to provide a conducive environment to the town residents and traders and attract investors as well. The governor said that through ‘Wezesha Kirinyaga’ economic empowerment program, her government has implemented life-changing programs which are leading to improved livelihoods among residents by way on increasing their agricultural productivity. She noted that her government has Sh300 million at hand that will go into the construction of value addition factories which include an avocado packhouse and a tomato processing factory. The tomato factory, she said, will help farmers from loses that they incur from their tomatoes whenever there is excess production adding that Kirinyaga is the leading tomato producer with an annual production of about 50,000 tons. She added that the avocado packhouse will enable avocado farmers to process their avocado for the export market. The governor reiterated her administration’s commitment to implementing equitable development in all the regions in the county.