Thirty-five per cent of Kenyans could not visit health facilities out of fear of contracting Covid-19, a report shows. The report, ‘Epidemic/Pandemic Response in Africa: Covid-19 in Egypt, Ethiopia, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa’, was released by the Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences at the Columbia University. The study shows 32 per cent could not afford to visit a health facility, five per cent said the nearest facility was too far, while 10 per cent said healthcare facilities were either too busy or they couldn’t get an appointment with a doctor. Only four per cent felt their healthcare needs did not seem urgent, thus decided to free up facilities for those who may need it more. Surveys from the Partnership for Evidence-Based Covid-19 Response (PERC) collected responses from 24,000 individuals in 18 countries across Africa, including the five under consideration in this study. The study examined actions taken in response to Covid-19 in the five major economic and cultural hubs in Africa. According to the report, initial contact tracing, quarantine, emphasis on personal hygiene, and social distancing all seem to have contributed to slowing the spread of the virus in Kenya. However, it faults Kenya for conducting very little emergency preparedness and response planning at just 12.5 per cent. “The lack of clear public health emergency legislation and the slow pace of establishing multi-functional public health institutes resulted in many problems and posed some serious challenges for all five countries,” the report states. “One of the more compelling problems is poor coordination between the health and security sectors and the failure on the part of the police and military to understand their roles and functions during a public health emergency.” It says many, if not most, of the conflict episodes between citizens and the police/military could have been prevented through better training and leadership, adding that when the police and the military overstep the mark, they undermine citizen trust in the state institutions that are responsible for their health and security. Some 72 per cent of Kenyans said they were satisfied with the government’s response to Covid, with the level of satisfaction being higher in the rural areas at 73 per cent. Similarly, five out of 10 Kenyans feel foreigners tend to discredit African indigenous medicines. “In terms of zoonotic exposure, Kenyans, whose country has great expertise in animal health, do not fear animal contact as much as Egyptians and Ethiopians do.” The report, however, lauds Kenya for launching direct communication systems for frontline healthcare workers two weeks before the pandemic landed in the county. “In Kenya, hotline #719, designed to field calls related to Covid-19, came into being and all calls were filtered through three call centres.  This was swift, by any standard.” It warns that the pandemic threatens to undo decades of progress made in reducing disease and increasing life expectancy, especially in the prevention and treatment of non-communicable diseases. For instance, access to outpatient care for childhood infectious diseases and treatment for Malaria, TB, HIV experienced between 50 and 74 per cent drop in the country. Routine vaccinations had between 10 and 24 per cent drop, while testing for mothers in antenatal care and HIV-exposed infants dropped by between 10 and 24 per cent during the period. Given the magnitude of the ongoing pandemic, the WHO has called upon all nations to prepare for the purchase, distribution, public health messaging and administration of Covid-19 vaccines as they become available.