Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana now says he will not contest for the Council of Governors chairmanship. Kibwana said he wants to focus on his 2022 presidential ambitions. "I will not be a candidate for Council of Governors elections. As a 2022 presidential candidate, I have been advised by my team that serving in the next CoG executive can constitute a conflict of interest,"  he said on Tuesday. Kibwana said he was grateful to his colleagues for the opportunity to serve as their  Chief Whip. The CoG elections will be held on January 29. The next chairman will pick up from Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya who was elected in February 2020 for a second and final term in office through consensus after President Uhuru Kenyatta and Raila backed his bid. There are reports that Uhuru will throw his weight behind a governor who supports the BBI process to succeed Oparanya. The head of state has enjoyed a good working relationship with Oparanya during the latter's tenure. Their camaraderie blossomed further with their BBI agitation. The CoG chairmanship is a powerful post that serves as a link between the county governments and the national Executive and has a lot of leverage, including unfettered access to the President. The chairperson serves as the voice of the county governments and has a lot of privileges, including a stand-by chopper funded by taxpayers through the council's secretariat. Tana River Governor Dhadho Godhana has declared interest in the position. "A new broom sweeps clean... I am coming at a time when we are heading to elections... I am capable of taking the mantle and synergising the council to live its purpose," he told the Star on Friday. Drumming support for his candidature, Godhana said he is the best person to defend devolution. "I will lobby for partnerships. I have experience and the exposure needed. I am here to present new and good ideas as we protect devolution," he said. Godhana said the chairmanship role was rotational and it would only be fair if it was taken to Coast.