Sofapaka were handed a massive boost for Saturday league clash with Nairobi City Stars with the return of skipper Elli Asieche. The creative midfielder missed their last weekend's 2-1 loss away to Nzoia Sugar due to a groin injury but according to the club, the Harambee Stars trialist has recovered and will contest for playing time. "The club captain is fully fit and available for selection," revealed the club on their website Sofapaka tackle the league returnees at the Wundanyi Stadium, seeking to return to their winning ways and the availability of Asieche is a relief for coach Ken Odhiambo who will miss Kenyan international Lawrence Juma. The former Gor Mahia midfielder, who wore the armband in the absence of Asieche, was sent off during the Nzoia duel and will sit out against City Stars. Juma is the current Sofapaka top scorer with four goals. Besides welcoming Asieche back in the mix, Odhiambo will be glad to have another Stars trialist Stephen Okola in his pool of fit players as the budding defender has began training. The 19-year-old defender, who surprisingly made it to the Stars provisional squad summoned during last year's friendly match against Zambia, has not kicked the ball this season, thanks to an ankle injury. "Okola has recovered from an ankle injury that has kept him out since the season began. He is back in training and will be assessed ahead of City Stars clash," added the club. As Odhiambo counts himself lucky to have two reliable players back, his City Stars counterpart Sanjin Alagic will be sweating over the absence of the experienced Anthony 'Muki' Kimani. The former Stars midfielde,  who serves as the club skipper will miss the trip to Wundanyi after picking a shoulder injury in training on Tuesday. Muki has started all league matches for the club which earned promotion to the top tier last season after finishing top in the National Super League. However, Sanjin will have battle-hardened centre half Abdallah Salim back after recovering from a minor knock which saw him miss their last weekend 1-1 draw with Ulinzi Stars.          