Kenya’s flower industry players are up in arms after the government increased agricultural produce cess on all horticulture exports. According to the Horticultural Crops Directorate, Kenya’s exporters of fresh produce are from January 1, 2021 paying at least four times the agricultural produce cess. In a letter sent on December 30, 2020 by the HCD to the industry, all exporters of horticultural products will pay cess based on the free on board value and not the quantity in line with the new Horticulture (Crops) Regulations. The cut-flower industry is learning about the passing of Horticulture (Crops) Regulations, which apparently were gazetted in June 2020. These regulations have increased the agricultural produce cess levy from the previous 30 cents per kilo to 0.25 per cent of the customs value. This translates to at least four times what exporters had been paying until last December. Further, the letter directs exporters to make cess payments upfront on pre-payment accounts. "Exporters are therefore advised to put in an advance payment for the levies to avoid being inconvenienced. Previously, payment of cess has been done in arrears after export," he said. Kenya Flower Council CEO Clement Tulezi said on Wednesday the demand for pre-payment of cess on free on board is costly and would be cumbersome to administer. "The Kenya Flower Council objects to this arbitrary move by the government. The passing and implementation of the Horticulture (Crops) Regulations is being undertaken without proper consultation with the industry players. Additionally, exporters were given one day to comply," he said. "We would like you to note that despite our continued engagement with the Horticulture (Crops) Regulations throughout 2019, there has been no official communication by either the Ministry of Agriculture, Agriculture and Food Authority or the Horticultural Crops Directorate on the final outcome of the bill." Tulezi said the arbitrary increase will definitely kill the industry that is still struggling to recover from the impact of Covid-19. He spoke during a media briefing on the outlook of the horticulture industry in Kenya at Crowne Plaza in JKIA. He said the industry has been on its knees for the better part of 2020 following the loss of demand for cut flowers and ornamentals in the international market. "The industry was adversely affected by the first lockdown in Europe between March and August. Demand for flowers dropped as flower shops around the globe shut. Millions of stems were destroyed at the farm which resulted in a huge loss for the growers," Tulezi said. Consequently, he said, farms reduced salaries and manpower, used minimum spray and fertigation, and put some plants and varieties to rest for weeks till the demand picked up. He said countries have in the last five months gradually lifted the lockdowns and eased restrictions, and demand for cut flowers has been picking up in most destinations. However, this move will definitely erode gains made by the subsector and set it back downhill. The subsector employs over 200,000 Kenyans directly and a further 1,000,000 indirectly. "These livelihoods are at risk if these regulations are implemented as directed by the Horticultural Crops Directorate. We believe there is no justification for the increase of agricultural produce cess. There is no sign of added value or service from the Horticultural Crops Directorate to exporters that warrants the increase," he said. Tulezi said the directive is against the spirit of facilitating trade and creating a conducive business environment. Edited by Henry Makori