Deputy President William Ruto has said that he will focus his energy on the implementation of government projects. "Because there is a lot of work to be done, I will focus on helping President Kenyatta on issues of development; others can drive the BBI agenda," Ruto said. The DP spoke on Wednesday during the funeral service of Cardinal John Njue's sister Jonnes Njuki in Manyatta, Embu County. Ruto asked leaders to focus on finding solutions to challenges facing Kenyans. He pointed out the country's poor economy, high rates of unemployment, and reduced investments as some of the key issues that ought to be prioritised. "As leaders, we must seek solutions to these challenges, however, the solution to these challenges should not take a tribal angle or come up with plans for specific communities," Ruto said. A section of leaders from Mt Kenya who accompanied Ruto backed Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata's sentiments on the popularity of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). They said proponents of BBI were out of touch with the needs and aspirations of ordinary Kenyans. The leaders warned President Uhuru Kenyatta that those he had trusted with driving the BBI agenda were misleading him. They were Njeru Ndwiga (Embu), John Muchiri (Manyatta), Eric Muchangi (Runyenjes), Geoffrey King'ang'i (Mbeere South), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Cecily Mbarire (nominated), and Embu Deputy Governor David Njeru. Mbarire said it was insensitive for the government to channel resources to referendum when the country was grappling with the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. She said parents do not have school fees to take their children to school, schools cannot provide sanitisers and masks for students, the health sector is deteriorating and the economy is in shambles. "Between all these problems and the Sh14 Billion referendum, what should be the priority?” She posed. Mbarire asked President Kenyatta to listen to the plight of the people. Muchiri wondered how the government was determined to have a costly referendum when the country’s economy is slumping. Kuria said Kenyans are opposed to the BBI document because most of the key issues they had raised were not addressed. He said the proponents of the BBI approach characterised by reggae bravado, chest-thumping, and contempt had caused the President a lot of embarrassment. "We saw this coming and asked them to bring everyone on board and iron out contentious issues but they turned us down,” Kuria said. King'ang'i said it was unfortunate that those pushing for constitutional amendments do not want to engage in honest conversation about the situation in the country.