ODM leader Raila Odinga has sustained his onslaught on Deputy President William Ruto whom he accused of double speak. Raila, who was drumming up support for the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) in Nairobi on Saturday, further accused Ruto of being a beneficiary of graft. The ODM leader said Ruto should not speak as if he is not part of the government when he campaigns for his 2022 presidential bid. “When he goes to the grassroots, he wants to give the impression that he is a poor man or a hustler. When he is in other areas, he is the number one farmer or businessman. Business which no one knows about,” Raila stated. He said Ruto should be explaining to people why his government has not fulfilled its election pledges. “He promised Kenyans a knowledge-based economy. Now, he is going to the people giving them hand carts and wheelbarrows. Where are the millions of jobs he promised? He should not imagine that Kenyans are that forgetful,” he stated. Raila said Ruto is unable to explain the source of his wealth. “He is meeting youth and women groups and churches all the time to give contributions. What business does he do? He is supposed to be in Kamiti,” Raila said. Raila was speaking at Ufungamano House where he met ODM and Jubilee women leaders from Nairobi to drum up support for the BBI. With him were Suna East MP Junet Mohamed and former legislators Dennis Waweru, who are co-chairs of the BBI secretariat. Others were Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris, Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo, Migori Women Representative Pamela Odhiambo, Makadara MP George Aladwa and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. Junet and Waweru said Ruto should choose to either support President Uhuru Kenyatta or resign. “The Deputy President has been operating from the streets as if he has no office. We want him to resign or we impeach him. You cannot be government and opposition at the same time. Choose one,” Junet said. Waweru said Ruto should make up his mind and decide whether to work with Uhuru or quit government. “The Deputy President must shape up or ship out. Why sabotage the work of the President if he does not want to work with the government,” he added. Amani National Congress Party on Monday asked the Deputy President William to resign or face impeachment for undermining the President. His allies have however downplayed the threats saying proponents of the impeachment would not raise the numbers required to impeach the Deputy President.