Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has taken the Machakos senatorial contest right inside former Senator Johnson Muthama’s household. The former Vice President settled on Muthama’s estranged wife Agnes Kavindu Muthama as his candidate in a political contest that Muthama is determined to deliver for DP William Ruto. Muthama, Kalonzo’s friend turned political foe, is the chairman of United Democratic Alliance, a party associated with Ruto. Seen as the front-runner for the UDA ticket is Muthama’s long time political friend and former Machakos Deputy Governor Benard Kiala. However, the party last week announced it will do a scientific selection of the candidate to fly its flag after over 10 aspirants expressed interest. Yesterday, the Wiper boss defended the party’s decision to settle on Muthama’s ex-wife saying the decision was not out of malice. Kalonzo said he is not out to wreck families when he declared the party will rally behind Kavindu to face other aspirants including UDA’s choice. Wiper on Wednesday unveiled Kavindu to fly the party’s flag in the Machakos senatorial seat which fell vacant following the death of Boniface Kabaka. Speaking at Wiper headquarters in Karen, Kalonzo said the movement does not believe in wrecking families. “We are not taking that name because of that other name. What has guided the party is her own qualification as a leader who demonstrated high leadership capability,” Kalonzo said. Muthama fell out with Kalonzo in the run-up to the 2017 General Election and later joined Deputy President William Ruto’s camp where he is now the chairman of UDA, a political outfit believed will be DP’s vehicle in 2022. Kavindu is not joining elective politics for the first time. In 2017, she unsuccessfully contested Machakos Woman Representative position on Jubilee ticket. After losing the seat, President Uhuru appointed her to the BBI task force as a member. She will now battle for the seat against a host of candidates including Maendeleo Chap Chap Party’s candidate, former Cabinet Minister Mutua Katuku. Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju yesterday announced the ruling party will not be fielding a candidate in the by-election. Wiper also issued nomination a certificate to Sebastian Muli who will be the party's candidate in Kitise Ward, Makueni.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris