In support of recent remarks by President Uhuru Kenyatta, Kenya is a country of micronations each proud, distinct and unique. The resourceful Kikuyu, the studious Luhya, the indefatigable Kalenjin, the proud Maasai, the flamboyant Kamba, the exquisite coastal peoples, among others. That is what we must embrace as a diverse people that need to coexist for our common good and posterity. We are a multi-ethnic state made up of 42-plus recognised tribes. Since 1963, Kenyan politics has been characterised by ethnic tensions and rivalry among tribes. However, Kenyans need to get to a point where citizens embrace that diversity and are judged by merit not tribe. Therefore, there is need to raise signatures, as required under Article 257, to amend Article 136 of the Constitution to provide for the election of the president through a county-based electoral system. Or perhaps that can be realised through BBI. The beauty of Kenya's diversity is that there is no majority tribe. None make up more than 50% of the population. For example, the largest ethnic group, the Kikuyu, is less than a fifth of the total population. In reality, therefore, Kenya has a “safety of numbers and not a tyranny of numbers” among its ethnic groups. However, to exploit this reality, Kenyans must institute a presidential electoral system where large and small tribes feel safe and important in the prosecution of national issues. The system must move this country away from the current state where large tribes tyrannise smaller ones and where the main criteria for occupying the presidency is the numerical size of the ethnic bloc backing a candidate. Americans elect their president through the Electoral College designed to protect the interests of all states. The US Constitution specifies that the president and vice president be chosen through the votes cast by electors chosen by the states, rather than by a direct popular vote. Hence, the two are not elected directly by the voters. Instead, they are elected indirectly by "electors" who are elected by popular vote on a state-by-state basis. A candidate can become president without having obtained the highest number of votes nationally in the sole or final round of popular voting. The county electoral system is a block voting designed to give more power to the counties with more votes, but allows for small counties to swing an election. Under this system, each county is assigned a specific number of votes that is proportional to its population, so that each county's power is representative of its population. So, while winning the popular vote may not ensure a candidate's victory, a candidate must gain popular support of a particular county to win the votes in that county. There are two mechanisms that come to mind here. First, if we adopted it in Kenya, it would allot counties a number of delegates equal to their population sizes. Nairobi, the most populous county, would get say 10 delegates while Turkana could, for instance, get two delegates. Hence, during elections, candidates would get the number of delegates based on their performance in counties. If Raila Odinga and Musalia Mudavadi, for instance, competed for the presidency and Raila got majority votes in Nairobi, he would be entitled to all 10 Nairobi delegates’ votes. If Raila beats Musalia in Turkana, he gets all Turkana delegates. When it comes to the final determination of the winner, the total delegates of each candidate would be added up to give us the president. The beauty of such a system would be that candidates would not just sit pretty campaigning in their ethnic backyards and cutting deals with one or two others that would propel them to power. They would have to campaign in the whole country, since who knows, the difference in the number of delegates could be only two votes, meaning Turkana could end up being as important as Nairobi in the final determination of the Kenyan president. The second alternative is that each county is apportioned electoral votes equal to the number of its elected MPs plus one elected senator. Hence, there would be 337 electoral votes, being 290 members of the National Assembly and 47 senators. The county electoral votes are taken on a "winner-take-all" basis. That is, all electoral votes in a county are given to the winning presidential candidate. To be elected President, one must get at least 169 votes, being 50% + 1 of the electoral votes. The goal of any candidate would be to put together the right combination of counties that will give him or her 169 electoral votes. Should none of the candidates win 169 electoral votes a run-off between the top two candidates will be conducted.