Faith leaders have released a series of video messages encouraging parents to send their children back to school. This is part of a "back to school" campaign by the Ministry of Education, Unicef-Kenya and the Inter-Religious Council of Kenya. The campaign, #ComeTwendeShule, stresses that children are safer in schools. In 2020, school closures interrupted learning for more than 17 million children in Kenya. The longer children are out of school, the greater the risk that many of them – especially the poorest – will never return. Moreover, children not attending school face increased risks, including of violence, abuse, early marriage and child labour. Evidence shows that children, especially those under the age of 10, are less susceptible to Covid-19. Through video messages by leaders from different religions and denominations, the IRCK is supporting the drive to encourage parents to take children back to school after reopening on Monday. The Ministry of Education, Unicef and other partners are working to ensure that children are as safe as possible when they return to class. This includes access to handwashing facilities, face masks and social distancing. The religious leaders emphasise that parents must now play their part, by making sure that children get back to learning. Rev Father Joseph Mutie, IRCK chairman, says: “It is important that we do not lose a generation because of us not giving them adequate knowledge.” Sheikh Abdullatif, from the Kenya Council of Imams and Ulamaa, says children face increased risk of violence, child labour and child marriage when not attending school. Bishop John Warari, of the Network of Religious Leaders Living with or Personally Affected by HIV, underlines that the longer learners are out of school, the greater the risk that the poorest among them will never return. Sujatha Kotamraju, from the Hindu Council of Kenya, emphasises that since schools closed in March we have learnt that children are not the main drivers of Covid-19 and it is in their best interest to return to school. Pastor John Macharia, from the Seventh-day Adventist East Kenya Union Conference, stresses that children are safer in than out of school, where they are at risk of early marriage, sexual violence and emotional abuse. “If you read Genesis, Chapter 33, Verse Five, you hear Jacob saying, ‘These are children that God has given me,’” he explains. “Children are a gift from the Lord.” Bishop John Obala-Oleowaa, of the Catholic Diocese of Ngong, says it is important that children resume their education for schools are a vital safety net for the most vulnerable. “Psalms, Chapter 127, Verse Three tells us children are a gift from the Lord,” he says. “They are a reward from him.” The statement by the clerics was also signed by the Ministry of Education and Unicef.