Strathmore Leos have signed Homeboyz winger Brunson Madigu as they seek  to bolster the squad ahead of the playoffs later this month. Leos, who topped the championship log with 76 points before the season was cancelled due to the Covid-19 pandemic in March, resumed training last week ahead of the season restart. “We welcome Brunson Madigu to the Leo’s family," said a statement from the Strathmore website. "Madigu, an alumnus of Laiser Hill Academy and a former academy player with Impala Saracens, joins us from Homeboyz Rugby. He is a utility back player with an eye for the try line,” read the statement. Madigu ended last season as Homeboyz II top try scorer in the Eric Shirley Shield with 14 tries, scored seven conversions and three penalties. He was also part of the Deejays team that finished the 2019 Sevens circuit with 92 points, scoring eight tries. The speed star links up with Ian Masheti, who is also expected to feature for Leos, having joined from Kenya Cup side, Impala Saracens. Leos' head coach Louis Kisia was delighted with the signing and Madigu has already joined his new team in training.  “He has already started training with us and I am confident he will add value to the squad as we chase promotion to the Kenya Cup," said Kisia. The Leos will await the winner between the Northern Suburbs v United States International University on January 23. The other tie will see Mean Machine battle it out with Egerton Wasps . The winner of the match will face Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology in the semis. The semis are slated for January 30 with the winners being promoted to the Kenya Cup which could start next month. Kisia said they have been training in batches of eight players in order to conform to the 'Return to Play' protocols in readiness for the season resumption and termed the semis as tricky  depending on their opponent. "It won't be easy. We only have two weeks to train although the boys are in good shape. We did a couple of tests and they look fine,” he added.