A new court established in Kenol town, Murang’a, will soon start hosting hearings. Maragua deputy county commissioner Mawira Mungania has said landscaping works will be completed this Friday. The court has been established in a building that served as the deputy county commissioner’s meeting hall. “After Friday, the court will be ready for inspection by the Judiciary team and we project it may become operational next month,” he told the Star. Mawira said the court was established in an old building to save time and that one acre has been allocated for a modern one that will be constructed as the current facility serve residents. He noted that the entire subcounty did not have a court and mostly depended on Kigumo law courts that are far and posed a challenge to many people because of the time and money they spent travelling. This is despite the fact that Maragua hosts Maranjau prison, three police stations manned by OCSs and a subcounty police commander. On September 1 last year, the government in a Gazette notice said the Chief Justice had established 17 magistrates’ courts across the country, including the one in Kenol. Others were stationed in Ol Kalou, Etago, Madiany, Port Victoria, Zombe, Borabu, Kendu Bay, Wamunyu, Malaba, Matiliku, Usigu, Kasarani, Masinga, Manga, Tinderet and Rumuruti. Mawira thanked area MP Mary Waithera for supporting the project by allocating Sh500,000 to renovate the hall. “Following the county commissioner’s directive, the court users met and agreed to form a sub-committee led by a magistrate that would spearhead the establishment of the court,” Mawira said. In August last year, Chief Justice David Maraga, now retired, announced that the Judiciary would establish a small claims court in Murang’a county to ease the backlog of cases. Maraga spoke as he commissioned a modern block at Kangema law courts. He said the court would facilitate the swift resolution of cases while ensuring small-scale traders resumed their businesses within a short period after cases are concluded. Maraga instructed presiding judge in the county Kanyi Kimondo to liaise with the local leadership to establish the location of the court. This was after Justice Kimondo informed him that many people from far-flung areas such as Ithanga were forced to travel long distances to access courts in Murang’a, Kangema, Kigumo and Kandara. Justice Kimondo further noted that a building had been identified where the court would be set up. He also said he was in consultation with the MP and the county government over the construction of a medium-level prison, a police station, and Directorate of Public Prosecution’s offices to serve the court, so they could ease the pressure on the existing courts. Maraga assured that his office would mobilise resources and have a magistrate posted to the court, noting that the town’s location along the highway made it a prime area for cases. The ex-CJ said the Judiciary had an objective to establish a High Court station in every county and a magistrate’s court in each subcounty.