The World Health organisation has warned that pregnant women should not be injected with the Moderna vaccine. No vaccine trials have included pregnant women - and they are not expected to until after the first quarter of 2021, the WHO says. "While pregnancy puts women at a higher risk of severe Covid-19, the use of this vaccine in pregnant women is currently not recommended, unless they are at risk of high exposure," WHO said in a statement on Tuesday. Director of Immunization Kate O'Brien stressed that clinical trials of the Moderna vaccine are needed on pregnant women. "There is no reason to think there could be a problem in pregnancy, we are just acknowledging the data is not there at the moment," she said. WHO also noted that individuals with a history of a severe allergic reaction to any component of the vaccine should not take the vaccine or any other mRNA vaccine. The vaccine should not be administered to persons younger than 18 years of age pending the results of further studies. On Monday, Moderna Inc said its vaccine produced virus-neutralizing antibodies in laboratory tests against new coronavirus variants found in the UK and South Africa. A two-dose regimen of the Moderna Covid-19 vaccine is expected to be protective against emerging strains detected to date, the company said. Moderna, however, said it would test a vaccine booster against the South Africa variant in pre-clinical trials to see if that would be more effective in boosting antibodies against the variant and other future variants. Although all viruses mutate constantly, scientists are concerned about the mutations discovered in Britain and South Africa because they are believed to be capable of altering key functions of the virus. Last month, Unicef announced details of a mammoth operation to deliver Covid-19 vaccines to Kenya and other developing countries. The agency says it has contracted more than 350 airlines and freight companies to deliver one billion syringes and the vaccines. At least 500 million syringes will be delivered ahead of the vaccines next year. The announcement came as more research centres, including the University of Oxford, announced promising results of vaccine trials.