Ulinzi Starlets' top scorer Neddy Atieno has said the soldiers are ready to give a shot at the Women's Premier League title despite their inexperience. Atieno, who boasts of five goals and four assists, has guided Ulinzi to second spot in Zone 'A' with 12 points — three shy of leaders Thika. Two games are left to conclude the first leg but the soldiers are ready to meet their target. The newbies are the highest-scoring team in WPL after finding the back of the net 19 times in only five matches. The Joseph Mwanza-coached side are on a four-game winning streak after suffering a 2-1 setback against Thika Queens in the opening match of the season. "My target is to see the young, ambitious Ulinzi team maintain their WPL status. We are giving our shot at the title and to be honest, we have the quality to fight to the end," she said. The 28-year old implied that winning the WPL title will give them an opportunity to represent Kenya in the recently launched Confederation of Africa Women's Champions League. Ulinzi will, however, take one match at a time. "It will be a dream come true to play with the best teams in the Champions League but we will take league matches on a match-by-match basis," said the former Tartar Girls player, who lifted the Kenya Secondary School Sports Association KPSSA national title with the school in her final year, 2012. Atieno captained the under-20 national team in 2011-2012 and graduated to the senior team in 2014. She quit Starlets in 2018 citing work-related commitments. She has 15 caps and 11 international goals. "I had to quit the national team in 2018 because I wanted to move forward in my career.  The hunger and desire of the team has always pushed me and we cannot go down without a fight," said the forward, who was named  KEFWA's Zone 'A' player of the month for December. Atieno said she has always urged the players to come out of their comfort zone for better results. The fact that she has been nicknamed 'shosh' always challenges her to prove a point and reveal her true character on the field. "They call me 'shosh' and this ignites the fire in me to silence them. I tell my teammates that together we can make it and that is why I have always given 100% to the team," said Atieno who played for Nigeria's Sunshine Queens in 2016 before returning and joining the Kenya defence Forces Recruits Training School the same year.