ODM secretary general has lashed at senator Isaac Mwaura after a video of him appearing to incite residents of Githurai surfaced on social media. In the video seen by the Star on Wednesday, the nominated senator is heard talking to a group of people in the area. "Githurai haitamwaga damu kwa sababu ya watu wachache. Mimi sijajua...(syc) na hakuna mwenye ametuambia..tuko tayari kuwaonyesha ati sisi ndio wenyeji hapa..." he said. This loosely translates to, "Githurai will not shed blood because of a few people... We are ready to show them who runs this place." Via Twitter on Wednesday,  Sifuna accused Mwaura of hiring goons to disrupt ODM leader Raila Odinga's meeting in the area. "... The nefarious scheme by Tangatanga to "embarrass" Raila in Githurai has failed. These are old political tactics by cowards who know their lies are quickly fading in the face of truth," Sifuna said. But Mwaura told the Star on the phone that the chaos was ODM'S plan. "They had planned this all along. That is a well orchestrated scheme. Ask him (Sifuna) to give you more details. He seems to know better," he said. Mwaura later went to Twitter and accused ODM of hiring the goons. "Edwin Sifuna and ODM, if you are planning to cause chaos by hiring goons from all over Nairobi and Thika that you have ferried in buses and motorbikes, please know that Gïthurai people are peaceful and would want to do their business in the spirit of the #HustlerNation," he said. "Don’t play BBI politics with the market issue. Many of them have kept away since your kind of politics aren’t good for their businesses." This comes after Raila's address at Githurai was briefly interrupted by youths chanting 'hustler' slogans. The 'hustler' slogan is synonymous with Deputy President William Ruto's supporters. Raila has been on a campaign blitz to popularise BBI as it heads to the county assemblies after the electoral agency on Tuesday confirmed more than one million signatures had been verified as supporting the bill. In Githurai, there was heavy police presence and the youths were pushed back by pro -Raila youths. The hustler group resorted to throwing stones at Raila's convoy and continued chanting 'Ruto and hustler' about 50 meters from where the opposition chief was addressing supporters.