Kandara MP Alice Wahome has once again hit out at President Uhuru Kenyatta, saying he should accept his time is up and stop "hiding behind BBI to cling to power" beyond his term. The lawmaker on Saturday claimed the President is seeking to change the 2010 Constitution to help him gain control of state power while outside through what she termed a façade of democracy. Wahome in a statement said the Building Bridges Initiative is suspect in the grand scheme to keep Uhuru in power directly or indirectly after the expiry of his second constitutional term limit in 2022. She warned Kenyans will regret if the Constitutional amendment being spearheaded by the president and ODM leader Raila Odinga sees the light of the day. “For Kenya, to remain a truly democratic and rule of law state, our President must accept the reality his term is coming to an end. He must ensure peaceful transfer of power in 2022 and go home,” Wahome said. She added: “He should not be allowed to extend his stay in power in whatever form whether direct and or indirect/through proxy.” This is not the first time the lawmaker is accusing the President of plotting to cling to power, exactly one year ago she made similar remarks. Wahome, a strong ally of Deputy President William Ruto, also described Uhuru as the biggest threat to the Constitution democracy , devolution and a President who presided over the crumbling  economy in his five years in power. “It is time President Kenyatta admitted he has made costly economic and fiscal policy mismanagement mistakes in the last seven years. He cannot blame and or pass the buck to anybody. The buck stops constitutionally with President for final decision upon getting prerequisite advice,” she said. “There is no hiding the fact that the economy and financial status of the country is in turmoil. Our country is in an enormous health care crisis. Unemployment rate and the cost of living has hit the roof.” She further accused Uhuru of shrinking the country’s democratic space through micro-managing of the Police Service and frustrating the Judiciary through budget cuts and failing to appoint judges. The lawmaker said they will reject any attempt to change the Constitution through the much publiscised BBI, adding they will instead shift focus into rebuilding the lives of hustlers who have been affected by the  Covid-19 pandemic. “Hustlers have responded to the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). They do not want to hear anything about BBI. BBI is mocking and laughing at Hustlers’ sufferings,” she said.