The government has extended the Kazi Mtaani Programme by one more month. The PS said after the end of the programme, some of the workers will transition to other programmes carried out by other state departments and agencies, beyond March. “To all the Kazi Mtaani youth, kindly note the National Hygiene programme has been extended for another 1 month and will now come to an end on 4th, March 2021. Therefore, Cohort “A” will resume work on 3rd, February 2021,” the PS said. Hinga said he will release more information in due course. Kazi Mtaani was rolled out last April as an economic stimulus for informal settlements to mitigate the adverse effects Covid-19. The programme which started with a budget of Sh10 billion employs 280,000 youth in 900 informal settlements across the 47 counties. The work done include tree growing, access road construction, rehabilitation of public facilities, garbage collection and street cleaning. The initiative falls under the State Department for Housing and Urban Development, which was feted by VIOS during the Covid-19 Volunteers Response Recognition Awards. In October, the programme won acclaim from Volunteer Involving Organisations for its contribution to bettering the lives of youths during the Covid-19 pandemic. The World Bank also commended the Programme saying it had helped in reducing crime and drug abuse in the informal settlements. The programme, the global lender noted, has also reduced youth dependency on other people and improved livelihoods. "Cumulatively, the funds have helped spur the local economies leading to improved livelihoods for the residents of the participating informal settlements,” the WB said in a statement last October. “The benefits accruing from this programme are essential to building the resilience of informal settlement dwellers both during the pandemic and after,” the World Bank said. The government pays the youths Sh560 million per month. Each earns Sh455 daily, while supervisors take home Sh505, according to the State Department of Housing and Urban Development.