Delivery of maize to the National Cereals and Produce Board started rising in the last week after the board increased the price of a bag of maize. NCPB managing director Joseph Kimote said so far farmers have delivered 26, 000 bags of 90kg to various stores in the North Rift region. He said farmers were initially reluctant to deliver maize to the board because others were offering a better price. “But the momentum has started picking since we increased the price of a 90kg bag of maize from Sh2,500 to Sh2,700 a week ago,” he told the Star on Friday in an interview. Kimote said the increase was aimed at ensuring that the board is at par with what the market is offering and due to the market dynamics. Millers and traders are currently offering between Sh2,650 and Sh2,700 per bag. “The government directive was to ensure minimum maize purchasing prices remain at Sh2,500. We can still go up and we have that flexibility.  We wanted to align to what the market wants,” he said. He assured farmers payment will be made within 24 hours of delivery as he confirmed that farmers who are owed money by the board for the 2017-18 maize delivery will start receiving payments this week. Kimote said the board has been verifying bank accounts of the farmers who were cleared by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, and that the money will be channeled to their bank accounts. On January 11, NCPB announced that it will be paying pending bills for the 2017-18 maize deliveries to farmers who were cleared by the EACC. Kimote said the board will be paying close to Sh500 million to farmers who were under investigation. He said for the last two weeks, the board has been working on the modalities of how to disburse the money to the farmers as well as verifying bank accounts where the payment will be made. In 2018, the country was hit by a maize scandal after unscrupulous traders benefited from maize payments at the expense of genuine farmers. "NCPB has received Sh147 million from the government to pay the first batch of 68 farmers who have been cleared by the EACC. The board is expecting a further Sh384 million to pay the remaining 21 farmers,” said Kimote. He assured farmers who deliver grain that meets the required quality standards that they will be paid promptly. Edited by Henry Makori