The ODM party wants an inquiry into confessions by ex-Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko that the so-called deep state torched vehicles in 2017 to frame their protesting followers. In a statement to newsrooms, ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna said only a full inquiry will unearth the motives of such acts. Sifuna vowed the party will not rest until all individuals and institutions involved in the planning and execution of the criminal act are brought to the surface. The opposition party, which has been branded violent over the years, said it has been vindicated by Sonko’s confessions at the weekend. “The recent confession by the disgraced former Governor of Nairobi, Mike Sonko, that he participated in stage-managing violence and destruction of property that he and his co-conspirators then pinned on ODM, is welcome but amounts to too little too late,” Sifuna said in a statement. “ODM demands a full inquiry into the matter to establish the motives and extent of these mafia-like covert criminal acts as well as all persons and institutions involved.” Sonko claimed that during the demonstrations that followed the 2017 election, he and Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho printed ODM T-shirts and gave them to youths who then burned vehicles on Ngong Road to implicate the party. "In 2017 during ODM demonstrations, Kibicho, deep state, system and I printed  ODM T-shirts and then bought secondhand vehicles from showrooms and burnt them so people would say it's ODM, yet it was the deep state and the system)," he said. Sonko was speaking on Sunday during Deputy President William Ruto’s rally in Dagoretti South, Nairobi. On Monday, Kibicho recorded a statement at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters over the allegations. Sifuna said ODM will continue to play by the rules in its quest for state power. “For a long time, our detractors have used and abused state power, mainstream and social media in a systematic attempt to depict our party as violent and purveyors of anarchy,” Sifuna said. “This view has been perpetuated despite our sincere efforts to communicate the truth—that it is the enemies of ODM that have authored, planned and executed these dirty schemes. We are slowly but surely being vindicated as the people behind these nefarious schemes slowly emerge from their dark hideouts, to confess their crimes.”