The Ministry of Education will disburse Sh5,000 per student in the 2020-21 financial year to develop schools. Basic Education Principal Secretary Belio Kipsang said the money will be disbursed under the maintenance and improvement fund and the economic stimulus programme. In a notice published on January 14, Kipsang said the government has so far released Sh2,000 for each learner for this January. There are 15 million learners in primary and secondary schools. The PS said the scope of projects to be undertaken has been expanded to cover construction and repair of classrooms, labs, sanitation facilities, dormitories and dining halls. This is in addition to procurement of chairs, desks and laboratory stools. Kipsang said the approval levels should remain as indicated in the circular Ref.MOE.HQS/36/36 implemented on February 12, 2020. “Category one requires schools that receive funding of up to Sh5 million to seek approval from the office of the county director of education. "Schools under category two that will receive funding of between Sh5 million to Sh10 million will seek approval from the office of the regional coordinator of education. "Category three is for schools that receive funding of above Sh10 million and are required to seek approval from the ministry headquarters,” he said. Kipsang said approval for continuing/extension of projects should be subject to provision and submission of Public Works structural engineers report. The report entails the viability of the existing project, coupled with its funding history. “The purpose is to ensure all projects started are completed as fast as possible,” he said. He also added that co-funding of projects between the ministry and any other donors will take place. “But each of the partners will fund and supervise a complete phase of the project, which will also be audited by the funding agency to ensure no commingling of funds,” Kipsang said. He added that there shall be a complete assessment of the status of a stalled project and reasons for its stalling unravelled by the public works before any takeover. “Failure to apply for approval or undertake a project that has not been approved will result in severe sanctions, including a refund of the amount spent,” Kipsang said.