Actress Jacky Vike alias Awinja of the famous drama show 'Papa Shirandula' has penned a touching letter to Charles Bukeko who succumbed to Covid-19 in July last year. Awinja paid a moving to tribute to Papa Shirandula, lamenting how the MoH mishandled mourners from Nairobi who attended the funeral. Awinja said that she was really affected and therefore she needed to speak out as she starts the new year. She narrated that mourners from Nairobi were also not allowed to go near the graveside and that led to Bukekeo's family being neglected by the neighbours after the burial. “2020!! Sijui nianzie wapi, but it has been the worst year for me, a painful one, the death of this father/mentor of mine really affected me in ways I cannot explain but we heal with time. Nimeamua sitavuka mwaka na ma uchungu so here I go…The way everything was conducted during Papa’s burial still hurts me to date. I still feel everything was done for TV because I have attended and seen burial of “COVID 19” cases and it was not the same as Papa’s. The ministry of health (MOH) who should be knowing better on STIGMATIZATION treated us like we all were confirmed cases of Covid-19. "Yes I understand you have to adhere to all measures but some things were unnecessary! Some of my colleagues arrived at 4:00 am that morning and the MOH officials were there waiting for us. So guys were not allowed to leave the vehicle in the first instance. "While in the vehicle, it was fumigated, Our movement was restricted and even going to the toilet was a problem. Toilets would be fumigated if any of us visited, Kidogo wachote hio waste wa fumigate, mahali mtu wa Nairobi alikua anakanyaga ilikua fumigated each and every step, mtu wa Nairobi alikua anagusa anything inachapwa fumigation. "This instilled so much fear and sadness to the Villagers and relatives in general And as you all saw since it was Live on TV no one could get near the gravesite or the coffin, so hatukuelewa vile hii virus inapita bodybag yet coffin imeshinda ikichapwa fumigation from mortuary all the way to the homestead. We were on location, but we watched the burial on Viusasa like everyone else. After the burial, Nairobians were literally chased from the homestead! This really broke Mama Papa’s heart she couldn’t understand anything that was going on, it was never the same after we left, the neighbors avoided the family, even buying anything from the shopping centre they had to send someone from a different family.” She concluded by adding that she could not say everything but promised to do a video later. “But now that I have at least let out I can say, I feel somehow better. Yaliyo ndwele sipite…. Keep Resting in Peace #PapaShirandula Thank you all for your support always and supporting my content especially this 2020! I appreciate every one of you and I wish you nothing but a peaceful prosperous 2021 I LOVE you all!❤️😘.”