The National Cereals and Produce Board on Monday increased maize purchase prices by Sh200. Joseph Kimote, NCPB managing director, said they have reviewed the buying price for a 90kg bag to Sh2,700 from Sh2,500. Speaking to the Star on Monday Kimote said the decision to increase the prices was due to the market dynamics as traders and millers are buying maize at between Sh2,650 and Sh2,700 per bag. “The issue was to be at par with what the market is offering. The government directive was to ensure minimum maize purchasing prices remain at Sh2,500. We can still go up and we have that flexibility.  We wanted to align to what the market wants,” he said. He said the uptake for farmers to deliver maize to the board has been slow because others are buying at a better price. “Sh100 makes a big difference and we want to offer farmers a better price,” he said. He assured farmers payment will be prompt and made within 24 hours  of delivery. Kipkorir Menjo, chairman of Kenya Farmers Association, said prices of maize being offered by the market are good as long as there is no interference with imports during harvesting time. He said counties should strengthen the cooperatives especially those dealing with cereals so that they can pool their resources. Menjo said many farmers operate on a small-scale and have a lot of financial needs, hence, may not be able to store until prices are high. “Many are forced by their needs to dispose immediately they harvest, but if they are under cooperatives they can have a bargaining power, and to store their maize and sell at an appropriate time. They can also offer services of warehouse receipt,” he said. Timothy Njagi, a senior researcher from Tegemeo Institute of Agricultural Policy and Development said Njagi said 2020-2021 maize production will be good owing to the favourable long and short seasons. “We are likely to get an estimated 39 million bags of maize for the long rains season and another three to four million bags for the short rains," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)