When the term automatic is introduced in any specialty, it simply means that systems should systematically work without a lot of assistance from the user. The main purpose of the introduction of the automatic gearbox in automotive engineering was for higher torque multiplication, thus higher haulage of larger masses or consignments. However, this also had a large impact on the user’s interface. As days went by, this transmission system has been passed over to personal cars. Driving a manual transmission car has now become a luxury. Absence of too many body movements from the driver for gearing up or down equals less fatigue which eventually translates into higher concentration on the road from the driver. This equals longer driving hours on the road (a true definition of work made easier). Proper knowledge of good handling techniques of any machine is vital if longer service delivery from the same machine is needed. When moving the mechanical gear lever from   drive to parking, a certain sequence must be observed    or else  difficulty during   shifting back from parking to drive will be experienced. Inside the automatic gearbox on the output shaft, a special drum with slots to hold a locking up device helps the gearbox not to allow the propeller shaft or the drive shaft not to rotate so that the vehicle doesn’t move. This is  why you can never tow  an automatic transmission car while the gear lever is in parking (any kind of rotation is hindered at this point) When you are about to park your car, the sequence is as follows Most people after shifting to parking let off their foot brakes then engage the parking brakes (hand brake). Between the time you leave your foot brakes then engage the hand brake the car will tend to roll forward or backward especially if your parking is on a slope. This turning force loads the locking slots on the output shaft, making it very hard to unlock the gear lever from parking the next time you want to drive. You might even find it so hard that you may want to use both your hands to move your lever from parking and if it comes out, it does so with a loud bang as if something is breaking inside your gearbox. Manual transmission For a manual/stick shift,  traffic jams are the craziest situation you find yourself in. Most drivers find themselves stuck in traffic and in an effort to try and save up on some seconds when the traffic lights go off, they engage the first gear then the rest of the time they engage the clutch fully just waiting for the right moment to let of go the clutch pedal once they get the greenlight. Sometimes this could take 10 minutes or more with your clutch plate fully depressed. This has a big impact on your vehicles pressure plate. Your pressure plate has got fingers that are spring loaded. Resting your foot on it while the engine is running only weakens the fingers on the clutch plate and alters the loading point of the diaphragm effect, thus making your pressure plate prone to clutch judder. It is advised that while in traffic, leave your car in neutral (free) position for as long as it takes. Only step on the clutch while engaging a gear or during disengagement because the pressure plates’ natural position is when it is not under load (clutch pedal not depressed). This would make it last longer. Keep it Motor  Clinic every Thursday  for simplified automotive tips to make your car give you better service and last longer. The writer is the owner of Boosted Auto automotive repair shop Facebook: Boosted Auto