Former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto’s return to Deputy President William Ruto’s camp has complicated the political arithmetic in the county and put governor Hillary Barchok in a tight corner. Rutto, a veteran politician with a gift of the garb, was swept away in the 2017 gubernatorial contest by the Jubilee wave and his return to claim his seat has set the stage for a titanic clash. Barchok has largely been a scholar and was plucked from lecture halls by the late Governor Joyce Laboso. But the Governor has moved to quell the rising tension and a possible split in his house following the entrance of Rutto who is the Chama Cha Mashinani party leader The Star has established that since Monday, Barchok has been holding in meetings at his office as he tries to strategize on how to tame Rutto. He has been enjoying unrivalled support in most parts of the county being the only hopeful among the Jubilee candidates in the region. On Tuesday, the governor held a daylong meeting with all the elected members from the county assembly. On Monday the governor also held several meetings at his office with opinion leaders from Sotik, Laboso’s home turf. In his meetings, however, Barchkok sidelined MCA’s from CCM party and 10 nominated members who are said to be allied to the former governor. It was not immediately known what the discussion centred on but close sources told the Star that key issues affecting the residents which include development and creation of employment opportunities were discussed. Singorwet ward MCA Alfred Langat confided to us that they also deliberated extensively on the current political developments in the county. They did not arrive on any deal on the approaches to be employed with more meetings said to have been lined up. Barchok is also said to be contemplating meeting the Deputy President soon to discuss what Rutto entry means to him. “We told the governor to remain focused and not to be diverted by the entrance of Rutto to should not start unnecessary political wars with him at the expense of his agenda to the people,” he stated. Barchok feels that with the admission of the outspoken and daring CCM party who seems to command a large following in the county, his chances of easily winning the seat in 2022 will be slim. Political analyst and former Bomet mayor Kipkemoi Barsumei says the CCM party leader was under immense pressure from his supporters who feel he has been left out by the train to join hands with the DP. He said the desire for the Kaleniin community to be under one political umbrella under the leadership of the Deputy President made him join the bandwagon. But, the coming in of Rutto according to Barsumei has heralded a new political discussion in town, something that has caused jittery among the supporters of Barchok and which is taking back him to the drawing board. Rutto’s new move has now jilted the support for the current energy and petroleum principal secretary John Mosonik who is seen as an equalizer to the two having set his eyes on the seat. Mosonik intends to vie for the seat and with his entry, the contest will shape up to be a battle of the three political titans. The oratory skills and the gift of the curb will come in handy for Rutto as he faces Barchok and Mosonik who are seen to be soft-spoken but development-oriented.