Gor Mahia coach Vaz Pinto says he still isn’t impressed with the quality of his team despite their emphatic 3-0 win over Zoo Kericho at MISC, Kasarani on Wednesday. “My players are yet to play according to my expectations; they are yet to fully adopt to my philosophy. “We only had a few weeks to train in the preseason. The team needs six weeks to prepare effectively but we only had two weeks,” he said. Pinto, however, lauded his charges for showing more composure and commitment in yesterday’s tie. “Today we played according to instructions unlike in our match against Vihiga, where we failed to control the game,” he added. Meanwhile, Zoo coach Herman Iswekha has lashed out at his charges for failing to live up to expectations. “We lacked maturity in our defence and our strikers didn’t just deliver. I guess they got intimidated by the name,” said Iswekha. The Kericho-based side are yet to win a match this season. Gor came into the match on the back of a shock 0-1 loss to KPL returnees Vihiga United at the same venue last Saturday. Sammy Onyango broke the deadlock in 10th minute after connecting Michael Apudo’s pass to put the hosts in the lead. Six minutes later, Jules Ulimwengu put Onyango through with a well calculated pass but the forward’s shot bumped off the Zoo keeper Maxwell Mulili for a fruitless corner. Zoo forward Collins Neto squandered a one-on-one chance against Boniface Oluoch after Geoffrey Gichana did the donkey work and lays off a pass for him in the area. Kenneth Muguna stabbed the ball into the net in the 32nd minute to double the lead after he was neatly picked out by Onyango. Zoo came back rejuvenated after break and almost pulled one back in the initial stages when Geoffrey Gichana lobbed the ball over an advancing Oluoch but his attempt flew over the crossbar. Gor could have extended their lead in the 49th minute when Philemon Otieno made a swift run down the right channel and fed Sammy Onyango but the forward’s effort was thwarted by a hawk-eyed Mulili. Zoo re-organized themselves moments later and came out in full swing with several inroads in Gor’s territory, pinning them in their own half at will. Sensing danger, K’Ogalo’s Portuguese tactician Vaz Pinto brought made a tactical change, introducing Tito Okello for a visibly worn out Jules Ulimwengu. Pinto later brought in John Macharia and Sydney Ochieng for Samuel Onyango and Kenneth Muguna respectively in the dying minutes of the game as the home team sought to consolidate their foothold. Pinto’s decision paid off as Sydney Ochieng released a rasping shot outside the yard to seal the win for Gor. Elsewhere, Ulinzi Stars picked their first win of the season after surmounting Mathare United 2-1 at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru. Daniel Waweru put Benjamin Nyangweso’s charges ahead in the sixth minute. James Nandwa connected Masuta’s cross to seal the victory for Ulinzi in the 71st minute. Daniel Otieno pulled one back for the Slum Boys in the 88th minute.