North Rift counties are upbeat about bouncing back from Covid-19 shocks, despite losing Sh15 billion in uncollected revenues, rates and stalled projects Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who also chairs the North Rift Economic Bloc said many businesses are back after more than seven months of closure. “Last year was the worst economic period for the counties in the region and as we begin 2021 we are already seeing signs that the future is bright and we will recover faster,” Mandago said. He spoke during the opening of a new cash-and-carry depot for Khetias Supermarket in Eldoret. Mandago said the business sector had exhibited great resilience. Mandago said counties would partner with the private sector to provide the necessary support required to help businesses resume full operations within the shortest time possible. He said the counties in the region were in the process of harmonising their trade tariffs, license fees and other charges to lower the cost of running and opening businesses. “We desire to have the same kind of regimes in our region so that we give investors support to venture into any of our counties as we encourage regional unity,” Mandago said. At the same time, he urged traders to resume full payment of licence fees, parking fees and other charges which had been slowed down because of the pandemic. “The counties now require the taxes due to them so that we can offer the necessary services and jointly support our economies to grow faster so that we can create more jobs for our youth,” Mandago said. He said the county has automated most of its operations to enable residents to transact all operations including application and payments for licences online. Mandago said his county had also resumed work on most projects and they were liaising with the national government to complete stalled ones. In Uasin Gishu, Mandago plans to complete mega projects valued at more than Sh10 billion ahead of next year’s elections. This is his second and last term. Mandago said the agriculture sector was also performing well and would boost economic recovery in the region. He said many farmers were now embracing crop diversification instead of relying on maize and wheat production. “The farmers who took up our call to go for crop diversification two years ago are now harvesting their benefits, especially those who went for new crops in this region like coffee,” Mandago said.  