ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said his journey to State House is unstoppable. Mudavadi, who made his first stab at the presidency in 2013 and finished third after President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, said he has supported others before but this time he must be on the ballot. The ANC boss will vie against Raila and Deputy President William Ruto among other contestants for the country's top post in next year's general election. Reports earlier indicated that Nasa was considering fielding one candidate to run against Ruto. Nasa imploded following the March 9, 2018, handshake between Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Mudavadi said he won't support any other person and criticised Raila for reneging on his 2017 promise to run for the last time. "He said in 2017 that he had one bullet. He has now abandoned his gun because it has no bullets, and now he has taken another person's gun because he wants to load bullets," he said. Mudavadi spoke on Sunday in Matungu when he campaigned for his ANC candidate Peter Nabulindo. He addressed supporters at Mukhweya, Namulungu and Mirere centres. Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala, MPs Ayub Savula (Lugari), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and Vihiga MP Ernest Kagesi and a host of MCAs accompanied Mudavadi. The former vice president has increased visibility in Western and become more aggressive in what is seen as a shift in gear in his drive to consolidate the regional voting bloc ahead of 2022. The morphing union between him and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula to fence the Luhya vote against Raila and Deputy President William Ruto appears to be gaining currency. The two have avoided campaigning against each other in the Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections. Mudavadi said a win for ANC candidate in Matungu would be a win for the Mulembe nation and key to his presidential bid. He said the outcome of the race would restore confidence in him by the rest of Kenyans. Mudavadi also accused Deputy President William Ruto of dishonesty, deceit and disrespect to Kenyans and President Kenyatta. He termed the DP's support of the recently launched UDA party as a mockery of the tenets of democracy and party loyalty. The ANC boss said the DP cannot distance himself from the undertakings of the Jubilee party and the government he formed together with Uhuru. Mudavadi said the promises made by DP Ruto during the burial of Matungu MP Justus Murunga on the issues affecting cane farmers in Western are far-fetched, and it is a mockery to the people of Mumias and the region. 