Thousands of attack victims in the volatile Kapedo on the border of Turkana and Baringo counties are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. Tension is still high, with retaliatory attacks between Pokot and Turkana gunmen taking place since Monday. “Businesses have been closed and the main road connecting Marigat-Chemolingo-Kapedo has been rendered impassable,” Kenya Red-Cross Baringo coordinator Christopher Okoth said on Friday. Residents with business in Marigat, Baringo South, travel on Kenya Defense Forces vehicles. On Monday suspected Pokot gunmen from Tiaty subcounty, Baringo, stormed Kapedo, Turkana East, and killed a 70-year old Turkana man, Ekayapan Edung. Turkana police commander Samuel Ndanyi confirmed the killing and said 10 houses were also torched during the attack. “The elderly man succumbed on the spot while those injured were treated at Kapedo dispensary,” he said. Ndanyi said more KDF, Rapid Deployment Unit and General Service Unit officers have been deployed to beef up security. The attack was in retaliation for the theft of goats from the Pokot in Tiaty by herders believed to be from Turkana. Kapedo is known for skirmishes over unresolved boundary disputes between the Pokot and Turkana. More than 30 people have been killed, many others injured and thousands of animals stolen from both communities since 2014. Okoth said Red Cross has helped to move injured victims to Nakuru General Hospital. He said displaced victims are in urgent need of food, tents, clothes, utensils and mosquito nets. “So far we have tried to donate some items like blankets and jerrycans, although we have ordered for more consignments but the people’s needs are overwhelming,” Okoth said. He said the victims also require mental health and psychosocial support. “The population, among them school-going children, fearing for their lives are now forced to flee their homes and camp around KDF, RDU and GSU camps in Kapedo trading centre,” Okoth said. He said Kapedo primary and secondary schools, which were vandalised, have been closed. The area's only dispensary is also not operational. “Only the presence Red Cross is actually giving the locals hope,” Okoth said. He faulted the county and national governments for keeping silent and failing to intervene to help the victims. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya