India has reversed its earlier decision and lifted the ban on export of Covid-19 vaccines. However, options for Kenya and other African countries are dwindling after US pharmaceutical firm Moderna said it has no plans to supply the continent this year. Pfizer said it can only sell Africa 50 million doses in 2021. The constraints are caused by wealthy nations stockpiling excess vaccines from the two companies, whose injections are highly effective. On Tuesday, India’s Ministry of Health clarified the country had only banned export to private markets. “The union government hasn't banned the export of any one of the Covid vaccines. That is something that should be absolutely clear,” Rajesh Bhushan, the ministry's top official, told the BBC. The AstraZeneca-Oxford University vaccine manufacturer, the Serum Institute of India, also released a statement saying it was ready to make supplies available globally. Serum Institute CEO Adar Poonawalla had said on Sunday the export of vaccines to the Gavi-administered Covax Facility might not begin until March or April, because of the earlier order by the Indian government. This was expected to delay exports to Kenya where the Health ministry said it expected the first doses at the end of this month or next month, from Covax. “Both our companies are fully engaged in this activity and consider it our duty to the nation and the world at large to ensure a smooth rollout of vaccines,” Poonawalla and Bharat Biotech chairman Krishna Ella said in a joint statement on Twitter. Bharat’s vaccine was given emergency use authorisation in India on Sunday, alongside the AstraZeneca vaccine. More than 12 million doses of different Covid-19 vaccines have been distributed in 33 countries worldwide, but none in Africa, according to statistics by Our World In Data, a research group at the University of Oxford. On Tuesday, the South Africa’s Health Department said it tried buy the Moderna vaccine but the company was adamant it has no intention of selling any injections in Africa soon, the Mail and Guardian reported. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe did not immediately respond to Star’s query on Kenya's plans. However, the ministry has not given indication of contingency plans and is only waiting for supply of 24 million doses from the Covax facility. Gavi told the Star the only assurance is that they will start shipping the AstraZeneca vaccine around the world by the end of March. Kenya had hoped to receive the first shipment at the end of this month. “Our goal, supported by the Government of India, remains to begin supplying doses in the first quarter of this year so that all countries can have timely and equitable access to vaccines,” a Gavi spokesman told the Star. (Edited by V. Graham)