Three Kirinyaga MPs have appealed for unity among leaders regardless of their political affiliation for the benefit of residents. Kabinga Wachira (Mwea), Gichimu Githinji (Gichugu) and Kirinyaga Central’s  Munene Wambugu  urged leaders to close ranks  before  major shifts expected in the political scene ahead of the 2022 General Election. They spoke to the media after a church service at Kiamachiri Anglican Church in Mwea. “This year and part of next year will be characterised by lots of scrambles and lobbying  for resources as all leaders will be striving to develop their home counties. We therefore need to marshal our team for the sake of the development of our county ,” Kabinga said. The MP praised the unity that has so far existed among colleagues from the county, saying it has eased their work in Parliament as they can count on one another whenever Kirinyaga matters are brought to the House. He asked fellow leaders to take advantage of President Uhuru Kenyatta's remaining time to champion for more resources to Kirinyaga and completion of unfinished projects. “We know the President better understands our concerns and because there is a likelihood of Mt Kenya region not fielding a presidential candidate in 2022, it’s best we utilise the remaining time under his leadership to address our plight,” Kabinga said. Gichimu supported the division of the vast Mwea constituency to  channel more resources to the area. Kirinyaga Central’s Munene Wambugu urged local leaders and county residents to support the national government's development projects . The three legislatures urged all education stakeholders to help oversee the observance of all  Covid-19 guidelines as schools reopen after a nine-month break. They promised to go around schools within their constituencies distributing masks and other essentials as well as monitoring progress. “I would like to appeal to all parents to always provide their children with proper masks before leaving for school. The school management should also shoulder the responsibility of ensuring that their pupil abide by the government’s health protocols at all times,” Gichimu said. Edited by Henry Makori