ODM leader Raila Odinga has cautioned Mt Kenya residents that they risk losing a lifetime opportunity if they are persuaded to reject changes envisioned in the BBI referendum. Raila, President Uhuru Kenyatta's political buddy, said there may never be another opportunity for the region to negotiate for the kind of goodies contained in the report. “Bahati haipigi hodi mara mbili (Good luck doesn’t knock twice). Opportunities have wings; if not taken, they fly away,” Raila said in an interview with Kameme TV. This was the same message by President Kenyatta during an interview with Kikuyu radio stations last week. Raila said the region should look at the BBI process not as for taking him to State House but as a step towards solving Kenya's problems. “My appeal to Mt Kenya is to look at BBI positively. It has many good things in it that will accelerate development in the grassroots,” the ODM leader said. Mt Kenya is argued to be the biggest beneficiary of the BBI drive. It will get the highest allocation of new constituencies, which come with many benefits. All recruitment to the security forces are done at the constituency; cash transfers to the elderly and the orphans are also done at the constituency level. Each constituency also gets Sh100 million annually in CDF. BBI seeks to increase county revenue share to 35 per cent, gives a seven-year tax holiday for youth-owned businesses, grants for businesses, and incubation centres for start-ups. However, Deputy President William Ruto and his allies have opposed the drive saying it's only meant to create jobs for the "big boys"  Raila opened up about his relationship with Mt Kenya saying it traces back to the days of his father Jaramogi Oginga. The ODM leader said he has no problem with the Agikuyu community, adding that if people were to talk of political debts, he is the one who is owed. He relived the times when his father refused to take the offer of being prime minister because Jomo Kenyatta  was still in detention. Raila referred to a letter by Mbiu Koinange and the late Vice President Josephat Murumbi praising Jaramogi for standing with Kenyatta. “He (Jaramogi) agreed to let Kenyatta rule. This brought tranquillity between Luos and Kikuyus and later ushered the country’s Independence.” Raila also revisited how he led campaigns for retired President Mwai Kibaki in 2002 when the latter was hospitalised in London following a road accident. He said his March 2018 handshake with President Kenyatta had nothing to do with the succession politics but for the sake of the country. “What we are doing is to unite Kenyans and forget the past. I was the one who was betrayed, twice. It is me who is owed. I have no one’s debt. “The friendship we are building is a Kenyans issue, not just Kikuyu and Luos. If that friendship is enriched, we will be far.” Raila said it was not right for Ruto and his allies to blame ODM for the Jubilee’s inaction on its 2013 and 2017 election pledges. He accused those against the handshake of being “dishonest, dreaming and acting like they dropped from heaven today. “Jubilee leaders know where the problem lies. Let them not blame us after we created an environment to bring people together.” “There is a problem in government and they know. It is a shame that we are defending them to solve their problem but it appears they are beaten to it.” Raila said the handshake brought peace and therefore allowed Jubilee to work and deliver on its promises to Kenyans. “I have no government office; no salary; and no allowances. I am not in Cabinet. I don’t know the issues they discuss. “Those saying handshake is to blame are spreading propaganda. Ask them how Raila stopped them from working,” the former PM said. Raila asked Ruto to reach out to the President so that they resolve their issues, further advising him to take cue from his father Jaramogi. The latter wrote to President Jomo Kenyatta asking to vacate office after his powers were distributed to eight vice presidents. The ODM leader reminisced how his father “didn’t want to sit in office and earn without working.” Raila said he wouldn’t want to advise the DP but it was up to the two (Ruto and Uhuru) to deal with their differences as partners in government. The ODM leader, on why he no longer attacks the government, said he speaks with President Kenyatta directly on issues affecting Kenyans. “I used to speak openly but these days I speak with him directly. I tell him to act. Because of the split, they don’t act.” He cited instances where the DPP and EACC have come under political attack whenever they move to arrest graft suspects. On the 2022 campaigns, the former PM said it would have been better if the country got into elections mode at least a year to the vote. “It would have been better if we put 2022 issues aside and give at least a year to election for the government to work,” he said. Raila defended his tours to popularise the BBI saying he will speak about the 2022 election when the time comes. “I don’t want to say I will be candidate or not. For now, I want to sell BBI, which we want to leave as a legacy.” Raila cited the Youth Commission as a BBI proposal that will help improve their lives compared to wheelbarrows. “No one wants to be mama mboga or handcart pusher all his life. We need policies that present upward mobility for the people as proposed in the BBI,” Raila said. He also dismissed claims the proposed new system of government – with a prime minister, two deputies, and leader of the Opposition – would be expensive. “You can’t compare that with now where we have 349 MPs and over 22 ministers all paid and earning allowances.” “It will be cheaper than the current system of government. We need a Prime Minister. This should not be taken as giving tribes jobs,” Raila said, adding that having ministers in Parliament will improve accountability. 