Political leaders from Taita Taveta have asked the Kenya Wildlife Service to enlist more of their unemployed youths as community scouts. KWS will conduct the countywide recruitment of at least 5,500 community scouts on Tuesday. Speaking to youth volunteers during an ongoing clean-up along Voi-Mtito Andei corridor in Tsavo National Park on Sunday, Woman Representative Lydia Haika said young people in the region should be given priority. “This is the only time for KWS to redeem its relationship with the community by recruiting more locals for the programme. There are hundreds of qualified and jobless youth who should be considered,” Haika said. Deputy Governor Majala Mlagui said the community had not fully benefited from the expansive national park that occupies over 62 per cent of the county’s land. She said the rampant human-wildlife conflict in the county has for years soured the relationship between the conservation body and the community. The legislator said prioritising engagement of youths from the county would perfectly serve as part of giving back to society. The leaders have been at loggerheads with KWS over revenue collection, resources sharing and management of Kenya's largest conservancy. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja has been on forefront  in petitioning KWS over the park’s revenue. The petition will seek to push KWS to remit to the county government at least 30 per cent of over Sh60 billion collected annually from Tsavo Nationa Park. He said the move is aimed at liberating the people from the suppression occasioned by the KWS. “It is high time this county benefits from Tsavo West National Park. It is very sad seeing that over 62 per cent of our county is in the National Park and yet we get nothing from it,” Samboja said. He said the residents have suffered from the conflict despite the government earning billions from the park. He said no revenue is remitted to the county government. However, Tourism and Wildlife CS Najib Balala in 2019 asked Samboja to drop his constant push to have Tsavo National Park converted to a game reserve. Balala said running the park was too expensive for the county and that handing over the expansive twin park to Taita Taveta is a threat to the conservancy. “The cost of running KWS is more than Sh8 billion while the revenue collected is Sh4 billion. This means that the extra Sh4 billion comes from the Treasury. No single county has a capacity to manage that,” he said. Voi legislator Jones Mlolwa asked the government to give the community scouts permanent employment instead of the one-year contract. Mlolwa said the youth groups had shown passion in conservation and that they should be rewarded. The Tsavo conservation area assistant director Kenneth Ochieng said that over 12,000 youths from the county had applied for the posts. He said they were later vetted and only 5,000 have been shortlisted for the Tuesday recruitment. “We are yet to know the number of recruits to be picked, more information shall be given during recruitment at Moi Stadium in Voi town,” Ochieng told the Star. He reassured recruits that the exercise shall be free and fair. The government targets to recruit the scouts under the Covid-19 economic stimulus programme.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris