Leading gaming company Mozzart on Friday 22 January donated Intensive Care Unit (ICU) medical equipment worth Ksh 1.5 million to Mukuru Center in Nairobi as part of its ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative named “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities.” Donated equipment include hospital beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, incubators and bedside trolleys. Dr Joel Mutheka, the doctor in charge of the facility thanked Mozzart for the donations. “I appreciate Mozzart for the good work they have been doing from last year and encourage them to continue. This equipment will greatly improve our service delivery.” He said. Florence Nyika, a midwife at the facility said the health center would now offer better services to the mwananchi. “I want to assure Mozzart that the equipment is in safe hands and will greatly serve the common man in Mukuru. We are very grateful and thank Mozzart for this noble gesture.” she said. June Jemutai, Mozzart’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) representative assured that the company will continue supporting more public health centers. “We have been supporting different health care facilities since Covid-19 struck last year. We initially gave out Personal Protective Equipment (PPE’s) worth Ksh 10 million across different counties and thought it would be wise to do more,” she said, “We are eager to do more in regards to maternal and child healthcare going forward. Kindly accept our donations and use them for the intended purpose – to serve the community. We will continue supporting the most vulnerable Kenyans and are ready to help whenever called upon.” She added. Between November 2020 and now, sixteen different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center and now the Mukuru Health Center. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.