Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho wants ex-Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko arrested and charged with post-election violence. The PS said Sonko had admitted participating in criminal activities and should not be allowed to get away. "Enough is enough. Apart from answering to criminal charges, I'm suing him for libel for assassinating my character. All the manner of things he has said against me, he must prove them one by one.” On Sunday, Sonko claimed the PS together with other government mandarins christened "deep state" planned and executed violence in the run-up to the 2017 general election and blamed it on ODM. Sonko further claimed that in 2017 during ODM demonstrations to demand electoral reforms, he and Kibicho printed ODM T-shirts and distributed them to their supporters to show it was the Orange party doing it. "We then bought second-hand vehicles and burnt them so people would say it's ODM. It was the deep state and the system," he said at an event attended by Deputy President William Ruto in Dagoretti, Nairobi. He was referring to ongoing violent incidents being reported and blamed on the dynasty-hustler narrative that is fronted by the Tangatanga political brigade. On Monday, Kibicho, in his personal capacity, told DCI boss George Kinoti and director of investigations John Kariuki that Sonko’s outburst amounted to confession and admission of his involvement in a serious crime that should be acted on. “When you talk of assassinating someone and us burning vehicles, that is criminal and can’t be left to go unchallenged. It will grow horns. I can assure you I don’t start something I won’t finish,” he said. He recorded a one-page statement in which he accused Sonko of admitting a serious crime. “I, as a private citizen, have decided to break that circle. It is not okay for Sonko to continue making wild allegations against people, some of serious criminal nature and get away with it. I have had enough. For the longest time whenever the former governor had a problem, he blamed Kibicho,” the PS said. Kibicho said Sonko had claimed they wanted to kill him and the Deputy President the way they allegedly killed Saitoti, because of his political stand and now he has claimed how he and Sonko were involved in crime in 2017 election violence. But Sonko dared the PS to "bring it on". He maintained that what he said was true. "Throughout my public life, I have never made any allegations that I cannot substantiate, including the truth I spoke yesterday (Sunday). "I, therefore, look forward to an invitation from the DCI to record my statement, and for the PS to move to court quickly so that I can table all the evidence I have for Kenyans to see and judge for themselves," he said. Elsewhere, ODM demanded a probe on and action against Sonko. “ODM demands a full inquiry into the matter to establish the motives and extent of these mafia-like covert criminal acts as well as all persons and institutions involved,” said party secretary-general Edwin Sifuna. “As a party, we remain committed to civility in competition for power, the rule of law and peaceful settlement of differences and disputes.” Sifuna said for a long time, their detractors have used and abused state power in a systematic attempt to depict ODM as violent and members as purveyors of anarchy. “This view has been perpetuated despite our sincere efforts to communicate the truth that it is the enemies of ODM that have authored, planned and executed these dirty schemes,” he said. 