The reason for the Chinese presence in resource-rich Africa is to exploit the people, take away their resources and capitalise it. It is what European colonists did during mercantile times, except worse. The Chinese corporations are trying to turn Africa into another Chinese continent. They are squeezing Africa for everything it is worth. According to Centre for Strategic & International Studies, China has made investments in more than 11 ports in the African continent namely Cape Verde, Guinea, Sierra Leona, Ivory Coast, Republic of Congo, Angola, South Africa, Mozambique, Tanzania, Djibouti, Sudan, Ghana, Togo, Nigeria, Cameroon and Mauritania. Chinese companies are working as either operators or funders or both. In the long run Africa will be a Chinese turned concrete land with neither resources and nor benefits to the African people. Zambian politician Michael Sata, in a paper presented to Harvard University in 2007 said: “European colonial exploitation in comparison to Chinese exploitation appears benign, because even though the commercial exploitation was just as bad, the colonial agents also invested in social and economic infrastructure services Chinese investment, on the other hand, is focused on taking out of Africa as much as can be taken out, without any regard to the welfare of the local people.” Now that the countries are aware of Chinese debt policies, major steps have been taken to avoid history. Myanmar is cautious about China-Myanmar Economic Corridor. As they showed resistance to China. Myanmar’s Ministers in the civilian government have equal reservations against the Chinese investment in Myanmar. China is interested in Kyaukphyu a special economic zone. China wishes to develop a port in Kyaukphyu that will reduce its dependence from Strait of Malacca from where Chinese maximum trade is carried out. Strait of Malacca, which is the trade artery for China and is dominated by US military, the fear of trade and dependence will reduce once the port is developed. Also, the port has Oil and gas pipeline connectivity, an added advantage for the Chinese, which is always thirsty for resources-rich properties and regions to exploit. Deputy Minister of Planning and Chairman of Kyaukphyu SEZ Management Committee Uset Aung, openly warned against falling into Chinese debt trap. He has stressed that “Chinese projects must have commercial viability and benefit Myanmar. Now Chinese funded port is at $1.3 billion in scope from initial $ 7.2 billion. Even Central Bank Deputy Governor U Bo Bo Nge called ties with china a “hated marriage.” Sierra cancelled $318 million airport project. Leone cancelled a $400m (£304m) Chinese-funded project to build a new airport outside the capital Freetown. Hungary, Tanzania and Bangladesh have also cancelled projects with China. It’s evident that the world is coming together and will stands united against Chinese debt policies. African needs a debt relief of $152 billion to fight COVID-19 of. Civil war in South Sudan, Libyan Crisis are added features to COVID-19. It is high time Africa realises evil intentions of China and fights the debt trap. Also, China’s economy shrank for the first time in four decades. The first quarter GDP falls 6.8% in wake of COVID outbreak. Beijing will soon have no resources to fund BRI in future. And China might even suffer an economic shock and a showdown just like 2008 US’s Housing Bubble. In the quest of humiliation to other countries, China will sink in its own debt trap and doom its future.