National Super League toppers FC Talanta will be looking to arrest their two-match winless streak when they host debutants Silibwet Leons at the Ruaraka grounds today. Talanta got off the season's blocks with a pulsating pace, bagging maximum points in the opening three rounds. However, the Ken Kenyatta-coached side has faded off in the last two matches, collecting a point out of a possible six. The Communication Authority of Kenya-sponsored club was gunned down 2-1 by Kenya Police in the fourth round before playing Sony Sugar which has apparently rebranded to Gusii United to a two-all draw. Kenyatta will be keen to floor the visiting Silibwet and maintain a firm grip at the top of the log. Silibwet, who were recently gifted a bus by the Deputy President William Ruto, will be out to bounce back to their winning ways after playing APS Bomet to a three-all stalemate in their last match. Talanta top the league with 10 points while Silibwet have defied all odds and league inexperience to sit seventh with eight points. Second-placed Coast Stima will be out to dim Nairobi Stima's lamp and redeem themselves from a 1-0 loss to Shabana when they host their fellow power men  at the Mbaraki grounds. Coast Stima have garnered 10 points but their goal difference is inferior to that of Talanta. They, however, sit over third ranked Fortune Sacco who also have 10 points against their name. Sacco will be hoping that  winning fortunes  swing in their favour when they tackle a bottom placed Murang'a Seal at the Kianyaga grounds.  In other matches lined up for the day, Kibera Black Stars seek to stop Migori Youth away. Kibera, who are under the tutelage of Elvis Ayany, have shaken off a false start to take the fourth spot with nine points–same as fifth-ranked former top flight side Kisumu All Stars who confront neighbours Chemelil Sugar at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu. League newbies Mwatate United will be aiming to record their second win of the season when they play host to Kenya Police at the Wundanyi Stadium. Mwatate ended their wait for their maiden win in the second tier last weekend after seeing off Murang'a Seal 1-0. The win saw them unhook themselves from the red line and hope that their exchange of fire with the sixth-ranked Police will end in their favour. Mt Kenya United tackle Soy United at the Camp Toyoyo with both teams pursuing their first win of the season. Modern Coast Rangers play Shabana at the Serani grounds while APS Bomet battle it out with Soy United at Bomet.