The determination of a boss at Coast-based water parastatal to sack an employee for exposing his excesses has caught the attention of many at the entity. The man wants the employee out on charges of disclosing company secrets, some being claims of graft. Concerned workers told Corridors that some of the reasons for which the employee is being sent away involved someone who has since died. They want the EACC under the stewardship of CEO Twalib Mbarak to turn its lenses on the entity with a view to unearthing the man's little kept secrets that he doesn’t want to be revealed. An opposition politician has become a centre of speculation among his colleagues for what they suspect is his plan to shift allegiance to another Nasa co-principal ahead of 2022 General Election. The young politician known for living beyond his means has been frequenting offices of the principal in what colleagues claim is his usual way of looking for greener pastures to sustain his lifestyle. Those who are aware of the happenings told Corridors that it is just a matter of time before he abandons his current party to join the other group which has demonstrated signs of opulence in recent months. There is disquiet among senior officials of a party over embezzlement of funds set aside to meet the costs of popularising the BBI. Some members of the secretariat have been pocketing allowances meant for delegates attending sensitisation meetings. At one meeting, the delegates were told to leave their phone numbers and promised they would receive their allowances via M-Pesa.  It has been over a month and the delegates are still waiting for the cash. Another delegation at a different gathering went home empty-handed after the officials disappeared in thin air, the same having promised reimbursements at the end of the meeting. Suba North MP Millie Odhiambo appears to have rattled some quarters in the pro-BBI circles with her explanation of how additional seats for women lawmakers will create jobs. Corridors overheard the lot lamenting that they were not happy with the 30,000 jobs theory by the lawmaker. Their rage is that while they were working hard to dissuade the masses from the notion that BBI will create more positions, the MP's explanation could muddy the waters. They hold that it was time the women leaders explained the essence of gender balance in Parliament in a way that does not make things harder in the face of measurable resistance against the BBI.