Deputy President William Ruto has warned that there is no room for divisive politics in Kenya ahead of the 2022 polls. He said Kenyans were more concerned about their challenges than tribal politics. Ruto spoke on Sunday during a prayer service at the House of Worship Church-Kayole, in Nairobi. "We cannot degenerate. When we supported President Uhuru Kenyatta, it was not because of his tribe but agenda and programmes that promised to transform this nation," Ruto said. He said those opposed to his candidature had in 2013 told him not to support Uhuru because he was a Kikuyu. On BBI, Ruto said the discussions should not only revolve around leaders and how they will share positions but empowerment and job creation for ordinary Kenyans. The DP said the government was committed to finishing all the projects initiated in Nairobi County, noting the delays witnessed in some areas were occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot said the country was in trying period as leaders retreat to their tribal cocoons. "We should never return to that path of discrimination in terms of tribe and religion," he said. South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro said the language used by politicians risked taking the country in a dangerous path. "We need to be careful on how we communicate; we are losing it," Osoro said. On his part, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro critisised former Prime Minister Raila Odinga over his constant attacks on hustler nation. "We cannot be useful when paying taxes, when voting for you and other rich individuals, then we become useless when we request a space in decision making of this country," he argued. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria said the hustler nation was not against any tribe or family as it seeks support of Kenyans in forming the next government. Kuria said the opponents of hustler nation had embarked on negative campaign to discredit Ruto as witnessed in Vihiga over the weekend. Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, warned leaders against divisive politics which was setting a bad precedent to the young generation and their ambitions. His sentiments were echoed by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, Embakasi West MP George Theuri, Nyeri County MP Rahab Mukami and Embakasi North James Gakuya who said the country and its leadership need to change the political narrative of of the country. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura said Mt Kenya region will remain steadfast in the promise made to Deputy President. Other leaders present were Nixon Korir (Lang’ata), Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central), Stephen Ngare (Ndia), Millicent Omanga (Nominated Senator) and Nelson Koech (Belgut). Bishop Margaret Wanjiru who has been Nominated by UDA to vie for Nairobi Gubernatorial seat by-election said it was the responsibility of leaders to address the bitting unemployment among youths. She urged Kenyans to ignore tribal politics being advanced by those against to hustler movement. Meanwhile, Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the President has an uphill task in uniting the country.