The rains expected this weekend will end on Monday in most places, the Met Department says. Although many places only experienced dark clouds on Friday, Met said the prediction still stands and rains would still come. The wet weather is expected in parts of the Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the central and south Rift Valley, and the highlands east of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi county). The southeastern lowlands ((Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Kajiado and Taita Taveta counties) and the Northeast ((Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo counties) were also expected to receive heavy rainfall Friday and Saturday. The five-day forecast ending on January 27 shows most of the country will revert to dry weather on Monday. The rains are welcome to farmers who have not harvested their crops planted late last year. The October-December short rains were depressed and most meteorological stations recorded below 75 per cent of the December long term averages. This is because Kenya is going through a La Nina. Last week, the Famine Early Warning Systems Network, supported by USAID, warned of a decline in food security across Kenya. Most affected will be people in eastern and northern Kenya, who will need relief food and livestock off-take by May. The outlook said pastoral areas will be most affected because the short rains were below average and there are three dry months ahead. The early warning platform advises farmers to sell some of their livestock through off-take programmes. “The forecast below-average 2021 long rains are expected to lead to short-lived pasture and water regeneration, and gradual declines in livestock body conditions and production, limiting household access to food and income,” the FewsNet prediction said. It said urban families will also suffer food shortages due to low incomes and higher-priced commodities impacting household purchasing power. Kenya Livestock Marketing Council chairman Dubat Amey recently advised pastoralists in Northeastern to start selling their livestock to avoid losing them during the looming dry season. According to the Nairobi-based Igad Climate Prediction and Application Centre, there will be hot weather in most parts of the country between now and March. Edited by Henry Makori