Kenya Methodist University has become the first institution to officially triple fees paid by government-sponsored students. A proposal to increase fees for government-sponsored students has yet to get approval of the government. A school fees structure seen by the Star shows Pharmacy students will now pay Sh54,000 per semester up from the previous Sh20,500. Already, an uproar by students has pushed the student council to call for withdrawal of the fee increment to make room for consultations. Peter Onyango, the student council chairperson, in a letter to students said: “This is to inform you that the student council has heard the great outpour and outcry on the issue of fee increment unilaterally carried out by the administration and is working tirelessly to resolve the matter before the reporting date.” The concern has also been raised by the Kenya Universities Student Organisation. In a letter, William Onkoba, the KUSO academic affairs secretary said: “It has been brought to my attention the purported triple increase in fees for all the government students in the university… I, therefore, request that the increment be terminated with immediate effect and proper communication be made to comrades,” the letter reads. The letter was copied to the Education ministry, other KUSO officials and the students. Kemu  vice chancellor David Gichoya on Wednesday told the Star the institution would respond to the matter. The proposal to increase university fees has been an on and off debate since 2019 but gained momentum after receiving major backing from the Education ministry, the Treasury and a section of legislators. However, proposed implementation will start with new students, the 2019 KCSE candidates who qualified for university places. The proposal is now set to be fronted to President Uhuru Kenyatta and the Cabinet this month for consideration. The Education ministry will be responsible for drafting the Cabinet proposal for the fee increment, among other issues. It seeks to find a remedy for the dwindling financial health of public universities. The university bosses argue that the college cost has been on a mostly upward trend for the last two decades. However, the fees have remained at a constant Sh16,000 for the last 30 years. In addition to high tuition prices, paying for housing, food, transportation, books, and other school-related fees add to college expenses. While reading the 2019 national budget, then-Treasury CS Henry Rotich hinted at a possible increase of fees in the institutions of higher learning. He noted that this would be necessary to address the funding challenges faced the institutions.