A section of Rift Valley Jubilee leaders is popularising the new United Democratic Party linked to Deputy President William Ruto. But they also maintain they will not quit the Jubilee Party and will not be pushed out "without any casualties". They said on Monday that despite the clear falling out between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto over 2022, they will not be shaken and will push to get what is rightfully theirs in Jubilee. The leaders allied to DP Ruto said the Jubilee party was formed following the folding up of the United Republican Party and thus they have equal shares in Jubilee. “We have a new vehicle called UDA but that does not mean we have quit Jubilee…we shall not be pushed out by anyone merely because of differences between Uhuru and Ruto. We are going to fight to the end,” Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok said. While urging  residents to support UDA, Barchok said the new political outfit was their new home and that they will be using it in the run-up to the 2022 polls - “if things fail to work well in Jubilee”. Speaking in Bomet, the county chief said the threats against leaders perceived to be associated with the DP will not move them into backing off from declaring their political stands. Konoin MP Brighton Yegon and his Sotik counterpart Dominic Koskei, speaking separately, criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta for saying only two tribes have led Kenya since Independence. They said the conversation at the moment should be about rich and poor, not about ethnic backgrounds. Yegon said it was wrong and insensitive for the President to introduce tribal talk  when the country was heading into the next general election. He said with the increasing political heat should tell the head of state to lead by example in preaching peace rather than venting his anger in a way likely to incite other communities. Koskei said Kenyans have always elected a president not on the basis of tribe but based on their popularity and agenda for the nation. “We do not elect leaders because of their ethnicities but on what an individual presents to the nation at a large…such talk should be avoided as it will ignite unnecessary tensions among communities that have been coexisting together in peace,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)