Mombasa County Governor Hassan Joho has blasted Deputy President William Ruto and his allies on their remarks to have a political party from the coastal region. In a statement on Sunday, Joho, who is also the ODM party Deputy leader said that Ruto has undermined the development in the coastal area. He said that the move to push for a new party to unite the coastal region is not a new thing and is only meant to benefit a few individuals who are close to the DP. “Formation of a new party will only serve to divide the people further r and undermine the unity that the region has enjoyed in ODM and which has enabled them to push our agenda as a united region on the national stage,” Joho said. His remarks come after Coast MPs allied to Ruto disclosed a plan to hasten the formation of a regional party to completely lockout ODM from the region. The legislators said that the recent victory of their candidate in Msambweni marked the begging of the end of ODM and have now embarked on the formation of an outfit to 'wipe out' the Orange party. He said that the move to push for a new party to unite the coastal region is not a new thing and is only meant to benefit a few individuals who are close to the DP. “Formation of a new party will only serve to divide the people further r and undermine the unity that the region has enjoyed in ODM and which has enabled them push our agenda as a united region on the national stage,” Joho said. The governor added that Ruto is behind the push for the party formation, challenging the leaders who are allied to him to declare their stand and surrender their current positions. “Like their sponsor William Ruto, these leaders lack the courage to say have moved and they are ready to surrender their current positions and seek a fresh mandate.” He referred to the people behind the formation of a regional party as ‘fraudsters and conmen’. “We are talking about the people who say Jubilee Party and ODM have failed the people of the coast but the same leaders continue to earn salaries on the basis of votes cast for Jubilee and ODM in 2017.” Joho has purported that the DP and his allies have become the enemy of the progress in the region but, the area has benefited from the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. “Since Ruto and his team got pushed aside in the ruling party, on-going development projects that have the potential to change the fortunes of the region have continued to flow to the coast from the national government.” He has asked the people behind the intention to form the coastal regional party to be bold enough and quit their parties and seek a fresh mandate. “Kenya and the Coast will not progress through fraud and lies. We need honest and principled leadership.”