A senior police officer in one of the counties in Western has laughed off threats by residents to push for his transfer. The man, who has been in the area for almost a decade, told residents that they can make all the noise they want but he will not be transferred as he enjoys protection from a top police officer in Nairobi. What is more annoying to locals is his close relationship with businessmen who deal in contraband goods from Uganda. The residents are said to be planning to stage a demonstration next week hoping to catch the attention of Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai (pictured). *** County officials from the former Eastern Province could be facing graft prosecution. There are allegations of procurement improprieties in the supply and delivery of a fire engine that could soon make heads roll. Firstly, the supplier is said to have been rigged the tender as it did not meet requirements. The firm also lacked necessary experience and used dubious means to demonstrate its qualifications. It's said the firm attached a falsified notification of award from a county in the Rift Valley to show that they had supplied similar equipment. Even more curious is that the bidder was given 50 per cent advance payment of the contract sum, contrary to law. The accounting officer even failed to issue regret letters to the losing bidders. *** Some top government operatives who had huge political ambitions have shelved them after sensing they were being set up. The officials had been encouraged to form a pair and hit the ground to show their aspirations but after internal consultations, they decided against it. Corridors was told the decision was taken after they realised that their opponents had taken advantage of many issues in the government to undermine their offices. The officials are rarely seen at political events nowadays as their focus is on their official duties of serving the nation. *** An outspoken lawmaker risks blowing up his political credentials and façade of integrity by consorting with rich women. The MP from Western has been heard bragging how his 2022 campaign will be well-oiled, given the financial muscle he has amassed from his expectant clandestine wife. The first-term lawmaker is dating a controversial figure who is also keen to topple a bigwig in the 2022 polls. However, the affair has caused him much travail back in the constituency as he’s seen as an opportunistic leech out to suck people dry while his young children and hard-working first wife suffer. 