The terrorist attack on the DusitD2 Complex in Nairobi was planned on social media, investigators have told the Star. A probe into the January 15, 2019 incident shows the attackers opened a Facebook account and used it in their planning to the last day of the raid. In the account, they exchanged ideas on the best weapons to use and how to use them in executing the mission. The account ran for almost six months undetected until and after the attack. Detectives from the Anti-Terror Police Unit stumbled on the account as they sieved through gadgets recovered from the house of one of the suspects involved in the attack. They have since confirmed the terrorists had avoided using mobile phones in their communication and shifted to Facebook to coordinate the mission. The scramble by political bigwigs for Central Kenya votes has triggered confusion in President Uhuru Kenyatta's backyard, threatening the BBI fortunes in the crucial region. The Star has established that positioning by the country's top political leaders ahead of the 2022 general election has sparked major alignments and realignments in Uhuru's backyard. There are fears that the lack of a clear region successor after the President exits next year has also opened a vicious battlefront among the region's heavyweights seeking to pull strings after Uhuru. Information gleaned from interviews with a couple of leaders from the President's home turf, painted a picture of a region whose leaders are embroiled in politics of individual survival. July of 2019 is perhaps the date that marked the beginning of the troubles for the once giant teachers union KNUT. A series of disagreements on the promotion of teachers, transfer, and registration had opened up a legal battle between the Teacher Service Commission and the Kenya National Union of Teachers. The court case, filed by the TSC turned to be the bedrock of the union's downfall. The outcome of the case was ruled on July 12 by Labour relations court Bryam Ongaya and largely favoured KNUT. While KNUT boasted of the win, the TSC tactically implemented the verdict to craft the end of the road for the union. Read these intrigues in Siasa in your Friday copy of the Star. Deputy President William Ruto is increasingly walking a political tightrope with his boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta, clearly laying a grand scheme to vanquish his State House run. With at most 18 months left in his final term, Uhuru has launched an aggressive campaign to block his deputy's bid, leaving him with limited options. Just last week, Uhuru in no holds barred remarks threw his deputy under the bus, suggesting an end to the Kikuyu-Kalenjin dominion of the presidency. Uhuru's shocking and dramatic pronouncements jolted Ruto’s game plan and at the same time handled key opposition figures, a political lifeline ahead of the 2022 General Election. The Star examines this new development this Friday in Siasa. Deputy President William Ruto has moved to consolidate his Rift Valley backyard in efforts to ensure the political base is behind his bid. The Star has established that the DP is expected to reconcile with former Bomet Governor Issac Rutto on Friday. Ruto will be in Bomet for a series of development projects events through the invitation of the County Government. Meanwhile, ODM leader Raila Odinga has intensified his engagement with Nairobi’s grassroots. On Thursday, he met traders in Githurai and also attended prayers led by Kikuyu elders in Nairobi.