President Uhuru Kenyatta’s remarks that perhaps it’s time for other communities, other than Kikuyu and Kalenjin to take up the mantle of leadership when his term ends has unsurprisingly attracted a lot of attention. As expected, his statement has been applauded and criticised in equal measure depending on one’s political persuasion. It is a self-evident truth that Kenya’s political elite continue to perpetuate identity politics to preserve the status quo in furtherance of their interests. As we embark on what promises to be a politically charged year, communities will be mobilised ‘to stand by their own’ in the political high table. Amidst all this power play and realpolitik, what is lost on us Kenyans is that the issue of inclusion will not be solved by creating more political seats but rather, embracing social justice which advocates for critical issues such as equal access to resources, equity and human rights, to name but a few. Our political parties, which would have been the proper platforms to espouse these ideals continue to be nothing but special purpose vehicles for competing in elections. Jubilee Party, which has been in power since 2013, is hurtling on the path of becoming a shell just like its predecessors PNU, Narc and Kanu. Kenyans will continue being taken on a merry-go-round of constitutional amendments not to make the country better but tailor-made to cater for the interests of the powers that be. Without social justice, access to proper medical care will remain a mirage for the poor, the security apparatus will continue criminalising the poor by arbitrarily arresting and killing them, and social inequality will continue to widen as wealth remains in the hands of a few well-connected individuals. These, and not the creation of political seats, are some of the real issues bedeviling our country today. Why is it so hard for the government to address the current healthcare crisis? Is it because those in leadership positions do not bother about public health facilities since they do not seek services there? It is immoral to expand government without coming up with policies and programmes that will ensure inherent dignity of all Kenyans. Most public hospitals have beautiful architecture but a visit inside paints a completely opposite picture since they lack even basic medication. Where is the dignity in having a country that is obsessed with large infrastructural projects some of which are not economically viable and yet mothers continue dying while giving birth in public hospitals? Is it so urgent to be represented by two senators per county while children in public schools continue to be taught under trees in harsh climatic conditions? In the golden words of Mahatma Gandhi, ‘A nation’s greatness is measured by how it treats its weakest members’. Social justice appeals to the conscience of leaders who unfortunately seem to have none left in them. What is imperative for most is grabbing and retaining power as well as primitive acquisition of wealth. Even those associated with the Deputy President’s so-called hustler movement are only trying to use the poor as a ladder to achieve their political ambitions. Theirs is identity politics based on social class, which is dangerous as it would ignite a fire that would also consume them since they belong to the class they are disparaging. They better be advised not to throw stones yet they live in glass houses. As for Uhuru, while he has done well in infrastructure development, it is during his tenure that the government has trampled on the poor by having a punitive tax regime for the informal sector and SMEs, demolishing houses in low-income neighbourhoods in total violation of court orders and a rise in police brutality directed at the poor who have little access to the criminal justice system. His legacy will be more impactful if he concentrates on the big four agenda especially the universal health coverage pillar. This will give dignity to the downtrodden and create a more equal society. Yes, let’s build bridges in Kenya; bridges for redistribution of wealth, eradication of poverty and access to equity and human rights. Political analyst and Operations manager, Pride of East Africa Ltd