Comedian Wakimani has explained how he lost many friends because of his drinking habits. He would go out for drinks with friends and after a night of partying, he would black out and never remember the activities of the night before. Speaking to Massawe Japanni on her show on Radio Jambo, he narrated how he fought with a policeman and later the activities that followed. "I fought a lot with people and it was not a good thing. That is one thing I would not like to remember. It has not been easy, it has not been funny." Wakimani said his biggest regret when he was an alcoholic was the drama and fights he got into that lost him friends. "I regret the friends I lost. I always want that chance to reach out to them. I would like them to know that I'm really sorry about what I put them through. I know they did not know what I was going through. Maybe we might have fought over something very minor, but I'm so sorry," he said. "The person I miss the most is a friend I lost called Ayieya Poa Poa. He was one person whom I could share everything with. Even when I don't have a boxer, I would talk to him. Nowadays I find that I try to make new friends just to talk." Wakimani could not elaborate further on the night Ayieya died. "The case is in court, it will prejudice it. The case began on Monday and the next hearing is on March 3." Wakimani spoke about his days hawking various goods, like socks, hot pots and thermos flasks, on Nairobi’s highways, but said newspapers were the most lucrative. “I woke up at 2am to wait for the newspapers to be dispatched. Those days there was no Twitter with breaking news. Everyone had to buy a newspaper to get the news,” he said. Adding, “Nairobi ni shamba la mawe, ukitoka nyumbani kwenu unateseka, kama hauna pesa una ujanja. Later, I transited into being an actor at Alliance Francaise. I was introduced to Victor Ber and Sammy Mwangi. Through them, I met Churchill.” Wakimani explained that his journey to comedy was not easy. “The first joke I cracked in front of an audience was bad. Watu walikataa. I started with a story of an eye witness from Kawangware with a Meru accent. It flopped. I have never forgotten that feeling.” “Jalang’o promised me school and fulfilled his promise. I am doing communication, PR and international relations” He remembered when he refused to go to college in the name of work. “My father told me to go to school and I told him I don’t want because I want to start working. I thought usanii will pay me. I used to meet the President and I asked him to give me work, he directed me to someone,” he said. “I told him I am a form four certificate holder. He told me he would help me but I needed to go back to school first.” Jalang’o has paid a year’s school fees for the comedian. “Half a loaf is better than one. A semester is 160K and he is not paying school fees for me alone.”