ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has said Deputy President William Ruto's candidate in the Matungu by-election has no chance of winning the March 4 poll. Mudavadi said Ruto would not make the slightest impression in Matungu, or in the other by-election in Kabuchai constituency. “Matungu is not Msambweni in KwLE. Things are very different there. Do not assume that you will use the same tactics you used in Msambweni,” he said. Mudavadi explained that the situation in Matungu and Kabuchai is totally different from Msambweni where Ruto’s candidate brushed aside ODM’s attempt to retain the seat. Ruto threw his weight behind Feisal Bader after the ruling Jubilee Party announced that it would not field a candidate. Bader, who contested as an independent candidate, trounced ODM’s Omar Boga. He garnered 15,251 votes against Boga's 10,444. “Propaganda will not work. Issues to do with cane farming and agriculture among others are what the people want to hear there. These two elections will shock Kenyans,” he said. However, Ruto's allies in the Western region expressed confidence that their candidates in the two polls will emerge victorious. “I am on the ground and I know what is happening. We will definitely win the two elections,” Sirisia MP John Waluke said. Waluke said their candidates are popular and resonate with locals well. The newly formed United Democratic Alliance (UDA), which is associated with Ruto, has fielded Alex Lanya in Matungu and Evans Kakai in Kabuchai. ANC has Peter Nabulindo in Matungu but will not be fielding a candidate in Kabuchai. The party will be rallying behind Ford Kenya's Joseph Majimbo. Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula are in a deal to ensure they do not lose Matungu and Kabuchai seats The two face a bruising battle in Kabuchai as the constituency borders Ruto-allied MPs Waluke, Didmus Barasa (Kimilili), Dan Wanyama (Webuye West), Fred Kapondi (Mt Elgon) and Mwambu Mabonga (Bumula). As in Msambweni, Jubilee will not field candidates in Machakos, Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections. The party said the decision was courtesy of the unity brought about by the Building Bridges Initiative. In a statement, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula said they intend to use the Matungu and Kabuchai polls as a springboard to consolidate votes in Western region ahead of the 2022 General Elections. “In these by-elections, this is the Unity Team. Anyone outside the unity of ANC and Ford Kenya is a traitor, enemy and project against the Mulembe Nation,” Mudavadi said. Wetang'ula said the candidates against them are the projects of outsiders, sponsored to break the unity resolve of Western Kenya. “It will be a deliberate statement to the people of Mulembe nation and Kenya at large that this region is no longer available for political experiments,” Wetang'ula said. Mudavadi said the partnership of Ford Kenya and ANC will deliver wonders for the people of Western Kenya (Edited by o.o.)  