Tusker look to dislodge KCB from the summit of the FKF PL log as the competition enters the 10th round this weekend. KCB have an uphill task as they play away to Ulinzi Stars at Afraha Stadium, Nakuru on Saturday. The bankers have only lost once in all their eight matches so far and are firmly in control at the summit of the log on 21 points. The soldiers put up a spirited battle against a resilient Mathare United side, beating them 2-1 at the same venue last Wednesday to register their first win of the season. Tusker have a bone to pick with Mathare United at Moi, Kasarani on Sunday afternoon. The Brewers, who are currently placed second on 20 points, are likely to go top if they beat the Slum Boys and in the event KCB fall to Ulinzi. Coach Francis Kimanzi will be seeking to go second on the log when Wazito host Kakamega Homeboyz in the only fixture of the day at Moi, Kasarani on Friday. The Moneybags currently lie fourth on 17 points, four adrift leaders KCB and three below second placed Tusker. Homeboyz are 12th on 8 points, only four spots clear of the relegation zone. The 2020 runners-up have struggled to stamp their authority this season despite securing a Sh20million sponsorship deal and revamping their squad in the last transfer window. On Saturday, all attention will be focused on 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions AFC Leopards, who host Posta Rangers at Moi, Kasarani from 3pm. Ingwe are riding on the back of a comfortable 2-0 triumph over Kariobangi Sharks at the same venue last weekend and coach Antony Kimani has cautioned his charges against complacency as they continue to grope for a podium finish. They currently lie fourth on 15 points after seven matches and a win on Saturday may propel them to third if Wazito fall to Homeboyz. Kariobangi Sharks, who lie fifth on 15 points will be hoping to shake off their recent spate of defeats as they play away to Nairobi City Stars at Kasarani in the first match of the day that precedes the Leopards vs Posta tie. As they come up against big boys Sofapaka this Saturday, Vihiga United will be keen to replicate their splendid performance in their last encounter, where they pulled off a surprise 1-0 win over reigning champions Gor Mahia. On Sunday, all roads lead to Mbaraki grounds, Mombasa, where a rejuvenated Gor Mahia side will lock horns with Bandari who have enjoyed an impressive spell lately since the appointment of Rwandese coach Cassa Mbungo. K'Ogalo have experienced mixed results in their latest two encounters this season, first crashing 1-0 to Vihiga before thrashing a hapless Zoo Kericho side 3-0 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. They jumped to seventh on the log on 12 points and a win over the Dockers may either take them to fourth or fifth depending on how both Leopards and Sharks fair in their matches.