Matungu by-election ANC candidate Peter Nabulindo on Wednesday claimed all those running as independents had been sponsored by Deputy President William Ruto. He said the candidates have been meeting the DP and his point men in Kakamega county for handouts. "They were summoned to Nairobi by DP handlers three weeks ago and agreed to support UDA candidate Alex Lanya, but they denied the same. They have been slowly dropping from the race," Nabulindo said in Kakamega town. "The game plan is to divide the votes so the UDA candidate can win, but they will be shocked at the outcome. What the people of Matungu want is the right leadership and not that which is forced on them by outsiders." Nabulindo said the people of Matungu will not be swayed by outsiders who do not understand their needs. But independent candidates have since denied they were Ruto's projects. They said they were summoned for a meeting in Nairobi and asked to drop out of the race in favour of Lanya, but they declined. They said they are in the race on their own volition. The by-election has attracted 15 candidates, among them nine independents. They are Justus Murunga's wife Christabel Amunga, Murunga's son Eugene Ambwere, Bernard Wakoli, Gregory Atoko, Anzelimo Kongoti, Kevin Nectus, Wilberforce Lutta, Athman Wangara and Samuel Munyekenye. Others in the race are ODM's David Were, Charles Kasamani (UDP), Paul Achayo (MDG) and Faida Auma of Maendeleo Chap Chap. The Matungu MP seat fell vacant after the death of Justus Murunga late last year. Stakes are high and the by-election is seen as a test run for a grip on the vote-rich region by key political figures positioning themselves for the 2022 succession. Jubilee did not field a candidate in both Matungu, citing the handshake. The outcome of the by-election will have a direct bearing on the 2022 placement. Mudavadi has said a win for ANC will be a win for the Mulembe nation and a key for his presidential bid. Nabulindo also accused the ODM team of using public resources to campaign for its candidate. He said the ODM team has been intimidating employees in the county from Matungu to campaign for Were or risk the sack. "I'm aware of county staff who have been served with show-cause letters for not drumming up support for the ODM candidate. They are using government vehicles and personnel at funerals to campaign," he said. But Kakamega Deputy Governor Philip Kutima denied the county was spending public cash in Matungu. "We have not received funds for the last three months. Where do we get the money to use for campaigns, yet the by-election is not a government project.  We have over 100 employees in Matungu, how do you sack such a big number?" he asked. Nabulindo further claimed that opponents were planning to use violence to block his supporters from voting. "They beat up anyone who was opposed to Were when he was presenting nomination papers. They should, however, know they cannot force the people of Matungu to vote for them. Let them tell the people what they intend to do for them," he said.  