The State has started training traders in border counties to promote cross border business operations in the East African Community (EAC) member countries. The government says lack of information has impeded cross border trade among Kenyan traders. The government is undertaking the training programme to reduce obstacles that have been affecting traders. In Homa Bay, more than 60 people drawn from various business groups are being trained to achieve the objective. The Principal Secretary for East African Community,  Kevit Desai and Homa Bay Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata said lack of information has impedes EAC cross border trade. The information includes awareness on goods and services allowed by each country, standards and certifications required, taxes, import and export laws of each EAC member state. Speaking on Thursday when they open a two days training workshop in Homa Bay town, the PS said many traders had failed to undertake cross border trade due to lack of such information. “There many Kenyan traders who have interest in exporting or importing goods within EAC member state but they can’t do it due to lack of awareness,” Desai said. The PS argued that the government is committed to demystifying the obstacles to increase the number of Kenyan traders who participate in cross border trade. The efforts also include opening more business opportunities and harmonizing legal restrictions to enhance freedom in trade. “The cross border trade creates markets for a number of goods produced locally,” he said. Orata said Homa Bay government’s department of trade will continue training more traders on the cross border trade to increase the number that participates in the business. He said they aim at enhancing the residents’ income. “Cross border trade is a new opportunity which come with more benefits should business persons explore it. Training will help boost income of the county residents,” Orata said. The Deputy Governor said they were in talks with the national government to create a business hub in Mbita town to enhance cross border trade in Homa Bay. Mbita borders Uganda through Lake Victoria, giving Homa Bay residents a good opportunity for participating in cross border trade. The EAC member states include Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi and South Sudan.