Four MPs have differed on the best way the government should deal with banditry in Kapedo. Some said force should be used to disarm the bandits, while others said the government should initiate negotiations to end conflict and cattle rustling. The legislators were attending the burial of Emadau Tebakol, a senior GSU officer who was shot dead by suspected Pokot bandits on January 17. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula said the decision by the government to use force may not yield much. “I want to advise security officers that you will never solve the problems of warring communities through force, because every piece of force will be countered by another piece of force,” he said. "I once worked closely with bishops in Kapedo, on the boundary between Pokot and Turkana, to bring peace. We succeeded in bringing harmony between Pokot and Turkana. The police should try bringing these communities together using soft power.” Wetang'ula said the conflict between Pokot and Turkana has persisted because the two communities are disadvantaged. The Bungoma senator said the government should initiate talks with warring communities and find a lasting solution to the problem that has persisted for decades. He said it was sad that Emadau was felled by the bullet in the line of duty. “Our brother was felled by a bullet and this could happen to anybody,” he said. Kitutu Chache South MP Richard Onyonka said a peaceful settlement to the conflict between warring communities would be the best way to end conflicts. “We do believe that it is much easier to negotiate a settlement with your enemy than to go and attack your enemy by force,” Onyonka said. “The government should employ retired security officers and ambassadors to go and negotiate with warring communities. We cannot have our people killed 55 years after Independence. It means there is something totally wrong with the way we manage our affairs.” The MP said peaceful methods of solving conflicts mean no lives will be lost compared to the use of force that usually leads to loss of lives and destruction of property. He said using force in conflict management may only compound the problem. But Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren and Nambale’s John Bunyasi insisted that the government should not negotiate with bandits. Kamuren said peaceful talks between the government and bandits have been conducted for many years, but the method has yielded little results. “The government should not allow Kenyans to kill one another and the government should not allow civilians to own guns to kill fellow civilians and police officers,” he said. Kamuren said the government has a mandate to end what is happening in Kapedo. "I have heard Senator Wetang'ula saying that the government should negotiate with these bandits. How do you negotiate with somebody with a gun? I want to invite Senator Wetang'ula to Baringo so that when the bandits shoot, we take cover together,” he said amid laughter. Kamuren said the money the government is investing in promoting the BBI process should be channelled to fund operations in Kapedo and other areas where communities are fighting each other. He said politicians should not be associated with the conflict in Kapedo “because politicians do not own guns”. The MP said anyone suspected of fuelling the conflict should be prosecuted according to the law. Bunyasi said the best available option for the government to deal with banditry is the use of force. “I don’t support the idea of negotiation. Even internationally, when you are going to negotiate, you must have force that is enough to bring people to the table to talk first,” the MP said. “We have lost senior officers and promising Kenyans in these conflicts. The government should tighten its operations in battle areas because they can’t be quarrelling there and killing our people.” Activist Okiya Omtatah said the government should adequately equip the police to be able to deal with banditry without strain. “The killing of Emadau is just a single story because there are hundreds of officers who have perished at the hands of bandits in the recent past,” he said. “Emadau went to a war zone. How was he equipped? Wasn’t there a budget? Why could he be given an armoured vehicle?” Emadau served as the head of operations at the GSU headquarters in Nairobi. He was shot dead by bandits who laid an ambush in the volatile Kapedo area. Three other officers were injured. The deceased was leading a team of security officers to counter bandits said to have laid a siege on a team from the Rapid Deployment Unit. The ambush happened in Ameyen area. Present at the burial were Deputy Inspector General of Police Edward Mbugua, GSU Commandant Douglas Kanja, Western region police commander Peris Kimani, Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula and Busia county police commander John Nyoike. Others included Busia county commissioner John Korir, Teso South MP Geoffrey Omuse, Busia Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi and former Teso South MP Mary Emase.