Faulu Microfinance Bank has partnered with 20 counties in a move that could see thousands of learners get masks to prevent the spread of coronavirus among school-going children. The initiative will see the mid-level lender distribute  150,000 masks in 150 schools.  The bank targets to distribute over 10,000 masks in the county. Schools were reopened early this month after a prolonged shutdown due to the pandemic that severely disrupted learning as the country battled the virus. Faulu Microfinance Bank MD Apollo Njoroge said the sensitization campaign is aimed at supporting learning in a safe environment considering the continued threat posed by the virus.  Speaking during the launch of the initiative in Kajiado, Njoroge added that the devastating impact of the pandemic is still being felt hence the need for concerted action at the individual level to prevent the further spread of the virus. ''Our continued commitment to doing everything we can to enhance community efforts to minimize the further spread of the disease for businesses and the economy to recover,'' he said. Kajiado County Deputy Governor Moshisho Martine hailed the gesture by Faulu Bank saying it will greatly boost efforts to curb infections even as schooling gradually resumes across the country. He explained that with limited resources, schools face a unique challenge in ensuring that learners adhere to health protocols despite close physical interaction. ''We thank Faulu for providing thousands of our young learners with face masks as this will help ensure a safe learning environment for our children,” said Mr. Martine.,'' Moshisho said. The lender will also collaborate with the counties to conduct roadshows targeting the general public and distribute posters and fliers with information on Covid-19. Some of the counties to benefit from the initiative include  Kajiado, Bungoma, Nyeri, Nakuru, Homabay, Mombasa and Nairobi among others. Although the rate of Covid-19 infection in the country has declined in recent weeks, experts caution the virus remains a significant public health threat hence the need to continue observing preventive measures. A severe variant of Covid-19 has hit several countries in Europe, forcing them to lock skies to tame further spread.