Deputy President William Ruto has said he will steer clear of BBI politics and instead focus on implementing government projects to help the people. As President Uhuru Kenyatta and handshake partner Raila Odinga push to amend the Constitution, Ruto said on Wednesday Kenya is facing many challenges and leaders must focus on solutions for the people. Ruto spoke in Embu county during the funeral service of Cardinal John Njue's sister Jonnes Njuki. The Deputy President said fixing the country's sinking economy, high rates of unemployment and reduced investment are key issues that must be prioritised. "Because there is a lot of work to be done, I will focus on helping President Kenyatta on issues of development; others can drive the BBI agenda," Ruto said. "As leaders we must seek solutions to these challenges, however, the solution to these challenges should not take a tribal angle or come up with plans for specific communities." Leaders from the Mt Kenya region who had accompanied the DP said the BBI is bound to fail since it has been forced down Kenyans' throats when the economy has been driven to its knees. They said BBI proponents were out of touch with the needs and aspirations of ordinary Kenyans, warning the President that those he had entrusted with driving the BBI agenda were misleading him. They included Njeru Ndwiga (Embu), John Muchiri (Manyatta), Eric Muchangi (Runyenjes), Geoffrey King'ang'i (Mbeere South), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Cecily Mbarire (nominated), and Embu Deputy Governor David Njeru. Mbarire said it was insensitive for the government to channel resources to the BBI referendum when the country was grappling with the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic and already high unemployment. She said parents do not have school fees, schools cannot provide sanitiser and masks for students, the health sector is deteriorating and the economy is in a shambles. "Between all these problems and a Sh14 billion referendum, what should be the priority?” she asked. The former deputy Majority whip in the National Assembly asked President Kenyatta to listen to the plight of the people. Raila and others dispute the cost of the referendum. Muchiri asked why government was determined to hold a costly referendum to greatly enlarge government when the economy was in a slump. Kuria said Kenyans are opposed to the BBI document because most of the key issues they had raised in meetings were not addressed. He said the BBI proponents are characterised by reggae bravado, chest-thumping and contempt and have caused President Kenyatta great embarrassment. "We saw this coming and asked them to bring everyone on board and iron out contentious issues but they turned us down,” Kuria said. King'ang'i said it was unfortunate that those pushing for constitutional amendments do not want to engage in honest conversation about the country's real problems. The truth is that the economy has gone down. We need to relook at our budget and focus on priorities that will uplift citizens," he said. Ndwiga said he will not engage in BBI politics since his people had not been provided with BBI documents to enable them to make informed decisions. His sentiments were echoed by Deputy Governor Njeru who said Senate Majority Whip and Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata was distancing himself from individuals "drunk with power and out of touch with reality". (Edited by V. Graham)