Gor Mahia captain Kenneth Muguna is expected to resume training next week after being sidelined for close to three weeks with a rib injury. The injury — suffered while on duty against Tusker on December 16 — forced the creative midfielder out of Gor's first leg encounter against Algeria's CR Belouizdad in their Caf Champions League tie in Algiers last week, where they succumbed 6-0. Prior to the Tusker match which he was withdrawn at half time, the former Western Stima man unusually failed to clock 90 minutes during their Caf preliminary round return match against APR in November due to an ankle injury. The 2016 Kenyan Premier League Most Valuable Player (MVP) is, however, expected to sit out of the return match against Belouizdad set for Wednesday where the club have a huge task in their chase for a slot in the group stages of the tournament for the first time. Gor team manager Jolawi Obondo said the midfielder is doing well in rehab and remains hopeful he will resume training next week. A section of the Gor Mahia players resumed training for the Belouizdad match on Saturday and were yesterday joined by their stand-in coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo at Camp Toyoyo. "I visited Muguna late last week and he is doing good and we expect him to resume training next week. I also expect all the players to turn up for training today for the CAF match ahead of us," said Obondo. Meanwhile, Pamzo, who is likely to solely take charge of the Beloiuzdad match following the uncertainty of Patrick Odhiambo at the club, expressed hope that all players will drop their hardline stances and show up for training today. A large chunk of the playing unit has given the previous training sessions a wide berth in protest for their unpaid salaries and allowances. "I am hoping they will come for training on Monday. We assembled yesterday and laid down plans for the match," said the Posta Rangers coach. He insists there is no bad blood between him and the club's treasurer Dolfina Odhiambo. Odhiambo is said to have laid blame on Pamzo after their humiliating defeat in Algeria, eliciting anger from the Green Army — who sided with Pamzo. Odhiambo later took to her social media pages and apologised to Pamzo and the Gor fraternity.