Government and the nurses' union on Monday started another round of talks in efforts to unlock the ongoing stalemate. Union officials and Labour CS Simon Chelugui held a conciliatory meeting. It is hoped an agreement will be reached by Wednesday. Nurses have been on strike since December 7, with several meetings to end the boycott proving unsuccessful. They are demanding provision of quality and standard PPE, comprehensive medical cover, risk allowance, hiring of more healthcare workers and dedicated health facilities in each county for those who contract Covid-19 while on duty. So far, 34 have succumbed to the virus in the line of duty. Doctors and clinical officers called off their strike on December 24 and January 1, but healthcare services remain paralysed in hospitals countrywide. Nurses comprise 80 per cent of the healthcare system, hence, the paralysis. As a result, many poor Kenyans who cannot afford services in private hospitals continue to bear the brunt of the strike. “The nurses are the hospitals; the nurses are the healthcare system. We are the central nervous system of the hospital and there is no hospital that can function when the central nervous system has broken down,” KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako said. Speaking to the Star on the phone, Panyako said he was optimistic that a lasting solution might be found before the end of the week. “We will be drafting our minimal demands and giving them to the Ministry of Labour. If they will be in agreement with us, then we are prepared to sign them immediately,” he said. The union has threatened to withdraw services in the country's two major referral hospitals—Kenyatta National Hospital and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital—from Thursday should the talks fail. “We have looked at the steps so far taken and we give them [government] an extension of three days because the impact of the industrial action is being felt,” Panyako said. He said nurses will not go back to work until the government produces evidence on the medical cover provided by each county. He said only nurses in counties that have met the demands will be allowed to resume duty. “We want to be told those nurses who have died when the medical cover is not in place, what happens to them? What about those nurses who are admitted in hospital, they have died and we have contributed to pay their medical bills? We want those monies we have paid in those hospitals to be refunded and given to the families left behind,” Panyako said. He said the union had agreed to lower the amount of risk allowance demanded from Sh30,000 to Sh20,000. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya