It's just a three-day sigh of relief for patients. Nurses agreed on Sunday not to go on strike at Kenyatta National Hospital and the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital - for three more days. That's not much time to end their 29-day-long strike. Those hospitals had been exempted. The union will hold more talks with Labour CS Simon Chelungui on Monday to end the stalemate. The nurses’ union had last week threatened to strike at the two national referral hospital's on Monday if their grievances are not resolved. Nurses in the two referral hospitals had been exempted from the strike by their union because most of their issues had been addressed by the hospitals. Kenya National Union of Nurses secretary general Seth Panyako said on Sunday the union had decided to give the government three more days to reach an agreement. If they fail to find a durable solution in three days, the strike is definitely on at KNH and MTRH, he said. “We have looked at the steps so far taken and we give them an extension of three days,” Panyako said. He added,  Because the impact of the industrial action is being felt, the reason for going on strike is to have your issues resolved. So if the impact is felt there is no need for us to bring in more institutions because of the suffering of Kenyans. At least we have two facilities we know are still operational.” The healthcare workers have been on strike demanding quality PPEs, comprehensive medical cover, risk allowance, hiring of more healthcare workers and dedicated health facilities per county for those who contract Covid-19 while on duty. They also want a national Health Services Commission. The nurses and have been on strike for 29 days. More than six meetings failed to resolve their issues. As at Sunday, 34 nurses had succumbed to Covid-19 in the line of duty; many more fell ill. “We will be drafting our minimal demands and giving them to the Ministry of Labour. If they will be in agreement with us, then we are prepared to sign immediately," Panyako said. The nurses are the only healthcare cadre still on strike after the clinical officers signed their return to work agreement with the Health CS on Friday. Doctors too returned to work. During a press briefing at Afya House on Friday, Kenya Union of Clinical Officers national chairman Peterson Wachira said the parties had reached a consensus. "This is not an end in itself... but it's a journey we are taking to ensure the attainment of universal coverage," Wachira said. Clinical officers are to be given adequate PPEs, medical cover and group life insurance. Their CBA is to be registered in court soon. Similarly, it was agreed that employment terms for those under contract for fewer than six months will be reviewed. The doctors called off their strike on December 24, after signing a return-to-work agreement with the Health Ministry, the Council of Governors and the Labour ministry, among others. (Edited by V. Graham)