Documents obtained from the British government helped Kenyan detectives unravel who the directors of a firm linked to the Sh3.5 billion Anglo Leasing scandal were, a Nairobi Court heard on Monday. Ethics and Anti-Corruption commission (EACC) Lead Investigator Ignatius Wekesa told Magistrate Felix Kombo that the documentation revealed the directors of Sound Day Corporation to be Chamanlal Kamani, Rashmi and Deepak Kamani. The Kenyan government had entered into a contract with the said company incorporated at the British Virgin Islands to supply police security equipment.  Sound Day and Apex Finance Corporation are some of the companies that have been linked to the Anglo leasing scam. Wekesa on Monday said he will be demonstrating why companies are incorporated in BV islands to get exemptions from financial statements. The last time Wekesa was in court, he took through Magistrate Felix Kombo the evidence they received from Switzerland showing the directors and beneficiaries of Apex. He said as at 2008, they were not able to trace where the two firms were incorporated. On Monday Wekesa ran the court through documents they obtained from the British government through Mutual Legal assistance. The documents were in relation to the entity that entered into the multi billion contract of modernization of police security equipment. “We had sought information on Sound Day corporation locally but it was very scanty. We also interviewed the government officials who participated or facilitated the contract at the office of the President  but Information however was not coming out clearly to say who the director of the corporation was,” he said. He said just like for the apex finance corporation, what they were getting in the course of their investigations is that the Kamani’s were linked to it. In the MLA, the Kenyan investigating team had asked British to help them acquire documents relating to the relationship between Sound Day corporation and apex finance in Geneva. They also wanted them to verify the addresses used when entering the contracts and beneficial owners of both corporations. Also requested were banking records and identities of beneficiaries of funds to whom the money was paid to by the Kenya government. “We needed to also establish whether Sound Day is a valid corporation in the UK. We also sought to know the real directors of Sound Day”  he said. Londons PSJ Alexander and company chartered accountants are the ones who provided most of the documentation as far as sound Day corporation is concerned. Information sought revealed that Sound Day was incorporated on 21 September 1989 at the British Virgin Islands and that the Kamani’s were the directors of the firm having taken over from one Collins Foster in 1990. He also mentioned Hallmark international, Saagar and Kamsons are associated with the Kamani’s. In the case, Chamanlal Kimani, Deepak Kimani, Rashmi Kamani, PSs Joseph Magari, Dave Mwangi and David Onyonka  are facing charges of conspiracy to defraud the government Sh3.5 billion in the Anglo-Leasing contract known as modernization of police security equipment and accessories. 