Some Matuga boda boda operators in Kwale are calling upon the authorities to install traffic signs and properly mark the roads. This follows the death of a boda boda rider who hit a bump and died on the spot along the Kwale-Ziwani road last week. Several other accidents have occurred in the same area. The boda boda operators claimed that some road signs have faded while others were never erected after reconstruction of some of the roads. Led by Ali Salim, they said there is a need for the road signs to be replaced, giving priority to the black spots to avoid further disasters. “Most of us have been ramming into bumps and sustaining serious injuries leading to death because there are no road signs,” he said. They said the Kombani-Kwale route has to be considered, saying the majority of the accidents occur due to the absence of traffic signs. “The Kwale highway has so many corners, but you will find almost no road sign to alert the speeding motorists,” added Salim. They said due to the newly constructed Samburu-Kinango road the Kwale-Kombani highway is slowly becoming busy and road signs must be introduced. Omari Mwarachuma said more street lights are needed along the highways for clear visibility and security. “If the county government could make efforts to see how our roads can be lit up continuously then safety for the road users would be enhanced,” he said. Mwarachuma said he narrowly escaped death when he fell into a ditch after a wild animal suddenly crossed the road at Tsimba. He said if the streets lights were available, he could have spotted the animal from far. Mwarachuma said pedestrian lanes must also be made, especially on the Kombani-Kwale highway. County police commander Joseph Nthenge, however, said necessary interventions have been made by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority. He said erection of some road signs is ongoing and the authorities will respond to their plight whenever possible. Nthenge urged the motorists and commuters to be careful when using public roads. Edited by Henry Makori