Emirates has partnered with the International Air Transport Association to become one of the first airlines in the world to trial the IATA Travel Pass. The pass is a mobile app to help passengers easily and securely manage their travel in line with any government requirements for Covid-19 testing or vaccine information. IATA Travel Pass enables Emirates passengers to create a ‘digital passport’ to verify their pre-travel test or vaccination meets the requirements of the destination. They will also be able to share the test and vaccination certificates with authorities and airlines to facilitate travel. The new app will also enable travellers to manage all travel documentation digitally and seamlessly throughout the travel experience. Prior to a full roll-out, Emirates will implement phase 1 in Dubai for the validation of Covid-19 PCR tests before departure. In this initial phase, expected to begin in April, Emirates customers travelling from Dubai will be able to share their test status directly with the airline even before reaching the airport through the app, which will then auto-populate the details on the check-in system. Adel Al Redha Emirates’ Chief Operating Officer said that while international travel remains as safe as ever, there are new protocols and travel requirements with the current global pandemic. "We are proud to be one of the first airlines in the world to pilot this initiative, which will provide an enhanced customer experience and conveniently facilitate our customers’ travel needs," he said. Nick Careen, IATA Senior Vice President for Airport, Passenger, Cargo and Security said Emirates as a partner will also bring invaluable input and feedback to improve the Travel Pass programme. "This is the first step in making international travel during the pandemic as convenient as possible giving people the confidence that they are meeting all Covid-19 entry requirements by governments," he said. "As borders re-open, IATA Travel Pass will be further enhanced with more capabilities to meet all governments testing or vaccination verification requirements and Emirates customers will be among the first to have these services.” Within the IATA Travel Pass app, the integrated registry of travel requirements will also enable passengers to find accurate information on travel and entry requirements for all destinations regardless of where they are travelling from. It will also include a registry of testing and eventually vaccination centres – making it more convenient for passengers to find testing centres and labs at their departure location which meet the standards for testing and vaccination requirements of their destination. The platform will also enable authorized labs and test centres to securely send test results or vaccination certificates to passengers. The global registry, managed by IATA, will manage and allow the secure flow of necessary information amongst all stakeholders and to provide a seamless passenger experience. In the last few months, it has introduced a smart contactless journey with an integrated biometric path and other services including self-check-in and bag drop kiosks at Dubai International airport for a smoother airport experience.