As President Donald Trump exits office, there are multitudes who believe the maverick still stood a chance for a second term in the White House. Such were the hopes that fed the US version of post-election violence. Trump worked up the Republican base to believe he was invincible. Instead of another term, even with about 70 million Americans voting for him, Trump fell and stands doubly impeached. The United States variant of post-election conflict, the first of its kind in the supposed citadel of democracy, would have been hilarious if it were not the creation of a man who trafficked delusion of invisibility. Mary Trump, a psychiatric nurse, warned of Trumpian psychosis in her book, ‘Too much and never enough: How my family created the world’s most dangerous man’, published last year. Trump’s niece was not settling a family score. She made an accurate assessment of a man the US misjudged. A second impeachment of a president a week before his exit was not academic. It’s a warning to presidents who would be tempted to ape Trump’s discredited ways. The man rode on evangelical prejudices to power, with a promise to make ‘America Great Again’. He defiled the image of the US. Trump behaved badly in office, and worse during the transition. He alleged electoral fraud without evidence. Courts dismissed 60 cases he filed, claiming the November 3 election was rigged. The second impeachment steals the future of a man who abused state power, defiled the White House, incited violence, and desecrated sacred institutions of the world’s lead democracy. The impeachment, if the Senate convicts, would be devastating for a man who has allegedly engaged in transactional fraud. The man who spent three months merchandising conspiracies will lose real dollars. He has also killed his future in public office. A successful second impeachment means Trump would lose about $200,000 in pension funds a year. This is the money he would have drawn for the rest of his life. He would also lose $1 million a year in travel allowances and forgo a lifetime of guaranteed full Secret Service detail. Trump would not be eligible to run for the Republican presidential ticket in 2024, as he had hoped. This was perhaps the reason he was inciting Republicans with such bile and vile. Even without a second impeachment, Trump has accumulated criminal cases. His behaviour during the transition was the grand finale for a man who has worked hard to win a meal ticket in prison. The House voted last week to impeach President Trump for “high crimes and misdemeanours”  – specifically, for inciting an insurrection against the federal government at the US Capitol. Trump becomes the first US president to be impeached twice. Impeachment ensures that the US will be safe from a man who was determined to tear down the bonds that bind America. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called Trump “a clear and present danger to our country” after signing the second presidential impeachment in just over a year. A master of doublespeak, and a spinner of conspiracies, Trump behaved like a man more sinned against than sinning. He played the victim of radical left Democrats until the dying hours of his presidency. He left the White House throwing tantrums, and without a concession. In a video posted to the White House’s official Twitter account, one of his last, Trump described the Capitol insurrection as “mob violence” and said it “goes against everything I believe in and everything our movement stands for.” “No true supporter of mine could ever endorse political violence. No true supporter of mine could ever disrespect law enforcement or our great American flag. No true supporter of mine could ever threaten or harass their fellow Americans.” New York Magazine wrote on January 18: “Trump is in a desperate shape. His business is floundering, his partners are fleeing, his loans are delinquent, prosecutors will be coming after him, and the legal impunity he enjoyed through his office will be gone. He will be walking naked into a cold and friendless world.”