Kenyan Premier League returnees Vihiga United can finally rest easy after the county government unveiled a Sh12.5m kitty to fund the activities of teams participating in the country's top tiers. Vihiga, who have found the going tough in their league assignments largely due to incessant financial constraints, will grab the lion's share of the kitty facilitated by the Sport Fund Committee. They are set to receive Sh7m as Kenya Women's Premier League side Vihiga Queens pocket Sh2m. Other teams earmarked for the funds include Vihiga Bullets (Sh500,000), volleyball, (Sh1,000,000), Luanda Villa (Sh300,000), Boxing (300,000), Para-volley (Sh700,000), Netball (Sh300,000), Bunyore Starlets Sh300,000) and Tong il Moo-Doo (Sh100,000). Vihiga United chairman Kahi Indimuli and captain Patrick Okulo were elated with the development which has put to rest earlier speculations that the county was planning to ditch the teams. While issuing cheques, Vihiga County governor Wilber Ottichilo said they will continue supporting the teams. He dismissed claims that the county had withdrawn its sponsorship, adding that lack of proper laws had made it difficult for them to lend the teams the much needed financial support. Consequently, the county had to establish a Sports Management Committee, which would be an avenue for the county to fund sporting activities through the Sports Fund. “Don’t believe in lies that we have stopped funding our clubs. Vihiga United and Vihiga Queens are among our teams that are doing well and we shall continue supporting them,” he said. Ottichilo urged the teams to create sustainable measures by seeking additional financial support from potential sponsors because of delays in disbursement of funds by the national government. Chief Officer Philip Gavuna on his part, stated that the department will facilitate a meeting comprising the Sports Management Committee, Controller of Budget and the team officials to discuss financial management to avoid misuse of clubs funds. The CEO for Vihiga United and Vihiga Queens, Michael Senelwa, thanked the county government for their support and appealed to the Sports Fund to increase its future allocations. Sport Fund Committee chairperson Albert Masiolo said a total of 14 teams applied for funding and only 10 qualified for funding within the regulations. Masiolo said the applying teams were required to present a certificate of registration, six months bank statement, KRA certificate, list of known officials with Chapter Six clearance and be participants in FKF Premier League, National Super League and Division One league.