Some top politicians are finding it rough to campaign in the Matungu by-election to replace Justus Murunga (pictured). The group, which doesn't know their candidate's manifesto ran into trouble when they tried to reprimand rivals at a roadside rally. The crowd, perhaps tired of politics of insults and mudslinging, shouted them down. The politicians were caught flat-footed when the crowd demanded to know exactly what their candidate planned for them. Their speeches were met with boos and chants of “go away”, so they left to find voters who were less demanding. *** A senior politico nursing presidential ambitions is finding himself between a rock and hard place as the country moves towards 2022. The politician is on the horns of a dilemma as his aides pressure him to break away from his party and push his candidature from a new party to boost his chances of negotiating a better deal. According to the advisers, the politico's star is dim because he is still operating from someone else's political party. The politician, according to those close to him, is considering the idea and is actively shopping for a party. Corridors has learnt that it is just a matter of time before he makes a grand announcement. *** A prominent politician famed for his loose tongue is facing an unfamiliar political season. Why? Sources whisper to Corridors that the man has not been fully accepted in his new political camp. He is said to be acceptable only on political podiums. However, he has been kept away from strategy rooms for what insiders say is “his known behaviour”. It’s also whispered that the man has lost a lot of friends in recent days as some believe he no longer has anything to offer. This explains why he recently sought the audience of another prominent political leader who was not willing to offer any assistance. *** A governor from Western Kenya has found himself in a fix after learning that his fierce nemesis with deep pockets has been in touch with his deputy governor and is willing to bankroll his campaigns to succeed him. Although the governor has on a number of occasions publicly said he will support his deputy, news that his political enemy was firmly behind the county's second in command is giving him sleepless nights - with slightly more than a year to the next general elections. Locals are now wondering whether the county chief will backtrack on his earlier stance or continue saying he is keen to see his deputy assume his mantle. 