 The National Police Service is seeking to recruit more experts to address shortages cause by retirements. Already, the service has called for an inservice applications for a thorough paramilitary training at the Embakasi campus for both the Administration Police and at the General Service Unit. Within the Administration Police Service, NPS seeks to recruit about 50 female personnel who will join the newly created Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team. “For the purpose of ensuring that female officers actively participate in tactical policing, the service calls upon interested female officers to voluntarily apply to join this elite team,” reads an internal memo dated January 15. For general duty, the department said they were seeking to recruit officers to join a tactical urban security course to be conducted at the GSU training school and Magadi Field Training Camp. “The course is intended to impart the requisite skills and tactics to enhance officers’ competencies in the day-to-day performance of security duties,” a memo to all formation commanders in the service says. The officers will secure vital installations, handle and operate various weapons and exhibit endurance and physical fitness in job performance. They will also manage incidents where attacks may be directed to VIPs and their premises. They will also understand the dynamics of modern terrorism and trends. The training will last at least six months and will be conducted by local and international instructors. The service is facing a shortage of personnel in the specialised sections in the wake of changing trends in crime. APS currently leads with specialised units. Since President Uhuru Kenyatta directed that the 24,000 APS personnel join the regular unit, APS is now completely specialised on its core mandate that includes border patrols, guarding critical infrastructure and dealing with stock theft. Under the new structure, the APS has formed units that include the Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team, Camel Unit, Rapid Deployment Unit (RDU), Border Police Unit (BPU), APS Stock Theft Prevention Unit (APS - ASTU) and Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit (CIPU). Administration Police boss Noor Gabow said they decided to specialise and be distinct in many fronts. “For instance, we have a team focused on border protection. We hope we will make Kenyans safer in the coming days because of the investments we are making there,” Gabow said. Training and research are key in making the units survive in the current dynamics and the police chief urged his personnel to be focused. Insiders say some of the newly created units are performing duties that are outstanding and meant to secure the country. This has made APS a specialised outfit. Some of the units perform classified operations that are only known to its participants. The Special Weapons and Tactics team has been patrolling and inspecting key government installations in the Nairobi central business district as well as popular tourist and entertainment locations across the city. The team is capable of handling intricate security operations. Its members have been trained in multiple weapons handling techniques including management of improvised explosive devices (IED) and Israeli military self-defense and fighting system, Krav Maga. The officers are also capable of scaling multi-storey buildings, rescue hostages, engage in unarmed combat as well as conduct jungle operations. The Rapid Development Unit is usually deployed to any part of the country when there is an emergency or a breach of law and order. It operates under a commanding officer.  Their training is intense as it is meant to supplement the general duties personnel in quelling riots. Britain and United States are among countries that train the personnel. RDU personnel are stationed in particular counties for easy deployment. The Camel Unit is a new team formed in 2019 to help patrol parts of northern Kenya. The area is being being given special attention because of its poor terrain. Personnel under this unit undergo training with their almost 100 camels in Isiolo AP College before they set off for a journey that takes them months with a mission to collect intelligence. The unit has been patrolling the border with Somalia aboard camels while camouflaged. The Anti-Stock Theft Unit (ASTU) that was formerly under the GSU continues to track and recover stolen livestock. It is based in Gilgil and also breeds camels and horses that are usually used by the Kenya Police. Another special unit is that of the Administration Police's Special Force (APSF). It often receives intense training before being deployed to war fronts. It often conducts classified operations. Sources said the unit receives special training from Israel, Britain and the US. Members are trained in direct action, counterterrorism and forcible entry. It is meant to supplement the GSU's Recce Unit. They have since been deployed to various operations. The officers are also capable of scaling multi-storey buildings, rescueing hostages, engaging in unarmed combat as well as conducting jungle operations The APS also has the Security of Government Building Unit (SGBU). This unit offers security government buildings and installations. They also secure senior government officials' residences. Other personnel from this unit are drivers and bodyguards to VIPS. The unit is based in Nairobi. It has a commandant who knows who is where and at what time. If for example a VIP is stripped of his or her duties, the commandant is able to recall the personnel within a short time. The Border Patrol Unit operates along rural air internal borders in Kenya. They also give backup to the GSU and the Kenya Defense Forces in those areas. After National Police Service pass outs, it's officers are selected and retrained before being deployed. They are trained at the Kanyonyo police campus in Kitui county. Like other operational units, the officers are also capable of scaling multi-storey buildings, rescueing hostages, engaging in unarmed combat as well as conducting jungle operations. Another APS team is that of Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit. It is one of the largest units in the APS with its headquarters in Athi River. They protect power lines, fibre optics, roads and data centres that belongs to the government. They also protect all national and county government installations. There are more than 50 personnel from the unit in each county.  Edited by P.O