Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo has threatened to call for the dissolution of the county government. Nyaribo on Wednesday said MCAs are not ready to cooperate with him in ensuring development. He spoke to journalists on Wednesday, when he led a government delegation in inspecting areas that were proposed for construction of stadiums, hospitals and county headquarters in Nyamira town. Reacting to the assembly's decision on Tuesday to reject his nominee for DG position James Gesami, Nyaribo said, "When I was sworn in as governor, I met with all the MCAs and we came to a conclusion of cooperation, consultation, and working together as a team for the better of our county..." "Now it seems the MCAs are not ready to work with me, and the only thing is to call upon the president to dissolve the county and we go for a fresh election." The governor further called on the MCAs to "come back to their senses" and work with him to better the county. He insisted that a section of members of the county assembly were compromised to ensure Gesami was rejected by both the committee on appointments and the assembly as a whole. "I am fully aware that a section of the MCAs have been compromised to twist my leadership, but I wish to say: Let them come here and we talk on how we can move our county forward," Nyaribo said. A section of MPs have also been accused of sabotage, however, Nyaribo has urged all leaders to join hands to take Nyamira ahead. "This is not about an individual but the kind of leadership we want, and can be easily achieved if we join hands and work together for the success of our county," Nyaribo added. On the ongoing battles of former CECs going to court, he said it is a waste of time because according to the constitution, their tenure ended when he took office. "We shall not not listen to any form of noise from outside. Let them battle and battle but the fact remains that we have a new system in place and we cannot concentrate on passers-by," Nyaribo noted. Four former CECs went to the Employment and Labour Relations court in Kericho where the court halted the planned vetting and approval of the names presented by Nyaribo for consideration.