President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday visited Mamboleo ASK, where the construction of Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium is ongoing. The president spent the night at a Kisumu state lodge and is currently meeting some Governors, Wangamati Oparanya, Ojaamong and Nyong'o amongst other leaders. Uhuru visited the lake side city late October to inspect the ongoing construction at Mamboleo which is expected to take six months to be completed. The stadium was supposed to be constructed within the city center, but there was not enough space. ODM leader Raila Odinga said the project was relocated from the center of the city which was not spacious enough to accommodate many people coming if there was a major sporting event within the city, adding that this was part of many projects across the country. He said the projects once completed will provide various employment opportunities to the youths within the region and not tokenism which is not an answer to the youths unemployment. The project was commissioned by Sports CS Amina Mohammed. The site was handed over to the contractors last week in an event presided over by Governor Anyang' Nyong'o and Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of Sports Josephine Onunga. The 30,000 capacity stadium will have facilities for football, rugby, tennis, hockey among other disciplines. “This was a seed planted in Nairobi and I am happy that the seed is now home. We are nurturing and developing it to become a fully grown plant whose fruits will be enjoyed by all of us, including our grandchildren,” Onunga said. She told the contractor to ensure that the project is delivered within the set timelines. The head of state had directed Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to ensure that the 63km Kisumu-Mamboleo-Chemelil-Muhoroni road is completed in four months. "We are constructing an international stadium here in Mamboleo and this type of road should not be leading to such a stadium," he said on Thursday at Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Mamboleo. "I will be coming here in April next year and this should be completed by then." Four months ago, the government approved Sh4.9 billion for the construction of the road after two decades of neglect. The road, which is in a poor state, links Kisumu to neighbouring counties. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, in a letter to his Transport counterpart James Macharia on August 5, stated that the funding was provided for in the 2020-21 budget. Leaders and residents have for more than 20 years been demanding that the road be repaired. The road is filled with potholes and motorists have been incurring huge losses in repairing their damaged vehicles.