Nurses have halted all the negotiations initiated at the county government level and want the return-to-work formula signed at the national level. The decision was arrived at by the Kenya National Union of Nurses national governing council during a meeting held on Wednesday to review progress since the start of the strike on December 7. The nurses and clinical officers have been on strike, with lab technologists joining the strike early this month. “The national governing council of the union is the supreme organ of the union and it makes final decisions on all matters affecting the union,” KNUN secretary general Seth Panyako said. “In the meeting, it was agreed that the return-to-work formula that was negotiated at the national level and agreed by the two levels of government must be signed  at the national level, hence all the negotiations that might be, have been or are yet to be initiated at the county government level are thereby stopped by the decree of the national governing council.” It was also agreed that the Central Organisation of Trade Unions continue supporting the three unions whose members are on strike until a proper return-to-work formula is signed. Panyako said the union will organise regional demonstrations beginning on Monday to push their grievances to be addressed with the urgency they deserve. The unions and the multi-agency committee arrived at an agreement after talks between the parties, but the Council of Governors has remained adamant it will not sign the document. It had been agreed that the risk allowance for nurses be reviewed to a minimum of Sh15,000. Dependents of nurses who have or may succumb to Covid-19 and other illnesses as well as accidents before the operationalisation of Comprehensive Group Life, Last Expense and Enhanced Work Injury Benefits as provided for by NHIF shall receive compensation by the employer within the two levels of government. To date, 34 nurses have succumbed to Covid-19 while on duty. Healthcare workers went on strike to push for, among other issues, a risk allowance, adequate personal protective equipment, comprehensive medical insurance cover and payment of delayed salaries. "We know what Kenyans are going through at this particular time and as a union, it is not and has never and will never be our position to attain and have a position of grandstanding and not willing to engage,” Panyako said. “But the nurses are very clear that their issues must be resolved and the only way to show that is through a proper return to work agreement addressing how those issues have been resolved or how they are going to be resolved. Nothing absolutely out of work will take nurses back to work.” The nurses also hit out at the Council of Governors for claiming that they are the best-paid professionals in the country. They termed it rather demeaning to be compared to other professions yet it is claimed than more than Sh2 billion is lost to corruption daily. “Let us not talk about the health sector eating the money. It is corruption that is eating the money. . If they knew they could not manage the health sector, why did they hurriedly take it? Return it to the national government,” Panyako said. The nurses welcomed the move by religious leaders to arbitrate in the health dispute, saying they are open to dialogue with the two levels of government to end the stalemate. Edited by Henry Makori