Experts have now pointed to tens of power lines passing through national parks as the cause of death to hundreds of migratory birds. They identified flamingoes and vultures as the most affected by the power lines mainly around Lake Elementaita in Gilgil and Hells Gate National Park. Currently, engineers from Ketraco are involved in constructing the Sh8 billion Olkaria-Lessos-Kisumu power line which passes through various parks including Hells Gate. An old electricity line from Olkaria to Suswa power station has been blamed for the current crisis, which has seen tens of flamingos killed in the last couple of months. Francis Muthui, the chairman of Friends of Lake Naivasha, said the electricity projects were critical to the country and its economy. He was, however, quick to note that the power lines had turned out to be death traps for birds mainly flamingoes and vultures. Muthui noted that the power lines had been constructed on the flamingo route, a move that had adversely affected their migration patterns. “In the last couple of months we have lost tens of flamingoes that were flying from Lake Natron to Lake Oloiden in Naivasha. They were electrocuted,” he said. He added that tens of vultures from the park were also in great danger due to an increase in the number of power lines criss-crossing the park. However, a senior engineer from Kenya Electricity Transmission Company who declined to be named denied that the power cables were a threat to the birds. He noted that the cables had been fitted with bird diverters, which are devices fitted on the wires to distract the birds away from the lines. “Before this project kicked off, an environmental impact assessment was done and approved by Nema and these power cables are not responsible for the deaths of the birds,” he said. Speaking earlier during the International Vulture Awareness Day, bird expert Silas Wanjala said vultures in Hells Gate park could disappear in the next 20 years. Wanjala said that noise pollution, the new power lines, human activity and brine from the geothermal wells had adversely affected the breeding areas. “Currently, Hells Gate is the only protected breeding ground for various species of vultures but with ongoing works on geothermal drilling their habitat is affected,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori