A ranking Kieleweke stalwart from Western is walking a tightrope. A new aspirant, allegedly allied to Deputy President William Ruto (pictured), is giving him sleepless nights. The new entrant, initially underestimated as a political novice, has triggered a storm that could consume the Kieleweke honcho's fortunes in the general election. During the festive season, the parliamentary aspirant shocked opponents when he held a massive meeting with delegates from across the constituency to the chagrin of the Kieleweke compatriot. Most of the MP's former supporters attended the meeting and appear to have shifted allegiance. *** Just who is sitting on allowances meant for a section of security officers who were part of the larger contingent for Jamhuri Day celebrations in Kisii last month? Well, the officers are lamenting they have yet to receive their share of allowances for the event, yet some counterparts from the National Police Service have been paid. They suspect some of their bosses either are not keen on following up on the payments, or diverted them to other activities – a practice they say is becoming common with allowances. **** The curfew imposed on civilians has turned into a cash cow for rogue cops within Nairobi and its environs. It has emerged that some police officers have been making a killing from rich kids seeking their help beyond curfew hours. Some officers are offering illegal protection and night escort services for rich kids living in the posh areas of Karen and Runda. A source whispers to Corridors that most of the rich kids party nightly in Kilimani and Lavington clubs till the wee hours of the morning. Then they call cops to escort them home once they're done. The young revellers pay Sh10,000 each and at times they're driven home by cops in case they have had too much for the road. *** The move by a woman representative from a Nyanza county to declare her interest in the governor's seat in the 2022 has thrown a spanner in the works for her rivals. It has emerged that the female politician has the backing of a senior national administrator who wants to turn the tables against an MP who is seen as a front-runner for the position. There are reports that a couple of secret strategy meetings have been held in the last months to scheme how the woman representative can enhance her popularity across the county. The national administrator has been funding the sessions. There is a plot in the offing to rope in the outgoing governor to throw his weight behind the woman representative.