The Treasury has disbursed Sh24.6 billion to the counties, a relief to governors who had threatened shutdowns over Sh94.7 billion unremitted over four months. Governors can now pay county staff, suppliers and contractors who have endured pain caused by the cash crunch. Treasury CS Ukur Yatani announced the release of the funds. He said with the disbursement, total balances for various counties held at the CBK is now Sh61.4 billion. The Council of Governors had threatened to seek legal redress to compel the Treasury to release the funds. CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya said the four months without cash from the Exchequer had caused massive disruptions of operations and salary delays. This was not the first time the governors were threatening shutdown of services over a cash disbursement dispute. In September last year, the county bosses shut down crucial services over prolonged delays to receive the cash. Last year's delay was caused by a failure by lawmakers to agree on a formula to share the Sh316 billion revenue to counties. This time, however, Yatani admitted that the government was broke owing to increased demands for servicing debts and a slump in the Kenya Revenue Authority collections due to the Covid-19. The CS said the pandemic and the subsequent containment measures had slowed down the pace of economic activities, leading to low collections. But debt reliefs by global lenders, including China and gains in the Covid-19 fight have given the Treasury some breathing space. “There is hope because we have gotten [debt] relief from the Paris group and the Chinese also gave us a bit of relief. So, for the next two months, if we consolidate the revenues, we should be able to catch up at least for counties,” Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakango said. On Monday, China announced that it was holding talks with Kenya for a possible debt service suspension. “China attaches great importance to debt suspension and alleviation in African countries including Kenya and is committed to fully implementing the G20 Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI),” the Chinese Embassy in Nairobi said. The statement came two weeks after Kenya received a Sh32.9 billion loan repayment break from Paris Club of countries. The government is also eyeing an additional Sh40.6 billion debt waiver from non-G20 countries to free up available revenue to fight the pandemic. Last month, KRA said it surpassed its December collections target – collected Sh166 billion out of a target of Sh164 billion – signalling the opening up of the economy. Yatani promised more money would be sent to the counties. “In this respect, we once again appeal to them to make full and timely use of these funds, as additional disbursements from exchequer are made in due course,” Yatani said. Nyakango said the funds are meant to cater for one month’s share. It pushed the average releases to the counties to 42 per cent, up from 34 per cent last week. The CS urged county governments to prioritise settlement of pending bills to suppliers and other statutory dues. “Meanwhile, noting the general improvement of the economy and in particular positive revenue performance since December, 2020, the National Treasury and Planning will prioritise disbursements to county governments, noting their critical obligations of service delivery to the Kenya citizens,” the CS said.  (edited by o. owino)