The electoral and the anti-graft agencies have been barred from commenting on the merits of former Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu’s case. This is after Waititu's lawyer, John Swaka, told the court that both the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission had been commenting on whether the former governor can vie in an election even though his case is yet to be determined. In the case, Waititu moved to court on Thursday last week challenging IEBC’s decision to bar him from contending in the Nairobi gubernatorial by-election. He wants the IEBC to accept his candidature to vie in the upcoming Nairobi by-election. The Nairobi governor's seat fell vacant following the impeachment of Mike Sonko last month. Justice Antony Mrima on Thursday directed all parties in the case to act with restraint by ensuring that the proceedings before the court are not discussed outside the jurisdiction of the court. "I direct the lawyers in this matter to advise their clients to respect the doctrine of sub judice," the judge said. Judge Mrima further directed the IEBC and the EACC to file their responses to the petition filed by Waititu in court. The case will be mentioned on February 1 for further directions. On December 30, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati said Waititu cannot vie for the seat because he had been impeached. Waititu claims that the actions by the IEBC to bar him amounts to denial of his political rights and denial of the right to a fair trial which is guaranteed under the Constitution. “I will continue to suffer without the intervention of this honourable court which ought to look at the process that was both illegal and procedural leading to the decision that has been stated by the first respondent (IEBC),” reads court papers. He has accused the two agencies of engaging in a smear campaign against him by convicting him when the case is still in court. The former governor argued that though he faces a corruption case he has not been convicted of any offence by any court and as such he has the right to vie for the gubernatorial election. “As it stands, I have not been convicted of any crime and have fully complied with all electoral guidelines provided when running for the aforementioned electoral position,” reads court papers. Waititu also said that on the issue of impeachment he has appealed and it’s still pending in court.