The Anti-Terrorism Police Unit has been renamed the Terrorism Prevention and Investigations Unit in structural changes by the DCI. The rebranding is according to the amended National Police Service Standing Orders that were gazetted last month. This is a booklet that guides police operations in general. The orders say TPIU will prevent, detect, disrupt and interdict terrorist activities within the country, conduct investigation of terrorism and terrorism-related cases and secure evidence related to terrorist activities. The unit also conducts maintenance of profiles for suspected terrorists and establishment of a data-bank, sharing intelligence with other security-related agencies and reviews and monitors the security of foreign missions accredited to Kenya. ATPU has been in existence since 2000 and was mandated with disrupting terror plans. The amended order also creates the Kenya Airports Criminal Investigation unit to investigate criminal activities in airports, collect criminal intelligence and liaise with the directorate and the airport management. This will be a new unit to supplement the Kenya Airports Police Unit. Then there will be Regional Counter-Terrorism Centre of Excellence to research, analyse and timely disseminate counter-terrorism-related intelligence. It will also conduct coordinated planning and action against terrorism and sharing of experience and best practice among the member countries and other Interpol regions. Anti-Land Fraud Unit has been established to investigate cases involving land fraud, liaise with the National Land Commission and recover public land acquired illegally and put mechanisms in place to deter theft of public land. This is due to increased cases of land fraud in the country. Anti-Counterfeit Investigations Unit has been created to investigate cases of counterfeit goods into the country, deter importation of counterfeit goods and work with the Kenya Bureau of Standards to rid the country of counterfeits. The unit was active in 2019 and 2020, seizing dozens of suspected counterfeit products. In the amended SSO, the Internal Affairs Unit has been allowed to establish and devolve its services to conduct investigations into police misconduct in a fair and effective manner and report directly to the Inspector General. It says the IAU shall be headed by a director who shall assign a senior investigating officer in every county to be responsible for police internal affairs in the counties. “The unit shall not be subject to the control, direction or command of the Kenya Police Service, Administration Police Service or the Directorate of Criminal Investigations,” reads the special notice. Under the Administration Police Service, the units gazetted include Security of Government Buildings and VIP Protection Unit; Rapid Deployment Unit; Border Police Unit; Anti-Stock Theft Unit; Critical Infrastructure Protection Unit; National Police College, Embakasi “A” campus; National Police Service College, Border Police Training Campus; and National Police Service Senior Staff College, Emali campus. The others are Administration Police Service headquarters, Administration Police Driving School, Administration Police Signal School, Administration Police Field Training School, Katolongwe and Administration Police Field Training School, Tseikuru. The Administration Police Armourers School; Administration Police Leadership and Sports School; Administration Police Anti-Stock Theft School, Gilgil; and Administration Police School of Music were also gazetted. 