Former Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Beatrice Elachi now says the Senate is to blame for what is happening at City Hall. Elachi on Monday said though the Senate did an amendment to the County Government Act, it did not resolve issues like what is currently happening at City Hall. She said, as a result, there are no clear guidelines on what should happen in case a governor is impeached in the absence of the deputy governor thus leaving a lacuna. She said the County Assembly is a powerful tool and if they decided to reduce the vetting time for Kananu as DG is was within their rights. Elachi while speaking on Citizen TV said Kananu should not be criticised or blamed for what happened. "This country has very vibrant institutions and with good people in them, Kenya can really move. The floor of the house is powerful and anything they do goes through until it is challenged in court," she said. "Nairobi has many challenges and I hope what has happened serves well for all Nairobians because what they want is calmness." Kananu on Monday took over as Nairobi acting Governor three days after she was sworn in as deputy governor. Nairobi County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura officially handed over the instruments of power to Kananu in a ceremony at City Hall. Mutura said since Nairobi now has a substantive Deputy Governor in office he has relinquished his acting Governor capacity and resumes his full duties as Speaker. Elachi who served as a nominated Senator in the 10th Parliament said the only undoing for the process is that it will be dragged in court and moving to the next level will be a big challenge for Kananu. Her sentiments come amid sharp criticism after Kananu was vetted and sworn-in as the deputy governor for Nairobi county in a five-hour record time. Kananu last week Friday appeared before the County Assembly's committee and was sworn-in before 2pm. The move has sparked sharp criticism with various quarters including the Law Society of Kenya moving to court to challenge the process. LSK on Monday moved to court seeking to block the possible swearing-in of Kananu as Nairobi Governor. Also sought is an order to suspend her swearing-in to the office of deputy governor which happened last Friday. The society believes that the hurried swearing-in of Kananu to the office is illegal and a brazen attempt to undermine the process of a by-election as required by the Constitution. Elachi in her sentiments said having Kananu as the deputy governor will not solve the current lacuna at city hall. "The powers of a deputy governor are limited and the only way Kananu can help Nairobi, is being elevated to the governor position," she said. Former Deputy Governor Jonathan Mueke said what happened at City Hall was totally foreign to any provisions of law a clear indication that the law has become a burden to the country. "It bothered me deeply because it was unconstitutional, impunity and violation of the constitution. Whoever planned and executed that fraud should be held responsible," Mueke said. Mueke said the County Governments Act gives clear guidelines on how a deputy governor comes to office. "In this case, the question is if Sonko has been impeached, who signed Kananu's appointment letter and who is she deputising?" he posed. Mueke said since IEBC which is only mandated to suspend an election had set the Nairobi by-election for February 18, it was unfair for the county assembly to hijack that process. "By allowing the vetting to happen the county assembly missed the mark. I am not sure what part of the law is not clear but in my view, they should be held liable for the abuse of power because they knew it was wrong," he said.