Fourteen MCAs from Nyandarua County Assembly have distanced themselves from the Friday sitting where Speaker Ndegwa Wahome was impeached. In a press conference on Saturday, the 14 signed affidavits which will be deposited in court on January 11, where they disassociated themselves from the sitting. The action deepens the crisis at the County Assembly of Nyandarua. According to section 11 of the County Governments Act and order number 63 of the Nyandarua County Assembly Standing Orders, 75 per cent of MCAs must vote in favor of the motion for the Speaker to be removed successfully. In Nyandarua which has 39 MCAs, at least 30 must vote in support. MCAs supporting the impeachment now stand at 25.  Questions have also been raised on the mace that was used during the impeachment. The sitting was held allegedly without presence of the commissioned mace and officers of the House including table clerks and the Hansard, some MCAs say. It had also not been gazetted as a special sitting, the 14 claimed. However, Leader of Majority Wambugu King’ori, who tabled the motion, said the gazette notice was obtained by deputy speaker Zackary Njeru. The House is on recess and normal sittings shall resume on Tuesday January 12. “The mace used is owned by Mirangine Ward MCA Samuel Mathu who used to be a carpenter. The House official mace is made of gold and brass and is safely kept by department in charge of security,” said Paul Ngeche, Kipipiri Ward MCA. Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia had asked MCAs to remove the speaker saying he was an impediment to development. Drama in the assembly came a few hours after High Court Judge Joel Ngugi issued a ruling on the Speaker’s impeachment matter filed before him. He had ordered that Speaker Ndegwa Wahome be given seven days from eighth January 2021 to respond to a notice of impeachment served, and that the impeachment motion be carried out after consideration of the Speaker’s response. MCAs who spoke during the press conference were Suleiman Kihika (Kanjuiri Range), Ngumo Ngamau (Gathanji) Paul Ngeche (Kipipiri), Gathungu Kamau (Leshau Pondo), Kariuki Muchiri (Murungaru) and Njatha Kinyanjui (Engineer). Others present were Kenn Mukira (Karau), Esther Mwangi (Nominated) Margaret Ireri (Nominated) and Georgina Chira (Nominated).