Lucy Chomba defeated two aspirants to win the Jubilee nomination. She is the widow of former MCA Peter Chomba who died of Covid-19 last October. A low turnout and chaos over missing names from the voters' list marred Jubilee party nominations  for the Huruma by-elections on March 4. Fewer than 2,000 voters turned up to vote, many who did were turned away and barred from voting because their names were missing from the party registers. The ward has more than 35,000 voters Police used tear gas to disperse party supporters protesting outside the polling stations. “Despite the challenges, I am grateful the people of Huruma have made their decision and will by electing me to fly the party flag in the by-elections," Lucy said. Lucy polled 979 votes against Francis Maina who got 508 and Lucy Njamba who got 213 votes. More than 15 aspirants defied a request by Deputy President William Ruto and other leaders to let the widow run unopposed out of respect of her husband. Ruto, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi had all requested at Chomba's burial that the widow not be opposed. “Sometimes it’s good to be human. Those who may be interested in the seat should hold on and allow her to take over for remaining short period, then they can compete properly in 2022," Ruto said. Mandago and Sudi had made the same suggestion and asked possible successors to hold off. However, some youthful aspirants have teamed up to back one of them and asked Ruto, Mandago and Sudi to let the people of Huruma choose their own leader. “We are aware of the request by the DP and others but with due respect we urge them to let the people of Huruma elect someone of their choice," businessman Samson 'Samkiz' Wanjama said. He was expected to be a main contender but his name was mentioned at the funeral as one of those who should not vie in honour of Chomba. Samkiz is backing Kimani Wanjohi who says he will not seek a Jubilee ticket. Other aspirants include Oliver Kibor and ANC’s Saina Nechu. They are seeking tickets for CCM, Ford Kenya, ODM, Kanu and other parties. Police in Eldoret are also investigating circulation of threatening leaflets distributed in Huruma warning residents to support one of the candidates in the by-election or leave the area. Uasin Gishu county commander Ayub Gitonga says they have already dispatched a team of CID officers to pursue suspects involved in the circulation of the leaflets. This comes just a week after two people were arrested over distribution of ethnic hate leaflets in Kipkaren area of the town. MCAs led by Francis Muya have asked police to ensure they arrest all those behind the leaflets causing panic in the town. (Edited by V. Graham) 