Over the years and with an increase in marine accidents, Lamu leaders, activists and residents have called for the formation of a county marine disaster response unit to help rescue victims. The increased deaths at sea are blamed on the lack of navigation buoys and lights along the various Indian Ocean channels, as well as speeding and overloading. The Kenya Maritime Authority has equally been blamed for focusing only on implementing select legislations instead of putting in place measures and practical guidelines to help save lives during marine accidents. Ali Yusuf, the Lamu Sea Transport Users Association (LSTUA) chairperson, says the government has immensely failed the people of Lamu by not having such a disaster response unit in place. “We need rescue boats on standby and on patrol on the ocean to be able to spot any boat or persons needing help and react promptly to save lives,” Yusuf said. He believes many marine deaths would have been avoided or limited if just there was someone keeping an eye on the ocean 24/7. “The incident of the politician who lost his family at sea, he narrated how he held onto six children for hours until they started slipping away from his grasp as they were exhausted, and that’s how they died. Imagine if someone was out there at that time, they would be alive,” he said. On many occasions, seafarers and mostly fishermen and travellers have to fight it out on their own in the unfortunate event of an accident. “People have told stories of how they swam for hours without any help. Others gave up and died, a few reached safety. We need a unit to address all this and save lives,” Yusuf said. DIVERS AS GUARDIANS Lamu has tens of divers who, though without formal education or training, have over the years amassed a wealth of experience in a far as deep sea diving goes. They have played a huge role in saving lives during marine disasters in the absence of professional help. Renowned diver Omar Shamte wishes the government would form a marine response unit and incorporate people like him to save lives. “My hands have pulled thousands from these waters and I am grateful to God for giving me the ability to do so,” he said. “We are ready as local divers whenever need be, but we need equipment so we can be better. We can’t go patrolling the sea without a boat or life vests.” LSTUA deputy chairperson Hassan Bakari says it is unsafe for counties bordering large water masses like the Indian Ocean to be without such an active marine rescue in place. He said many of the lives lost at sea could have been saved if such units and proper support amenities were in place. The association also wants adequate rescue boats purchased to enable effective and frequent patrols, especially in the open sea, where most accidents and deaths occur. “Lamu has had quite an unpleasant history of marine accidents and even then, we still haven’t taken our lessons," he said. Yusuf, the chairperson, said the KMA and the Kenya Ports Authority should equally shoulder the blame for failing to put up buoys and lighting along various channels in the Indian ocean. As such, he says on many occasions, sailors and fishermen have lost their way at sea, wandered off and ended up on dangerous channels, where they died. The association says most of the devices that were erected years back have worn off and been damaged. Deadly channels in Lamu Indian Ocean waters include Shella in Lamu island, Mlango wa Tanu in Mkokoni, Mlango wa Ali in Kiwayu, Mlango wa Bomani in Kiunga, the Manda Bruno channel, the Mkanda Channel and Mlango wa Kipungani. The channels are characterised by massively strong winds and heavy tides in all seasons. Hundreds have perished in these channels and the number continues to rise annually. Edited by T Jalio