Leading gaming company Mozzart continues to provide great support to Kenya’s healthcare system, through numerous donations to different hospitals every week. As part of its ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative named “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities”, the company donated a specialized Continuous Positive Airway Pressure therapy (CPAP) machine worth sh.400,000 to the Pumwani Maternity Hospital in Nairobi on Friday 29th January. "We are very happy that Mozzart listened to our request and fulfilled their promise.", said Dr. Beth Maina, Deputy Medical Superintendent and Head of Clinical Services at the hospital "This is a very crucial machine that we have lacked for a very long time and we are very glad to have it finally" she added The machine is used to help a person who has obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) breathe more easily during sleep. A CPAP machine increases air pressure in the throat so that the airway doesn't collapse when a patient breathes in. The donation of the CPAP machine follows a special request for this specific equipment when Mozzart donated Intensive Care Unit (ICU) worth sh.3M to the hospital on 18th December last year. Deputy Medical Superintendent and Head of Clinical Services at the hospital Dr. Beth Maina thanked Mozzart for responding to the request. “We are very happy that Mozzart listened to our request and fulfilled their promise. This is a very crucial machine that we have lacked for a very long time and we are very glad to have it finally.” She said. Mr. Orina, the Nursing Manager in charge of the new born unit said the equipment would improve service delivery in the facility. “It will help us nurse our babies especially those that are born pre-maturely. It will enhance their lungs and improve their breathing system and we are very grateful to Mozzart for donating this important equipment.” He said. Mozzart’s CSR Representative Cyprian Aluda said the company was also glad to help and will continue doing so. “We are very happy to be back at Pumwani to donate the CPAP machine as per your request. We are very passionate about healthcare hence the reason our CSR activities are mainly focused on this area. We will continue partnering and helping more health facilities around the country.” he said. Between November 2020 and now, sixteen different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center and Dandora 2 Health Center. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.