Kenya has clapped back at Somalia over claims of destabilising the Horn of Africa country. In an address to the media on January 28, government spokesman Cyrus Oguna said allegations that Kenya is sponsoring and harbouring militia with objectives of destabilising Somalia are not based on any merit. “As a people, Kenyans are known the world over for their generosity and hospitality, perhaps more so by Somalis who have found refuge in this country for more than two decades. While in the country, they continue to enjoy almost equal privileges as Kenyans. “Due to this, it is here more Somalis run to whenever violence breaks out in their country. They still do cross over to seek certain services even in situations where there is relative calm in that country,” Oguna said. He said that every single day, 3,000 learners cross to Kenya to seek education. Besides the 3,000 learners, 8,000 individuals cross to Mandera for business. Over 500 mothers and the elderly cross over to seek medical services. “We also have 270,000 Somalis in our refugee camps out of which 81,000 are urban refugees doing business.  Therefore, if this is a country they run to in situations of violence, how can it be the same country that is destabilising that country? It beats logic, honestly,” the spokesperson said. He noted that it would be counterproductive to destabilize Somalia in any way “because we know for a fact that even when there is a light conflict or starvation, here is where they run for food, health and education.” Somalia has insisted that Kenya is interfering with its domestic politics, leading to the severing of diplomatic relations on November 30, 2020. A fact-finding mission set up by Igad heads of state and government absolving Kenya of the four of the five allegations, Somalia said the Djibouti-led process was unfair. Djibouti has rejected claims of bias. "FGS regrets the partisanship portrayed by Djibouti and IGAD under the chairmanship of Ismail Guelleh. FGS strongly holds to all its initial accusations against Kenya and will pursue all means to protect her sovereignty," the country's Foreign Affairs Ministry said on Wednesday. The five grievances were violation of Somalia’s airspace; violation of its land borders, that Kenyan forces, led by Amisom, leave their positions and move on to other locations; recognition and collaboration with Jubaland; participation in the illegal sugar and coal trade in Kismayu; and the creation, training and maintenance in Kenya of an armed group under the authority of Abdirashid Janan, the Jubaland security minister. Kenya denied all the accusations, but the commission found it culpable for violation of Somalia’s airspace. Oguna said that “it is important that when a country is thinking about its foreign policy, it must take account its nationals who are in diaspora”. He added that Kenya’s desire for peace in the region is unmatched and demonstrated by the Igad mission.