 Parents in 14 primary schools in Limuru constituency have protested against a requirement that their children carry water in jerricans to school everyday. The water is used to refill handwashing containers strategically placed in their schools. Regular handwashing is one of the precautionary measures to curb the spread of Covid-19. But parents claim the water is not entirely used for handwashing. "Our children are carrying water everyday. The water is used to refill handwashing containers placed in schools and also to wash classrooms," Simon Mwangi said. Area MP Peter Mwathi said the most affected area is Ndeiya ward where eight primary schools do not have water connection. The other schools are in other four wards. Mwathi said water connection efforts were ongoing. The legislator said 80 per cent of Ndeiya ward does not have piped water. He said most schools in the ward do not have water connection while some lacked storage tanks. He said his office was aware of the matter and that efforts to remedy the problem have already been initiated. A borehole has been sunk at Roromo area and pipes placed, the MP said. Mwathi urged Limuru Water and Sewerage Company to hasten the laying of pipes in Ndeiya so the area can be connected to water supply. "We are urging Limuru Water Company to tell us the difficulties they are having in piping Ndeiya ward with water. The borehole at Roromo was purposely to address the water shortage in Ndeiya," the MP said. "Our pupils have been carrying books, water in jerry cans and other learning items. Remember we have a new education curriculum." He spoke at Muna secondary school where he opened classrooms and toilets on Friday. The facilities were built through the CDF kitty. Mwathi said his office has been building more classrooms and buying water tanks for schools to promote social distancing among learners and regular handwashing. Sicilia Njambi asked the government to fast-track the procurement of desks, saying learners were still sharing lockers. "We know our children are sharing desks, the government said it was making desks, but those assembling them are coming with theories of not being paid and now are unable to buy materials," the parent said. "Why can't the government assist those carpenters financially so they can buy materials to ensure the desks are made and promptly delivered to schools." Njambi said lack of water should be unheard of in Kiambu because the county is the backyard of President Uhuru Kenyatta.  Edited by P.O