Cases of maternal deaths are set to reduce drastically following the introduction of smart-watches that monitor the blood pressure of expectant mothers. Nakuru County Government in collaboration with Kabarak University has introduced the technology of following, monitoring and identifying mothers with hypertensive disorders during pregnancies. The collaboration will reduce cases of women dying from pre-eclampsia and eclampsia which are among the highest causes of death and complications at delivery. Pre-eclampsia is a disorder characterised by high blood pressure and a protein in the urine causing seizures and loss of consciousness and often leads to eclampsia that causes excessive bleeding and other complications and even death in extreme cases. Nakuru was ranked among the top four counties in Kenya with high maternal death burden by the United Nations Fund for Population Activities (UNFPA) in 2014. Through this project, the county government will implement evidence-based interventions in the community to address the causes of deaths especially preeclampsia and eclampsia in expectant women. The project was initiated after a study done by Kabarak in the County that helped to map out various levels of health facilities reporting a high prevalence of preeclampsia and eclampsia. “Expectant mothers will be able to monitor their blood pressure throughout the day and give timely reports in case of any abnormality,” said a researcher at Kabarak University, Moses Thiga. Speaking during the project launch attended by county Partners Liason Officer, Dr Toromo Kochei, Thiga said the University will offer Smart-watches to at least 150 expectant mothers during the first phase of Implementation targeting Level 3 and 4 facilities. Also present were Deputy County Chief Nursing Officer, Ms Judith Abong'o, and the County ICT officer for Health, James Maina Ndung'u among others. County Reproductive Health Coordinator, Clara Kerich the two conditions happen to pregnant women of all ages. “The use of smart-watches will help increase surveillance, early detection and identification of women who may develop the condition early enough,” she said. She added that health workers in county health facilities had been trained on the new technology and data collected will be used to improve Antenatal Care and treatment of hypertensive disorders during pregnancy.