Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has said the time has come for people in ODM strongholds to return his favour and support him for the presidency. Joho has expressed interest in vying for the top job at State House and will battle it out with his Kakamega counterpart Wycliffe Oparanya, and, as widely believed, ODM leader Raila Odinga, to be ODM’s flag bearer in the presidential race. On Thursday, Joho said he will prove doubting Thomases wrong in 2022, after having done so in 2007 when he first became Kisauni MP, and in 2013 and 2017 when he was elected governor. However, he said he will need support from ‘the brothers he has supported for long’. “I have supported ODM and Raila for long...It is time for you to support us now," said Joho. He spoke at Uwanja wa Mbuzi where he issued 2,979 title deeds to families in informal settlements and settlement schemes across the county. Joho said the Coast region has been a loyal supporter of ODM, which has dominated the region for over a decade. He noted time has come for the region to also produce a president, adding there is no better candidate than himself. He said time has come for the region, which houses minority communities, to have the national cake. “We have supported our brothers for long. Now it is time for them to support us,” Joho said. Jomvu MP Badi Twalib said Joho is the undisputed Coast political kingpin and that he is the best chance the Coast region has of producing a president. He said just as Raila has the support of the Nyanza region and Deputy President William Ruto has the support of Rift Valley region, Joho must get the support of Coast region to propel him to State House. “In Coast, we look at Joho with our two eyes,” Twalib said. He noted the Msambweni defeat of ODM was an isolated case and that one cannot always win, which he said is only human. He said the defeat did not demean Joho in any way. He said leaders must have the support of their people both in high and on low moments. “We will and we must support Joho at all times,” he said. He said a leader who unites people is a true leader who must be supported. He said Joho has started a unity campaign at the Coast starting with Garsen in Tana River county. “That is a sign of a good leader,” said Twalib. Likoni MP Mishi Mboko said all Coast leaders must support Joho. She said Joho has climbed the steps slowly in his political career and is now on the 10th floor, just about to reach the presidency on the 11th floor. "We can't reach the 10th floor then come back to the first floor," said Mboko. She was referring to speculation that Joho would run for a parliamentary seat, presumed to be Nyali, so as to meet the requirement for one to be appointed a Deputy Prime Minister. It was widely speculated that Joho was eying the DPM position after completing his constitutionally allowed two terms as governor in 2022. This, however, was dependent on the BBI passing in the upcoming referendum. "Once he becomes president, the biggest beneficiaries will be Mombasa and Coast residents," he said, his sentiments echoed by Mboko. Mboko said the Coast now has its eyes on the national cake. "Our eye is Ali Hassan Joho," she said. The Mombasa governor said the presidency is not a seat set aside for certain people only. He said the time has come for leaders from the minority communities to lead the country. He, however, said there are, unfortunately, those from Mombasa and the Coast region who still doubt him insisting that they will not discourage him. In fact, he noted, they give him the fuel to move forward. "If you cannot (be president) that is you. I will be in the presidential ballot," he declared. He said he has the ability to mount a countrywide political battle with anyone. He called on Coast residents to remove the mentality that Mombasa, Coast or minority communities cannot produce a president. "We have supported our brothers for long. Now it is time for them to support us because we can do it," said Joho. He said his presidency will send a message that Kenya is an equal opportunity country where equity is highly regarded. "We want a Kenya where all people have the same rights," said Joho. He also hit out at the supporters of the 'Hustler Nation' movement saying they are polarising the country. A good leader, Joho said, should be able to unite the country, not divide it, warning Kenyans not to allow themselves to be radicalized. "Don't divide the country into two classes - the poor and the rich," he said. He said a leader must be a symbol of unity not a symbol of division. "If you can't unite people you have no business leading the country," Joho said. He said organizing rowdy youth to disrupt rival politicians’ meetings is archaic and has no place in the modern-day. “Don’t think you are the only one who has followers. Every leader has followers, no matter how small,” said Joho. Mboko said those blaming Raila for their failures are only seeking a hiding place. She said Raila is not in government and therefore cannot be blamed for the government failures. "If it was blundering you did, carry your own cross. Don't blame Raila for your failures," she said in a message believed to be directed at Ruto and his allies. She said Ruto allies are spreading all kinds of propaganda against BBI because they are hiding from the truth. "Those who oppose (the BBI) are those used to strangling. They can't manage those to be knifed," said Mboko. She said Joho is the only Coast leader capable of leading the region on the national platform.