The quick steps the country took when cases of Covid-19 were reported in other countries should not be underestimated as having played a role in slowing down the impact of the virus. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said the banning of flights from countries such as the UK and enforcement of mandatory quarantine for incoming passengers ensured that the disease remained at a manageable level. “We knew that we had a fragile healthcare system so everybody was scared. You saw Italians leaving Malindi heading to Italy little did they know that was much safer to stay here than to go back to Italy,” Kagwe said. He added: “When we started the enforced quarantine Europe was not taking it when we started saying that you cannot come to Kenya for example from the UK without a Covid certificate, France, Italy and the US  had not said it so I think the point is that for once Africa was not listening and following what other are doing. Africa was making its own decisions, very early very quickly.” The country’s young population is also believed to have worked in favour of the effect of the virus. Kenya has a young population hence more asymptomatic cases. According to Kagwe, there is some level of resistance to some of the diseases such as Covid-19 due to body adjustment to other diseases that have been affecting the continent such as tropical diseases. The CS, however, said the theories are subject to more research and proof. Last year, researchers said childhood vaccines may help prevent severe Covid-19. For instance, people whose immune systems responded strongly to a measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccine were said to be less likely to become severely ill if they got infected with the Covid-19. Kenya is among African countries whose routine immunisation schedule is always up to date. Similarly, the weather in the country and Africa, in general, has been another factor. “We have got a fairly good weather and if you notice in Europe, once winter sets in then they have got a big problem and as you know most of Africa has not experienced those extreme weathers,” the CS said. The CS has warned that with the virus still circulating, there is need for caution as dropping the ball might fuel a third wave of the virus in the country.