UNCTAD boss and former Trade minister Mukhisa Kituyi has finally declared that he will run for President in 2022. Speaking in his Bungoma turf on Saturday while meeting a group of professionals, Kituyi said he had decided to run for presidency because the country was currently experiencing a "total vacuum in leadership" as plans for President Uhuru Kenyatta's succession take place. “Every challenge is an opportunity for us ,the challenge  here is we have  a flock without leadership  and this is an opportunity for us to lead ,” he said. Mukhisa continued, "We should not confuse political tactic with political purpose, people should not tell us  why they want to be president but tell us the reason  they want to win power." Kituyi said  he was completing his term at UNCTAD boss and will be back in the country for vigorous an systematic campaigns. Kituyi said the person  who should vie for presidency should tell Kenyans   the reason why they want to win power, that has to address the vulnerability of Kenyans and give hope to the economy of the country . “I am going for my last leg on the UN international assignment  when I come back will engage in more systematic and robust campaigns," he said. On the Luhya leadership, Kituyi said  the community had lacked leadership for a while and that is the reason why people without leadership qualities had tried to emerge with no success. “If you  see cows  going backing home and  small calves are trying to jump on the big cows it tells  that  there is problem, we have a problem as a community and we should come back and address it." Kituyi has served as Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, UNCTAD since September 2013. Immediately prior, Kituyi was Chief Executive of the Kenya Institute of Governance, based in Nairobi. He served as Kenya's Minister of Trade and Industry from 2002 to 2007. He formerly served as Kimilili MP before losing to Eseli Simiyu the current Tongaren MP before it was hived in 2007. Last year the Star reported that Kituyi might be the secret presidential candidate for President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, according to close Uhuru and Raila associates.  