The Kenya National Union of Teachers has opposed the proposed reintroduction of corporal punishment in schools. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha last week rooted for a whip to tackle school unrest and arson. But the trade union said caning will result in more conflicts between teachers and learners. Secretary-general Wilson Sossion on Saturday said the move would risk the lives of teachers, hence they would not accept it. He said the government would have to deploy police officers in all schools to implement the order if caning is reintroduced. Sossion spoke at Afraha High School in Nakuru after a branch election. “What is going to happen, particularly with teenagers, is that they are going to kill teachers. We are going to witness mass killings of teachers,” he said. Sossion said Kenya must honour its anti-corporal punishment commitment and ensure the right of every child is respected as enshrined in the Children's Act. He urged the government to abolish all boarding schools to allow parents to take their rightful role in disciplining and guiding their children. "Abolish boarding schools completely and improve public day school centres of excellence so parents can take care of their children after 5pm and bring them back to school the following morning,” he said. The trade unionist said Covid-19 has exposed parents and shown that they abandoned their children, hence their inability to cope in schools after a nine-month holiday. “It is time Kenya faced out the boarding school system... The children are doing it. They are burning dormitories and very soon all dorms in the country will be burnt,” he said. Sossion said parents should take their responsibilities seriously so the work of teachers is strictly to impart knowledge between 8pm and 5pm. He at the same time accused the government of killing strong trade unions to exploit workers. “Engaging and working with strong unions is what has made our education system the best in Africa in terms of quality and access." He termed it wrong for the government to listen to the Teachers Service Commission on its agenda of anti-union action and urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and put TSC to order so teachers can work peacefully. Sossion said the check-off for Knut should be returned in totality as it was the only system that members could remit their dues and affiliate to a trade union. “The check-off system is a provision that was fought for through strikes from 1963 and the employer cannot withdraw it at will. Removing it is an attack on Section 41 of the Constitution and denying workers their right to be unionised.”