Gor Mahia Portuguese coach Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto has moved to allay injury concerns at the club as they prepare for their next league action against Zoo Kericho on Wednesday afternoon. "Currently, we do not have much injury worries and everyone is upbeat, in good shape and ready to go. John Macharia who was out due to a knock is ready to make a comeback," said Pinto. The champs had to deal with a host of injuries at the start of the season hence dipped in performance. However, the situation seems to have ameliorated following the return of skipper Kenneth Muguna and midfielder Sydney Ochieng. Another player John Ochieng who has been in the cold for months now after collecting an ankle injury in a preseason tie against City Stars, confirmed he had fully recovered and hoped to be part of action anytime soon. "I've began feeling well and I believe I'll be ready for action in the coming weeks," said Ochieng. The 18-time Kenyan Pemier League champions will be looking forward to collecting maximum points at Kasarani today as they seek to find their footing in the competition after posting mixed results so far. K'Ogalo lie ninth on the log on 10 points after three wins and four draws. Their last league outing proved disastrous after they fell to competition minnows Vihiga United who reaped big from the match held at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC),  Kasarani with Denis Wafula netting the lone goal late into the game in the 87th minute. The result saw Gor drop to 10th on the log with nine points after winning three out of the six games they have played so far. They, however, still have the advantage of three matches in hand. Gor Mahia named Pinto as their new head coach on a two-year contract, replacing Roberto Oliveira after just three months in charge at the club. Oliviera  parted ways with the club after bumping into a hitch in the course of duty when the Confederation of African Football (Caf) prohibited him from sitting in the dugout over inferior coaching credentials. Pinto had experienced a good run with the side, winning two matches consecutively before he ultimately crashed to Vihiga in their last match.   