A police officer accused of shooting dead Meru University student leader Evans Njoroge alias Kidero during a riot in 2018 had 25 live bullets, a court was told. Constable Leakey Maina is charged with shooting Njoroge dead at Kabebe village in Tigania West of February 27, 2018. He is out on bail after denying the charge. During hearing, then Nchiru OCS Daniel Musembi Makao said he received a message indicating a murder incident while on his way from a court. “Later, I was informed by a member of the public about murder and when I went to the scene, I found the body of a young adult,” the OCS said. He said the students had a meeting outside Meru University gate before rioting. Makao told the court that upon realising students were planning to riot, he divided his officers into two groups after which he joined one group while Tigania West subcounty Administration Police commandant Ali Guyo led another group. Inspector Guyo told Meru High Court judge Jeremy Otieno that the accused was in possession of twenty-five live bullets. The hearing progressed via zoom. Guyo told the court that he and his driver (the accused Leakey Maina) and other officers were responding to information that the Meru-Maua road had been barricaded by the rioting students. “On that day, the area chief called informing us that Meru-Maua road was barricaded. I called Nchiru police OCS inquiring if he was aware and he told me he had already deployed officers in the region,” Guyo told the court. He added that he and his driver travelled to Meru town to repair a gun before joining forces with the OCS and his officers to unblock the road. “At around 1pm, we found Masikani road closed again. We used two vehicles, mine and that of the OCS. However, the protesters kept on barricading the road despite our effort to unblock it,” he said. Guyo told the court other officers had rubber bullets except him and his driver (the accused) who were in possession of guns with live bullets. “Everybody had a gun but only I and Leakey Maina were carrying guns loaded with live bullets. Other officers had rubber bullets,” Guyo said. Guyo, who said he was among officers who picked the body of the deceased from the scene, told the court that he received information of the murder from the area DCC. He told the court that he kept an eye on the police vehicle he was using but sometimes he could not see it as he was busy helping other officers to unblock the road. “We were working jointly between Kenya Police and Administration Police in unblocking the road. I am not aware of any operations and we were not to go to the village,” he said. Senior sergeant Mwaroro Pasia, an armoury custodian, told the court that he had issued guns and live bullets to three officers including the accused on the day when the murder happened. “On that day (February 27, 2018) I gave out guns to officers to go to the riot. The driver, Leakey Maina, went with 25 bullets,” Mwaroro said. He however later contradicted his statement and told court that the accused had been given a gun on February 13, 2018 during an operation and kept it until February 28, a day after the murder incident. Mwaroro said the guns were returned unused with the same number of ammunition that had been issued. He, however, informed the court that he was not around when the guns were returned, before later claiming that he was in a nearby location. “I am the officer in charge of the armoury at the camp and when off I normally assign another officer. I was in the camp, so anybody returning the gun would call me,” the custodian said when asked to clarify. In November last year, the Meru High Court visited the crime scene. Justice Otieno heard how a police patrol car pursued rioting students into Kabebe village, 2km from the university, where the student leader was allegedly gunned down in cold blood as he sought refuge in a farmhouse. Independent Policing Oversight Authority official Beatrice Atieno told the court that the vehicle was tracked as it made rounds towards the area, and it was near the scene when Njoroge was killed. She showed the court a scene within a private farm where the student leader, who had been nicknamed Kidero, was shot dead under a tree a few yards from a house where a family was having lunch. Atieno said the vehicle then travelled to Maua, about 40km from the murder scene, before being driven back to Nchiru market in Tigania West where the university is situated. The case will proceed on March 31 when the prosecution will present four more witnesses.  Edited by Henry Makori