Private schools are seeking a bailout from the government as mass exit has hit them since the full reopening of learning institutions on Monday. Kenya Private School Association chief executive Peter Ndoro on Wednesday said some of the institutions are in a catch22 situation, with about 300 institutions closing shop since march. "This is a sector that has been completely shut down. Schools do not have alternative sources of income apart from the school fees paid," he told the Star in a phone interview. Education CS George Magoha  revealed on Wednesday that over 10,000 learners in private schools have moved to public schools since the full reopening of learning institutions on Monday. The CS spoke during a meeting with journalists where he decried negative publicity on government efforts to prepare for school reopening. He said, "Don’t you think the government is doing what it should to our beloved children, including a medical scheme for all children in secondary school covered by NHIF at Sh4 billion? Give credit to the government where it’s deserved." Also at the meeting were CSs Farida Karoney for Lands, Jame Macharia (Transport), Joe Mucheru (ICT), CAS Health Mercy Mwangangi and TSC chief executive Nancy Macharia. The exodus is attributed to the closure of over 300 private schools following the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic, particularly financial difficulty. The private facilities have been out of business since the onset of the coronavirus in mid-March. The hard knock on private institutions, Ndoro argued, was worsened by the lack of a bailout earlier promised by the government. "The government had promised schools Sh7.6 billion package to help them during the lockdown period but this never materialised... most of these institutions operate on loans,"  Ndoro said. To correct this, the schools are seeking government intervention through the provision of capitation to private schools. The government provides capitation to public schools under the Free Primary and Free Day Secondary Education programmes. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Wednesday noted that the two approved vaccines Pfizer and Moderna were not tested on children in the trial phase, thus are only for adult use. It will be a relief for teachers whom, she said, will be considered part of the frontline workers. They will be among the first to receive the vaccine when it becomes available. She revealed that the country has ordered 24 million vaccine doses. The doses, the Health Ministry says, will be distributed first to the frontline workers and those in the vulnerable bracket. Last month, acting director general of Public Health Patrick Amoth said the government will start administering the Covid-19 vaccine in the first quarter of teh year. Edited by Henry Makori