A woman-of-the-match display from Kibera Girls Soccer Ladies goalkeeper Pauline Muthakye earned her side a priceless barren draw against pre-match favourites Gaspo FC in a Women's Premier League match at Stima Club, Nairobi on Sunday. Muthakye was stoic between the posts despite the presence of the marauding Gaspo strikers much to the disappointment of Gaspo coach Isaac Maluki. "Their goalkeeper was on top of her game and denied us three points. She was the best player on the field, to be honest. Kibera are young and growing and I am happy for them," said Maluki. Maluki said he will work on his attack and hopes to get the rhythm of the team back. "Attackwise, we created chances but didn't convert. We are going back to the drawing board to see how best the players can score," he said. Gaspo have taken only four points from a possible 12 with inconsistency a big issue. They have won once, drawn as many matches and lost twice. In the opposite dugout, assistant coach Cedrick Mutiva said the team had to change tact to salvage a point but promised to collect three points when they take on Zetech Sparks in midweek. "We attacked in the first half but sat deep in the second because Gaspo brought in three pairs of fresh legs at halftime, who caused us all sorts of problems. Overall, it was a decent performance and three points is the bare minimum on Wednesday," Mutiva said. Earlier at the same venue, Zetech Sparks recorded their first win of the season, beating Kayole Starlets 4-3 in a seven-goal thriller. Elsewhere in Zone 'B', defending champions Vihiga Queens got the better of Eldoret Falcons after thrashing the Joshua Ariko's side 5-0. Terry Engesha bagged a hat-trick, scoring twice before halftime and adding a third in the 71st minute while Vivian Makokha and Alice Mideri added a goal each. Mumias-based Wadadia registered their second consecutive win — and first clean sheet — by demolishing Oserian Ladies 3-0. Ruth Chebungei scored twice as Monica Nyakoa scored another to drive the last nail in the coffin of the Naivasha-based outfit.