A woman was Tuesday night gang-raped and sodomised then her private parts mutilated in Wataalam area near Ruiru town. The 28-year-old mother of a five-month-old infant arrived late in the area where she had gone to visit a relative. She was attacked at about 11 pm. The criminals, after gang-raping her, mutilated her private parts with a sharp object that is suspected to be a knife. They then left her for dead. She also had a deep cut in the forehead. Residents found the woman lying unconscious in a pool of blood on Wednesday morning. She was rushed to a local dispensary for first aid. She was later taken to Ruiru Level 4 Hospital by a community health volunteer identified as Zeitun Adan. Samuel Mwaniki, a medic at the Ruiru hospital, said the woman had deep cuts in her head and private parts. He confirmed she had been raped. “She was very weak when we received her because she had bled a lot. We have however attended to her and she has regained consciousness and is in stable condition now,” Mwaniki said. The medic said the woman had been transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital for specialised care. Zeitun Adan told reporters that crime within Wataalam was on the rise, saying the attack was the second similar incident to occur in the area within a month. In December, another woman, of unsound mind, was attacked by unknown knife-wielding criminals, gang-raped and sodomised. “I’m agitated by these incidents as a woman because they are happening and no one is being arrested or punished. We are appealing to security apparatus to move with speed and apprehend the culprits who want to turn our villages into rape dens. We want justice for the two victims,” Zeitun said. She expressed concern about the victim's child. The woman could not tell whether she was with the baby during the attack or if the infant was left back in Githurai. Zeitun said she only told them she had a five-month-old baby. The volunteer promised to follow up and ensure the child was safe. “The victim is confused and doesn’t even know where her child is, but I’ll assist and find out where the infant is,” she said. Ruiru subcounty police commander Phineas Ringera told reporters the matter had not been reported to the police. He said they will take up the matter and ensure the culprits are brought to book. “The two incidents were not brought to our attention but we will liaise with the area Nyumba Kumi officials and launch investigations,” Ringera said. He said police will increase patrols in the area to stem the surging crime. “I also urge residents to observe the set laws like adhering to the curfew hours so as to avoid falling prey to the criminals. I also appeal to people to be reporting such crime incidents for swift action by the police,” Ringera said.  Edited by P.O