Chief Justice David Maraga’s spectacular handing over of instruments of power to his deputy this week gives room for the public to assess his performance. Although there could be some criticism on his general performance, many people have spoken well of him. The CJ has never shied away from identifying with his faith, especially his confession of being a staunch Adventist and faithful keeper of the Sabbath. It is against this background that we visit some vital principles that make the lives of great men. For instance, among others, the SDA Church teaches members from early childhood on the need to be faithful to God and friendly to humanity. These are taught in the Adventurers and Pathfinder clubs. The Church website says the dual objectives of the Seventh-day Adventist Church-sponsored Pathfinder club, which is designed for children aged 10-15, are enlarging their windows on the world and building a relationship with God. It has nearly 2 million members around the world and accepts any youth who promises to abide by the Pathfinder Pledge and Law regardless of their church affiliation. One of its most spectacular features is law number two which says “Do my honest part”. It emphasises on faithfulness, transparency and accountability. This is achieved by regularly practising law number one “Keep the morning watch”. It entails a daily personal devotional life. Their motto reflects on the love of Christ. “The love of Christ compels us.” It inspires them to love humanity. Their pledge says “By the grace of God, I will be pure and kind and true. I will keep the Pathfinder Law. I will be a servant of God and a friend to man.” Apostle Paul says “And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men. Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.” – Col  3:23-24 Just like Joseph who rose from being a slave to Prime Minister of Egypt, Maraga’s power hid in loyalty to God and faith in the Unseen. His unwavering allegiance to God and fidelity to the Constitution as well as his noble dignity and courteous deference won him the “favour and tender love” of the citizens. Another lesson is that being faithful and steadfast, just like Joseph and Daniel, will yield ourselves to the divine guiding, so that through us God could fulfil His purpose. Like Joseph, Daniel, Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, Maraga knew that strength, time, intellect, are but lent treasures. They are gifts from God freely given to men and women for the betterment of humanity. Since they belong to God, it should be the resolve of everyone to put them to the highest use. Finally “The greatest want of the world is the want of men—men who will not be bought or sold, men who in their inmost souls are true and honest, men who do not fear to call sin by its right name, men whose conscience is as true to duty as the needle to the pole, men who will stand for the right though the heavens fall.” Education page 57.3 While there could be many faithful servants, Maraga’s life in public service is a testimony that it is possible to live a life that pleases God and uplifts humanity. May it inspire many people to transform our society into a liveable and admirable country. PR professional and SDA elder