Former Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi is among six people who have shown interest in contesting for the county's top job in 2022. Cheboi conceded defeat to incumbent Stanley Kiptis in 2017 and handed over the seat of power. On Saturday, Cheboi told Kiptis to prepare for a loss as he will trounce the governor in the next poll. "I handed over willingly and accorded you all the space to serve so I equally expect when the time comes you will hand it over back to me in good faith," he told Kiptis. Cheboi spoke during the funeral of Betsy Jepkorir, a Baringo county employee, at Solian in Eldama Ravine Subcounty. Jepkoris was the wife of Caleb Kipchirchir, also an employee of the county government. She succumbed to breast cancer on January 11. She is survived by her widower and two children. Cheboi further called upon President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider handing over power to a people's elected leader when his 10-year term elapses in 2022. "The late Mzee Jomo Kenyatta handed over the presidency to Daniel Toroitich Arap Moi back in 1978, then Moi did the same to Mwai Kibaki in 2002 and Kibaki relinquished the mantle to Uhuru in 2013, that is a show of good leadership," he said. He was backed by Eldama-Ravine Member of Parliament Moses Lessonet who also declared his ambition to vie for the governor's seat in 2022. "I want to urge our people, let's desist from voting in people who have not been tested and proven to hold critical leadership positions because some may be having questionable records," Lessonet said.  He said his three terms as MP make him a suitable candidate for the job. The other aspirants for the governor role are Tourism and Wildlife Principal Secretary Fred Segor, Baringo assembly clerk Richard Koech, retired commissioner Haron Komen and former Kenya School of Government Baringo campus director Isaac Chebon. Governor Kiptis eulogised Jepkorir as a lovable, kindhearted, hardworking and reliable employee of Baringo county. The county chief said she served with exemplary commitment and diligence. He also took the opportunity to urge his opponents to stop early political campaigns instead appealing to them to offer him the relevant moral support. "I don't deny competition but let's bring together our hands and serve the people of Baringo now. When the time comes, then everyone will present his or her own scorecard for the people to decide," Kiptis said. 