A senior GSU officer was shot dead and three others killed by Pokot bandits in an ambush on Sunday afternoon in Kapedo. The GSU men were fired on as they led a convoy of cars that had responded to a distress call. The dead superintendent, Emada Abako was a deputy head of operations at the General Service Unit in Nairobi. He and the others were not identified. Headquarters said their Land Cruiser was ambushed at  pm as it led an armoured personnel carrier to a place where his colleagues were under siege. The killing by bandits took place at Ameyen, 7km from Kapedo. Turkana East subcounty commander Edwin Ongware confirmed he was gunned down by bandits a few minutes after food was distributed in Kapedo, Turkana East. “The deceased from GSU headquarters, had visited Turkana for food supervision. When he finished he was shot dead by bandits while boarding his vehicle," he said. Kapedo residents, meanwhile, have fled their homes torched by Pokot bandits and appealed for food. Mercy Asmit, Kapedo assistant chief, said Pokot bandits also killed a pastoralist, burnt 18 houses and drove away cattle last week. She said the victims have nothing to eat and spend the night in the cold. “Tension is still high due to frequent attacks by bandits from West Pokot. Our people are hungry as they are not getting food from Marigat as no vehicles are allowed to move for safety reasons,” she said. She said residents of Kapedo have been buying food from Marigat in Baringo county with the help of security vehicles that used to ferry their goods. She has urged the humanitarian agencies to supply food and other items to the victims. Kapedo resident Pawet Esinyen said her thatched house was burnt a week ago and they are lucky to get a meal a day. “My family is rarely having a meal in a day, we are starving, we need food. All of my food and goods were burnt down," she said. We  need shelter, food, shelter, iron sheets, clothes. Kapedo resident Peter Erupe said many residents are starving. (Edited by V. Graham)