ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday hightened his onslaught on Deputy President William Ruto over Jubilee's unfulfilled 2017 election promises. Speaking during a tour of Westlands and Dagoretti North constituencies in Nairobi, Raila said Ruto cannot be trusted to bring meaningful change in the country. He said it was laughable that an administration that campaigned on the platform of digitising the economy had resorted to giving out wheelbarrows to Kenyans. "They said we (Nasa) are analogue and that they are digital, now they are distributing wheelbarrows and handcarts," Raila said. Ruto has previously told off Raila and insisted that the ODM leader had no new ideas. Raila on Thursday made a BBI popularisation tour in the two Nairobi constituencies calling on Kenyans to shun the class war he alleged was being propagated by Ruto. He appealed to Kenyans to back BBI which he noted offers sustainable solutions to challenges facing Kenyans. "Do not give the youths handcarts and wheelbarrows.  These youths need sustainable solutions. What is the use of wheelbarrows in Nairobi?" Raila said. President Uhuru has also warned that the 'hustler' narrative would set a dangerous precedent in the country. The Head of State said there was no way that one can deal with the issues facing Kenyans by dividing them along the class lines. Ruto has gone full throttle in his ‘hustler nation’ campaigns, a movement which he says seeks to empower the poor across the country. But Raila accused him of failing to deliver in government and using unquestionable wealth to run the programme. He cited laptops for primary school pupils and one million jobs to the youth as some of Jubilee's unfulfilled promises. The Deputy President has been meeting delegations and giving them items such as handcarts, washing machines, water tanks and wheelbarrows. The DP’s critics argue that the donations will have very little impact on the lives of the beneficiaries and the country. Raila said BBI will bring the third and final liberation that the country needs to catch up with its peers in the world, which have advanced economically. Raila made stopovers at Waruku, St Joseph's Thiong'o junction, New Market and Kangemi flyover. "BBI will bring a lasting solution to the youths of this country and it is the third and final liberation of the country," he said. He was accompanied by area MP Timothy Wanyonyi, Maina Kamanda (nominated), Antony Oluoch (Mathare), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Esther Passaris (Nairobi MP), Millie Odhiambo (Suba North) and  Simba Arati (Dagoretti North). Others were  Godfrey Osotsi (nominated) George Aladwa (Makadara), Senator George Khaniri (Vihiga) and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna, TJ Kajwang' (Ruaraka), Caleb Amisi (Saboti) and Nairobi politician Reuben Ndolo.