Did ODM branch chairpersons push Raila Odinga to ‘go slow’ on the cozy handshake deal and instead focus on preparing himself and the party for the 2022 General Election? In other words, go for the jugular and rediscover the 'old Raila'. Well, insiders intimate that during the recent meeting with Raila in Nairobi, they prevailed on the supremo to prepare himself and the party for the upcoming polls. Corridors understands the officials regretted that while Raila was focused on BBI and the feel-good handshake, their chief rival, Deputy President William Ruto, is running away with their traditional 'disenfranchised' support base of down-and-out hustlers  The former Prime Minister is said to have yielded, leading to unveiling of a road map by the party for the high-stakes polls.   It seems the situation in Kapedo, Baringo county, is so volatile and dreadful that even elected leaders from the area fear setting foot there. A vocal lawmaker, who has been perceived as fearless, was this week overheard telling his colleagues in Parliament that he cannot dare visit the place. "I can be killed like a dog. I cannot go there," the legislator said. He narrated how his constituents have been desperately calling and sending him text messages appealing for his assistance to help them flee the area that has become a police operation base. Police have launched massive operations in the area targeting bandits — and some politicians —who have been inciting and causing mayhem there. A Member of Parliament from Nyanza region is said to have hurriedly assembled a campaign team following the entry of a promising novice who wants to unseat him. The aspirant comes from the largest clan in the constituency and has been laying the ground for his bid while the legislator was preoccupied with Tangatanga and Kieleweke politics. The MP is said to have realised it will not be easy for him in 2022. He is now pointing fingers at his confidants for giving him the impression that all had been well. His handlers are now in fear losing their jobs after he threatened to shed them as he puts together a ‘reliable’ team to steer his campaigns.