State House on Sunday took down social media posts with President Uhuru Kenyatta's congratulatory message to Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni on his re-election after they were flagged as containing 'false' information. The posts appeared to have been erroneously flagged by Facebook after the photo used in the accompanying messages was one similar to one used in an unrelated fake post. In the fake post by a Facebook user, it was falsely claimed that Museveni was reshuffling his Cabinet last year. In the deleted posts on Facebook and Twitter, Uhuru said Museveni's re-election was a testament of the confidence Ugandans had in his leadership. Museveni won a decisive re-election victory on Saturday, elections officials said, but his main rival Bobi Wine alleged widespread fraud and said citizens should reject the result. Museveni won 5.85 million votes, or 58.6%, while main opposition candidate Wine had 3.48 million votes (34.8%), the Electoral Commission said at a news conference on the final results from Thursday's election. Earlier, Wine accused Museveni of fabricating the results and called the poll "the most fraudulent election in the history of Uganda". In a phone interview before the final results were announced, he urged citizens to reject the results. Wine, a singer-turned-lawmaker, also said his home in the capital, Kampala, was surrounded by hundreds of soldiers and that the military was not allowing him to leave. The army's deputy spokesman, Deo Akiiki, said security officers at Wine's house were assessing threats he could face by going out: "So they might be preventing him in the interest of his own safety." Soldiers and police were out in force patrolling Kampala on Saturday. Museveni, 76 has been in power for 35 years, and campaigned for another term arguing his long experience in office makes him a good leader and promising to keep delivering stability and progress. Wine, 38, galvanised young Ugandans with his calls for political change and pledged to end what he calls dictatorship and widespread corruption. Wine, whose real name is Robert Kyagulanyi, said on Friday he had video proof of voting fraud, and would share the videos as soon as internet connections were restored. The government ordered the internet shut down the day before the election, and the blackout was still in place. Electoral Commission Chairman Simon Byabakama said on Friday that under Ugandan law, the burden of proof rested with Wine. Reuters has not independently verified Wine's claims. The United States and the European Union did not deploy observer teams, but the U.S. State Department’s top diplomat for Africa, Tibor Nagy, said in a tweet early on Saturday that the "electoral process has been fundamentally flawed". He cited fraud reports, denial of accreditation to observers, violence and harassment of opposition members, and the arrest of civil society activists. The African Union and East African Community sent observer teams to the election, but neither group of officials responded to requests for comment about possible irregularities.