“Let him forget, forget and forget.” John Cardinal Njue was reacting to US President Barrack Obama in June 2013 after the American leader called for better treatment of the LGBTQ community while in Senegal. Njue, the immediate former head of the Catholic Church in Kenya, said Africans must be allowed to determine their own destiny, including on gay rights, which he called unAfrican and a violation of Bible teachings. Deputy President William Ruto will enter into political deals with regional political parties as part of his strategy to penetrate 'enemy' territory. On his radar are ODM leader Raila Odinga’s traditional bases of Coast, Western and South Nyanza, especially the Kisii region. With the DP's falling out with President Uhuru Kenyatta having reached a point of virtually no return, Ruto is also working with a host of Central Kenya political parties to dethrone Jubilee. Politicians who prevent voters from accessing polling stations during party primaries could be fined up to Sh1 million if a new Bill is passed by the Senate. The Bill sponsored by Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura is meant to ensure fairness and tame chaos often witnessed in party primaries. The law also seeks to set caps for nomination fees and requires candidates to sign declaration forms before taking part in primaries. Eighty per cent of learners had reported back to school by Tuesday, Education CS George Magoha has said. “Reports that only 50 per cent of students reported to school are untrue. The rate of reporting is very good, and I hope by Thursday, all students will be back to school to continue with the journey,” the CS said. Magoha said, however, Coast and Northeastern regions recorded low student reporting rates. He said those still at home should be persuaded to go back to school. Kenya is making a diplomatic push to access the AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine from India, hoping to override the ban on exports. However, Kenya lacks a government-to-government agreement with India since it is relying on the Covax Facility, a vaccine access deal led by Gavi and the World Health Organization. The vaccine is being manufactured by the Serum Institute of India (SII). India has banned export for several months so that it can stockpile for its own population.