Gospel singer Loise Kim says her marriage failed when her husband got a visa and went to Britain to look for greener pastures. Speaking on YouTube channel 'Itugi ria muturire' (Pillar of life), Loise said she had stayed with her husband for seven years with two children. "I was raised by a Christian family but I slipped at the end of high school. At the age of 19, I got pregnant and it was very frustrating since even my pastor rejected me," she said. The father of her child also did not visit her even after giving birth. Loise said it was her mother who encouraged her and walked with her throughout the pregnancy journey. One year after giving birth, Loise was enrolled in college for secretarial studies. She met the man again and recalled their love. She got married to him and bore a secondborn child. "I spent seven years in that marriage peacefully and as a family, we thought of a way we would help my husband get greener pastures," she said. "He got a visa and went to Britain. That is where my problems started." She said while there, the first years were good and communication was also good. "Things changed when he started receiving phone calls that I had done this and that. I would also get calls that he has done this and that. Hatred started growing, disagreements, insults." Loise said she was faithful and loved her husband as she wanted their marriage to work. "Unfortunately, we became enemies to an extent of him neglecting me. We stopped talking and I realised my kid's life and mine depended on me," she narrated. Loise was a businesswoman at Gikomba and she said she had to stand firm and make sure her children go to school. After venturing into the music industry, Loise decided to even sing in clubs to make sure her children got the best life and the best education. "I talked to my mum and explained to her I would be performing in clubs as my mission was to make money and support my family. I have been down but through prayers and hard work, I am okay even without a husband." Loise admits she messed up her marriage, adding that she would never want any other person to go through what she went through. "Your family is your cocoon that you run to when you have a problem. I miss that," she said. "Her advice to fellow musicians is to spend wisely and never forget to save for your tomorrow." Loise runs a talent nurturing college and also a foundation that helps the less fortunate in society.