By WANGECHI WANG’ONDU The government will from Monday embark on a coffee revitalisation programmme in all growing zones, Agriculture CS Peter Munya has said. The project involves soil testing, subsidies for farm inputs, factory machine upgrades and digitisation of financial services. Munya said is keen on increasing coffee yields. He said productivity has dwindled over the years. Previously, farmers harvested large quantities of coffee compared to present years hence the need for the  programme to establish causes and solutions towards reviving the lost glory . “Farmers use one type of fertiliser for a long time which depreciates the fertility of the soil. Under the programme, extension officers will be dispatched to coffee farms to test the quality of the soil," Munya said. The CS was speaking on Saturday to coffee farmers contracted to more than seven cooperatives in Kirinyaga West. He said the programme will target youth from within coffee growing zones who will be trained as extension officers. Farmers are also set to benefit under the project as fertilizer prices will be subsidised. The government will cater for 40 per cent of the price while the farmers will pay the remaining 60 per cent. Munya said the move will allow growers to buy farm inputs which will be dispatched to their respective cooperatives stores for collection. The CS ordered for the operationalisation of the new KPCU milling plant based in Sagana. Currently, coffee farmers in Kirinyaga ferry their produce to either Meru or the Dandora based plant. “Farmers should take their produce to the Sagana factory as their coffee will be milled.” Munya also authorised the dispatch of staff to the Sagana factory to help farmers access loans more conveniently. He decried the zero registration of Kirinyaga coffee farmers under the cherry advanced revolving fund .On Friday, Munya directed the admission of all coffee farmers to the initiative. He warned that the government will dissolve cooperatives management committees that fail to heed the directive. The CS also condemned coffee theft that has been requent in different factories within counties. He noted the crime is one of the reasons farmers languish in poverty but promised to end it. He said the government will strengthen security by installing surveillance and other monitoring equipment within factory premises.  Edited by P.O