The Kiambu government is tarmacking roads within Thika municipality as part of its urban upgrade programme. The project will cover Upper Road that starts from Kenya Revenue Authority offices to Thika Stadium and the Kenyatta Highway that extends from Bonjour roundabout to Joy Town Special School. The roads are being recarpeted under the Sh300 million Kenya Urban Support Programme and are to be completed by the end of this financial year, according to Governor James Nyoro. It is funded by the World Bank. The programme also covers the construction of a drainage system in Landless and tarmacking of Kilimambogo-Makutano road and Muguga township access road in Ngoliba ward. Nyoro, who recently inspected the works, said the project, which is aimed at fixing the pothole-riddled roads for improved transport within the CBD, is part of the county government’s plan to return Thika town to its past glory. Besides roads recarpeting, street lights will be installed and damaged ones replaced to light up the industrial town and boost business. Walkways will also be built to boost the movement of pedestrians. “Roads within the Thika central business district have been in a sorry state and have been the cause of traffic congestion in the town. This has struck a big blow at traders. "We are, however, determined to ensure the roads are tarmacked well and street lights installed to give the town a new look for the sake of businesses,” Nyoro said. Thika Township MCA Andrew Kimani said the town must get its rightful share of development, noting that it generates about 70 per cent of the county’s total revenue. “We can’t be generating the highest percentage of the county’s revenue and when it comes to sharing it we get a meagre share. This is the kind of development we want and we want more, including improvement of service delivery to Thika people like ensuring the timely collection of garbage,” Kimani said. Meanwhile, the national government, through the Kenya Urban Roads Authority, has also begun recarpeting 13 kilometres of roads within the town and its environs. Interways Works Ltd has been contracted to build the roads at Sh700 million. Other roads being tarmacked are Commercial, Cross, General Kago, Haile Sellasie, Harry Thuku, Kwame Nkrumah, Magoko, Bull, Mama Ngina, Stadium, Temple, Thika Girls, Uhuru Street and Workshop roads. Traders, led by Thika District Business Association chairman Alfred Wanyoike, welcomed the projects, saying they provide an environment conducive to business. “This project will not only change the face of the town but also provide a favourable environment of doing business. We expect trade to boom as Thika gears to become a 24-hour economy,” Wanyoike said.