Threats to humanity, and how we address them, define our time. At the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, most countries’ healthcare system was not designed to address emerging and re-emerging infections. However, in developed countries like China, they seamlessly and swiftly harnessed resources to address the crisis that was besetting their nations through robust backup systems dearth of bureaucracies. African countries’ health care set up was struggling to streamline the system in order to handle the pandemic that was looming. The tussle was even worse for countries which had never experienced infectious disease outbreaks like Ebola. Therefore, the pandemic came to teach us tough lessons on why we need to circumvent stringent biosafety and biosecurity measures to surreptitiously keep humanity and biological agents safe. With the continued advancement in medicine, humanity remains more vulnerable to pandemics than we would like to believe. Therefore, it is prudent to determine what steps to be taken to deter or end the pandemics and it is equally crucial to ask about the likely upcoming worst-case scenarios. Just how bad could a pandemic be? But again, is this the only public health threat ever happened? Do we draw any lessons from global public health threats like anthrax letters in the United States in 2001, the emergence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) in 2003, and large-scale dumping of toxic chemical waste in Côte d’Ivoire in 2006 to reinvigorate our public health systems? To find out, and put the current outbreak into context, let’s think the worst-case scenarios! One of the worst-case scenarios is the development of sophisticated biological weapons. In the biology research world, the laboratory scientists are expected to act responsibly and not to expose the community to biorisks, to follow safe working practices (biosafety) associated with practices that will help keep their work and materials safe and secure (biosecurity), and to follow an ethical code of conduct (bioethics). But, there could be an intentional or accidental release of these pathogens like Spanish flu, smallpox, SARS and H5N1 or avian flu by reconstructing strains that pose even more danger than the natural types, increasing their transmissibility, lethality or resistance to vaccination or treatment. As a matter of fact, pathogens and toxins have been used, even in the recent past, to threaten and harm people, to disrupt society, economies and the political status quo, this has happened in spite of applicable international agreements like UN security council resolution 1540, International Health Regulations (2005), Global Health Security Agenda, UN Council Regulation (EC) no 428/2009,  Biological weapons convention,  UN Geneva protocol (1925) among others banning the use of biological and chemical agents for malicious use. As those who carry out such acts show disregard for ethical values, do not respect the right of people to a safe and peaceful life, or do not recognize global treaties and conventions. A case in point is the Aum Shinrikyo cult in Japan which sought to destroy humanity. Thousands of members with advanced chemistry and biology skills were attracted to launch multiple lethal attacks using VX gas and sarin gas killing more than 20 people and injuring thousands, the same group also wanted to weaponize anthrax, but did not succeed. All this vividly indicates that it was not mere misanthropic ideation. People with the motivation to wreak global destruction are mercifully rare. But they exist. International Labour Organization through BBC business news has indicated that 81 per cent of the global workforce have had their workplace fully or partially closed. And with the economy grinding to a halt, employees across industries have been laid off or furloughed hence causing widespread distress. In that state of a financial quagmire, the group can constitute the merciful rare to make their ends meet. Currently, biotechnology has been democratized, consequently, this will boom to bio entrepreneur. But since biotechnology can be misused to lethal effect, democratisation can be transposed to proliferation, as mankind’s ability to manipulate DNA and RNA increases, so too does its ability to create new weapons from scratch that are more perilous than anything dreamt up by nature. In fact, in the future, the biological sciences could be reduced to a battle between those attempting to develop such weapons, and those tasked with stopping them. For any emerging and re-emerging infections, the laboratory is the fulcrum in confirming the outbreaks so that the public health system effectuates immediate mitigation measures. As scientists, we are incognizant that biology research is seeping out of its ivory tower, our biorepository might not be optimally secure, we need to institute graded protection and balanced security so as to mitigate insider and outsider biosecurity threats. To pull back from the brink of anticipated pandemics, I am delighted that the Kenya Laboratory Biorisk Management Program is at the vanguard in envisioning and thinking of worst-case scenarios hence developed Kenya Laboratory Biorisk Management curriculum second edition that is aimed at embracing one health approach which emphasizes on bio-threat reduction, a priority activity particularly in the face of continued disease outbreaks, emerging and re-emerging disease pathogens and bioterrorism threats. Just like Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention and African Society for Laboratory Medicine, more funds from the national coffers and local implementing partners should be allocated to this program to effectively and efficiently roll out the curriculum to all the stakeholders before it develops implementation slough. In conclusion, Toby Ord once said, ‘Because we cannot come back from extinction, we cannot wait until a threat strikes before acting-we must be proactive. And because gaining wisdom takes time, we need to start now.’ The author is the Turkana County Medical Laboratory Coordinator