A human rights group in Bungoma has asked ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna to respect Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi. Philip Wanyonyi and Wekesa Lumumba of the Citizens for Good Governance said it was wrong for Sifuna to keep fighting each and every person. Lumumba said Havi is the president of the Law Society of Kenya and should be respected. "Sifuna should understand that the position he is holding is very small and should not look down on others," Lumumba said in Bungoma on Wednesday. Wanyonyi said Sifuna should understand his role as ODM secretary-general and should help the party grow. "Let him concentrate on his role as a party spokesperson and not start wars outside the party. He should work on attracting more members, not fighting them," he said. He said Sifuna has been busy fighting every leader. "He has been fighting ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula, his fellow lawyers and local MCAs in Bungoma and has nothing to show for holding such a post," he said. But speaking to the Star on the phone, Sifuna rubbished the claims made by the civil society members, saying he had no time for them. "Answering such nonentities is raising their profile for no reason," he said. Sifuna said he should be asked about more serious and pertinent issues, not such petty issues. "I want you to ask me serious things, not issues raised by nonentities. Don't forget I'm the secretary-general of the most popular party [in Kenya]," Sifuna said. Responding to the lobby members' sentiments, Havi said Sifuna should respect the leadership of the law society. "As someone who served in LSK, he should have respect for other leaders because his character is worrying," Havi said. Havi said Sifuna had in the past been used by 'outside forces' to undermine Luhya leaders. "It is on record that he [Sifuna] has insulted other Luhya leaders like Musalia, Wetang'ula and Khaminwa, and it is proper that he should be called out," Havi said. He said Sifuna is a young leader like himself and should respect people if he wants to move forward. Sifuna has been critical of Havi for much of his tenure as president of the Law Society. Havi's handling of the January 18 special general meeting of the society held at its headquarters at Gatanga road, Nairobi caused further division between the two leaders. The meeting resulted in the suspension of eight society's council members who have been at loggerheads with Havi. Sifuna, however, viewed the meeting as shambolic, vowing to mobilise other lawyers to sue Havi and his team. "Havi has become a law unto himself in managing the society," Sifuna recently told Havi during a joint TV appearance. 