The health sector crisis deepened on Wednesday after laboratory technologists joined nurses in the countrywide strike. Most doctors and medical clinicians have settled, however, nurses and lab techs are crucial and they walked out of most facilities. Clinicians threaten another walkout if their return-to-work agreement is not registered. Lab technicians demand constant adequate supply of PPE, hiring more officers, risk allowance and payment of delayed salaries in some counties, among others. The National Union of Medical Laboratory Officers on Wednesday said despite there being 25,000 trained lab technologists in Kenya, only 5,600 have been absorbed in the labour market. The officers demonstrated peacefully at Afya House and presented a petition to Health CS Mutahi Kagwe. They gave seven-days' notice to have their grievances addressed. “We are here today to ensure no service is provided by unsatisfied people. You can’t give service on an empty stomach. You can’t give a service in a demoralised environment,” union secretary general Chrispine Momanyi said. “We have a small document that shows exactly what the government through the CS is supposed to do to ensure there is sanity in terms of laboratory service provision starting from risks, promotions, salary payments,” he added. Momanyi said their efforts to reach the ministry to have the issues addressed amicably have failed and their calls have not been answered. The union says some of their members have gone for 15 months without pay, a situation that has turned them into "beggars". “They have a family, they have children who are going back to school and they are beggars. We are here to give Kagwe our document. We are here as professionals to ensure we are heard," Momanyi said. This comes barely a day after  clinical officers issued a fresh 48-hour strike notice to resume their strike. The union on Tuesday said despite calling off their strike, the situation has remained the same. It said the Council of Governors has distanced itself from the agreement signed by doctors and clinicians. The Council of Governors on Monday said the issues raised in the return-to-work-formula have huge monetary implications that have neither been factored into the current budget nor the forthcoming financial year's budget. Therefore, implementation will require a special conditional grant to each county to implement the agreed issues, the CoG said. Union secretary general George Gibore has accused the governors of being insincere and unrealistic by saying the return-to-work-formula was  signed at individual counties yet acknowledging the ongoing talks at the Labour ministry. "The letter by the CoG is an admission that health services are not properly coordinated in our country since devolution and needs emergency surgery to cure the unending health sector problems," Kuku's Gibore said on Tuesday. ODM leader Raila Odinga called on the two levels of government to swiftly solve the stalemate in the health sector. Raila said on Wednesday Kenyans must not be kept permanently on edge over matters that can be sorted without much drama through intergovernmental discussions. He called on the parties involved to respect and implement return-to-work agreements. Failing to do so, he said, makes the government lose capacity and credibility to negotiate in the future. . “Last Thursday, the country breathed a collective sigh of relief when health workers called off their strike after a return to work agreement signed by the Ministry of Health and KMPDU. The talks also included the SRC and a representative from the Council of Governors,” Raila said. “It is therefore shocking that hardly a week later, clinical offices are threatening to down their tools again because the very same issues covered in the RTWF signed last week are not being implemented." Raila said clinical officers provide care to most patients where specialised treatment is not required, adding that their strike threat comes just after schools were reopened amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “The strike threat also comes at a time the two counties of Nyamira and Migori have their health systems paralysed by the doctors’ strike that is hardly talked about and is running into two months now,” Raila said. He added, “This is therefore a time we need all our health workers on duty or on standby, not on strike or being tossed between the two levels of government.” The nurses' strike entered one month on Thursday. (Edited by V. Graham)