A number of senior police officers who have been sent on terminal leave are still hanging around in offices, issuing orders to their juniors. Sources whispered to Corridors that some of the officers are demanding probe files, which are seen as 'lucrative', to make decisions that the juniors fear may affect their investigations. The juniors are appealing to their employer, the National Police Service Commission led by Eliud Kinuthia (pictured) to intervene and ensure the commission’s orders are implemented to the letter. Our mole concludes that the events could be emanating from the shaky ties between the commission and the security agencies under its purview. *** The managing director of a critical agency in the transport sector is a worried man. Why? The man has no post-graduate qualification, which is a mandatory requirement for the job. The man is reportedly lobbying for a change of laws, which had set the requirement of a master's degree, to provide instead for a bachelor's degree as a minimum qualification. Corridors of Power is informed the man is going flat out to have the qualifications changed. Lawmakers, who were unaware of the hidden motive, plan to vote for the minimum qualification to be a master's degree. *** Is the profile of a first-time MP from Kisii region threatening rivals who have been plotting how to cut him down to size? It has emerged that some political movers within the county, who had opted to lay the ground to campaign against the vocal MP in 2022, have been forced back to the drawing board. This is because the legislator's political star appears to be shining brighter by day amid reports he could be planning to throw his hat into the ring for a bigger seat. With the ground in his constituency favouring him, his critics have whittled down their support for his opponent in what could make his parliamentary re-election a walk in the park. *** Times without number, people are advised not to burn their bridges behind them because you never know when you might need a way back. This truth may not have sunk in to a county boss in Western when he severed ties with his deputy with whom he hasn't been seeing eye-to-eye  since their election in 2017. The two, angling to run against each other in 2022, have found themselves courting the same running mate. The county chief is said to have performed dismally in the sought-after running mate’s constituency and believes working with the fellow would shore up his numbers. His deputy is equally not looking further from his boss’ supposed choice. 