The Kenya Defence Forces has warned Kenyans to beware of criminals selling fake recruitment calling letters. Through the Department of Defense, KDF said the only genuine letters are free and will be issued at respective recruitment centres. The department said it had been brought to their attention that vulnerable and unsuspecting Kenyans were being conned to pay money in exchange of the letters. In samples seen by the Star, the victims are duped that they have passed and must report at the Eldoret training school before March 6. "Expose these criminals through this platform, your nearest Police station or call the Military Police on 0726419709," the department wrote on their Twitter handle. According to KDF, the advertised 2021 recruitment is free and fair to all eligible candidates. The exercise which will run from February 12 to March 13 at various centres countrywide will see the recruitment of servicemen and women, Constables and  Tradesmen and women into the Kenya Defence Forces. "The Kenya Defence Forces are pleased to announce to the general public the recruitment of Servicemen/ women, Constables and Tradesmen/women which is scheduled to take place from 12 February to 13 March 2021 at various centres countrywide. Prospective candidates wishing to join Kenya Defence Forces must satisfy the conditions and requirements given below," read an advert by the department. It maintained that bribery and other acts of corruption are against the law. "All persons presenting themselves for recruitment purposes at any centre with fake or falsified calling letters, identity cards, academic certificates or caught engaging in any corrupt activity shall be arrested and prosecuted," read part of the advert. "Citizens are further notified that recruitment is only conducted at the advertised recruitment centres countrywide during the daytime before 1800 hours (6 pm) on weekdays. Successful candidates will be issued with calling letters at the recruitment centres by the recruiting officers." KDF Recruiting Teams consisting of Kenya Army, Kenya Air Force, Kenya Navy and Defence Forces Constabulary will oversee the recruitment exercise. All potential candidates reporting to the recruitment centres should come from the sub-counties,  divisions of their respective counties and districts. They should also bring with them current original national identity card and academic certificates and testimonials.