Mombasa health workers want the county government to stop the politics of discrimination and provide good leadership to the sector. The health workers have been on strike for 11 weeks. They said the Council of Governors has intimidated nurses, clinical officers and laboratory technologists to go back to work and even compared governors' pay to what they earn. Kenya National Union of Nurses Mombasa branch secretary Peter Maroko said governors should not compare themselves to health workers. "What we want is the risk allowance by virtue of what we do and not increment of salaries as it was said by CoG chairperson Wycliffe Oparanya,” Maroko said. He said the law directs that they be compensated, especially families of those who die of Covid-19 in the line of duty. He said that since Covid-19 was first reported in Kenya, so many health workers have died, an indication that they are at risk. The health workers are therefore demanding the CoG, based on engagements they have had with the county chiefs, to sign and implement the return-to-work agreement that was proposed. “The other day, the President acknowledged that health workers have issues in the country but he has failed to provide the leadership. We want him to provide good leadership and ensure the issues of health workers are addressed,” Maroko said. He said Mombasa has provided leadership and solved issues affecting doctors but ignored nurses, yet their demands are similar. “The county administration and the leadership of governor [Hassan Joho] that addressed doctors’ issues should apply the same to other carders. The doctors have been given promotions, which we are also asking for because all the promotions were supposed to be done by January 2021,” Maroko said. Mombasa clinical officers' secretary Franklin Makanga said the politics played by Oparanya is uncalled-for. He said the Kakamega governor should take responsibility and solve their issues. “Oparanya should stop playing politics and telling us that there is no money,” Makanga said. He said Mombasa county needs leadership and not politics. He called upon the county government to stop politics of discrimination. “We are reminding them that we will not go back to work until they address our issues,” Makanga said. Kenya National Union of Medical laboratory officers' representative Moses Maidi also cited discrimination. “We still have lab techs who earn Sh15,000. We want the government to take action; failing this, we are not going back to work unless we are protected,” Madi said.