A consultant clinical psychologist has called for the strengthening of mental health programmes in schools to curb violence and unrest. Dr Rose Otieno, also a lecturer at Kisii University, blamed attacks on teachers by students and torching of facilities on change in character. “Some of the incidents where learners attack their teachers and burn schools can be attributed to lack of mental health lessons in schools,” Otieno told the Star by phone. She urged national and county health officials to come up with a programme that will ensure learners receive mental health lessons. “I'm advocating professional counselling in schools to enable the learners to understand the situations they undergo. We need not wait until incidents occur in order to intervene,” Otieno said. The prolonged closure of schools due to Covid-19 had a negative impact on students and triggered mental health problems, she said. She noted that some children and adolescents suffered depressive disorders, attention deficit hyperactivity disorders, substance use disorders and conduct disorders. “Some children also experienced anxiety disorders, including phobias, separation anxiety disorders and sleep-wake disorders. A number of children also experienced neuro-developmental disorders, among them disorders of communication, reading and mathematics, often classified under special needs,” the don said. She said adolescents’ characters changed because of confinement at home for the nine months they were out of school, thus prompting psychological stressors upon interaction with peers and teachers. When children are exposed to a large amount of negative information, like in the case of Covid reporting, they experience a high level of stress and anxiety in the adults around them leading to psychological distress, Otieno said. She added that some parents were preoccupied with the impact of Covid-19 and failed to effectively respond to their children’s cues of distress. “Children are often attuned to adults' emotional state, including their emotional distress. If the adults displayed unexplained behaviour during the Covid period, then the children perceived the same as a threat,” she said.