The Kenya Union of Post-Primary Education Teachers wants all tutors serving in banditry-prone areas withdrawn immediately. Kuppet national vice treasurer Ronald Tonui said the lives of teachers are at a high risk amid the ongoing operation to flush out bandits especially in parts of Kapedo on the border of Baringo and Turkana counties. “It is high time government considered allowing the teachers in these areas a break to go home and resume when security has been beefed up” he said. Tonui, who is Bomet Central MP, addressed over 1,000 teachers who turned up during the union branch elections at Marigat Boys High school, Baringo South, on Saturday. He cited an incident where a Teachers Service Commission officer and a head teacher were among the five people abducted in Chemolingot in Tiaty and killed in Arabal last killed week. The unionist said owing to insecurity a number of teachers did not attend the election. He supported the government in the ongoing operation to flush out bandits, saying security should be enhanced in the area to ensure resumption of smooth learning. “What we only urge is the security officers to identify the places where the teachers reside so they do not harm them” Tonui said. He also called on the teachers' employer to consider offering hardship and risk allowances to take care of teachers serving in the insecurity-prone areas in the country like Baringo and Northeastern. “This should even come urgently as we go for the next major 2021-25 Collective Bargain Agreement for all the teachers across the country,” Tonui said. The MP said the union is working on improving the CBA to ensure classroom teacher salary increment to 70per cent and 30 per cent for those in administration. Zachariah Nyomboi was elected the branch executive secretary after garnering with 425 votes to dethrone the incumbent Christopher Kimosop who trailed fourth with 183 votes. Johana Chebon came second with 320 votes, Gladys Kipsang 225 votes. David Kibet is the new chairman after scooping 669 votes against Michael Tuitoek's 421 votes. The incumbent David Toroitich garnered 120 votes. Zakayo Kibet is the vice chairman with 667 votes and the assistant secretary is Paul Kipruto Koech who got 532 votes. Fanuel Kipsoi won the treasurer position with 548 votes as Richard Kibet came second with 438. Laban Kiptalam retained his seat unopposed as the branch secretary tertiary institutions.