DP William Ruto has opened secret talks with some of his harshest critics in Rift Valley to join his hustler movement in preparation for the 2022 General Election. The move comes just a week after former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto, who leads the CCM Party, declared he will support Ruto for president. Others now being lured include Cheranganyi MP Joshua Kutuny, Nandi Hills MP Alfed Keter, Mosop MP Vincent Tuwei, Moiben MP Silas Tiren and Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos. Others include businessman Hezekiah Bundotich, also known as Buzeki, Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito, former MPs Zackayo Cheruiyot and Frankline Bett. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen, who is a close ally of the DP and a key player in his 2022 plan, is said to be leading the efforts to ensure the critics join Ruto’s camp before the end of this year.  This would free Ruto to consolidate support in other areas. Murkomen declined to comment on the plan. Buzeki, however, on Thursday dismissed the move, saying he would not work with the Tangatanga group. He said after resigning from CCM last week he will announce his own plans by April. “I cannot subscribe to Tangatanga-type politics because most of them have selfish interests while what we want is unity of the country," Buzeki said. He was secretary general of CCM until last week when he quit in protest against party leader Rutto, whom he accused of acting unilaterally in supporting Ruto. Rutto and his allies are expected to vie through UDF but sources said Buzeki was working to come up with a different party through which he will vie for governor in Uasin Gishu. Kutuny who had supported Baringo Senator Gideon Moi until they disagreed politically mid-last year has taken a low profile. "Why should I join a team that's divisive, tribal and corrupt?" he asked. "I know Tangatanga will not win in 2022. Why should I join a losing team?" Kutuny  faces a tough battle to retain his Cherangany seat next year. His opponents, including former Minister Kipruto Kirwa, are already in DP Ruto’s camp. Tiren and Tolgos have publicly declared their support for Gideon Moi. “My main interest has always been that the interests of our people, especially farmers, must come first. I therefore stand with the farmers and my electorate," Tiren said. Tolgos is chairman of the BBI in the Rift Valley region and Ruto has opposed the BBI plan and referendum. Keter did not comment on the Ruto camp. He has also taken a low profile and has been completing his master's degree amid reports that he may run for governor in Nandi county against incumbent Stephen Sang. "The plan is to have Rift Valley as one unit by the end of the year so that come next year the DP will have all the time to work for support in other parts of the country," youth leader and DP ally Joseph Chumba said (Edited by V. Graham)