Telkom Kenya’s ambitious plan to reach out to remote areas through internet balloon project is in limbo after Loon LLC announced plans to wound-up business. In a blog post, Loon chief executive Alastair Westgarth said the business was not commercially viable and that they intend to complete current engagements including a commercial pilot project in Kenya by March 1. In July, at least 10 loon balloons went live in Kenya in a hyped event that was virtually witnessed by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Baringo County. In March, Uhuru announced the approval of universal 4G purposed to lay foundations for data access countrywide as part of the government’s measures to mitigate the disruptions to life by the Covid-19. This was a month after the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) approved the entry of those balloons in Kenya's airspace after two years of contention. The partnership between Telkom Kenya and Google’s parent company Alphabet intended to post 35 balloons in the space, a move that could have seen internet users in 14 counties access the faster 4G network, covering 50,000 square kilometres, 10 per cent of the country. Loon is a network of stratospheric balloons designed to bring internet connectivity to rural and remote communities worldwide. The high-altitude balloons in the stratosphere (altitude: 18km to 25km) create an aerial wireless network with up to 4G-LTE speeds. This was the first commercial launch of loon balloon technology in the world, putting Kenya on the global map in terms of technological advancement. The balloons had previously been used only in emergency situations, such as in Puerto Rico in 2017 after Hurricane Maria wiped out cell towers. On Friday, Telkom Kenya said it regrets that the pilot plan will end prematurely on March 1 but insisted that its long-term terrestrial network expansion plan is still in place. ''It was very exciting, therefore, to partner with like-minded pioneers in the adoption and usage of innovative technologies such as Loon, with the aim of filling in the Internet access gaps in areas that were difficult to service," Telkom Kenya’s CEO Mugo Kibati said. Loon  said over  the coming months, its team will work closely with Telkom to ensure the operations of the technology’s pilot service are wrapped up safely and smoothly. ''While we’re sad to share that Loon’s journey is coming to an end, we are grateful to the Telkom team for their vision and partnership, 'Alastair said. Loon has committed $10 million  to support nonprofits and businesses focussed on connectivity, internet, entrepreneurship and education in Kenya as part of compesation plan.