Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero on Saturday kicked off his campaign for Homa Bay governor, promising to promote development. Kidero, the former boss of Mumias Sugar, spoke during his introductory and meet-the-people tours of the county. He is known for his deep pockets and his candidacy has made other candidates anxious. Kidero said Homa Bay is lagging far behind in development and if he's elected governor he will promote growth and build cotton, fish and pineapple plants to provide jobs. People who aspire for election should explain to residents exactly what they intend to do for them, the former Nairobi boss said. Kidero urged his rivals for focus on selling their agendas. “Homa Bay is so far behind in development. The only favour we can do is to make it realise its economic potentials,” Kidero said. He told youths to stay away from from politicians who incite them to cause chaos. He said exploiting youths is one reason many of them are jobless. “You don't expect someone to develop when they are misused. Our youths shouldn't intimidate and embarrass others on behalf of their opponents,” Kidero said.. Those who want to succeed Governor Cyprian Awiti include Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, Suba South MP John Mbadi, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, businessman Jared Kiasa, Kuppet secretary general Akello Misori and Senator Moses Kajwang'. Kidero stopped at Agoro Sare SDA Church in Oyugis before proceeding to Kendu Bay town in Karachuonyo and Posta Grounds in Homa Bay town. Kidero called on the residents to support the Building Bridges Initiative because it would raise county allocations from 15 per cent to 35 per cent. He was joined by former Homa Bay Trade executive Carilus Ademba, former governor aspirant Enosh Bolo, Imara Daima MCA Kennedy Obuya, former Kibiri MCA Kennedy Ondiek and others. “Homa Bay is endowed with a lot of resources that can be used to transform residents' lives if prudently used," Kidero said. Ademba said many professionals from Homa Bay support Kidero's candidature. He urged him to improve the health sector. “We consulted a lot before we professionals settled on Kidero. Let's support him because he will turn around this county,” Ademba said. (Edited by V. Graham) 