Commonwealth 10,000m bronze medalist Rodgers Kwemoi is a relieved man after receiving a Sh400,000 scholarship cheque from the National Olympic Committee-Kenya on Monday. Kwemoi said the financial boost has motivated him to train hard in preparation for the various competitions he is targeting this year. "This scholarship is quite timely because in the last year, I did not participate in many races and basically earned  nothing. Training has been quite difficult because I haven't had enough money to do household shopping, including food," the 2016 World U-20 10,000m champion said. Kwemoi has now set his sights on the Tokyo Olympics and the Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon —the latter set for February 19 in the United Arab Emirates. "My target is a podium finish in the marathon and even in the 10,000m at the Tokyo Olympics. I am giving my all in training right now and I am hopeful that all the hard work will reap dividends eventually. This scholarship from NOC-K allows me to fully concentrate on training and competition," he said. Kwemoi, who came fourth at the 2019 World Championships in Doha, urged Kenyans to support athletes fully and promised they would not be disappointed. "We are ready to fly the Kenyan flag high when we represent the country. All we need to know is that you are fully behind us supporting us all the way," Kwemoi said. Apart from Kwemoi, others who benefited from NOC-K's bumper boost include world 1,500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot,  Commonwealth 800m champion Wycliffe Kinyamal, World 800m bronze medalist Ferguson Rotich and Emily Cherotich. NOC-K president Paul Tergat assured them of the committee's unwavering support as each one prepares an assault on different competitions this year and beyond. "We want to assure you that we will work together as stakeholders, to ensure all athletes are well prepared for the Olympic Games in Tokyo. We are pursuing all available opportunities to support our athletes, including scholarships such as the ones we are issuing to you today. We are also encouraging all athletes to think about the future and visualise what you will do after you retire," Tergat said.