An MCA in Busia has filed a complaint with the police demanding the arrest and prosecution of persons claiming he spent a night with a Form 2 girl in a lodging. Casper Juma (Bunyala South) said on Thursday the allegations are aimed at tarnishing his name ahead of the 2022 election. The propaganda is politically fuelled, he said, and called on members of the public to ignore the rumours. Social media on Wednesday was awash with allegations that Juma had been found in a lodging in Busia town with a schoolgirl. The ward representative is said to have been nabbed at the social joint after allegedly spending Tuesday night at the lodging with the girl. But Juma said those spreading the malicious rumours should prepare to face legal action. “The girl I was with is my daughter whom I was taking to school in the morning. I am engaging my lawyers because this has to stop. I am a leader. I am a human being and I deserve respect because there is life outside politics,” an agitated Juma told the Star on the phone. “When you talk of somebody defiling a minor, you must be able to get the name of the minor because, technically, she is the complainant. Even if she does not complain, can anyone find out from her parents if she was away from home?” He said that on Wednesday morning when the claims emerged, he was in Busia town with his daughter; he was escorting her to a school in Trans Nzoia. Juma said he made a brief stop in Busia town near Shreeje petrol station where he runs a business. “Who is this minor we are talking about and where does she study because they say she is in Form 2?” the ward rep said. “And who are her parents? Which police station has the defilement case been reported? By now I expect the case to have been reported. What is the Occurrence Book (OB) number for the case?” Juma linked the social media posts surrounding the claims to the deteriorating politics of Budalang’i constituency. He said there are leaders out to malign opponents to get sympathy from the public ahead of the next polls. He demanded that his critics name the police officers said to have been bribed to free him after being arrested after the alleged night out. Juma filed the complaint at the Busia police station on Thursday under OB Number 42/07/01/21 at 11:10am. Edited by Henry Makori