There is a very high chance that President Uhuru Kenyatta polls highly among Kenyans because he has demonstrated a genuine interest in pursuing national and public interests. In the last two years, his resolve to fighting corruption has convinced Kenyans that the war has not been lost. It must not be lost on us that President Kenyatta had a handshake with Deputy President William Ruto ahead of the 2013 general election and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga after the 2017 general election. On both occasions, President Kenyatta placed a premium on national and public interests over and above personal interests. He had the handshakes despite opposition from his party's rank and file, as well as his principals and partners. The latter handshake triggered a political falling-out within his ruling Jubilee Party, but he soldiered on and has embraced the ODM leader. Kenyans see genuine interest in his intention to take the country to the next level, despite his poor monetary and fiscal leadership that has seen them struggle to make ends meet. Wananchi also recognise his quest for political stability in the wake of the turbulence created by DP Ruto, who is keen on the 2022 election. The President has focussed on his legacy development projects. Uhuru has lately come out to condemn and dismantle the hustler narrative, which is not consistent with Article 254 of the Constitution. He now has the moral authority to kick out the emerging culture of alternative facts, fake news, deceit and lies being driven by politicians pursuing selfish interests. President Kenyatta could have done better had he moved with speed to reengineer the IEBC so the electoral agency has in place predictable systems for unpredictable outcomes. The IEBC remains a major scar that will undermine reforms advocated by the President and there is a need to address this issue to restore Kenyans' confidence in electoral systems. President Kenyatta would hit the high notes if he invites subject matter experts to help him turn around the economy by encouraging pollination of ideas and keeping political promises that are consistent with Moraa’s interests and aspirations. The political risk analyst spoke to The Star.