The county government of Garissa has enacted the County Water Management Framework 2018 to enhance water services. The new framework is meant to create a conducive environment in the management of the water sector. Speaking on Thursday during the handing over ceremony to incoming CEC Abdi Omar, Oyow said the bill would also address the issue of water governance, supply and challenges that have troubled the sector for decades. The CEC said the bill comprises of the Garissa County Water Management Act 2018, Water Policy, Water Strategy and a 10-year sector plan. He said the county government has made great strides in the provision of water during the past three years that has seen access to water jump from 45 per cent to 78 per cent across the county. Issa who has been moved to the Finance docket said notable achievements during his tenure include drilling, equipping and rehabilitation of 86 boreholes and improvement of general water coverage. He also cited the establishment of Garissa Rural Water and Sewerage Company, a utility company that will manage and maintain all rural water supplies in the county, as a milestone achievement. The CEC said the county government has also purchased seven new water trucks, one for each of the subcounties to enhance water trucking and water supply to far-flung rural areas. Other achievements include the purchase of three vehicles to support the operations of the department and the utility companies. The CEC spoke of the construction of Maji House that has started, saying the office will house the staff of the department and the two utility companies. Besides these achievements, the department has established a robust Water, Sanitation and Hygiene coordination forum that hosts more than 10 active water partners. Incoming water CEC Abdi Omar said that with the new laws, will make more strides in future. “As a department, we shall focus more on ensuring that our rural population where perennial water shortage is more pronounced are well supplied especially now that we are expecting a dry spell,” he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris