Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has scolded the EACC for probing Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang'ata. Kang'ata's law firm is among 24 others being investigated by the Ethics body over dealings with the Nairobi County government. In a  letter to the Nairobi County Secretary EACC requested case files for matters handled by Kang'ata's law firm along with 25 other firms for the period between 2013 and 2020. It said the basis of the probe was a review of the legal fees paid by the county to the firms for the last seven years. "The commission is undertaking investigations at the Nairobi City County in respect of payments of legal fees to the following firms. To facilitate our investigations, kindly but urgently furnish us with the original documents in respect to the mentioned firms," read part of the letter. Among details asked by EACC include all payment vouchers and cheque counterfoil, a list of pre-qualified law firms for the year 2013-2020 and minutes approving the list of the pre-qualified law firms. But Murkomen on his Twitter page said such a move is tactless and uncalculated. He said just because the Senator wrote to president Uhuru over the BBI referendum, EACC was being used to intimidate him. "Tactlessand uncalculated. They have started their intimidation against Kangata by sending EACC to investigate payment done in 2018," he said. He added, "Just because of a letter ?. You mean they couldn’t even hide it? This is petty. We’ve consistently warned against the use of EACC and DCI for political intimidation". Earlier on Kang'ata dismissed the allegations of irregular payments terming the probe a political maneuver against him. According to the Senator, in 2018 he was paid by the county for the services he rendered. "I got paid and everything ended well. These investigations are nothing but politics. I have been in public service as a councilor, MP, and Senator and these are the first investigations I am facing," he said. He added, "I have all the documents to show my singular payment from City Hall was legal and legitimate. It's not a coincidence that the investigations is being done three years after the payment". While warning his political prosecutors, Kang'ata said as a lawyer he is ready and willing to shake them off. The Senator has been on the spot after he wrote the head of state a letter regarding BBI's popularity in the Mount Kenya region.