Acting Kisumu city manager Abala Wanga has said 12 of 28 of its markets have been grabbed by private developers. He said Riat, Nyalenda, Nyamasaria and Ongwono are some of the markets that have been grabbed. Wanga said a private developer has put up a storey-building in the middle of Riat market. “The grabber has four fake title deeds in the same name. I am warning the grabber of Riat market, do not put up any building in the market. I will bring down the structures because our traders must have spaces to do business,” he said. Wanga said the grabbers of Nyalenda market had placed it on sale for Sh160 million. The city has demolished the structures and settled the traders in the market. Speaking on Monday during the groundbreaking ceremony for Otonglo market, Wanga said, upon completion, it will accommodate 500 traders. He commended traders at Otonglo for voluntarily vacating the land to allow the construction of Sh79 million ultra-modern market. The market which is expected to be completed in eight months is under the Sh4.5 billion Kisumu Urban Project funded by the French government. “In Kibos, Ongwono market was grabbed and a concrete wall erected. Now the people of Kibos have a market after we repossessed it from the grabbers,” he said. He said the city is expanding, with Kibos area earmarked to be an industrial park. However, 50 per cent of the seven acres of land meant for the park has been illegally allocated. Wanga said some individuals also grabbed Nyamasaria market and were going to demolish buildings there. He said, “If you grab a market please start removing your property because we are going to clear it.” He said the county was grappling with relocating traders to habitable places, yet some individuals have grabbed the markets. “Land grabbers will have sleepless nights going forward; we will stress you, demolish your structures and meet you in court. We will also forward the files to the anti-graft body,” he said. He announced that the National Land Commission will next week meet Governor Anyang Nyong’o to revoke any fake title deeds of any grabbed or illegally acquired land. Wanga criticised the lands office in Kisumu for allegedly messing up the city. He said the office needs a total overhaul to restore sanity and public trust. “Those in office have 30 days ultimatum to leave the office because the governor is going to put a protest letter. You have messed up pathways, playground and lands where the county should develop upon. You have dished out fake title deeds,” Wanga said. Wanga revealed that the county government will restrict further allocation of land meant for development.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris