Protracted border conflicts between pastoralist counties can only end if the government and local leaders are "honest" in finding a lasting solution. This is according to Garissa Township MP Aden Duale. Speaking on Sunday at Hafsa Binti Siirrin Islamic Centre in Garissa town, Duale said border disputes have a direct bearing on security and can only be addressed if the two parties come together and commit to openness. “Issuing of threat, intimidation and decrees will only make matters worse. In my opinion, this delicate issue can best be resolved when leaders and the government come together and engage honestly in a bid to come up with a lasting solution,” he said. Duale regretted that more than 55 years after Independence, communities are still fighting over boundaries—a problem that has resulted in the loss of lives and property. Some of the borders with conflicts include Garissa-Isiolo, Garissa-Tana River, Garissa-Wajir, Baringo-Turkana and Tana River-Kitui. Last week, Interior CS Fred Matiang'i held a meeting with leaders from Isiolo, Garissa, Wajir and Marsabit to address border conflicts. He promised to ensure a solution is found swiftly. Duale welcomed the meeting but added that the resolutions reached should only be implemented when both parties are in agreement. However, on Friday, a section of MCAs from Garissa differed with Matiang'i following his directive that all chiefs in Isiolo and Garissa be within their jurisdictions. Matiang'i directed Eastern and Northeastern regional coordinators, together with Isiolo and Garissa county commissioners, to ensure that chiefs are within their jurisdictions. The CS noted that disputes over electoral and administrative boundaries fuel inter-communal clashes. He promised to take action, including dismissal of chiefs who administer beyond their jurisdictional boundaries. But addressing the press outside the Garissa county assembly, the MCAs, led by Majority leader Mohamed Gabow, said the directive was a recipe for more conflicts for communities that have coexisted for decades. Gabow said the minister overstepped his mandate, noting that issues to do with boundaries are within the purview of the IEBC. Already, a case has been filed by two petitioners—Hamdi Hassan and Hassan Rage—seeks to stop the government’s plan to relocate chiefs and assistant chiefs living in Janjo, Barkuke, Bullow, Garse, Tokojo, Eldere, Hudon and Kampi Samaki—all located in Garissa county. In the case filed on Friday in a Nairobi court, the petitioners argue that the move will expose residents to lawlessness and heighten inter-community tension.  Edited by F'Orieny