Hoteliers in Taita Taveta county have been advised to tap the local market which has a potential of sustaining their operations instead of depending on the foreign market. Tourism Finance Cooperation Managing Director, Orumoi Jonah said local visitors will save them from loses occasioned by the cancellation of foreign travel. “You have the potential to turn around the hotel and tourism business only if you tap the local clients. Think of pricing so that you can get more domestic occupancy in hotels,” Orumoi said. In the wake of coronavirus that crippled the hotel industry, he said concentrating on domestic marketing will be a sure way to claim the lost glory. He said fair hotel prices will help local people travel to different parts thus help the economy grow. “Domestic market is good because money will remain in the local economy as opposed to the foreign visitors who in most cases will rarely buy from local shops,” he said. Jonah asked hoteliers to tap the potential brought by the county’s proximity to the Mombasa-Nairobi Highway, the Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) and the expansive Tsavo National park. “If the park entry fee has been reduced by the government, why not reduce the cost in hotels?” Orumoi posed. Besides the national park, the county boasts of wildlife sanctuaries, lodges and Vuria Hills which is the most preferred hiking and camping site in the Coastal region. Further, it hosts several country's historical sites. They include Salaita Hill, Voi Commonwealth War Graves, and Kenyatta Caves in Wundanyi. Others are Taveta ACK Holy Trinity Church Mahoo, Mahoo Pastor’s Residence and the First Old District Commissioners’ House in Taveta. Willy Mwadilo, a veteran hotelier and the General Manager of Saltlicks Safari Lodge said the hotel business is projecting to make a comeback after the long closure occasioned by the pandemic. Mwadilo said the local market is aware of the shock, therefore, it remains afloat despite political heat and pandemic. “This is a year to recover our pride. Even as we head to the next general election, the local market will not be highly affected since they are used to the Kenyan politics,” he said. Mwadilo said his hotel has experienced at least 90 per cent occupancy of domestic visitors since November last year. He said all shift has been turned to the Kenyan market, noting that favourable prices are the key to luring locals to hotels. He called on local organizations, businesses, financial institutions, county and national government to give a boost to local tourism and encourage them to take team-building exercises of their staff within the county through the local groups to boost their business.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris