A tweet by conservationist Paula Kahumbu was on Friday at the centre of a hearing at the National Environment Tribunal. The tweet was discussed in a case in which environmentalists have moved to the tribunal to block a proposed avocado farm within the Amboseli ecosystem. Lawyer Wilfred Lusi for KiliAvo Fresh Ltd told the tribunal that Kahumbu posted on her social media about a case already before the tribunal, a move that his clients took issue with. Lusi said Kahumbu had attached a stop order from Kajiado county Nema director Joseph Kopejo to her tweet. Kahumbu had questioned why the project was still going on despite the stop order. The tweet is alleged to have been posted on October 17 last year. "The post clearly seeks to hinder appellant to challenge Nema's decision," Lusi told the tribunal. Lusi said there is a clear attempt to bulldoze the tribunal to arrive at a certain decision. Alex Mola told the tribunal that Kahumbu was not aware there were proceedings before the tribunal. "Our client is not a hawker. She is an environmental expert. She did not have any knowledge of the proceedings in this tribunal," Mola told the tribunal. Mola said the post does not indicate or relate to the tribunal. He said the post however raises legitimate environmental concerns that every citizen in a democratic country can raise. Mola urged the tribunal to dismiss the contempt charges, saying they are meant to intimidate and harass Kahumbu. Tribunal chairman Mohamed Balala said he will give a ruling on March 1. He ordered that Kahumbu should be present. Initially, Nema had issued a license to Harji Mavji and Suresh Kurji Kerai, representing KiliAvo Fresh Ltd, to put up a farm on 180 acres. But conservationists raised objections, saying the farm will spell doom for wildlife and people's livelihoods. Conservationists said the farm will block wildlife corridors. Nema's Kajiado county director Kopejo in a letter dated September 9 last year ordered the investor to stop all activities for 30 days while Nema considers the next course of action. Nema director-general Mamo Mamo in a letter dated September 18 said the proposed farm was within a zoned wildlife corridor.