Having trouble with impotency? Can't keep going all night? The Lamu Council of Elders is alarmed many men are taking too much Viagra, the little blue pill. They claim it can be deadly. Try octopus, turtle meat, turtle fat, mushrooms, nutmeg. Exercise, sleep well and live right. In fact, most medical evidence and the US Centers for Disease Control, say Viagra, if used under a doctor's supervision is safe, but is not intended to be used recreationally. Side effects are slight, though there are more serious side effects. Anyhow, elders without medical degrees, are certain they know best. Speaking on Tuesday in their office, the elders said the rate at which men are perishing after using the blue ill is alarming. Council chairman Shariff Kiambaa said elders are best placed to advise on traditional ways of addressing men's sexual issues. Better than than the internet. “We have traditional ways that are safe and effective at your disposal, do not die on Viagra while in pursuit of sexual gratification. That is shameful‚” Kiambaa said. Council deputy chairperson Abubakar Shelali said moral decadence, poor diet and the internet were responsible for pushing men into abusing and using the blue pill as they seek faster solutions to boosting the sex lives. The elders urged men to adopt a healthy and balanced diet to enable them to achieve much-needed sexual gratification. “The internet is the biggest culprit when it comes to peer pressure and unnecessary influences. Many of those using the pill first saw or heard about it on the internet. Simply eat well, include lots of fish and a daily cup of octopus soup,”  Shelali said. “The elders said as opposed to the blue pill, the traditional ways have no side effects and cannot kill. They instead increase body heat and enable the man to never experience fatigue during the act,” he said. Shamote Abdullahi a Lamu resident with four wives and nine children, said the secret why his wives have never left him or cheated is his daily intake of octopus soup, famously known in Swahili as supu ya pweza. “Octopus is readily available in Lamu as are other traditional foods. I drink both soup and eat meat every evening before bed. It has been my lifestyle for 26 years and I can proudly report that my wives are happy and I am a contented man,”Abdullahi said. He also jogs every morning Abdullahi urged men to stop being lazy and always falling for shortcuts that in the end turn out to be  deadly. Edited by Kiilu Damaris