Is City Hall aware that touts have taken over nearly all matatu termini within Nairobi and are causing a lot of suffering to the residents? This is despite the fact that the government had ordered their removal. Some collude with criminals such as pickpockets while others smoke bhang openly. Others have named the various spaces within the town centre as their own "shambas." There are fears that the touts might gang up and oppose plans by Nairobi Metropolitan Services boss Mohammed Badi (pictured) to decongest the city. Commuters are now appealing to the authorities to crack the whip and return civility to public service vehicles. *** An MP from Nyanza region was forced to flee for dear life after his constituents attacked him because of his persistent criticism of a local administrator. The legislator sought refuge at a police station to evade irate villagers who were baying for his blood. The area chief had just been attacked by goons associated with the MP and villagers pointed him out. The MP, who had been cornered at his home, was driven at breakneck speed to the police station with villagers in hot pursuit. A local noted that there's a long-standing grudge between the MP and the administrator. *** Just who are these people purporting to be enforcing Covid-19 rules in Nairobi’s Central Business District, especially at night? They walk around in pairs and pounce on people carelessly wearing their masks below their noses. Without introducing themselves, they grab the arms of their victims and handcuff them. A victim tells Corridors that the 'officers' then walk you to dark alleys where they will ask you to buy your freedom. Those who do not part with something and insist on being taken to the police station are forgiven. Residents are now asking police to rid the streets of these crooked 'law enforcers'. *** The driver of a senior government official has become notorious for misusing the official vehicle of his boss. A neighbour whispers to Corridors that the driver changes the number plate of the car when he uses it to run personal errands. The driver is said to use the car to pick his children from school and sometimes his wife from her place of work. In the evenings, the vehicle is usually parked at a popular drinking joint in the estate, where the man likes to enjoy a tipple with his friends, whom he all drops at home when they have had enough.