 Acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu on Wednesday asked Kenyans to pray ahead of the planned hiring of a new CJ to ensure selfish interests do not take the centre stage in the process. “All we need are your prayers. As I said myself, the exercise we are embarking on is not different from what we have done previously and I pray that the Lord God will remain in us and keep us guided on the right path so that we know that we don’t exist for ourselves but for the Judiciary and the people of Kenya,” Mwilu said. She was speaking at the Supreme Court after the swearing-in of Evelyne Olwande as a member of the Judicial Service Commission. Olwande was recently elected by magistrates to replace Emily Ominde as their representative on the JSC. The commission is set to recruit a new Chief Justice to take over from David Maraga who retired two weeks ago. However, Mwilu said even though it is a serious assignment, it is not a difficult task compared to any other work they do as a commission. “You join the commission at a time that is not special or more difficult than any other time, the work of a commissioner is sacred at all times,” Mwilu told Olwande. Mwilu welcomed the magistrate to the JSC and reminded her that her membership was to serve the interest of the Judiciary. “You don’t come to serve the purpose of 200 people who voted you in, you are to serve the interest of the Judiciary to ensure that its independence is maintained and to serve the people of Kenya who pay your salary,” Mwilu said. Olwande beat Stella Atambo, Florence Macharia, Dolphina Alego and Teresia Nyangena to represent the Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association in the JSC. In her speech, Olwande urged fellow commissioners to put the interest of Kenyans first in discharging their mandate, especially in the hiring of a new CJ. “Kenyans are looking at us with bated breath and hopeful eyes. It is my prayer that when we discharge our mandate, the best interest of Kenyans shall be our potions,” she said. She promised to serve to the best of her ability and play her role to ensure there is a good relationship between the three arms of government. She promised fellow magistrates and judges that she will begin working on achieving the pledges she made during her campaigns. “I promise to prioritise issues that affect us such as the security of judicial officers, remuneration, career progress and disciplinary process,” she said. Speaking to the Star after the swearing-in ceremony, KMJA secretary-general Derrick Kutto said they have a lot of confidence in Olwande. “Given her track record in the association, we are confident that she will achieve what she set out to do in her manifesto,” Kutto said. Other members of the JSC include Mwilu, Mohamed Warsame, Olive Mugenda, Felix Koskei, Patrick Gichohi, Attorney General Paul Kihara, Macharia Njeru, Mercy Deche, David Majanja and Judiciary chief registrar Anne Amadi who is the secretary of the commission.  Edited by P.O 