Is an influential ODM politician from the Coast plotting to join the Hustler Nation in the coming months? Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga confidants are said to have held secret talks with the politician at a resort in Kwale at the weekend. There are indications that the staunch ODM member could have fallen out with a key party stalwart from the region recently, forcing him to shift allegiance. One of the Tangatanga diehards was overheard bragging that the new 'catch' will be part of an elaborate scheme to vanquish ODM at the Coast. ***** A high-ranking Jubilee official who was recently elevated in party hierarchy is having a hard time learning the ropes. The official is said to have failed to manage Jubilee troops, with some MPs openly expressing disdain at his leadership style. The office was created as a focal point to unite members, but some feel it is tearing the party apart. It has taken a fellow official, whose office was affected in recent changes, to feebly rally troops together. Some Jubilee lawmakers say the leader has become a liability and should be kicked out. ***** A political honcho from Kisii who has had run-ins with a national administrator recently found himself in big trouble. The former administrator was found drinking at a popular club in Kisii town during the curfew and detained for hours. The politician, who hangs around a former state officer, was not charged but his arrest is believed to be linked to recent vitriol directed at the national administrator. The arrest is the second in less than a month. He was taken for allegedly dishing out money during the December 15 Msambweni by-election. The administrator-turned-politician is said to have an insatiable appetite for handouts. **** A CEO of a state agency in the energy sector is running roughshod over employees, months after taking over at the helm of the troubled organisation. The manager, who was hired recently, is said to be threatening and intimidating everyone while setting unrealistic targets for staff. In one instance, the parastatal boss sent a top manager on compulsory leave for failing to meet targets. There are serious concerns from staff that the key performance indicators set by the CEO are unachievable and designed to kick out long-serving staff. Employees are said to be on a go-slow in the last few months and it is only a matter of time before the matter explodes.