The government has been urged to build infrastructures at the Rapid Deployment Unit base on the Kisumu-Nandi border to boost security. Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo said the government should build  facilities at the camp at Songhor in Muhoroni subcounty. Currently, the RDU officers deployed in the area are staying in camping tents at Songhor. For years, the region has been faced with cases of conflicts largely blamed on cattle rustling, land boundary disputes and encroachments leading to loss of lives and property. Koyoo said the unit will strengthen the security at the border and ensure everybody is secure. He spoke during the groundbreaking of the construction of a social hall and fencing of the RDU camp at the tune of Sh11 million. The lawmaker also commissioned the building of the Miwani assistant county commissioner official residential house in Masogo. The camp is on three acres of land donated by Mama Diana Opondo and her family. Koyoo thanked Diana who was last year received a presidential award for her charity work in the community. Mama Diana said the area is peaceful and habitable and commended the government for deploying the RDU officers. In 2017, during the clashes, staff at Songhor National Museum fled and have never come back, she said. The artifacts at the museum were stolen. “We hope with the current peace in the area the museum will be revamped,” Diana said. The family of retired Justice Effie Owour has also donated 10 acres to the government to set up another anti stock-theft unit in the area. The units, Koyoo said, will address cases of insecurity in the region. He urged the neighbouring communities to continue living harmoniously. “We want the existing peace to continue to help spur economic and development growth in the area,” he said. Koyoo said a criminal should be treated as a criminal as they have no tribe. He urged the communities to remain united and intermarry. The MP praised Interior CS Fred Matiang'i for deploying personnel at the camp, saying this has improved security in the area. Last year, Matiang’i said the government was focused in improving the RDU camp to protect citizens and their property. Noting that security is a collective responsibility, Matiang’i assured Kenyans that the government is committed to protect them and their property. “We are putting up a huge RDU camp here and will double personnel and increase resources,” he said. In November 2018, a squatter allegedly killed retired judge Effie Owuor's farm manager and injured her son in an attack in Muhoroni. Matiang’i announced that the government will also set up another anti stock-theft unit in the area. “We don't want citizens in Muhoroni and Nandi to suffer because of cattle rustling. They should live in peace and harmony to grow and spur economic development in the region,” he said. He commended Koyoo and his Tinderet counterpart Julius Melly for their effort towards uniting the neighbouring communities. The two leaders, he said, are committed and mean well for their people. “I have engaged with them on various occasions on matters affecting our people and they have proved to be practical and sincere in serving their constituents. They mean what they speak as a true patriotic,” Matiang'i said. Further, he said that every criminal should be treated as a criminal as they have no tribe. “A thief is a thief irrespective of his tribe and should be dealt with as the law requires. Nobody should say that they are being targeted. When you steal a cow from this side or the other region, or when you are a cattle rustlers, we must deal with you as a criminal not your tribe,” the CS said. The CS noted that they want those living at the boarder to be peaceful and do their businesses without fear. 