Details have emerged of a fresh push by Mt Kenya leaders for National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta as the region's supremo. The Star has also established that those backing the speaker are also going flat out to package him as a 2022 presidential candidate. The idea is that the 64-year-old speaker is "a safe pair of hands to bring the community together'. Muturi has been approached by the Njuri Nceke Council of Elders, the Kiama Kiama Kikuyu Council of Elders, the Embu and Mbeere Cultural Elders, as well as religious leaders. Several MPs, not only from the speaker’s Mt Kenya East backyard but also from other counties in Central, have joined the push. Political leaders and lawyers have castigated a High Court ruling against acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu as the impact of the decision becomes apparent. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka over the weekend condemned the ruling by the Meru court and demanded that the acting CJ be accorded a fair hearing as required by law. The former Vice President – also a senior counsel – said only a tribunal can remove a judge from office, terming last week’s High Court order shocking. The High Court in Meru on Friday barred Mwilu from acting as Chief Justice and chairing the Judicial Service Commission following a petition questioning her integrity. Deputy President William Ruto has said he supported President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2013 and 2017 presidential races without the expectation that he will return the favour. He said the only debt he has is that of helping President Uhuru Kenyatta unite and transform Kenya. Ruto spoke on Sunday in Trans Mara, Narok county, during a prayer service. The Deputy President said he would not allow Kenya to be taken back to ethnic-based politics that is dangerous to the social fabric of the country. Women at high risk of HIV infection can use the Dapivirine Ring as a new choice to prevent HIV. The World Health Organization has recommended the use of the ring as an additional prevention choice for women at substantial risk of HIV infection. It's recommended as part of a combined prevention approach. It is intended for use by women aged 18 and older in developing countries. It was not immediately known when or how it would be available; it is cost-effective but the cost is also not known. The global health agency had included the ring - known as DPV-VR - on its prequalification list of medicines in November last year. The Kenya National Union of Teachers has opposed the proposed reintroduction of corporal punishment in schools. Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha last week rooted for a whip to tackle school unrest and arson. But the trade union said caning will result in more conflicts between teachers and learners. Secretary-general Wilson Sossion on Saturday said the move would risk the lives of teachers, hence they would not accept it. He said the government would have to deploy police officers in all schools to implement the order if caning is reintroduced. Sossion said Kenya must honour its anti-corporal punishment commitment and ensure the right of every child is respected as enshrined in the Children's Act.