Kenya is a signatory of the Malabo declaration on Accelerated Agricultural Growth and Transformation for Shared Prosperity and Improved Livelihoods which came into force in 2014 under the  African Union. This declaration has seven commitments all aimed at transforming the agricultural sector to address issues which have long plagued the continent. According to the declaration, hunger and malnutrition are the major causes of poverty and underdevelopment. Among the two commitments stand out; Commitment 3: Commitment to Ending Hunger in Africa by 2025 and Commitment 4: Commitment to Halving Poverty, by the year 2025, through Inclusive Agricultural Growth & Transformation. In Kenya, food security  is part of the  President’s Big Four Agenda which  aligns itself with these two commitments. However, with only four years remaining, one wonders whether farmers are aware of the crucial role they play in realizing the two commitments and agenda. Food security and Nutrition does not merely look at the availability of food but also its quality and accessibility. Whereas the farmer's ability to influence consumer access to food may be limited, they have great influence on food quality. The World Health Organization describes animal source foods (meat, milk, eggs) as the best source of high quality nutrient rich food for children. Livestock farmers therefore play a significant role in ensuring the quality of animal source foods is maintained throughout the rearing process. Farmers can maintain food quality by simply applying the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) welfare standards for production animals. Studies have shown that the quality of meat and other animal products is directly linked to the welfare status of the animal during production and at slaughter. The OIE welfare standards are guided by five key components; nutrition, health, environment, mental state and behaviour. An animal’s nutritional needs are determined by its energy requirements. For example, broilers require energy to gain the desirable market weight in a given period while layers require energy to produce quality eggs. The feeding of these two types of chicken will therefore not be the same. Farmers should seek guidance from qualified veterinary professionals on their animal’s feeding plan at the different growth stages. Health: Farmers must ensure that their livestock receive timely vaccination and parasite control using the appropriate vaccines and drugs. Prevention of diseases minimises production losses in terms of weight loss and drop in production as noted in the cases of dairy and layer chicken. Farmers should demand for more resources to be availed to County veterinary departments to carry out their role in disease surveillance and control.  This will shift focus from simply managing outbreaks to preventing them completely. The environment in which the animals are housed affects their growth and production. Animal shelters should be clean, well ventilated and spacious for the animals housed. By maintaining high standards of hygiene, farmers minimise cases of sickness and as a result the need to constantly pump the animals with antibiotics. The world is currently facing challenges of antimicrobial resistance and a significant amount of this resistance has been traced back to the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in livestock. In most cases farmers are not concern with the drug withdrawal periods which determine when animal products can be consumed following treatment. Ideally, milk from a cow undergoing treatment for mastitis is not fit for human consumption for 48 or more hours depending on the drug used. Contrary to common belief, animals have feelings; happy, sad, fear, excitement, distress. The mental state of an animal will affect the quality of meat. Animals which are stressed at slaughter will have tough meat compared to those which were relaxed. A study was done to assess the welfare of poultry during transportation to the slaughter houses and the resulting losses. Results revealed that chicken carried upside down on motorbikes or on top of vehicles arrived at the slaughter houses with broken limbs or dead. Ideally, chicken should be carried in containers which have ample space and ventilation. In Kenya, there are laws which govern how animals should be transported. Finally, livestock should be allowed to express their normal behaviour. Chicken should be able to scratch the ground in search of food as opposed to being locked in cages. Cattle should be able to graze in fields where they can run free. With the support of the government, NGOs dealing with livestock production systems and other stakeholders in the livestock sector, farmers can improve on their animal welfare best practices for improved quality animal source foods.