Northeastern continues to make headlines for insecurity and poverty-related problems. These teething troubles are signs of the larger problem that is deprivation in terms of development that mainly resulted from the past economic freezing out of the expanse by the succeeding governments. The region was fundamentally disregarded for its archetypical aridity and unclouded weather condition. This was adjudged to have low economic returns by the pro-agrarian policymakers of the Sessional paper no. 10 of 1965, a document that then unswervingly guided government investment decisions for decades. But while the state of affairs of the region is now beginning to improve mainly due to devolution in the last few years, it will certainly take time for the effects of the preceding relegation to wither. Al Shabaab's toehold in the region is partway expounded as a product of the past desolation since fanatics habitually grow well in broke, uneven and edgy societies where they exploit the grievances of the masses for their narrow political vision of venom and violence. Nonetheless, instead of discerning the basic necessity for developing the Northeastern region, even as a security strategy, we have regrettably seen leaders in some of the developed areas of the country who have jealously and disdainfully questioned the insufficient devolution and Equalization funds that the region is allocated. But away from that, there are mature leaders such as the former Senate Deputy Speaker Kithure Kindiki, who shared some insightful comments on why Kenya should prioritise developing the untapped, expansive areas like those in Northeastern. Kindiki observed that the move was needed not just because that is where the future of Kenya lies, but also as a brilliant security policy as done in other countries. It is essential for the national government and Northeastern counties to cooperatively accelerate the regional development and defences as a peace building technique. Mohamed is a social commentator in Garissa county