Education Cabinet Secretary George Magoha has lauded efforts by schools to stem the spread of Covid-19, leading to a decline in infections three weeks after reopening. Magoha praised joint efforts by various stakeholders, although no data has been provided to support the claim. “I want to thank all stakeholders that we are now going into the third week of reopening and there is no surge of Covid-19, instead it is actually going down,” Magoha said. The CS spoke at Our Lady of Fatima Girls Secondary School in Nairobi where he met a group of security and education administrators. He said that 99 per cent of learners had reported back to schools since the reopening. That means of the 15 million learners in primary and secondary schools at least 150,000 are yet to report back. He banned the use of small-bottled hand sanitiser by students in schools. The CS on Wednesday raised the red flag over malicious use of the product to cause arson in learning institutions. The ban comes after an inferno razed part of a dormitory at Cheborge Boys Secondary School in Kericho. The cause of the fire was suspected to be an arson. “A fire was started using a sanitiser in one of the schools… I want to tell teachers that they must not allow small-bottled sanitisers into schools,” Magoha said. Magoha also announced that the government is in plans to restart the provision of sanitary pads to school girls with attention focussed on adolescents in primary schools. “Every child in primary school will be given a nine months' package of sanitary towels,” Magoha said. It is not clear when the items will be distributed to secondary schools. Magoha also raised an alarm over absenteeism in arid and semi-arid areas due to lack of food. He said the government will revive the school feeding programme to address this. No child shall be sent home for school fees, he said. “Soon the next tranche of money will be made available for capitation, once it is available,” Magoha said. Magoha has blamed parents over the increased student attacks on teachers terming them as negligent. He called upon law enforcement agencies to take stern action on the perpetrators as he asked teachers to take care of themselves. Edited by Henry Makori