Justice is coming closer to the people in Murang'a. This is after the handing over of Kenol Law Courts to the Judiciary on Friday, bringing to five courts in the county. The premises were renovated by Maragua CDF at a cost of Sh1.5 million and were received from the steering committee by Judiciary's chief registrar Anne Amadi. The court will make it easier for locals who have been travelling to the neighbouring Kigumo constituency to access justice. County presiding judge Kanyi Kimondo said the court, which was gazetted in September last year, will now be staffed and equipped to make it operational. Kimondo lauded area MP Mary Waithera for committing funds towards the renovation of the building that is now accommodating the courts It previously acted as a meeting hall for the deputy county commissioner. The judge said the court is a good example of how the three arms of the government can work together to ensure quick and efficient delivery of services. Waithera said her constituents have been suffering as they were forced to travel to Kigumo to access justice, which she said made the process expensive and time consuming. The MP appealed to Kigumo Law Courts to have files from the constituency handed over to the new court expeditiously and appealed to the Judiciary to designate a magistrate in the next two weeks. She also urged the Judiciary  to deal with corrupt court officials and magistrates who make it difficult for Kenyans to get justice. She attributed the many crimes recorded in the constituency, especially on drugs usage, illicit brews and land cases,  to high poverty levels especially in Maisha Mathi and Ichangai areas that are known for their notorious chang’aa brewers. "That is why we desperately needed a court and why my NG-CDF partnered with the Judiciary to have the court established," Waithera said. The CDF, she announced, has set aside another Sh14 million for the construction of a new and modern court. "As the court goes on, we will construct a modern building and the contractor will be on site by June. We have already erected a sign post at the site of the new court to prepare locals for it," she said. The court, she said, will spur the growth of Kenol town as it will inject new visitors who will boost local businesses. Amadi said the country now has 128 courts and that the Judiciary is struggling to conform with the law and ensure each subcounty has a law court. “Some counties such as Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu have only one law court each but we all know that the Judiciary has been struggling with budget issues. We are, however, committed to enhance access to justice,” she said. She said the Judiciary is working on a transfer list and that magistrates have been scrambling to be deployed to the new court due to its proximity to Nairobi.