The Green Park terminus along Uhuru Highway has been expanded to accommodate taxis and boda bodas. The terminus is being built by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. NMS has also commenced works at the Workshop terminus. Extension works are currently going on at Green Park that was initially designed to accommodate 110 matatus. NMS director of transport and public works Michael Ochieng said the intention of the CBD decongestion plan is to accommodate all stakeholders. "Decongestion is more of an expansive exercise and we don’t want it to be branded as a matatu issue. We want to bring taxis and boda bodas who are also operating within the central business district,” Ochieng said. Taxis and boda bodas will be available at the terminal for commuters who prefer not to walk to the CBD. NMS director-general Mohammed Badi last month said the completion date for the Green Park bus terminus had been pushed backward. He attributed the delay to design issues and consultations with stakeholders. "Initially, the park was to be ready by early this month (December), but we encountered some challenges that slowed down the progress of construction," Badi said. NMS later announced that the decongestion would happen in phases with Green Park being the first. Green Park terminus which is located at Railways Club will be the drop-off and pick-up point for matatus plying the Ngong Road and Lang’ata Road routes once the decongestion process begins. During a site visit on Sunday, excavators were busy at work with NMS having extended works next to the fence along Uhuru Highway. Some sheds have also been put up. Workers have started placing benches under the dark blue and grey translucent commuter waiting sheds. The park also has a dispensary which is already operational. The Star noted that structures that used to serve as the Lunar Park before the place was converted to a bus terminal were still operating as a bar and restaurant. NMS inclusion of boda bodas in the terminal's design will help remedy the menace caused by the operators within the city centre. Boda bodas have continued to operate from the CBD despite a City Hall ban in 2019. The operators have been at loggerheads with the city inspectorate department with their motorcycles often impounded. Some 4,190 motorcycles were impounded between January 2018 and March 4, 2019, with City Hall getting Sh12.5 million in revenue. The county also raked in Sh2.68 million in court fines and another Sh9.8 million in storage fees. Workshop Road terminus Meanwhile, NMS has started building the Workshop Road terminus that is located between Haile Selassie and Uhuru Highway next to the Neno Evangelism Centre. The church owner James Ng’ang’a is embroiled in a legal battle with Kenya Railways concerning the ownership of the land. The Star established that NMS has already set up the pedestrian pathway and is working on the main lane to be used by matatus. Ochieng last month said work on the terminus will take not more than a month after ground-breaking is done. “Workshop terminus is a bit smaller but NMS will consult Kenya Railways on getting more land,” he said. The official said they wanted to have the terminus in two parts with the first part next to Haile Selassie and the other one along Bunyala Road where people can also cross using a footbridge to access the CBD. The workshop terminus will be reserved for matatus plying Mombasa Road, South B, South C, Industrial Area, Imara Daima, Athi River, Kitengela and Machakos routes. Ocheing said Desai Road terminal was complete. On March 18 last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Badi to operationalise two matatu termini at Desai Road and Park Road to stop the use of city streets as parking bays for public service vehicles. The two are located just after the Equity Ngara roundabout, Park Road on the right and Desai on the left. Each terminus is between one and 1.5km long and has at least six shades with sitting benches for passengers.  The Star established that matatus plying routes to Central region had already occupied Park Road terminus. The PSVs are mostly plying the Thika Superhighway heading to Kenol, Sabasaba, Muthithi, Kigumo, Mariira , Kangari and other areas. “As you can see, the PSVs are voluntarily occupying the terminus even before we officially launch it,” Ochieng said. Once operational, the matatus are expected to only use the terminals are pick up and drop off points and not as holding bays. The Desai Road terminus is currently being used as a parking bay by taxis and personal cars. “Desai Road is not in use because we are planning to rehabilitate the nearby roads which are in poor state. Once all that is complete, we will launch the terminal,” Ochieng said.  Edited by P.O