The nomination of a deputy governor is a process. In the case of Nairobi, this process had commenced before Members of the County Assembly impeached Mike Sonko and the Senate upheld the decision. Since the nomination is a process, the matter is finalised with the appointment of the nominee. This appointment would be done by the governor, in this case Sonko. In other words, the nomination process crystalises with the appointment. We know that prior to his impeachment, Sonko had nominated Anne Mwenda, who was the county’s Disaster Management and Coordination chief officer, to be deputy governor. The process to get a deputy governor, however, hit a snag after the High Court barred the county assembly from vetting Mwenda pending the hearing and determination of a petition filed by Peter Agoro. As far as I am concerned, everything that Sonko was doing while he was still governor of Nairobi, would not have any legal effect if the processes had not been completed. We know that Sonko said the nomination of Mwenda was in the interest of ensuring stability in the country’s capital after he was barred from accessing his office over a corruption case he was facing in court. But with his impeachment, it means that he left office before the process of installing a deputy governor was completed. I do not think that one can argue that the county assembly can still vet the person he had nominated should the case halting the process be withdrawn. We had an incomplete process, which means the procedure to have a deputy governor does not have any legal consequences. The petitioner has filed a notice to withdraw the case challenging the nomination of Mwenda, but I do not think the move will avert a by-election. There are people who are putting forward an argument that the move to withdraw the petition challenging the nomination of Mwenda would result in the cancellation of the by-election. This to me is misleading as the nominee cannot be vetted for the position. Kibe Mungai, a Nairobi-based lawyer, spoke to the Star