The US embassy has announced Eric Kneedler has taken over as the charge d'affaires ad interim. This follows the exit of Kyle McCarter. In a tweet on Wednesday, the embassy said, "Join us in welcoming Eric Kneedler who becomes Chargé d’Affaires ad interim. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, @StateDept. Mr. Kneedler will be using @USAmbKenya to continue advancing #USKEPartnership," Kneedler previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the US Embassy in Nairobi from April of 2019 until January of 2021. He began his assignment in Nairobi in 2017 as the Counselor for Political Affairs. Kneedler also served as the Counselor for Political Affairs at the US Embassy in Manila and the Deputy Political Counselor at the US Embassy in Bangkok. McCarter bid farewell to Kenyans on Wednesday after four years. In a video, McCarter said being U.S. Ambassador was the greatest honour of his life. "...and an extraordinary opportunity to serve my country for the benefit of the American and Kenyan people," he said. "I am sad to announce that this privilege is coming to an end today when I will resign my post. And I am proud of what the two countries have achieved." McCarter said the United States will continue to help Kenya to be a prosperous economy. "The US will continue aid through education  The free trade negotiations will make Kenya more competitive," he said. He said Kenya's success will shame those who rob Kenyans of their hard-earned money. "I leave my post inspired by the dedication and vision of the Kenyan youth. Be sure you put your feet in the right place. Sisemi Kwaheri lakini tutaonana," he said. On Tuesday, President Uhuru Kenyatta reiterated Kenya’s determination to conclude ongoing negotiations with the US and sign a Free Trade Agreement. Uhuru gave the assurance when he bade farewell to outgoing US Ambassador to Kenya who paid him a courtesy visit at State House, Nairobi. Kenya and the US launched trade negotiations on 8th July 2020 with the aim of crafting a comprehensive FTA that will serve as a model for similar pacts across Africa.