President Uhuru on Sunday inspected construction of Sh1.4 billion Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu, to be launched in mid-April. The President had spent the night at the Kisumu State Lodge after attending the funeral of ANC leader  Musalia Mudavadi's mother. He met ODM Leader Raila Odinga and Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o before proceeding to the grounds. He arrived at Mamboleo accompanied by three Air Force choppers, one of them carrying Raila. Both the President and Raila were impressed with the works done within two months, saying the stadium will be launched in April. The 30,000-capacity stadium will have facilities for football, rugby, tennis, hockey among other sports. The President is expected to launch the Jomo Kenyatta Stadium alongside the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Sports Complex within the town, Kisumu port, Uhuru Business Complex, Marine School and a passenger railways terminus within the city. The construction of the railways is to begin soon after the Railways Cooperation on Friday demolished illegal structures on the railway line at Obunga in Kisumu. The demolition will pave the way for the ongoing Sh3.8 billion rehabilitation of the 217km Nakuru-Kisumu tracks. The President was last in the lakeside city in October where he inspected the various development projects and launched the construction of the stadium. The stadium was supposed to be constructed within the city centre, but there was not enough space. In December, Raila visited the site where he called for structural adjustments. He said he would ask President Uhuru for additional funding. Raila said the project was relocated from the centre of the city which was not spacious enough to accommodate many people for a major sporting event. He said it was one of many projects across the country. He said the projects will provide employment opportunities to the youths and not tokenism, which is not an answer to unemployment. The ODM boss said the country needs sports groups to cultivate talent. He deplored the low representation of Kenyan professional players in other global leagues, saying Kenyan talent is untapped. Earlier, President Uhuru directed Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to ensure that the 63km Kisumu-Mamboleo-Chemelil road was done before the stadium is opened. "We are constructing an international stadium here in Mamboleo and this type of road should not be leading to such a stadium," he said. "I will be coming here in April next year and this should be completed by then." Four months ago, the government approved Sh4.9 billion for the construction of the road after two decades of neglect. The road links Kisumu to neighbouring counties. Leaders and residents have for more than 20 years been demanding that the road be repaired. The road is filled with potholes and motorists have been incurring losses in repairing their damaged vehicles. (Edited by V. Graham)