In nature, everything grows. Plants, animals, people, etc., experience growth at different stages. Growth is our design; it’s in our DNA. The concept of growth is the root of the next level. We’re supposed to move from childhood to teenage to adulthood; we’re wired to grow from one level to the next. You have come this far, but there is always a next level. We’ve been built to desire more and evolve. The question is: are you interested in the next level? Do you want to get there? If yes, here are three elements that would usher you into the next level. Leadership Skills: The leadership guru, John C. Maxwell said that: “everything rises and falls on leadership.” Nothing happens without leadership. Furthermore, your next level depends on your ability to grow your leadership skills because leadership births the next level. Let’s be clear: one way to guarantee the next level is growing your leadership skills. To grow, you must first understand your leadership skill level. On a scale of one to ten, one being poor and ten being excellent, how would you rate your leadership skills and why? Whatever your score, what can you do to go two points up? An honest assessment of your understanding and application of leadership helps you see the gaps and how to close them. Improving your leadership know-how would take you to a higher place of function and effectiveness. Coaching: This is one of the best ways to access your next level. I wish more professionals in corporate Africa understood the power of coaching. It is one tool that opens your eyes and broadens your view like few tools can. Coaching grows your consciousness and awareness of yourself and your thought processes, revealing the blind spots and unveiling powerful strategies that lie within you. Many top global business leaders, athletes, politicians, etc., engage the services of a coach to help them access the next level. Coaching helps you move further faster. Don’t attempt greatness alone, get a coach. Effective Systems: In my view, system is thinking because how you think creates leverage or not. Poor systems or thought patterns make it difficult to attain your next level. Effective thinking helps you create the leverage that you need to move forward. So, how do you think? Have you found the thinking that would take you further? Your advancement requires a higher level of thinking and when you access these high thoughts, the next level opens to you. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com