Okoa Malindi wants alcohol, smoking and skimpy clothes banned on the new waterfront to conform to Swahili culture. The Sh80 million waterfront, intended to be a big tourist draw, is 80 per cent complete. Eventually, it's supposed to be a "second Dubai"/ Most partygoers and bathers don't dress in buibui. Bikinis and thongs are more common with foreign tourists. But the Malindi Waterfront Urban Renewal and Recreation Park apparently hasn't given that much thought. In a letter signed by Okoa Malindi secretary general A.N Farhan, the group says the dress code should be modest. The letter was addressed to the county government and copied to 15 stakeholders. The group awaits feedback. In 2014, Lamu county elders and MCAs sought to ban miniskirts and other revealing Western dress on the island, calling it indecent and against Swahili culture. The idea was thrown out. In June last year, Lamu elders revisited the issue, saying the predominantly  Muslim region, known for the Bajuni community, is a Unesco World Heritage site. That's because the culture is - or was - well preserved. “Ceremonies such as bikini competitions or beauty contests which are against good morals should also be banned. We as a community are not ready for that‚” Farhan said. He said the park should be operated to promote ancient culture and Swahili ideals. “We also want a proper lighting for security at night at the park," Farhan said. The lobby group also proposes the Malindi beachfront project to be managed by the municipal board. It opposes privatisation of the facility, which may not involve public participation. “We need to be informed and engaged in the process to award the private company that will manage the park on behalf of the county," Farhan said. He said at least 70 per cent of those employed at all levels should come from Shella ward, where the project lies. They include security guards, office secretaries, clerks, cooks, gardeners, serving staff, life guards, among others. He said everyone who was promised compensation should be paid promptly. Fishermen should also be allowed to use the walkways to reach their boats as the current route is tiresome and not traditional. “We are ready as a community to build extra stalls to help in business. All we need is to be supplied with the designs of the stalls as soon as possible so we begin construction,” Farhan said. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi said earlier that the project will transform the face of Malindi and encourage more tourists from Kenya and abroad. He said the bigger picture will be to make Malindi a second Dubai, stretching the beachfront design, walkways, restaurants and  entertainment areas up to Sabaki Bridge. Edited by Kiilu Damaris