Despite gathering six points out of a possible fifteen, Uinzi Stars head coach Benjamin Nyangweso says the playing unit deserve pats on their backs. Nyangweso attributed the slow start in the campaign to lack of pre-season, noting that the military-owned club began training as a unit after the Ministry of Sports permitted the resumption of football activities. The ministry, signalled for the return of football activities in November last year, just a day to the first round of the season. "We began training when the ministry lifted the ban on sporting activities unlike the rest who had begun much earlier. Due to the nature of our job, we could not go against the precautions and directives from the government thus we had to wait for official communication from our bosses. We have only lost once and I feel my players deserve more praise than criticism for the results we have achieved so far," he observed The league-winning coach, however, remained positive in recovering and catching up with the rest in the near future. "The past rounds have served as our pre-season and so far so good. The players have improved as far as fitness levels are concerned and soon we will get back to our winning ways," he added Meanwhile, Sofapaka midfielder Lawrence Juma is anticipating to find the back of the net consistently after banging in a hat-trick last weekend against Mathare United. Juma became the second player to take home the match day football this season after AFC Leopards centre forward Elvis Rupia. The holding midfielder, who joined the 2009 league champions from Gor Mahia in the past transfer window, saw his contribution inspire the club to edge Mathare 4-2 at Wundanyi Stadium. The former Nzoia Sugar player, who also skippered the team in the absence of Elly Asieche, says he is looking forward to scoring more goals and assisting the club to achieve their targets in the ongoing campaign. "It was an honour to wear the armband for the first time since I joined Sofapaka as well as score a hat-trick. I am hoping I will keep the scoring touch and help the team as much as I can to win titles," he said.