Lecturers at Meru University have issued a strike notice over unpaid arrears. Universities Academic Staff Union MUST chapter secretary general Mulwa Munyao said the lecturers blame vice chancellor Romanus Odhiambo for not implementing the 2017-2021 CBA among other demands. “Not offering any solution to any of demands shows ignorance and negligence on the side of the university management," he said. "Pursuant to provisions of UASU constitution and the Labour Relations Act, 2007 and the powers bestowed on me, I hereby issue a seven-day picketing notice from the date of this letter,” reads a letter by Munyao on January 15 to Odhiambo. Their demands include that the workload must be restored back to three units per lecturer per semester across all schools, part-time letters for the semester January-April 2020 to be released and payment done and part-time letters for October-March be released. They want release of research funds, payment of arrears of the national CBA 2017-2021 and other graduate assistants to be issued with appointment letters. “The demands must be met before Friday 22, failure to which all the members of UASU MUST chapter shall begin picketing on January 25 until all issues are addressed,” Munyao said. The VC did not pick calls from the Star or reply to text messages but in an earlier memo dated January 7 that was downplayed by the lecturers, Odhiambo said it was not true there had been a six-month delay. He said the Research, Development and Extension Directorate had been instructed to focus the research funds to building research capacity. On workload, he said the issue was discussed and approved by senate on March 16, 2020 and the academic policy had been reviewed to reflect the change. On implementation of national CBA 2017-2021, the VC said the payment of arrears has been implemented as was agreed according to instructions received from Salaries and Remuneration Commission. "The statement that UASU agreed cannot be taken to represent the opinion or decision of the local implementation committee. This is not failure by management and therefore the January 4 ultimatum is misplaced," the VC's memo read in part. On issue of placing graduate assistants, he said the management had sought advise from the SRC, adding that issue was bitterly contested by the unions during meetings. Meru activist Salecio Thuranira appealed to Njuuri Ncheke Council of Elders not to take the lecturers demands lightly in defense of the VC. Meanwhile, Kenya Methodist University has suspended face-to-face learning at the main campus following student unrest over claims of increased fees by the management. Vice chancellor David Gichoya said all students should leave the institution by Wednesday evening. “Students residing outside university should leave not later than 5pm January 20 until further advice. Those residing in the halls shall not be allowed to enter university premises. Registration and online learning at the campus continues uninterrupted,” the VC said in a memo. Edited by Henry Makori