It was all smiles and excitement on Friday 15th January at Rachuonyo County Hospital in Homa Bay County when they received a donation of Intensive Care Unit (ICU) equipment worth sh1.5 million from leading gaming company, Mozzart Bet. This is part of its ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative named “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities.” The donated equipment included hospital beds, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators and bedside trolleys. Dr Kennedy Okoth, Deputy Director of Nursing Services in Homa Bay County expressed his gratitude to Mozzart for the donations. “We really appreciate the good gesture shown by Mozzart and it sends a very clear message to other organisations to also give back to the society. Rachuonyo County Hospital is the second largest facility in this region and this equipment will really help the masses especially in Covid-19 preparedness and response,” he said. “We still have limitations as a county and this should be the start of more private – public partnerships especially in capacity building in health and other sectors.” He added. The Deputy Nursing Officer in charge of the facility Jane Owaka, while thanking Mozzart, also reiterated the need for more support. “On behalf of the hospital, I sincerely thank Mozzart for the donations. We didn’t have enough oxygen concentrators before and only had one patient monitor. Our High Dependency Unit (HDU) will now be functional but the reality is this (equipment) is not enough,” she said. “We still need more bedside lockers, patient monitors, beds, oxygen concentrators and incubators. Mozzart has done a great job and we now hope other organizations can do the same,” she added. Mr. Frank Ochieng, Mozzart Kenya’s Marketing Manager assured that the company would continue supporting Kenyan communities. “Our mission to empower Kenyan communities is still ongoing and we are very delighted to donate vital medical equipment to the Rachuonyo County Hospital. Since Covid-19 struck last year, we have supported many hospitals around the country with donations of assorted medical equipment essential in the fight against the pandemic worth over Ksh 10,000,000,” he said. “Between November 2020 and now, fourteen different hospitals have received this essential medical equipment. The plan is to proceed with the donations and I want to assure the people of Rachuonyo that we have heard their cries and we shall, hopefully, be back soon with more.” He added. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital and now Rachuonyo County Hospital. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.