The Kenya Forest Service has interdicted an officer linked to illegal logging of an endangered cedar tree. Cedar is the most targeted tree species. The durable and beautiful wood is moisture-resistant, decay-resistant and insect repellent. KFS in a statement on Monday said Chief Conservator of Forest Julius Kamau ordered interdiction after receiving a report from a rapid response team. The team, KFS said, was recently deployed to the Sachangwan beat, Koibatek station in Baringo county to verify information on illegal logging from members of the public. The rapid response team of KFS security officers proposed immediate corrective actions. KFS said the team established an indigenous cedar tree species (Juniperus procera) had been felled and split into about 70 posts. The recovered posts were moved to rapid response base in Kibunja. CCF Kamau directed immediate interdiction of the officer involved pending  investigations to establish if any other individuals were involved in the crime. Kamau said cedar is an endangered species and its protection shall not be compromised. The CCF said the crime was also under probe by the National Police Service and booked at Molo police station. Kamau emphasised that the duty of forest officers is to protect forest resources. He said any officers abetting forest destruction shall face serious administrative action under law. Kamau thanked members of the public for reporting suspicious forest activities and said credible reports will be thoroughly investigated and corrective measures taken. In February 2018, the government appointed a taskforce to look into forest resources management and logging activities. It reported on April 30. The report said the KFS board and management had been unable to stem and in some instances directly participated in, abetted and systemised rampant corruption and abuse of office. "By so doing they have overseen wanton destruction of our forests, have systematically executed plunder and pillaging of our water towers and bear the responsibility for bringing our environment to the precipice," the taskforce said. It examined scale of illegal logging, destruction, degradation and encroachment of public and community forests, water towers and other catchment areas and associated impacts. The taskforce said KFS has institutionalised corruption and the system is replete with deep-rooted corrupt practices, lack of accountability and unethical behaviour. The taskforce also cited dedicated officers who served the country under difficult circumstances. In some cases they have been victimised by cartels, it said. Illegal logging of indigenous trees is a major threat to forests and is rampant in key forest areas. Destruction of indigenous forests is due to illegal squatters, the changing lifestyle of forest dwelling communities, the abuse of plantation schemes,  unclear forest zones, the introduction of irregular settlements and large-scale public infrastructure developments. (Edited by V. Graham)