The clash between Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Interior PS Karanja Kibicho has been in the limelight for over a year now. Known for his courage for letting the cat out of the bag, Sonko has been dragging Kibicho’s name in his woes and issues affecting the county. At one point he branded Kibicho as the ‘deep state’ while appearing on local Television. During Sonko’s first impeachment that flopped in February 2020, close people to him had hinted that the plan was being overseen by a powerful state officer. “We know that some MCAs who were in power back then was working with a big state official who wanted Sonko ousted to be successful,” said a first term MCA, who sought anonymity. Two months later, Sonko lamented and claimed that police officers who were frustrating him were working under the instructions of the Interior PS to frustrate him. He had accused the officers of hampering his initiative to fight Covid-19 pandemic, where sanitizing booths which had been set up in the CBD were destroyed. "I am saddened by the vandalism that occurred earlier today, supervised by the Kibra Deputy County Commissioner who personally confirmed his ill actions to me,” Sonko said. "He was allegedly following instructions from the Nairobi Regional Coordinator, who also confirmed the same to my chief of staff, on the removal and vandalism of the new public sanitization booth that had been installed at the Kibra DCC's offices." The booths had been set up at the Kencom bus stage, Mathare, Korogocho, Nyayo Estate, Greenspan, the area outside Kenyatta National Hospital, and Buruburu shopping centres. As a result, Sonko Rescue Team, through Lawyer Harrison Kinyanjui under a certificate of urgency accused Nairobi Regional Security Commissioner Wilson Njenga and Health CS Mutahi Kagwe of interfering with the goodwill to help in the fight against spreading Covid-19. The High Court when ahead and stopped the destruction of the Covid-19 sanitiser booths set up in various parts of Nairobi. Justice Weldon Korir asked Interior CS Fred Matiang’i, his PS Kibicho, CS Kagwe, Inspector-General of Police Hilary Mutyambai and the Nairobi RC Wilson Njenga to stop the exercise. The flamboyant former county boss said he was planning to take Kibicho and Regional Police Commander Philip Ndolo to the ICC. He accused that the two accompanied by Nairobi RC Wilson Njenga had committed crimes against humanity. Sonko further claimed that Kibicho instructed their officers and officers working under them to stop his agents and officers from fumigating and disinfecting streets and public establishments across Nairobi City. "On diverse dates. The defendants have through their officers and officials working under them demolished and vandalized installations including sanitization booths installed by the plaintiff," he said. In August, Sonko went ahead and accused Interior CS Fred Matiangi, his PS Kibicho and the ‘deep state’ of messing the country. While being hosted on Citizen TV’s JKLive, he branded the two as the “deep state’ and said President Uhuru was not to blame for the incidences of police brutality and misuse of state machinery. “Uhuru is a very hardworking man, the problem is the system and the deep state, Matiangi and Kibicho are misusing the state machinery," Sonko said. The two were back at it again on Monday with Kibicho declaring the beginning of a war with Sonko and vowed to sue him over the remarks he made on Sunday while in Dagoretti. The former Governor claimed that they planned chaos in Nairobi during the general election in 2017 with Kibicho. “I want to reveal here that in 2017, I and Kibicho, together with the system, printed ODM T-shirts, bought second-hand cars, then burnt them on Ngong Road so as to be seen it was ODM supporters that had burnt them," claimed Sonko. On Monday, Kibicho distanced himself from the accusations and recorded a statement with the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI)  and accused Sonko of character assassination. The PS also declared to go the legal way and would seek justice on the statements Sonko made publicly admitting to crimes. “I am not at DCI as PS Interior, but as Karanja Kibicho, and Sonko shall give me answers if there’s law in this country. He must prove all the allegations he has accused me of. He better prepare some good lawyers because he has admitted to the crime, and after he has dealt with that, he will have to deal with my character assassination case,” Kibicho said. “It's not okay for Sonko to keep making wild allegations against people. I have had enough because, for the longest time when Sonko has had enough, he blames Kibicho. It’s clear he has no respect for the rule of law. You make allegations that you can defend.” Saying ‘bring it on’, Sonko threatened to reveal what he termed as incriminating evidence against Kibicho and the system. "I, therefore, look forward to an invitation from the DCI to record my statement, and for the PS to move to court quickly so that I can table ALL the evidence I have for Kenyans to see and judge for themselves," he said "I am also ready to table evidence of how the deep state organized the attempted assassination of former P.M Raila Odinga in 2017, and how the same system financed the delivery of sewerage at the Jacaranda Grounds to prevent the then People's President from holding a public rally." "I was the main mobilizer in Nairobi for the so-called system, so, I know what I am talking about and I have a lot to tell my fellow Kenyans and the world," Sonko added.