In the vicinity of almost all institutions of higher learning is a food kiosk. The eateries are usually known as 'Kwa Mathe', loosely translated to mean `Mum's Place' as most of them are run by women. In these food kiosks, quality, quantity and price are well-balanced for customers, most of whom are students. Virginia Mutwa, alias Mama Kendi, owns a 'Kwa Mathe' eatery next to Maasai Mara University. As expected, most of her clientele are the university community. She moved to Narok county with her family in search of greener pastures in 2016. From hawking boiled eggs to sausages, Mama Kendi and her husband had tried their hands on different businesses in Meru town, but all failed. The money was never enough to support their family. When their firstborn son was admitted to Maasai Mara University, the family decided to relocate to Narok to try their luck there. But as soon as they arrived in Narok, their eldest son, only identified as Gitonga, who had been admitted to Maasai Mara University fell sick. June 3, 2016 is a day that Mama Kendi will not forget in a hurry. Her first born son was diagnosed with tuberculosis and spine infection. He was bedridden for six months. The illness drained all the family's savings. Despite well-wishers coming to their aid, the situation was worsening every day and the hospital bill had soared to over Sh1 million. After a series of surgeries, Gitonga started recovering. “I believe there is a God in heaven who answers all the prayers. We didn’t transfer Gitonga to others hospitals and the doctors were patient with us over the bill. God changed the situation,” an emotional Mama Kendi says. Four months later Gitonga was back to school and the hospital bill was cleared by well-wishers. The family now had a major task of paying debts. Their landlord was kind enough to give them a rent waiver for half a year. After her son`s recovery, Mama Kendi started selling fried fish, while her husband continued hawking boiled eggs and sausages. Two weeks into the business, the supply of fish was stopped. She was getting her fish from Naivasha but the supplier suddenly stopped delivering. It is at this point that she stopped the fish business and together with her husband started thinking of starting a food kiosk. In 2017, Mama Kendi borrowed Sh3,000 from a friend. She used the money as capital to start a food kiosk near the university. She started off with French fries. Her customers were students and manual labourers. She was paying Sh4,000 rent for the food kiosk. The business picked up well and she added githeri and ugali to the menu. She also made mandazi and porridge. Two months into the business, the couple had saved Sh8,000 and they decided to expand their business. They bought iron sheets and other building materials and constructed a semi-permanent structure, an improvement from the previous one. Their landlord gave them chairs and even some utensils from his house to boost their business. They employed two people to help them run the eatery. Gitonga was also helping when he was not studying. The university students became regular customers. They continued flocking in and the name “kwa mathe” became popular with the university fraternity. In 2018, her business was flourishing and she called the eatery 'Friends Hotel', in honour of all her friends who stood by her side when things were not working. At the time, she had employed four workers and expanded her menu. The year 2019 was the best year for the family. Gitonga graduated from the university with a bachelors degree in Education and the business was doing so well that Mama Kendi started outside catering. She was now making Sh3,000 profit everyday translating to Sh90,000 a month. In early 2020, she had increased her employees to nine. Then Covid-19 struck and she was forced to send her workers home. She could hardly make any profit at this point as even the casual labourers were no longer actively engaged. Like many other Kenyans, she was forced to stay at home with her family and no income at all. But things are looking up once again after the country’s economy was reopened, albeit partially. Mama Kendi is slowly resuming her daily routine at her business. But she says it will be nearly impossible to recoup the loss incurred during the 'lockdown' period. The says the main challenge she has faced in this business is students failing to pay since they use the mobile transactions to foot their bill. They pay and cheekily reverse the money. Her plan is to expand into a first-class catering business that can be inherited by her children. She hopes one day she will be able to give back to the community and friends who helped her when she was down by caring for the less fortunate. “You always know your best friends when you are at the lowest point and a friend in need is a friend in deed,” she says. Her golden advice to all who are struggling is “never to give up and always see hope and opportunity in diversity.”