The Consumer Federation of Kenya-Cofek - has called on Interior CS Fred Matiangi to ensure politicians behind Kapedo unrest are brought to book. The consumer protection agency said the decision by the CS to impose the 6pm to 8am curfew in the troubled Kapedo area is a major pain for the innocent locals. "Regrettably, it appears to be the only viable stop-gap measure. We hope that the CS will ensure that all political insiders are charged," the agency said. This comes after Matiang'i declared Kapedo - which is at the border of Turkana and Baringo counties - a 'disturbed zone' and imposed the 6pm to 6am curfew. He said the curfew is aimed at enhancing an ongoing security operation to address cases of insecurity that has claimed at least 10 lives in the last month alone. Matiang’i said the dusk to dawn curfew will be gazetted as part of efforts to address the menace. “We want to deal with the menace once and for all. We will have to deal with the criminals behind this issue who include leaders,” he said. Matiang'i had warned that the government would crack down on perpetrators including several political leaders. He said they had established that some of the politicians were behind the clashes that have adversely affected the locals. As a result, Tiaty MP William Kamket was arrested, questioned and released on a police bond over the clashes. Kamket was ordered by police to report to Nakuru DCI office on Monday. Police operations have been ongoing in the area and all indications show that the operations will be extended to try and curb the runaway insecurity in the region. On Thursday, two police officers were shot and killed in an ambush. The head of the Rapid Deployment Unit in Kapedo, who is a chief inspector, and his driver were in a lead lorry in a convoy of three vehicles when they came under attack at a bridge marking as a boundary between Turkana and Baringo counties. About 10 civilians have been killed there in the past month alone. It is the same place that a senior General Service Unit officer was Sunday shot and killed in another ambush. The officers were on the way from Nakuru with food for colleagues in a camp in the area when they came under attack at about 4pm. This is the second time in three years for the area to be declared a disturbed zone. The government had gazetted several places in the region as dangerous zones as part of efforts to manage the crisis of rustling and deaths. The decision in 2017 to gazette the areas as disturbed was arrived at after a series of consultations with the National Security Council. The places included Rumuruti, Ol Moran, Kirimon, Marmanet, Mukogodo East, Segera, Mithiga and Matuiku.