One of the Covid-19 safety guidelines is to keep a distance of about 1.5m to prevent infection but that is proving to be a challenge as schools reopen. At Kinarini Primary School in Matuga subcounty, Kwale, two pupils share a desk. The space between them is just a few centimetres; the headmaster says better that than nothing. “Keeping distance is going to be a huge challenge not only for us but countrywide and that’s why we have decided to separate them a bit although it’s not effective,” Athman Masoud said. Masoud said the school lacks enough classrooms to practise social distancing,  risking the lives of both learners and teachers. He said the learners will attend school in shifts, some in the morning and others in the afternoon, as one way of countering the social distancing challenge. Education CS George Magoha told school heads to be creative as well as take advantage of the hot January weather and embrace outdoor learning. The government ordered all learning institutions closed in March last year to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. The Ministry of Education in October ordered KCSE and KCPE candidates, as well as Grade 4 pupils, to resume classes in October. All schools fully reopened on January 4, 2021. Masoud said the school is observing all other Covid-19 protocols. He said they conduct temperature checks, ensure everyone sanitises and give pupils lessons on how to stay safe. Despite the challenges, some children are eager to get on with their studies. Helena Wangui, a Form 3 student at Golini Secondary School, said they are ready to resume their studies and will offer maximum cooperation to teachers to cover the syllabus quickly. Form 2 student Omar Juma asked the national government to disburse education money on time for smooth learning. Meanwhile, local administrators in Kwale have been ordered to a carry out a door-to-door search to ensure all children report back to school. County commissioner Karuku Ngumo directed chiefs and their assistants to liaise with school heads to trace all students who are still at home. "They will take a roll call and do follow-ups to [establish] why a certain child has not reported to school,” he said. Ngumo said this will provide data on students who have transferred to other schools, those who are pregnant, among other issues. He warned of stern action against parents who will be found to have married off their schoolchildren. The administrator said all children must be in school by Friday. "Those who accidentally got pregnant and have given birth must continue with their studies, no negotiations," he said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya