A politician recently claimed without substantiating that the military is being used to steal from public coffers. That wild claim cannot go unchallenged. The Kenya Defence Forces ranks among the most disciplined and professional forces in the world. Over the last 50 years, KDF has been involved in UN, and AU peacekeeping missions in Africa, Europe and Asia. Regionally, Kenya’s contribution to peace operations dates back to 1979 in Zimbabwe in support to the OAU. Kenya made her first contribution to military observers for the UN Iran-Iraq Military Observer Group from 1988-90. Since then, Kenya has deployed troop contingents to among others, the UN Transition Assistance Group in Namibia., the UN Protection Force in Croatia, the two UN missions in Liberia (UNOMIL and UNMIL), UN Mission in Sierra Leone, the UN Interim Force in Lebanon, the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali, the UN Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of Congo, the UN-African mission in Dafur, the UN Mission in South Sudan and the UN Mission in East Timor. KDF has also deployed military observers to a number of missions, including those in Namibia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Kuwait, Western Sahara , Mozambique, Rwanda, and Angola. In most of these places, the locals pleaded for Kenyans to remain in the countries. Kenya military officers have occupied several senior positions within UN peacekeeping operations, including two Chief Military Observers (UNOMIL), Force Commander UNMIL, Force Commander UNAMSIL, Force Commander UNMISS, Deputy Force Commander UNTAG, chairman of Joint Verification Committee ONUMOZ, Sector Commander UNRPOFOR, Senior Military Liaison Officer UNPROFOR, Deputy Sector Commander UNPROFOR, Chief of Staff UNPROFOR and Garrison Commander UNPROFOR. Kenya has a representative at the UN Department of Peace Keeping Operations, New York. President Uhuru Kenyatta has also recognised the professionalism and discipline of the KDF officers in implementation of national development projects. These officers are drawn from various counties and are ready at disposal of governors on contract to assist in cleaning up the country from the grassroots. The officers, men and women, are conversant with public policy and governance given the country has invested huge resources in their training over the years. These officers lead in corporate governance training, a position I can prove, if challenged. Vilification of KDF by any politician claiming that its officers are being used to preside over corruption must thus be highly condemned. Major Gen [Rtd] Charles M Mwanzia