The Kenya Medical Training College board and directors have expressed satisfaction with the Sh25 million construction of Nyambene campus. The team said the construction of an administration block, classrooms and a medical laboratory in a span of three months was commendable. Board chair Philip Kaloki who spoke during an inspection tour of Nyambene KMTC site said 200 students will be admitted in the March 2021 intake. The courses to be undertaken at the new institution will vary depending on the needs of patients in the region. “The quality of work is commendable thanks to MP John Mwirigi's NG-CDF office. There shall be four programmes according to the needs of Maua hospital. The campus has the goodwill and support of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Health CS Mutahi Kagwe because such facilities will facilitate knowledge and handle and control any kind of disease outbreaks,” Kaloki said. Mwirigi praised the President for pushing for and stamping his authority on establishment of the campus in his constituency. The board noted that no one expected the excavators to flatten the hilly grounds and start construction immediately. Mwirigi said the campus will improve the economic status of area residents, create more jobs and raise the education standards of the people as 40 per cent of the selected students must come from within. The MP said he has factored in Sh25 million this financial year to enhance infrastructure and equipment for the campus. Mwirigi appealed to locals to construct accommodation facilities as well as eateries once the campus opens. Kaloki said KMTC has 71 satellites in the country that aim to mitigate global health challenges. Meru KMTC campus principal Gladwell Ng’ang’a admitted that there had been allegations of corruption during selection of students joining KMTC but assured residents of her commitment for free, fair and transparent enrolment. She said learners should start sending their applications from now online. “Many have complained that getting a vacancy at KMTC is very hard. We have a listening board. Apply online and an admission letter will be delivered to one's email. Corruption is a thing of the past. I ask the media to sensitise the community to enrol their students for studies here,” Ng’ang’a said. Edited by Henry Makori