Vihiga Queens' coach Alex Alumira intends to ring changes to his squad as the Vihiga county sponsored team play Royal Starlets in the  FKF Women Cup tournament on Sunday. The round of 32 kicks off this weekend and Kenya Women Premier League defending  champions travel to Kitale to face their Division One opponents. All teams in the lower tier  will play at home. Alumira said he will give a chance to the fringe players to avoid burnout, fatigue and injury to the regular members of his squad but  warned his players not to be complacent. Queens' four-match winning run ended last weekend following a  2-2 all draw with Nakuru West Queens. This time round, Alumira has demanded for a response from his charges who top Zone A with 13 points and are still unbeaten. "Against Nakuru West Queens, we didn't play as a team and that's why we got punished. "Every player is responsible for the results and I expect cohesiveness in all departments. "This will also be a chance for the players who have had little playing time to shine. Royal Starlets are no pushovers and we will have to be at our best," said the experienced tactician, who has won three consecutive WPL titles with the team. Other matches in Zone 'A' will see Vihiga Leeds host Kisumu All Starlets as  in-form Trans-Nzoia Falcons play Tombe Riverplate. Leeds are yet to score after two matches. Free-scoring Ruth Chebungei guides Wadadia against Gusii Starlets. Chebungei is the joint top scorer in Zone 'A' alongside Tereza Engesha of Vihiga Queens with eight goals. Eldoret Falcons, who are yet to win a match this season entertain Nyuki Starlets as Naivasha's Oserian battle it out with Bomet Starlets. Zone 'B' Division One leaders, Bunyore Starlets welcome WPL newbies Nakuru West Queens while Solasa Stima Queens hope to pull a surprise against SEP Oyugis. In Zone 'A', WPL title contenders Thika Queens have a date with Mukuru Talent Academy as Ulinzi Starlets stage a show with MTG. Unpredictable Gaspo aspire to get the better of Msato Starlets as the Mike Okanga-coached side, Makolanders start favourites against little known Soccer Sisters. Zetech Sparks, Kibera Soccer, Mathare United and Kayole Starlets play Mombasa Olympic, Kangemi Starlets, Sunderland Samba and Limuru Starlets respectively.    Teams that will qualify will play the round of 16 on February 27-28