Murang’a is turning into the epicentre of the Building Bridges Initiative and 2022 succession politics. The restive county – once considered the bedrock of Jubilee Party and, by extension, its administration – has been undergoing a paradigm shift within the political sphere, a situation that has caught the attention of the rest of the country. The government has, therefore, reportedly formed a team of high-ranking officials to lobby for the BBI document in the county. The team comprises a Cabinet secretary, two principal secretaries and several parastatal heads and is set to hit the ground in the next two weeks. According to a source aware of the plans, the objective of the team is to soften the stance of residents and ensure the document receives sufficient support. Following the charm offensive by Deputy President William Ruto shortly after the 2017 election, the region’s allegiance to the President has undergone an unprecedented shift; residents’ defiance of the government has risen. Recently, Senator Irungu Kang’ata aggravated the situation when he wrote a controversial letter to the President indicating that the region’s support for the BBI was too low. Kang’ata instead told the President that residents wanted issues facing the tea and coffee sectors resolved. The letter elicited mixed reactions from members of the public and politicians. It was supported and dismissed in equal measure. A section of residents felt the process had been instigated to tout ODM leader Raila Odinga as the best bet for the region in next year's presidential election. They, therefore, sought to distance themselves from the BBI agenda. Further, some residents opined that the President was no longer in touch with them, despite the support they accorded him in 2013 and 2017 elections. John Karanja, a Murang’a town dweller, told the Star the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill would fail if a referendum was held today. He said wananchi are struggling to put food on the table, hence a referendum and BBI implementation would worsen the situation. Karanja, a fruits vendor, urged the government to instead focus on reducing the burden of Kenyans still struggling with the effects of Covid-19. But Mathioya MP Peter Kimari termed it immature to rate the perception of locals on the BBI document that has yet to be popularised. He said many understand the benefits that will come with the proposed changes once implemented. Kimari hit out at Kang’ata for using the BBI as an excuse to join Tangatanga. He said he was surprised no action was taken against Kang’ata after he leaked the letter to the public. Kang’ata has, however, been going round saying the government had heeded his call and taken measures to sort out the issues he listed in the letter—including sending CS Peter Munya to talk to coffee farmers. For the past three weeks, Munya has been traversing Mt Kenya focussing on matters of farming, an economic mainstay of the region's economy. He has visited Kiambu, Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Murang’a. More leaders came out to attack Kang’ata, challenging him to make his stand on the BBI process known. Woman Representative Sabina Chege said it is wrong for the senator to cow away at a time when all leaders should come together to lobby for the document that stands to add an extra Sh6 billion to the county. “What we need to do now is stay together like we did when we campaigned and give copies to the people so they can read and understand it,” she said. Two weeks ago, about 100 MPs from the Mt Kenya region met in a hotel in the county and established a team to spearhead the BBI process. The team is headed by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru and Igembe North MP Maoka Maore. It was tasked to come up with a strategy that will popularise the document and organise caucuses for MCAs, MPs, governors and speakers in the next six months. Edited by F'Orieny