Sixteen suspected cattle rustlers have been arrested and 100 goats recovered by police in Mogotio on the boundary of Nakuru and Baringo counties. The suspected livestock thieves were traveling in a Mitsubishi FH lorry with the goats when they were intercepted by police manning the Mogotio-Marigat road. According to the police report, 13 youths were hiding among the goats in the truck during the interception at 6:30pm on Friday. The report indicated that the suspected rustlers did not have a movement permit for the goats nor did the youths give a satisfactory account of what they were doing or their destination. "Upon interrogation, the youths did not give a satisfactory account of themselves and they are from one of the warring communities in Kapedo," reads part of the report. It indicated that the youths could have been running away from the ongoing security operation in Tiaty. All the 13 youngsters and the lorry crew consisting of the driver and two conductors were arrested and were being interrogated by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation officers in Mogotio. The goats and the lorry were being held at Mogotio police station pending further probe. The incident occurs against the backdrop of increased police activities in Kapedo area of Tiaty in Baringo county to flush out bandits and disarm the communities. Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya has said suspected bandits have been fleeing into Laikipia and Pokot West after their hide-out villages were raided by police. He said some of them were fleeing to Uganda but was quick to add that they could not cross the border armed because of the boundary police from Kenya and Uganda. Although the areas have always been volatile, the situation got worse when three police officers and nine others were injured by bandits within a week. Meanwhile, Tiaty MP William Kamket was still holed up at the regional Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters in Nakuru where he had gone for questioning. The MP arrived at the headquarters at about 9am on Saturday and was still inside by the time of going to press.