The University of Nairobi has given a lecturer it alleges has been masquerading as a doctor 18 days to refund more than Sh3 million she was paid in allowances. The university said the public health lecturer has no medical degree but has been drawing allowances awarded to doctor lecturers in their 2017-2022 Collective Bargaining Agreement. In the CBA, doctors teaching in public health colleges were awarded medical risk, and emergency call allowances among other benefits, amounting to more than Sh100,000 a month. The Star established the lecturer (name withheld) is, since 1996, duly registered by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council as a general practitioner, having completed a degree in dental surgery at UoN in 1994. However, UoN acting deputy vice-chancellor Prof Enos Njeru insists the lecturer has no medical degree. "According to our records, you do not have a medical degree and, so, you're not entitled to such payments whatsoever," he says in a letter seen by Star. "In spite of being aware of this, you have continually failed to report the same to the university management so that corrective action can be taken." The DVC says the university will report the lecturer to the Ethics and Anti Corruption Commission if the money is not refunded. "You are, therefore, required to immediately,  and unconditionally, arrange to refund the money irregularly paid to you and in any case, not later than January 31, 2021, without fail," Prof Njeru says, in the letter sent on January 13. He also gives the lecturer seven days, which lapsed on Tuesday, to contact the DVC's office or face consequences. Members of the Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union went on strike in December 2016 demanding higher salaries and allowances. They called off their strike on March 14, 2017, after agreeing on fat, new allowances backdated to January 1. The deal, signed by the national government on June 30, 2017, saw the lowest-paid medic (intern) earn Sh212, 989 and the highest-paid about Sh814, 000. The increases came through a slew of inflated allowances, which included Sh20,000 medical risk allowances, up to Sh60,000 non-practising allowance and Sh42,000 emergency call allowance among others. However, doctors who teach and are members of the University Academic Staff Union were left out until early 2018 when they also went on strike and received lump-sum allowances backdated to 2017. At least 600 doctors work as lecturers. Other well-qualified health specialists who teach in medical schools but have no bachelors degree in medicine, pharmacy or dental surgery, do not benefit.