Kenya Secondary School games football giants' St. Anthony's Kitale could soon be turned into a centre of excellence if Football Kenya Federation's plans succeed. A team led by FKF technical director Michael Amenga visited the school on Wednesday for a meeting with the administration who included the principal Victor Omondi Makanda. "I must say the meeting was fruitful and the administration was quite positive," said Amenga. FKF says the facility will be used to tap the vast and versatile talent that springs up during school competitions. The decision to settle on St. Anthony's Kitale isn't surprising given their past excellent track record especially in football. On Aug 3, 2019  the school emerged the Copa U-20 champions for the fifth time after beating Dagoretti Boys from Nairobi 5-4, in post-match penalties in a final match played at Moi Stadium, Kisumu. Should the idea materialise, this will be the second such institution established in the country. On January 15, 2019, FKF admitted 20 players to the National Centre of Excellence in Thome, Nairobi, where they have been undertaking a homeschooling program besides their normal training routine. “Through this program, we will have these players train together while they also further their studies. This way, we’ll be better prepared when international assignments come through,” an official said. The concept of establishing a centre of excellence was conceived in 2016, when FKF established U13 and U15 Youth leagues at least 56 sub branches that involved approximately 30,000 players from 1500 teams across the country. A youth championship for U13 and U15 was rolled out thereafter in Nakuru in April 2017, bringing together the best players from the eight regions across the country. 20 players were then selected to form the U13 national team, which was drafted into the annual Southampton Cup in England in August 2017. In 2018, FKF entered into an agreement with Juja Preparatory School and the Laiser Hill Academy to enrol the 20 students. Then in January 2019, FKF decided to centralise resources for a National Centre of Excellence by merging the two. Right now, the 30 players drawn from the two institutions are housed on a homeschooling program in Thome, Nairobi County. The players have been training at the Wadi Degla Club in Runda, where they have access to an astro-turf pitch, fully equipped gym and a swimming pool. The fruits of the initiative have been forthcoming considering the Kenya U15 national team, which comprised mainly players drawn from the centre, finished runners up at the 2019 Cecafa U15 Championships in Eritrea.