 Campaigns for the Machakos senatorial seat began in earnest on Tuesday, with Johnston Muthama and his estranged wife Agnes Kavindu exchanging words as they wooed supporters. Muthama is the interim UDA leader and is drumming up support for party candidate Urbanus Ngengele while Kavindu is seeking the seat on a Wiper party ticket. Muthama served as Machakos senator between 2013 and 2017. He was succeeded by Boniface Kabaka whose death last year, occasioned the by-election. Both Ngengele and Kavindu and Maendeleo Chap Chap's Mutua Katuku launched their campaigns after they were cleared by the IEBC to run. They promised to make Machakos better. Katuku set the pace for Tuesday's campaigns in Machakos town. “There is very little time left before the 2022 General Election and that is why this seat requires someone with knowledge, not a fresh candidate as there is no time for orientation,” Katuku said. He was Mwala MP for two terms and served as Minister in former President Mwai Kibaki’s regime. Katuku was accompanied by Maendeleo Chap Chap leader and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Deputy Governor Francis Maliti, Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo, former Machakos Woman Representative Susan Musyoka and a host of MCAs. Mutua said Wiper chose a candidate who can easily be manipulated and asked voters to elect Katuku. The governor said UDA's Ngengele should instead focus on winning the Mwala parliamentary seat which he has failed to capture on four attempts. After addressing residents in Machakos town, the Chap Chap brigade proceeded to Masii, Kithimani and Matuu markets. UDA held their rally at the Machakos Bus Park where Muthama attacked Kavindu, saying his estranged wife is a political greenhorn. Muthama said Kavindu was the least that Wiper could have picked to fly its flag in the by-election. “We need a candidate who equals senators Murkomen, Aaron Cheruiyot among other fearless leaders in the Senate and not a clueless person,” Muthama said. Barely an hour after the UDA brigade left, the Wiper team arrived at the Mulu Mutisya Garden led by the party leader Kalonzo Musyoka. He was with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula and Kanu's Gideon Moi. Kavindu responded to Muthama's attacks, saying she would choose to instead accord her ex-husband the respect he deserves. She said Muthama was the father to their children and therefore deserved respect. She asked that Muthama reciprocates. “Have you ever heard me insult him?” Kavindu posed. “What should a woman do when she is thrown out of her matrimonial home? Should she go and die or should she move on with life? Elect me to this position come March 18 so that I can also continue with my life as I represent you at the Senate. I will fight for your resources and also work hand in hand with Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and Enoch Wambua to bring development to Ukambani,” Kavindu said amid ululation from the crowd. Kavindu said Muthama should not take marital issues to the campaign.  Edited by P.O