The Boni community in Lamu has asked the county government to reopen health centres closed down in their six villages seven years ago due to al Shabaab attacks. Dispensaries in Milimani, Mararani, Basuba, Kiangwe and Pandanguo villages were looted, vandalised and torched by the militants who kept raiding these areas between 2014 and 2017, forcing medical staff to flee. The villages are inside Boni Forest, a notorious hiding ground for al Shabaab militants who continue to terrorise the region and other counties along the Kenya-Somalia border. In September 2019, the county government opened a new dispensary at Kiangwe area worth Sh7 million to serve the over 3,000 residents from across all the Boni villages. The new facility is however reportedly low on drugs, medical supplies and staff as many health workers shy away due to the previous history of attacks. Currently, only the Kiangwe and Pandanguo dispensaries are working with challenges such as lack of medical personnel, shortage of drugs and infrastructure. The Boni community has accused the government of neglecting them and not making alternative arrangements for them to get medical care and for failing to equip the health centres. Basuba MCA Deko Barissa urged the government to reopen dispensaries just like they have reopened schools in the areas that had been closed down for a similar duration and the same reason. All six schools in the areas were reopened two weeks ago and teachers airlifted to their stations amidst security concerns. During a tour of the Boni Forest last week, Trade and Industry PS Johnson Waweru said the government would see to it that Boni schools never close down again. Residents want similar focus directed towards the reopening of health centres and dispensaries in the areas. “They reopened schools and we are happy. We are however reminding them that when the schools were closed down seven years back, dispensaries closed down too due to the same issue of insecurity. Let them do something so that these facilities are opened and working,” Barissa said. The community has struggled through the Covid-19 pandemic as they have been forced to transport patients and any suspected cases via boats on the Indian Ocean, over 300 kilometres to the King Fahad Hospital in Lamu island. Security concerns have seen residents shy away from using road transport as militants are known to plant explosives that have blown up security vehicles and pedestrians. The only viable means of transport is water transport which is both costly and time-consuming. Normally, patients have to be ferried by boat on the Indian Ocean during medical emergencies.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris