Is the National Transport and Safety Authority aware that criminals have taken over some of the Saccos? On Sunday at around 5 pm, the crew of a PSV plying Ngong Road tormented its passengers. This was after some of them refused to move and accommodate more passengers in total violation of social distancing protocols for Covid-19. Following the commotion, some passengers took videos that they shared widely. The videos show the driver and the conductor threatening the passengers before grabbing one of the phones and destroying it. The affected passengers are appealing to NTSA boss George Njao and Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to rein in the rogue operators. Confusion has rocked a crucial agency in the security sector following the return of an officer who was asked to step aside in connection with charges of corruption. Though he was replaced, workers were having problems with two new officials as they didn't know which has authority to transact business. Now the former officer is back but hardly has anything to do. Having been shoved aside by his successor, the officer just goes to the premises to take tea and read newspapers every day. So hopeless are the bosses that employees hope the returnee, who is at the tail end of his career, retires early. The Mutindwa footbridge connecting Buruburu and Umoja estates in Nairobi used to ensure the safety of pedestrians crossing the busy Outering Road. However, it's now a danger spot. Pedestrians used to dash across the road, risking injury and death but they now face the same danger on the footbridge. Boda boda operators have taken it over and are endangering pedestrians. One is just as likely to get knocked down on the footbridge as the pedestrian crossing the killer road beneath. The authorities know Outering Road is the second most dangerous after Mombasa road and they should start saving lives. A CEC member from a Nyanza county is about to face the music. The minister is in the eye of a storm following allegations of attempts to bribe his way out of a defilement probe. Just weeks ago, he escaped a police dragnet at a high-end hotel in Kisumu where he allegedly defiled a minor. Police had moved in after learning the man had checked in with a minor. However, he managed to slip away. It has now emerged the CECM is harassing and intimidating witnesses and bribing some of them to avoid being charged with defilement. It will be interesting to see if he manages to evade justice for his heinous crime.