The Lake Region Economic Bloc counties have been urged to plan ahead and implement recovery programmes to create economic opportunities. Louis Otieno Ogingo, a technology expert and a member of the LREB Covid-19 Advisory and Resource Mobilisation Committee, called for collaboration to spur economic growth even as he wished the nation a Happy New Year. He said such programmes should particularly target the vulnerable in society such as the youth, widows and persons living with a disability. He said the cohorts have been hit hard by the Covid-19 crisis. “It is a new year, but Covid is still with us here and its impact will still be felt in 2021. That’s why I urge our lake region counties to focus on creating economic opportunities that will cushion the people from adverse effects of Covid-19,” Ogingo said in Homa Bay. He emphasised the role of government in defeating the pandemic and urged citizens of the lake region counties, especially Homa Bay, Siaya, Migori and Kisumu, to adhere to Ministry of Health guidelines to prevent the spread of the virus so that everyone can build back stronger as stated by President Uhuru Kenyatta in his New Year address. Other LREB member counties are Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Bungoma, Kericho, Bomet, Busia, Vihiga, Nandi and Trans Nzoia. “Even though pharmaceutical companies have developed effective Covid-19 vaccines, we don't know when they will reach Kenya,” he said, calling for effective utilisation of low-cost methods that have proved effective and are promoted by the Health ministry. “We shouldn't lower our guards but continue with the affordable and effective prevention methods of wearing masks, sanitising and keeping social distancing.” He visited Sango Football Academy in Ndhiwa and Nyahera Football Club of Mfangano in Suba North. "The future of Harambee Stars may as well be these youngsters,” he said. He distributed full sets of football kits for coaches and teams and urged residents to embrace the spirit of sports that can “encourage countywide friendship and collaboration across Homa Bay.”