The Orange Democratic Movement is now demanding a full inquiry into claims that the 'deep state' stage-managed violence and pinned it on ODM. Secretary general Edwin Sifuna on Monday said the inquiry into the matter should establish the motives and extent of the "mafia-like covert criminal acts" as well as all persons and institutions involved. Sifuna's demands come a day after former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko said he was aware of how ODM was 'framed' in the last election so that the public would perceive the party as violent. Sonko alleged at one time, cars were set on fire and later the Raila Odinga-led party was blamed for it. Sonko made the revelations on Sunday when he accompanied Deputy President William Ruto as he visited Dagoretti. Sifuna said for a long time, ODM's detractors have used and abused state power, mainstream and social media in a systematic attempt to depict the party as violent and a purveyor of anarchy. "This view has been perpetuated despite our sincere efforts to communicate the truth - that it is the enemies of ODM that have authored, planned and executed these dirty schemes," he said. Sifuna said the party is however slowly but surely being vindicated "as the people behind nefarious schemes slowly emerge from their dark hideouts to confess to their crimes". "The recent confession by the disgraced former Governor of Nairobi, Mike Sonko that he participated in stage managing violence and destruction of property that he and his co- conspirators then pinned on ODM, is welcome but amounts to too little too late" he said. Sifuna added, "ODM demands a full inquiry into the matter so as to establish the motives and extent of these mafia-like covert criminal acts as well as all persons and institutions involved". He said ODM remains committed to civility in competition for power, the rule of law and peaceful settlement of differences and disputes. Earlier on Monday, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho went to DCI headquarters to record a statement over Sonko's claims.