Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said Ukambani is under political attack. Speaking at AIC Kasina in Mavoko, Machakos County on yesterday, he said there are plans by other political affiliations to divide the Kamba community by fielding several candidates for the Machakos senator by-election on March 18. In what seems to be a message to Deputy President William Ruto’s UDA party, Kalonzo castigated politics which he referred to as spiritual warfare being mounted in the region by the deep state. “As a community, we are under attack. This is a spiritual warfare. What we are wrestling against is not about flesh and blood, but against spiritual powers,” Kalonzo said. The Wiper leader called on the church to pray for the country. Kalonzo said political extremism can lead to devastating consequences. Leaders present urged Kenyans to embrace peace, love and unity during campaigns for the upcoming by-elections. They included CAS Transport Wavinya Ndeti, Machakos Woman Representative Joyce Kamene, and MPs Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Robert Mbui (Kathiani), Charles Ngunga (Mwingi West), Joshua Kimilu (Kaiti), Dan Maanzo (Makueni), former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile and Machakos Wiper senatorial candidate Agnes Kavindu Muthama. They said they will not allow outsiders to breach the peace of the residents through politics of hatred, ethnicity, hustlers’ and dynasties’ inclinations. Ndeti said it was important to engage residents peacefully not only during the political season but at all times. “It is very important to have peace.  As leaders, what you say can unite or divide the citizens. We need to work together because bad politics is not good. We will get you out of our borders if you want to divide us, she said” Kalonzo lauded President Uhuru Kenyatta for letting the Machakos by-elections go without fielding a Jubilee candidate and thanked him for allowing Kavindu to join the Wiper party though she contested on a Jubilee ticket for the Machakos Woman representative’s seat in 2017. He, however, said he will not step down for anybody but get to the ballot as a presidential candidate in 2022. He said God had given him a gift of uniting this nation. Kalonzo criticised those bashing him for nominating Kavindu for senator on the Wiper ticket, saying it was about leadership and nothing else. He praised Kavindu, saying she has leadership abilities and is able to deliver if elected. He asked for all the elected political leaders on various positions both parliament and Machakos County Assembly to drum up support for the Wiper candidate in the by-elections. The Wiper leader also called for re-enforcement of the impeached Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko stating that he could be politically sacrificed. “I have done everything to bring Sonko together to make him work with the President. I want to advise that security arrangement be made to protect Sonko‚” Kalonzo said. Elsewhere in Matuu Catholic church, Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Mutua Katuku, who was in the company of Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo and Machakos Deputy Governor Francis Maliti, told off Wiper saying he was the best “Oversight is not fighting. I’m up to the task. There are many counties where the Governor and Senator are from the same party and they work smoothly. I urge other aspirants to step down in my favour to save the resources‚” he said. Kilonzo dismissed the claims saying Kalonzo was an outsider in the Machakos politics. “Machakos has its own presidential candidate and homegrown party, the MCC. All the other actors are outsiders. Machakos has supported wiper in the past. They should return the favour by supporting our candidate this time round‚” he said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris