A man who allegedly barred the National Lands Commission from compensating a woman's Sh2.6 billion land has been charged. Simon Nyamanya had on Monday been arraigned before Makadara chief magistrate Angelo Kithinji did not take plea. This was after defence counsel William Arusei filed an application to reject charges against him on grounds that there is a similar matter before the Milimani court. But the court quashed the application on Wednesday and ordered the plea taking to proceed. Nyamanya faces three counts of fraud-related charges. In the first count, the court heard that Nyamanya, with intent to defraud and by means of false and fraudulent representation procured NLC to stop an award of compulsory acquisition of land belonging to Roseline Njeri per a gazette notice dated September 4, 2020. Nyamanya is said to have committed the offence on October 13, 2020 at the NLC Directorate of Valuation and Taxation in Nairobi with others not before court. In the second count, Nyamanya is accused of procuring a court order by false presence barring NLC on behalf of Kenya National Highway Authority from compensating Njeri. He is accused of committing the offence jointly with others not before court on November 24 at the Milimani law court. In the third count, he is accused of conspiring to defraud the process of compulsory acquisition of the parcel by falsely pretending to be the owner. According to the prosecution report, the accused was arrested on January 15 at the Ministry of Lands offices in Machakos and was escorted to Jogoo Road police station. He denied the charges and what followed was a heated debate after the prosecution said they wished to file an application through a sworn affidavit by inspector Peter Kanagi to deny the accused bail or bond terms. In the affidavit filed before chief magistrate Heston Nyagah, Kanagi said the suspect had been charged on the basis of the same documents at the Milimani and Makadara court in an ongoing case. “There is a cry in the public that the accused is a land fraudster who has been causing members of the public great pain and if released, his life would be in danger until the charged crowd calms down,” reads part of the affidavit. Arusei, however, argued that the affidavit is prejudicial, malicious and it’s meant to undermine the accused's rights to a fair trial. He said the case at Milimani has been ongoing since 2016, yet the prosecution has not tabled any evidence to show his client has ever interfered with witnesses in the case. In a quick rejoinder senior prosecution counsel Joseph Burugu said there has been a serious fight by the defence to prevent the accused from taking a plea. And there is still an attempt to block the prosecution from tabling to the court compelling reasons why they wished the accused to remain in custody. “Article 50 of the Constitution favors the accused person. It's not always about the accused, we have a complainant in the case as well. The right to liberty for the accused is not absolute,” he said. A ruling is set to be made today on Friday. 