Kisumu Senator Fred Outa has urged Governor Anyang Nyong’o to stop more demolition of structures owned by small scale traders. Outa said the ongoing demolition was ruining business premises, affecting the livelihood of thousands of residents. He said thousands of traders who have been displaced from the City’s Central Business District (CBD) have been rendered jobless. “I want to appeal on behalf of Kisumu traders to the governor and City manager Abala Wanga to listen to the plights of the traders,” Outa said. Speaking on Tuesday during a radio show, he said he had written to the city authority calling for a stop to the demolitions. Outa questioned why the county government has failed to honour its promise to traders and embarked demolitions ahead of the 2021 Africities summit. The summit organised under the auspices of the United Cities and Local Governments of Africa (UCLGA) is scheduled for November 16 to 20. A total of 10,000 delegates are expected to attend. Currently, some of the ongoing demolitions are meant to create space for the beautification of the city. The projects include the Sh241 million Non-Motorised Transport in the CBD. Outa said there is public uproar from the affected traders that the demolition should be staggered and conducted in phases. He welcomed the ongoing development projects but said such should be done through public participation to avoid outcry. “The projects are good. We want them to be implemented humanely‚” Outa said. The structures, he said, which are being demolished are the main revenue generation to the county. “If the businesses account for 80 per cent, of small scale and medium-sized enterprises then where will we source revenue to initiate projects in the county,” he said. Outa called on Nyong’o to spread the demolition exercise to 2022. He claimed it was wrong to see the demolitions resume again after the suspension letter and wondered why the letter was ignored. His comments come in the wake of similar concerns echoed by some Kisumu lawyers including Onyango Oloo, former Kisumu speaker, Kenneth Amondi and Ambrose Weda. They also supported development but said it should not override the well-being of traders, especially their livelihood. Nyong’o told off politicians to stop using the relocation of traders in the City to make a come-back. “They are shouting themselves lame at Funerals even as mourners refuse to listen to them. We suspect they are holding brief for cartels and Land grabbers some of whom have even rented pavements to unsuspecting traders,” he said. Nyong’o urged the traders to reject politicians cheap propaganda and assured the business community in Kisumu, especially the small-scale traders that each one of them will have spaces to sell their wares. He said those who have not been allocated stalls at the Chichwa Market, the Uhuru Business Park will soon open its gates and those affected will be given priorities. “This Ultra-modern Business Park will have up to 10,000 business stall. It will be far better than the pavement where they have been trading in the scorching sun,” he said. Nyong’o appealed to Kisumu residents to be a little resilient and bear with the county government as they strive to make Kisumu one of the greatest cities in Africa. “In every part of the World Big development projects must initially come with a little discomfort, which will eventually ease off,” he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris