To enable a safe return to school, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) has called for the world’s 100 million teachers and educators to be given priority in vaccination campaigns. With the pandemic hitting the world and Kenya badly, students and teachers were not spared of its consequences. Since the case was announced on March 13, 2020, schools were closed and other measures put into place to curb the spread of the disease. One year into the pandemic and over 800 million students, more than half the world’s student population, still face significant disruptions to their education. This ranges from full school closures in 31 countries to reduced or part-time academic schedules in another 48 countries, according to new data released by Unesco. In the figures seen by the Star on Monday, schools were fully closed for an average of 14 weeks since the onset of the pandemic. This figure rises to 22 weeks – equivalent to two-thirds of an academic year – when localized school closures are taken into account. In Africa, 14 countries were able to shut down schools immediately cases were reported in their countries in 2020. Kenya even went ahead to introduce nyumba kumi learning. The Nyumba Kumi (10 households concept) was introduced by a presidential order gazetted in 2013, largely to anchor community policing at the household level. Nyumba Kumi aims at safe and sustainable neighbourhoods. At basic education, the stakeholders observed that even though the ministry continues to provide remote learning through radio, television and online programmes, there are some children who are unable to access these programmes. The Ministry of Education and TSC, using a multi-agency approach, and in collaboration with chiefs and the Nyumba Kumi initiative, implemented a community-based learning approach where teachers mapped with learners to offer learning at no cost. According to the Unesco data, Ethiopia closed schools for (40wks), Mozambique (40wks), Eswatini (40wks), Kenya closed school for 37weeks, Liberia (37wks), Uganda (36wks), Jordan (35wks), United Arab Emirates (33wks). Others are; Ghana (32wks), Saudi Arabia (32wks), Lesotho (32wks), Tunisia (31wks), Libya (31 wks), South Africa (19 wks). “We need an adequately financed recovery package to reopen schools safely, targeting those most in need and setting education back on track for the Covid-19 generation,” Unesco director-general Audrey Azoulay said. “Today, on International Day of Education, I call on countries and partners to prioritize education, a global common good, in the recovery.” Kenya is among other countries that have opened schools in the midst of the pandemic. However, the Unesco data shows that the education sector only receives an estimated 0.78 per cent of relief packages worldwide. Additionally, education aid looks set to decline by 12 per cent as a result of the pandemic. The pandemic also stands to increase the funding gap for education by one third to as much as $200 billion annually in low and middle-income countries, representing close to 40 per cent of the total cost. Upfront investment in catch-up and remedial programmes will save money down the line reducing by 75 per cent the cost of repairing the damage caused by Covid-19. “Prolonged and repeated closures of education institutions are taking a rising psychosocial toll on students, increasing learning losses and the risk of dropping out, disproportionately impacting the most vulnerable. Full school closures must therefore be a last resort and reopening them safely a priority,” she added.