Olympics 800m bronze medallist Margaret Nyairera is targeting a medal haul in the 200m category after recent setbacks in 800m. Nyairera has been unable to compete since 2019 after the World Athletics decreed that female athletes with naturally high levels of testosterone must undertake testosterone  suppressing drugs to be eligible to compete in middle-distance races. "I am hopeful  I can win more medals in this race category in addition to the ones I have earned in 800m. However, I know it will not be easy because there are seasoned runners who will provide stiff competition," Nyairera said. The Commonwealth Games 800m silver medallist said the long period of inactivity has been physically and psychologically challenging. "Being unable to run because of the issue I have had with IAAF and the Covid-19 period has been quite stressful for me. I am just happy to come out and run again after quite a long time," she said. Nyairera was among hundreds of athletes who congregated for the 2nd leg of Athletics Kenya Relay Series at the Nyayo Stadium on Saturday. She finished fourth in Heat 1 of the women's 200 race, which was won by Doreen Waka who clocked 25.62. Nyairera timed 26.66 behind Veronica Mutua (25.64) and Jecinta Shikanda (26.49) who finished second and third respectively. "I am not so concerned about the results today but I am thankful to AK for rolling out this calendar so that we can compete once more. Today's race has provided me with a platform to train hard because I now know my level of physical fitness," she said. Apart from Nyairera, other elite female athletes affected by WA's rule include Olympics 800m champion, South Africa's Caster Semenya and Olympics silver medalist Franscine Niyonsaba of Burundi. Semenya's appeal to the Court of Arbitration of Sports in 2019 was unsuccessful as the court upheld WA's right to institute policies to enhance equality in its competition. The rule dictates that female competitors in 400m races to the mile must have natural testosterone levels of not more than 5 nanomoles per litre. 