President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake counterpart, ODM leader Raila Odinga are on a week-long blitz to woo the Mt Kenya region to support BBI. Raila will on Wednesday have a roadshow from Githurai to Kenol in Murang’a to drum up support for BBI. On Friday, Uhuru will meet Mt Kenya elected leaders before a meeting with the region’s grassroots leaders on Saturday. On Sunday, the President will kick off a day long public rallies blitz to market the BBI in the region which is said to have rejected the idea. This came as the IEBC confirmed having verified 1.14 million signatures for the BBI Bill which now head to the County Assemblies. It will need 24 county assemblies to pass the Bill for it to go to Parliament and eventually a referendum. A standoff looms in the senate after President Uhuru Kenyatta appears to have reneged on his pledge to allocate Sh370 billion in equitable share to the counties in 2021-22. Senators have threatened to shoot down anything less than the agreed amount. Last September, the President, in the company of ODM leader Raila Odinga, promised the Senators to give the counties additional Sh53.5 billion in the next financial year. Last week, the Commission on Revenue Allocation recommended Sh316.5 billion as a baseline equitable share with Sh17.02 billion advanced to the devolved units as unconditional grants.In addition, some Sh36.48 billion will be transferred from Ministries to the County Governments for concurrent functions. The government has spelt-out new privatisation terms for poor performing state-owned sugar mills, as it moves to cut on wastage, including merger of state agencies. National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani has says that due to the challenges facing the privatisation plans of the sugar companies over the years, it has been decided to proceed with their privatisation through a long-term lease model. This will see the transfer of the Rights of Use of each factory to the lessor for development and operation, the CS notes in the Draft 2021 Budget Policy Statement. The five financially struggling state-owned sugar mills earmarked for privatisation are Nzoia, Chemelil, Miwani, Sony and Muhoroni sugar. Heavy manpower will be used in the administration of this year’s KCPE, KCSE examinations, the Star can now report. Kenya National Examination Council will contract 286,901 field officers who include supervisors, and invigilators in running the exams; this is compared to the 173,000 field officers engaged in 2019. The details are contained in a document accessing the preparedness of the two national examinations dated January 2021. The exams will happen in an unprecedented time with the schools reopening for the first time after 10 months due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This year's exam also is unique as it is for the first time in the 30 year history of the examination existence that it will be done in March and April. Traditionally, the test is conducted between October and November. Having trouble with impotence? Can't keep doing it all night? The Lamu Council of Elders is alarmed that many men are taking too much Viagra, the little blue pill. They claim it can be deadly and has been a cause of many recent deaths reported in the news. They say that people should try octopus, turtle meat, turtle fat, mushrooms, nutmeg as well as exercise, sleep well and live right. In fact, most medical evidence and the US Centers for Disease Control, say Viagra, if used under a doctor's supervision is safe, but is not intended to be used recreationally. Side effects are slight, though there are more serious side effects. Anyhow, elders without medical degrees, are certain they know best.