The Kogelo community in Siaya wants Alego-Usonga MP Samuel Atandi to apologise over his alleged involvement in the assault of a local chief. Elders from South East Alego location also urged the Orange party to discipline him for misconduct. On Wednesday evening, chief Ogutu Ojala was rushed to hospital in critical condition after armed youths stormed his home and beat him. The MP had allegedly accompanied them. Atandi, who has since recorded a statement at Siaya police station over the matter, has denied any involvement in the incident. He accused his political opponents of dragging his name into the matter. Speaking at Pap Nyadiel chief’s camp during a meeting that brought together elders and South East Alego ODM officials, residents said on Saturday that those behind the attack must be brought to book. Kogelo community chairman Vitalis Ondewe and the South East Alego location chairman Apina Makawuor said the legislator will not be allowed to set foot in Kogelo if he fails to apologise. “Chief Ogutu Ojala is a son of Kogelo and if Atandi does not apologise to JoKogelo, he should not step into our area and should even forget our votes,” Ondewe said. Ondewe, a former councillor in the former Siaya County Council, said he was speaking on behalf of the elders from Alego-Usonga. He said residents are now living in fear of being attacked. South East Alego ODM chairman Apina Makawuor said the Alego-Usonga branch of the party will soon meet to discuss the legislator’s behaviour. "I have been in contact with the branch chairman John Orwenjo Umidha who has agreed to call an urgent meeting to discuss the conduct of the MP. This is not the first time we have heard of such complaints,” Apina said. The elders, who included Okoth Oluoko, Paul Omedo and youth leader Yinda Akech, urged the government to restore public confidence in the security machinery by bringing to book those who assaulted the chief. “If we really have a government, then it must bring to book all the perpetrators who have been positively identified by the chief,” said Mzee Omedo. The elders further called on the ODM national leadership to step in and rein in the legislator who was elected on the party’s ticket. “A Member of Parliament should be a role model, not a person mesmerized by the trappings of power who uses a slight opportunity to beat and maim those who elected him,” Okoth Oluoko said. The Wednesday evening incident has received condemnation from national and county government leadership, with Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga and county commissioner Michael Ole Tialal terming it criminal and uncalled for.