Deputy President William Ruto has urged leaders to tolerate and embrace divergent views for the sake of peace and development. He said it was the responsibility of leaders to exercise tolerance for differing opinions adding that fundamental democratic principles were important to attaining long-term economic growth. Speaking in Funyula, Khwisero and Matungu Constituencies in Busia and Kakamega Counties on Saturday, Ruto said leaders should embrace tolerance to divergent views. “As leaders, we should embrace divergent views, peace and respect for each other,” Ruto said. Ruto urged Kenyans to reject politicians who want to drag the country through divisive and tribal politics. He said Kenyans are now keen on leaders focused on development agenda but not those bent on rhetoric. “It’s time, we elect leaders based on development programmes and not because of their tribes,” Ruto said. The deputy president said the country could only sustain its growth through constructive politics devoid of divisions and incitements. He said power was not about sharing positions among the elite but rather it’s about implementing policies and programmes aimed at creating wealth to be shared among the people, who are the majority. He said the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) should not be focused more on the creation of positions for few individuals but address the issues affecting ordinary citizens. “As we push for the creation of positions for few individuals at the top, we should also address the empowerment of majority of Kenyans at the bottom. This is why we want to embrace the bottom-up approach on matters of economic empowerment,” Ruto said. Present were MPs Benjamin Washiali (Mumias East), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Malulu Injendi (Malava), Caleb Kositany (Soy), former Cabinet Secretary Rashid Echesa and former Kakamega Senator Bonny Khalwale. Kositany urged Kenyans to be tolerant to divergent views, saying Kenya was a democratic country that everyone must be given the opportunity to express his or her views.MPs Injendi and Washiali urged voters in Matungu to elect a leader who was committed to addressing challenges facing them.