South Imenti MP Kathuri Murungi had a hard time convincing his constituents to support the Building Bridges Initiative. Kathuri explained with ease his NG-CDF achievements since he was elected in 2013 and why the constituency is ripe for splitting. However, problems started when he said South Imenti could only get another constituency by passing BBI, as some residents openly rejected the report. Kathuri said if the constituency is split, there would be more development as extra resources will trickle down to the people, and the projects that have stalled completed faster. "Be supporters of BBI. I will close my eye against some clauses that are not friendly to get a constituency. We are losing a lot of opportunities on KDF, police, teachers and other recruitment due to huge population of more than 210, 000 people,” Kathuri said. This was met with murmurs and shouts of “no!” in objection. For the last three weeks, there has been a heated debate on the splitting of the constituency. Each politician wants the constituency split to his favour in preparation for the 2022 General Election. Meru county government chief of staff Gideon Kimathi and Tigania West subcounty administrator Anderson Kathendu are at loggerheads as each mobilizes supporters and area elders to either to reject the other's proposal. Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi has urged politicians and clerics who have been on a tag of war over how South Imenti should be split to support BBI first. Meru county assembly is among the 10 Mt Kenya counties that committed to President Uhuru Kenyatta that they will pass the BBI Bill. Kiraitu said no matter how the constituency will be split, he will be their leader and stated that there should be dialogue to reach consensus over the issue. Kathendu will be running for the Senate seat while Kimathi has declared interest in South Imenti MP. MCA Mwirigi Karinga, Evans Mawira and Mikinduri town administrator Gitobu Nkanata have proposed that Imenti South East of Mitunguu, Abogeta East and Igoji be one constituency, while Imenti South West to comprise of Nkuene, Abogeta West and Igoji West. Kimathi wants the constituency to be split into three wards sharing the national cake against the other three wards on the constituency. This will ensure Nkuene gets its own subcounty and Igoki gets a ward. Kathendu said political temperature is rising over the splitting of the constituencies as it seems to divide locals along clans. "We are losing government resources and employment opportunities due to our infighting. Let us not do a similar mistake of rejecting a split of this populous constituency like we refused a subcounty." "We must first push for BBI to sail through, then we are good for the splitting to counter historical injustices," Kathendu said. 