Scientists have advised against naming new Covid-19 strains after countries, days after Kenyan scientists warned a totally new variant might be spreading in the country. The World Health Organization experts say this geographical system of naming creates unnecessary stigma and could politicise the disease. According to Kenya Medical Research Institute, the new variant in Kenya was picked in Taita Taveta county, and is spreading across the country. The WHO's World Health Emergency Committee on Covid-19 advised such variants should be named based on their genetic sequence, rather than where they were found. The WHO said it is already working on such a system of naming. “The committee urged WHO to develop a standardised system for naming new variants that avoid geographical markers, an area WHO has already begun work on,” the WHO said in a statement. Currently, two virulent strains have been discovered in South Africa and the United Kingdom, attracting restrictions to travellers from the two countries. Because genomic sequencing is sparse, it is currently unknown how prevalent the two strains are globally, but Kemri said they are not there in Kenya. The WHO committee also called for a global expansion of genomic sequencing and sharing of data, along with greater scientific collaboration to address critical unknowns. It also advised that WHO should provide clear information on what constitutes a variant of concern to avoid unnecessary panic. On Wednesday last week, Kemri said the significance of the mutations in Kenya was yet to be fully understood. “We observed 12 new lineages at low frequency but have not expanded locally to give rise to many cases. We … propose surveillance of 50 samples each week from across the various testing laboratories and ports of entry to monitor for new variants and will report our findings on a monthly basis,” Kemri said. On vaccines, the WHO committee recommended that countries should not require proof of vaccination from incoming travellers. This is because the impact of vaccines on reducing transmission is not yet known, and the current availability of vaccines is too limited. This was the sixth meeting of the Emergency Committee on Covid-19, and was convened virtually by the WHO director-general Dr Tedros Adhanom. A few African countries such as Guinea and Seychelles have already begun vaccinating their citizens using vaccines made in China and Russia. Most countries rely on the WHO-led Covax Facility to access the vaccines. However, the African Union has separately secured a provisional 270 million doses for Africa through its Africa Medical Supplies Platform. African countries will pay between $3 and $10 per vaccine dose to access these shots, according to a draft briefing on the plan prepared by the African Export-Import Bank  and provided to Reuters. The African Export-Import Bank will facilitate payments by providing advance procurement commitment guarantees of up to US$2 billion to the manufacturers on behalf of the member states. Kenya is expected to receive 10.8 million doses from the African Union. This is in addition to the 24 million doses ordered through the Covax facility.