Although 2020 has been a tough year for many, there was always a way to keep us hopeful. Listening to music was one of them, and some artistes combined forces to give fans the best treat. According to a list released by YouTube, 'Dusuma' by Otile Brown featuring Burundian artiste Meddy was the collabo most watched by Kenyans in 2020. 'Gere' by Tanasha Donna featuring Diamond also made waves. The song received more than a million views in just 13 hours after release. It got even more views after the two broke up months after the song was released. In the salacious song, whose title 'gere' means jealous, Tanasha begs Diamond to stick by her side and not play her with basic b*tches. Femi One’s collabo with Mejja, 'Utawezana', gained popularity after a video of content creator Azziad Nasenya dancing to it went viral, creating an online dance challenge. A heated debate later emerged after a fan reached out to Femi, asking if she paid Azziad for promoting her song. “I hope mlikanja Azziad kakitu,” said Raph Mckers. However, Femi made it clear that there was no need to pay the girl because she opted to jump on the #UtawezanaChallenge when the song was already trending. “The song was already trending on Tiktok, that’s why she did the challenge because she came across it on tiktok,” Femi replied. Azziad made her name and managed to garner a huge following, which invited more opportunities. 'Kamati ya roho chafu' by Sauti Sol's Bien and Willy Paul was a banger and has been played all over. Even today, people quote some words from the song. 'Wangu' by Nadia Mukami featuring Sanaipei Tande surpassed 4 million views in a month. Speaking about the song, Nadia said she didn't expect it to be that big. She had been looking up to Sanaipei Tande and was honoured to have done a collabo with her. She said she slid into Sanaipei's DM on Instagram, asking her if she would like to be featured in her music, and luckily she gave in months later. 'Vice Versa' by Size 8 featuring Rose Muhando has over 1.9 million views in a month. Speaking to Word Is, Size 8 said the song is straight from their hearts to appreciate the gift of life after fighting different battles in life. Waah by Diamond Platnumz featuring Koffi Olomide is a recent hit collabo. The song broke Davido's African YouTube record for most-viewed video in the first 24 hours after it garnered over 1 million views within eight hours of release. In two weeks, the song has 18 million views on YouTube. Diamond used parts of the song to address haters who have been trolling his 'lovers'. "Wapenzi wangu, kwani yanawahusu, shape yake mbaya, hivi inawahusu? Wapenzi wangu kuparty, kwani ninawahusu?"