Kenya will not send a team to the women's U-20 African Nations Championship set for Uganda from February 18-26 owing to financial constraints. Kenya Volleyball Federation (KVF) chairman,  Waithaka Kioni, said they have no financial resources to send a team to the show. "We lack funds at the moment and facilitation is also an issue. We've no sponsor  and the government seem to be focusing on the Olympic Games. We just need to be realistic," said Kioni, who is also Team Kenya chef de mission to the Tokyo Olympic Games. Cameroon, DRC Congo, Tunisia and the hosts have already confirmed participation for the event.  The winner of the continental tournament will represent Africa at the 21st edition of the 2021 FIVB U20 World Championship to be co-hosted by Belgium and Netherlands. Kenya have been represented only twice (1997 and 2009) at the world event since the event started in 1977.  At the same time, Kenya will not participate in any age group continental volleyball competitions due to unavailability of players. KVF media liaison, Isaac Tirop, said most of the players eligible to compete in event are currently in school and it will be difficult to lure them into a competition especially under the current  Covid-19 situation. "We cannot take part in the age group competition because the students are still in school and we don't want to interfere with their studies as some will sit for their exams in March or April," said Tirop. The Confederation of African Volleyball have requested national federations to confirm participation in the African Nations Age Group Championships. In a statement sent to National Federations, the volleyball governing body stated, "The 2020 age group championships (Women U20, girls U18, boys U19 and men u21) will be used as qualifiers for the 2021 FIVB World Championship. "In view of the fact that volleyball activities have resumed in a number of countries, we appreciate if you could confirm your national teams  for the competitions," read part of the statement.