The Building Bridges Initiative report has been hailed as a document for not just achieving sustainable development, but also ensuring lasting peace in Kenya. There are many benefits wananchi or 'hustlers', as some like to call them, can reap from this important initiative. In 2013, President Uhuru Kenyatta took up the reins of power at probably the most tumultuous period in Kenya’s history. He was facing charges at the International Criminal Court, a case which later collapsed. We were then confronted with the Westgate, Likoni and Garissa University terror attacks, which shook our security foundations to the core. Last year, the country had to deal with the locust invasion and the coronavirus crisis, but despite all that, our President has managed to steer this country forward. Perhaps his biggest test was the aftermath of the 2017 election. First, the Supreme Court nullified the presidential results and ordered a repeat poll, which President Kenyatta won again. His then-arch-rival Raila Odinga disputed the results and chaos erupted, bringing the nation to a standstill. Businesses were shut, schools closed and there was a thick cloud of despair and fear hanging over Kenya. But being the peace ambassador he is, the president put aside his differences with Raila and called a truce for the sake of peace. This resulted in the famous March 2018 handshake that gave birth to the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). An analysis by the Institute of Economic Affairs revealed that Kenya has lost a whopping Sh50.7 billion as a result of economic slowdown witnessed during election years since Independence. This, therefore, means we cannot achieve sustainable development in the midst of divisive politics and weak governance structures. Peace The fruits of the handshake can clearly be seen. It is through the peace experienced after the handshake that Presiden Kenyatta was able to knit the country back together once more and focus on implementing his Big Four agenda. One would be feigning blindness if they failed to recognise developments achieved thus far—roads are being built everywhere, dams constructed, markets rehabilitated, affordable houses built and the war on graft intensified. The rehabilitation of the Nairobi–Nanyuki railway, which passes through Murang’a, not only connects six counties (Nairobi, Kiambu, Murang’a, Kirinyaga, Nyeri and Laikipia), it also boosts economic growth by providing faster, safer and more affordable transport for both passengers and cargo. Other projects such as Ithanga water project in Murang’a have proved to be a game-changer, providing residents with water for irrigation and domestic use. If peace brought about by the handshake is anything to go by, then we must fully embrace the BBI report, which charts a clear path of ending cyclic election violence.  Personally, I endorse the BBI report because it contains a myriad of benefits that this country is in dire need of. More resources to the people Besides peace, the BBI seeks to address inequity in both representation and resource allocation. It is, however, unfortunate that politics of lies, especially in our Mt Kenya region, has taken over our conversation. We spend more time discussing personalities and less addressing real issues and development. In Mt Kenya, we have been victims of our large numbers for the longest time. In terms of resource distribution, we always get the short end of the stick. My constituency Kigumo, for example, has 78,481 registered voters, while a constituency like Turkana East has 15,620 and Kuria East in Migori has 35,154 registered voters. In an ideal scenario, Kigumo should have at least two MPs when compared to Turkana East and Kuria East to ensure equity in representation. But this is not the case. When it comes to resource allocation, each constituency, regardless of size or population, is allocated Sh100 million from the National Government Constituency Development Fund. Using my examples above, Kigumo residents receive about Sh1,274 per capita, while those of Turkana East and Kuria East enjoy Sh6,420 and Sh2,844 respectively. This is nothing but inequality. Our region stands to benefit immensely from the BBI in that resources will be allocated proportionately to the number of people. Truth be told, if the representation and resource distribution issues are not addressed, our region will continue to be disadvantaged even post-2022 election. Through the BBI, President Kenyatta seeks to solve this problem. To address representation, Mt Kenya region will collectively gain an additional 15 constituencies, which translates into more resources for our people. The additional MPs will give the region a bigger and more united voice. In terms of resources, the proposal to increase county revenue allocation from 15 to 35 per cent and establish a ward development fund will be a game-changer in promoting development at the grassroots. To ensure the 35 per cent is not plundered, the BBI has bestowed the Senate with powers to supervise both devolved funds and expenditures. Youth Interests Nouman Ali Khan could not have put it better when he said: “The most important investment of our time is in our people and in our youth”. At the heart of the BBI are matters affecting our young people. For starters, the youth have gained two nomination slots into the National Assembly through the BBI. Their voices can now be heard. The proposed Youth Commission will also be critical as it will give our youth ease of access to job opportunities, including structured job placement under bilateral arrangements with our development partners and responsive institutions that support youth programmes, sports, arts, talent and innovations. Youth-owned startups will be exempted from paying taxes for seven years to allow them to grow them without pressure and stressful tax demands. What’s more, the youth will also have a four-year grace period to repay their Helb loans. As leaders, we need to be counted not for bravado, but for great service to our people. We owe to our children to leave Kenya a better country than we found it. Let us step back and relook where we are coming from, where we are, and where we are going. The BBI is the vehicle we can use to achieve peace and prosperity our country desperately needs. I, therefore, urge my colleagues from Mt Kenya to pursue the region’s interests beyond 2022 politics. We must not be like Esau, who sold his birthright to Jacob for lentil stew. The writer is Kigumo MP