That local language radio stations (and they hate being called vernacular radio stations) are becoming critical players in conversations in Kenya on national issues is not surprising. Ignore them and by extension local language television stations at your own peril. The stations have become increasing popular in the public education and as critical sources of information. Many of them are largely credited with awakening the rural areas in a way that the mainstream media has not done in decades. They are critical a forum for the voiceless to air their concerns and to directly address their leaders in talk shows and other interactive programmes on matters relating to national issues. Look at the recent national research finding by the Media Council of Kenya and other research firms on media, and local language stations, many of them commercial and by extension community radio stations are very popular and command some considerable respect among listeners across the country. In Kenya, and with the explosion of vernacular radio stations, a large listenership at the grassroots level is reached. The fact that these stations broadcast in the vernacular of the target audience provides a unique opportunity for confidence building, correcting misperceptions and prejudices and educating the masses on the values of diversity and peaceful co-existence. It can be used to crowd-source for early warning by publicizing existing avenues for communicating such information. That’s why President Uhuru Kenyatta recently and not the first time, has used to them when addressing the geographic region called Mt Kenya and communities with common other interests largely termed GEMA. This was followed by Hon Musalia Mudavadi and Hon Raila Odinga might soon follow suit. Their communication teams aware of the potential in the local language stations in reaching out the masses in a dialect they directly associate and understand, in addition to the earlier benefit, is meant to deal with escalating misinformation and propaganda on issues politics and the Building Bridges Initiative. Local language stations and this approach by politicians borrows a lot from the town hall meetings or radio listening groups approach, where national debates are brought to the local level and the locals feel involved in national conservations. Studies by Masakazu Shibata on “ Grassroots media as a tool for democratic building and nation building” and on “community radio as a participatory communication tool in Kenya: an audience survey of Korogocho (KOCH) FM in Nairobi” by Merceline Nyambala have well documented the role of these mediums as critical tools for mobilizing community participation and engagements, political activism and facilitating diversity of voices on issues. They remain very important tools for modern day politicians and social change agents who are keen on reaching out to a community of common interest and geography. Sammy Muraya and Judie Kaberia, of the Voice for Women and Girls Rights Project, and very experienced radio journalists see a lot of potential in local language stations in shaping the national narrative on a number of public interest issues. “Local Language media have a unique and particular role to play both in enhancing governance and accountability and in giving voice to poor and marginalized communities. These stations are especially relevant and accessible to remote communities, cultural and linguistic minorities, the very poor and illiterate people” they noted in a recent conservation. The two veteran radio journalists note that local language stations have the potential not simply to influence government agendas, but to reinforce the overall capacity of society to constitute political discussion and debate, and to enhance the participation of people, including marginalized groups, in the process of governance. The stations have a special audience niche and play a critical role in providing platforms for public education and information dissemination on national issues that cannot be ignored. I see a number of mainstream media working around the clock to strengthen their local language stations by bringing experts on national issues to localize such discussions; see Francis Gachuri on Enooro TV or Jay Bonyo  of CTV and Roselyne Oballa of  Standard on radio Ramogi or Omar Bakuli and Kevin Obilo on Mulembe fm or remember Hon Wamuchomba on Kameme FM Aware of the literacy levels in our country and growing influence of local language communication channels, and the feeling of the president having spoke to them as closely as possible through their “own” language, wait and see the ripple effect of the strategy in those regions, where their leaders will speak through such stations Sorry to refer to the period, but remember that many reports on the triggers of the 2007 PEV, mentioned the media and in particular the local vernacular radio, were allegedly to being responsible for fuelling tribal hatred and violence, referring to the inflammatory speech that undermined democracy. Access to quality and factual information in a local and well-understood message especially to the conservatives in the community they carry immense power in socializing and shaping the course of people’s attitudes and behaviour.