Politicians can do the unthinkable to stop their opponents. An elected politician in Nairobi who organised a recent mass rally attended by a leading politician found the ground hostile. Reason? His opponent mobilised heavily for the event. Not one to suffer embarrassment, the  politician pulled a fast one, insisting his rival had Covid-19, thus, had to be barred from addressing the rally. To lock him out completely, he is said to have paid the handlers of the leading politician (Parliament pictured) to ensure he was thrown out. The man had to produce a Covid-9-free certificate showing he is negative. He now plans to lodge a formal complaint with the party. *** A Tangatanga diehard from Central Kenya has come under furious criticism from his constituency over decrepit schools. Voters have threatened to mobilise mass protests against dangerous, crumbling infrastructure of schools in the area. Recently, the politician, who has been accompanying DP William Ruto to nearly every political rally, told off a school chairman who had sought CDF support to repair toilets that had collapsed following heavy rains. Outraged by how the MP has ignored the welfare of his constituents, voters are asking if they elected him to camp at the Deputy President's residence in Karen for political meetings. *** Political realignments are beginning to take shape and regional kingpins are becoming the new brides in town. A senior political leader is planning to meet a presidential contender outside the country. Corridors has learnt of advance plans for the two to fly out of the country to escape the near-omniscient NIS. The recent talk of his region looking elsewhere ahead of 2022, or forming a party deemed friendlier to his backyard, are said to be the topics of the hush-hush meeting. *** An ODM lawmaker in Nairobi has set tongues wagging in his constituency after a project he launched early last year suddenly stalled. The legislator had forcibly evicted residents from land to build a health facility. But soon after the foundation stones were laid, the works stopped, leaving the constituents with pressing questions. Last week, some residents were overheard asking if the MP was genuine in putting up the structure or he simply wanted to evict the poor residents from the land. They asked themselves whether the legislator had joined the land cartels in the area that has been frustrating them for years.