One lesson that I learned in 2020 is the importance of recognizing hidden resources – leverage and advantages that one has but blind to them. In the book, The Law of Recognition, the motivational speaker, Dr. Mike Murdock, said: “everything you need or want is already in your life – merely awaiting your recognition of it” and I agree. Sadly, if you do not recognize what you have, you won’t benefit from it. 2021 is not only about reaching for more but also recognizing and maximizing what you have. To do this, you must answer these three questions. Where Are You Now? This is a location question that brings clarity if answered properly. When the world got crazy due to the pandemic, people were forced to be truthful about where they were in different areas of the lives and, that lesson still applies this year. Failure to know and understand where you are would make advancement difficult. So, where are you now? Do an audit of your life to know what you’re working with. Where are you in your health, finances, relationships, or your journey? Your answers to the location question would set the stage for the recognition of the hidden resources in your location. What Do You Have? Now that you know where you are, the next step is to find out what you have. Make a list of the resources, leverage, relationships, and advantages that you have now. Examine your skills, talents, knowledge, contacts, assets, work, etc., and you will discover how much you have. Some people believe that they have nothing until they do this exercise, only to realize that they have so much but did not see it. At every point in life, you always have something. However, if it is not recognized, you would believe that you have nothing. Hence, the importance of recognition. You have much hidden resources, but you must first recognize them to enjoy them. How Do You Wisely Use What You Have? You now have a list of what you have. What elements from your list can you combine to help you get what you want? You have enough to get you to the next level. However, you must wisely put the elements together for them to work for you. Great things can happen for you this year if you can skillfully combine the resources at your disposal. Right now, you have everything that you need for success; make it work. Happy New Year – enjoy 2021. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com