Kenyan students undertaking their studies in Uganda on Monday did not resume classes as the neighbouring country has not fully reopened schools. They are now undecided over whether to join Kenyan learning institutions or remain at home until the Ugandan government reopens schools for all classes. Schools in Kenya reopened on Monday for all classes, as the government sent a message of hope to learners and teachers after a nine-month Covid-19 hiatus. But in the border town of Malaba, there were no scenes of the usual movement of uniformed students carrying books across the bridge separating the two countries. Uganda’s President Yoweri Museveni ordered schools shut on March 18, 2020, for 30 days to curb the spread of coronavirus. The closure was subsequently extended as the landlocked country continued to record rising coronavirus cases. Museveni, when he ordered the closure of learning institutions, argued that his decision was informed by worries that crowds were perfect grounds for the contagion. He said his government would not allow what he termed ‘stampede’. On October 15, 2020, the Ugandan Ministry of Education allowed candidates preparing for their end-of-year exams to return to school. The rest are still at home. The continued closure of schools in Uganda may mean Kenyan learners will have to rethink their pursuit for education. Data shows about 40,000 Kenyans study in Uganda. Uganda’s Eastern districts of Tororo, Mbale, Sironko, Bududa, Bigiri, Busia, Iganda and Jinja host the highest number of Kenyan learners. A Form 2 student at Manjasi Secondary School in Tororo district, Uganda, expressed concern that Kenyans studying in Uganda may lose a lot of school hours due to prolonged stay at home. “If it takes a long time for our [Ugandan] schools to reopen, it might force us to enrol in schools in Kenya.” Although continued stay at home of Kenyans learning in Uganda may destabilise the student’s education calendar, Busia Vocational Training chief officer Dan Mogoria told the Star that the biggest setback for learners at home may be the infliction of psychological trauma. “The only problem is that these learners will face psychological challenges for remaining at home while others are in school. It will give them pressure to think that if they cannot get proper guidelines you will find that some of them are wasting time.” He said the Kenyan government cannot influence Ugandan policies since the two countries are guided by different programmes and policies. “These two countries have different national strategic plans. If these students were within the same country we would have an issue but these are two different countries although they are sister countries. Their programmes and their curriculums are also different,” Mogoria said on the phone. Uganda’s Education Ministry says Kenyans constitute the highest number of foreign students in the country. One of the factors fuelling the influx of Kenyans into the country, according to the ministry, is the affordability of education.