President Uhuru Kenyatta still controls and influences the Mt Kenya region politically and whoever thinks he is a lame duck is in for a shock. His recent address to the region, if you get the rating of listenership to that address broadcast in all vernacular Kikuyu stations, tells you that the people still rally behind the President as their undisputed leader. He talked about pertinent issues affecting the region. He talked about uniting the country, which basically means enhanced trade as people can now travel in all parts of the country. Uhuru also talked about coffee and tea, which touch the region. I think the people still look up to the President in terms of regional leadership as he still champions some of the areas that are dear to the region. We have witnessed good engagement on the Coffee and Tea Bills, and that has been welcomed by all from Mt Kenya region. The lies that have been peddled around ignore the many initiatives the President has started. I think he has the responsibility to call his people and unpack the goodies he has for them. The Sagana meeting is coming at a good time for that. He is still is our point man, our voice in this region. He remains the embodiment of our unity. People would not have voted for him three times if he had no command of the region. I admire how he has  focused on his agenda. We know those underestimating the President’s grip of the region would want to be the people negotiating on behalf of the community but they should realise there is no competition. People should realise that there are equally enough members of very high-profile politicians from the region who know the President represents the interest of Kenya and the region. Remember there was even a time when the same people were saying nothing has been done in the region. You wonder what is nothing, while there are roads, dams, coffee and tea issues have been addressed and there is peace in the city, where a good number of people from the region do business. When you remove the politics, the President is still the hope of the region for now and tomorrow. The former TNA executive director spoke to the Star