ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday rallied the clergy to back the BBI reforms as he intensified his multi-pronged campaigns to popularise the drive. The former Prime Minister asked clerics to rally their flock to endorse the document, saying it has nothing against the church contrary to claims by critics. Raila said the intended reforms contained in the BBI bill are the real solutions to problems bedevilling the country and not wheelbarrows as advanced by Deputy President William Ruto. “I believe religious leaders find no joy in seeing our children go to school, graduate with university degrees only to be told there are no jobs, only wheelbarrows are available,” Raila said. The AU envoy spoke at Ufungamano House in Nairobi where he met religious leaders. Raila has sustained his campaigns for the constitutional change. On Tuesday, he met university students’ leaders from across the country. On Wednesday, he was in Roysambu and Githurai to popularise the BBI. On Thursday, the ODM boss called on the clergy to play the role of Moses and Joshua and lead the country to the Promised Land of Canaan by supporting the document. “I am here to appeal to you to be the Moses and Joshua of the Exodus and help our people overcome the scary giants on the way and get to Canaan,” he said. Raila said BBI will solve the perennial chaos that have rocked the nation every election, curb corruption, resolve the problems of joblessness and restore our ethos. “I believe religious leaders find no joy in burying one member of the flock after another every five years because of election violence. Help us end election violence,” he said. He added, “I believe religious leaders find no joy when members of their flock lack basics because somebody stole the money that was allocated for those items and services.” Raila endured himself to the church, saying he and his family members are God-fearing. The DP and allies have often portrayed Raila as a man who does not believe in God by refereeing to him as mganga (witch doctor). Raila has been critical of the DP’s hefty contributions to churches and challenged him to declare the source of his finances. “Who would not believe in God and his miraculous way after going through what I have and with my family?” he posed. “Who would not believe in God after seeing men and women he was in a struggle with, being assassinated, seeing comrades disappear without trace or seeing his comrades immobilised and eventually made to die a slow and painful death rising from torture?” Raila maintained his stance and challenged the men of God not to allow politicians and other unscrupulous individuals to turn churches into campaign podiums and channels of money laundering. In an indirect reference to DP Ruto, Raila said some individuals have made it a habit of making huge contributions in churches nearly every weekend but have never disclosed sources of their money. “Some people come, make contributions but the security of that money is questionable because it is flowing every weekend. It is in millions of shillings,” he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris