Three top politicians - old pals from Nasa - have hinted at a new political alliance providing a third alternative ahead of next year's election. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula  reportedly are working on their own alliance – Nasa less ODM's Raila Odinga – that will support one presidential candidate. Already Deputy President William Ruto is building his own coalition of smaller parties, while Raila is expected to team up with President Uhuru Kenyatta's allies in another coalition. Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has sought clearance from state agencies, triggering speculations he could run in the upcoming  by-election. The High Court issued a temporary injunction barring the electoral Commission from conducting the February 18 by-election. Sonko has applied for clearance certificates from the Directorate of Criminal Investigation, the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission and the Kenya Revenue Authority. He has also sought clearance from the Higher Education Loans Board. Nicholas Waruinge’s two daughters and his son are perhaps only alive because they had reported to school. On Tuesday, Waruinge, his wife, son, nephew and farmhand were murdered in cold blood at their family home. Earlier, he and his wife Anne Njenga, a nurse at Wangige Level 4 Hospital had taken their daughter Grace Karagi to Ngiriambu Girls in Kirinyaga county and her sister Joyce Njeri to St Angela Secondary School in Karura. Their eldest son had left for Mount Kenya University. India has reversed its earlier decision and lifted the ban on export of Covid-19 vaccines. However, options for Kenya and other African countries are dwindling after US pharmaceutical firm Moderna said it has no plans to supply the continent this year. Pfizer said it can only sell Africa 50 million doses in 2021. The growing opposition to the BBI initiative in Central Kenya appears to have emboldened Deputy President William Ruto in his aggressive vote hunt in President Uhuru Kenyatta's backyard. Coming just days after Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata claimed that BBI risk spectacular failure in the region, the DP has now given the signal that he could bolt out of BBI altogether. The DP, in a surprise declaration, said he is not keen on the initiative steered by his boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga.