A Kiambu legislator and a section of youths have warned politicians against igniting division and apprehension ahead of the 2022 General Elections. They want leaders to respect President Uhuru Kenyatta and allow him to deliver on his promises, including unity and the Big Four. Ruiru MP Simon King’ara said on Sunday the slurs hurled at the head of state by a section of politicians will cause tension and divide Kenyans along political and ethnic lines. He spoke in Kiuu ward in Ruiru during a Boy’s Mentorship Programme. It aims to discourage use of drugs, alcohol and prevent illicit sex an petty crime. "Tame your tongues," the lawmaker told leaders. “It is disheartening that leaders looked up to by the young generation for mentorship spew unsavory words at the President and other leaders. It is high time leaders end their inflammatory words meant to raise political temperatures," King'ara said. Sideshows staged by some politicians are meant to distract the President from delivering on his mandate," he said. “Most of these leaders were elected through their alliance to the President and the Jubilee Party. But now instead of supporting and working with the head of state they are busy realigning themselves for 2022," King'ara said. The Celtic Youth Group called on politicians especially from the Mt Kenya region to shelve their political differences and work with the President for  development. Led by Gerald Nderitu, the youths accused a section of leaders from Mt Kenya of turning a blind eye to the region's interests and focusing on themselves. “Our leaders are forgetting the development mandates they were given by the electorate. They now focus on inconsequential politics and empty rhetoric." he told journalists. "We youths worry because the 2022 political drumbeats will hurt development and undermine the region's harmony," Nderitu said. Politicians allied to Deputy President William Ruto have at recent functions attended by the DP disparaged the President's performance and accused him of sidelining them. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura recently defected from Uhuru’s camp and joined DP Ruto’s hustler movement. He recently criticised Kenyatta for ruling the country for too long. He spoke at the homecoming for MP Feisal Bada, the DP-backed winner in the Msambweni by-election. “The Kenyatta family ruled Kenya for 15 years and 10 years [of Uhuru’s regime] are also coming to an end soon. We say that is enough, now let’s move forward and see what we can do as youths of this nation,” Mwaura said. Kandara MP Alice Wahome, a fierce Uhuru’s critic and DP ally, on Saturday called President Kenyatta "the biggest single threat to the Constitution, democracy and devolution. “He has chosen the destructive path of either his way or the highway,” she said in a statement Wahome accused the head of state of attempting to retain power even after his second term as president ends. (Edited by V. Graham)