Being in solidarity with Kenyans besides taking into account the humanitarian well-being of the country's citizens, companies that are successful in this regard are needed now more than ever. A prime example is Mozzartbet. The company is a market leader in Southeast Europe and is most recognizable for its social work. Globally, Mozzart in present seven markets, having reserved over sh.200 Million in the fight against Covid-19. A large part of this fund has been used to help and support the Kenyan health system as well as citizens most affected by the effects of the pandemic. 2020 was a difficult year mainly due to the effects of Coronavirus having halted economic activities globally. The ripple effect was felt across all sectors. However, Kenyans are resilient and they kept working despite the difficulties. Mozzart plugged in to support Kenyans, initiating several Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities. Work done in 2020 Through their “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities” program, Mozzart donated vital medical equipment to various hospitals in the country. The company made a donation of sh.10 million worth of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE’s) to front line workers. The company also donated medical equipment to the Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County hospital in Tiaty, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre and Kayole 1 and 2 Health Centres. Each donation was worth sh1.5 million. Mozzart also donated to the Pumwani Maternity and Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospitals with each receiving donations worth sh.3 million. Items donated to these include incubators, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, bedside lockers, foetal scanning machines, foetal dopplers, digital baby and adult weighing scales, and patient beds complete with Macintosh mattresses. Mozzart also launched the “100 Water Wells For Our Communities” project and the first water point is now already operational in Imbo, Kothidha in Homabay County. Through this water project, Mozzart aims to give back to the society by delivering clean water to the most deserving communities. More water points will be commissioned this year. Mozzart closed the year by unveiling a sh.20 million sponsorship of Football Kenya Premier League (FKFPL) side Kakamega Homeboyz. The company also donated jerseys, balls and other equipment to grassroots football teams across the country. In store for 2021 Mozzart Country Manager Sasa Krneta reveals the company will continue supporting community initiatives across the country in 2021. “We have always had the interests of Kenyan people at heart and we were very happy to support several initiatives in 2020. We believe we touched and changed the lives of people around the country and our aim is to continue doing so this year,” he said. “I want to assure Kenyans that ongoing CSR activities will continue and we will, as a matter of fact, put more emphasis and resources to help the most vulnerable communities around the country.” he added.