Several Kenyans on Twitter were not a happy lot after Tourism CS Najib Balala announced that international supermodel Naomi Campbell will be Magical Kenya's International Tourism Ambassador. The CS made the announcement via a statement on Tuesday, stating that the supermodel will help promote Kenya as an ideal tourism and travel destination to the world. "We welcome the exciting news that Naomi Campbell will advocate for tourism and travel internationally for the Magical Kenya brand," Balala said. This did not sit right with a number of Kenyans who immediately started an intense conversation on Twitter on why the ministry opted for Naomi and not the country's very own Lupita Nyong'o. Some even went ahead to state that they would have even considered South African comedian and TV host Trevor Noah. A user by the handle @amerix tweeted, "...That's the best we could get. I'd prefer Trevor Noah or Marcus Rashford." Another tweet read, "Truth be told, Naomi Campbell visits Kenya more than Lupita. Lupita loves SA more than Kenya and when here, you’d think she dropped from heaven. Even Obama is more kawaida when here." A twitter user by the name Aoko differed with other Kenyans, sharing a past a photo of Naomi rocking a dress with the Kenyan flag strips at a fashion show held last year in February, arguing that she showed more loyalty to the country than Lupita Nyong'o. "Naomi Campbell wore this long ago to show her loyalty to Kenya, that's why I think she deserved the gig, now show me a picture of Lupita Nyong'o or Elsa Majimbo showing their patriotism," Aoko tweeted. Kariuki said, "Why go for a British Model Naomi Campbell to be our Magical Kenya International Ambassador when we have our own international model Azziad Nasenya? Colonialism will never come to an end in this country." Another tweet by Brian read, "News about Naomi Campbell being the Magical Kenya ambassador is funnily absurd. How in God’s good earth did we pick Naomi over Lupita Nyong’o?? Why not Trevor Noah? How??? Or it is because waziri is in love with his hey-days star? MAAJABU!" The CS on the other hand said the model's endorsement doesn't take away the domestic market, but only strengthens it. "Naomi Campbell will be Magical Kenya's International Tourism Ambassador. That doesn't take away from our domestic market, it only strengthens it," Balala said. Check out more tweets below;