Witch doctors in Kwale have been accused of incitement to violence, justice obstruction and sexual harassment among other vices while delivering their services to clients. They are alleged to have turned the communities against each other for their false prophecies. Human rights activist Mohammed Mwakuyala said most cases of the elderly killings and family disputes are triggered by the witchdoctors who name-call others as sorcerers. Mwakuyala said the traditional doctors have also wreaked havoc in many marriages and the judiciary system. He said they take advantage of female patients who have relationship problems with their husbands or looking for partners. It is said the witchdoctors force women to sleep with them as a way of offering effective love treatment. Mwakuyala said traditional doctors have made women believe that once they make love with them they will be very attractive and any man who comes to them will not think of another woman. The activist said it is an act that has led to the spread of STIs, divorce and an increase of love triangle killings. Lunga-Lunga and Kinango subcounties were ranked top with such cases. He said court cases do not proceed because witchdoctors are believed to be aiding the culprits with a certain concoction known as Fusa. Fusa is a Mijikenda term mostly used in witchcraft that means to make someone lose interest or forget something. The portion can either be put in drinks, food or applied on the skin and oftentimes renewed for better effect. Mwakuyala said although he has no proof about that kind of witchcraft, it has worked for many. “A lot of people after committing crimes run to these traditional doctors and they become successful,” he said. Saumu Munga a resident said witchcraft activities are to be blamed for their predicament. He asked the government to intervene. She said the witchdoctors have deviated from their healing duties to cause harm. Munga accused the healers of misusing the love portion remedies. “Our men no longer want us because their minds are possessed by love demons,”  she said. Munga said the misuse of dark forces has also stalled development. However, Kwale county chairman and coast regional coordinator of herbalists Japhet Wande denied the allegations and asked people not to confuse them with sorcerers. According to him, a witch doctor is a person who cures and a witch is the one causing doom. He said due to the constant lack of recognition of the traditional medicine men by the government in national matters, some opt to be evil. Wande said the law has been hard on them making it difficult to access the forests for more exploration of medicine and do not receive favour as modern doctors do. “The government has not included us in the big four agenda, or given empowerment on how we can improve the delivery of our services,” he said. The witch doctors now want to have a representative in Parliament so that they can freely express themselves and offer assistance in the health sector. Wande, however, admitted that some are evil saying he was ready to work with the government to revoke their permits and charge them with witchcraft.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris