Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi has urged the government to provide free masks and sanitiser to all public and private schools. Wandayi said the government should not subject parents to double expenses of providing the items even as they struggle to pay fees. He said the government had enough time since the closure of schools to prepare. "I know enforcing social distancing in schools is going to be difficult, but it’s the duty of the national government to ensure health guidelines are observed,” Wandayi said. The Parliamentary Accounts Committee chairman also encouraged school heads and teachers to be patient with students with fee problems. "Corona has brought problems to everyone both financially and health-wise, hence the need for teachers to consider parents now that schools are reopening,” Wandayi said. The government has insisted that schools comply with safety measures already put in place by the Ministry of Health to contain and mitigate the spread of the coronavirus. At the school level, teachers are required to constitute Covid-19 response committees to coordinate response strategies. However, primary and secondary school heads have cited lack of funds for inadequate preparation, with fears of a spike after reopening. But to protect all children and staff in schools, the TSC has directed all field officers to conduct a physical inspection of all schools once they open to ensure the safety and welfare of learners and staff. The officers will also be required to create a clear channel of communication and provide support and guidance to all institutional administrators. The regional directors will be required to liaise with the Covid-19 technical and response team at the head office and provide status reports on all challenges experienced on a daily basis. Teachers will be required to develop the criteria for identifying learners/trainees and staff who may require specialised psychosocial support and link them to certified counsellors or social workers. The TSC further directed that administrative measures put in place to ensure no interruption of the school calendar activities. The directive will put pressure on school heads, who will bear the greatest responsibility of containing Covid-19 in schools.