The United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party has unveiled its candidates for the upcoming by-elections in the country. The party, linked to Deputy President William Ruto in a press conference led by Johnson Muthama on Friday, announced that former Starehe MP Margaret Wanjiru will fly its flag in the Nairobi by-election. Former Machakos County Deputy Governor Bernard Muia Kiala will seek to be the next Machakos Senator under UDA. Kiala, the Deputy Governor of Machakos County, served under Governor Alfred Mutua in his first term in office. Evans Kaikai Masinde has been handed the certificate of the party as the Kabuchai constituency aspirant. Alex Kanya has been picked as the UDA flag bearer for the Matungu by-election. Kelele Nelson has also been picked as the candidate for Huruma Ward by-election. During the announcement, leaders allied to the DP were present, including Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika. Others were former the party chair and former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wa, Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagwa, Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri among others. The Independent and Electoral Commission (IEBC) announced that the Machakos senatorial by-election will be held on March 18, 2021. Earlier on, the commission had set the by-election for March 23, but the date has been revised due to the national examinations. Machakos seat fell vacant following the death of Senator Boniface Kabaka. February 18, 2021, is the date set for the Nairobi governor by-election. Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies by-elections will also remain unchanged, which is March 4, 2021. Earlier on, the commission had set the by-election for March 23, but the date has been revised due to the national examinations. Machakos seat fell vacant following the death of Senator Boniface Kabaka. February 18, 2021, is the date set for the Nairobi governor by-election. Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies by-elections will also remain unchanged, which is March 4, 2021. UDA's move comes days after being registered by the Registrar of Political Parties. The Registrar of Political Parties Ann Nderitu confirmed the successful name change and registration UDA, formerly Party of Development and Reform (PDR). Some allies of Ruto had claimed that he could run on a different political party in the 2022 General Election. “We left Jubilee a long time ago. We now have a new vehicle,” an MP close to the DP confided to the Star on condition of anonymity.