Former Harambee Stars striker Andrew Murunga’s brace inspired FC Talanta to a 2-0 win over National Super League debutants Silibwet Leon’s yesterday at the Ruaraka grounds. The experienced Murunga came off the bench to net the decisive goals to inspire the club back to their winning ways after dropping points in their previous two matches. The burly forward, who replaced Michael Jairo, found the back of the net in the dying minutes of the match to seal Talanta’s fourth win of the season, which saw them consolidate their stay at the top of the log. The heroics earned him plaudits from assistant coach Jackson Gatheru who held brief for suspended Ken Kenyatta. The latter was sent off during their 2-2 draw against Sony Sugar last weekend. “It was a tough match. Our opponents gave us a run for our money. They are quick and relied on counterattacks but Murunga’s experience helped us. He is a proven goal scorer who also scored in our last match and when I threw him in, I was certain he would get the job done,” he said. Gatheru, who was assisted by the club’s longest serving player-cum-skipper Patrick Muchiri challenged the playing unit to keep the fire burning if they are to attain their dream automatic promotion. “We have always began well but lost our bid to book a place in the senior league in the second leg. We have to be consistent going forward to meet our goal,” he added. Meanwhile, Silibwet’s head coach Patrick Amwoka rued league inexperience for the loss. “We dominated and created clear cut chances but lack of experience up-front was our undoing. The boys played their hearts out despite our financial challenges and I must commend them for their hard work,” he lamented Elsewhere, second-placed Coast Stima kept close tabs with Talanta after emerging 3-1 winners over Nairobi Stima in the ‘Stima derby’ at the Mbaraki Stadium. Shabana extended their unbeaten run to three matches after playing Modern Coast Rangers to a two-all draw at the Serani grounds. Kisumu All Stars beat neighbours Chemelil Sugar by a solitary goal at the Moi Stadium, Kisumu.