It is  imperative to say that there is  a surging cultural drive to move away from the those eternal self-imposed rulers to those that favour the masses. Mt Kenya wants a  leader who will stand tall for the farmers, stand up against the wealthy hegemony and foster the Gema unity that has been a mirage for years. A leader who is not seen as sucking up to the traditional political hegemony but rather bent towards the defence of the commoner against the baron who has used tribal means to stay in power and has given little to nothing. Even though the mountain has been accused of producing several presidents, whispers and gossip in the market is that the region's economic decline has hurt others while a few have benefited. The agricultural economy has been crippling due to bad policies, a hurting tax regime plus inflexible county government. The Kamba took a journey South, the Embians refused to be the flower girls and the Meru went on a rant. If an ordination was to be held today, the oligarchy in Central will have to explain to the masses why Martha Karua should not be crowned the first female elder to succeed Mumbi. She would be seen as more caring, brave and a mother figure to a hurting people abused since Mumbi rested. The Kikuyu community may also want to take a break and organise their internal affairs and, therefore, for the first time perhaps let the able Embians who have thrown their entire weight behind the Deputy President lead them for a century. The mountain has serious housekeeping work to do. Mt Kenya has recently been linked with a furious yet futile race to find a suitable kingpin who can lead the mountain into recovering its socio-economic goals and lost glory and into preserving its overarching shadow as the big brother in national politics. This battle may seem as a race to succeed the current President but that's far from it as the kingpin is never replaced while alive in a patriarchal society. Hence, you may want to argue out that the seat has been vacant ever since the departure of the patriarchal oligarchy of the late John Michuki and Njenga Karume et al. The pastor and political analyst spoke to the Star