ODM has asked it’s members to send applications to NEB if they want to be the party’s presidential candidate for 2022 general elections. In the advert seen on Sunday, elections board chair Catherine Mumma said interested candidates must pay Sh1m non-refundable fee to the ODM account. For one to be eligible for the seat, he or she must be a Kenyan, registered voter, life member of ODM and hold a degree from any university. Also, they must meet the minimum requirements of presidential candidates as set out by the IEBC. If you are interested, you are expected to submit a duly completed nomination form in duplicate, executed code of conduct, ID, a copy of ODM life membership certificate and evidence of payment. “Applicants must ensure to meet all requirements and send applications by 12pm on February 26, 2021,” Mumma said. The application forms can be sourced from the party headquarters at Chungwa house. Last week, the Orange Democratic Party announced that it had commenced the process of identifying a suitable Presidential candidate for the 2022 election. Through a statement, ODM directed the National Elections Board to immediately lay the groundwork by inviting those interested to apply. On January 20, ODM leader Raila Odinga initiated an elaborate plan to rejuvenate his run for State House as the Orange party confirmed for the first time he'll be on the ballot in 2022. The party has embarked on an aggressive grassroots revival as Raila prepares for a do-or-die battle against his fiercest rival Deputy President William Ruto. The party will revamp all 47 county branches, replace officials who have exited, fill vacancies and energise the rank and file. Raila has yet to publicly declare his presidential bid with just over 17 months to the polls. However, in recent weeks, he has given all the signals that he is running. “This (Raila's candidature) is not even a matter of debate. It is only a matter of time before it is made official,” a senior party official told the Star in confidence.