Deputy President William Ruto has said no one has his political debt. He said the only debt he has is that of helping President Uhuru Kenyatta unite and transform Kenya. “I supported President Kenyatta in 2013 and 2017 without conditions. The Head of State should not be pushed to backing my 2022 candidature,” he said. Ruto spoke on Sunday in Trans-Mara, Narok County, during a prayer service. He was accompanied by Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok, Narok Deputy Governor Evalyn Aruasa, David Sankok (nominated), Gabriel Tongoyo (Narok West), Lemanken Aramat (Narok East), Soipan Tuya (Narok), Johana Ngeno (Emurrua Dikirr), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Gideon Koskei (Chepalungu), Florence Jematia (EALA) and Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira). Ruto said he would not allow Kenya to be taken back to ethnic-based politics that is not only risky but dangerous to the social fabric of the country. “I decline the invitation to the politics of tribe. We are one country and need to move forward together, our backgrounds notwithstanding,” he explained. He asked leaders to stop being disturbed by the so-called politics of debt. The deputy president argued that he was engaging in politics not because of the alleged debts but because of his vision to empower ordinary Kenyans. “Let us unite and work together to better the lives of millions of Kenyans struggling at the base of the wealth pyramid," Ruto said. He said gone were the days when leaders would look for positions through back-door. “Let us sell our ideas and policies to the people. That is the only way that they can rally behind us,” he added. This is the second time that Ruto insists that no one owes him politically. In June 2019 in Nyandarua County, he said that no community in Kenya owed him anything. Then, he said the debt leaders had was to serve Kenyans. “The only obligation that we have is to fulfill the promises we made to the people; that of transforming their lives,” he noted. The MPs said they had decided to combine efforts with the Deputy President because of his development track-record. Insisting that leaders should stop the politics of ethnicity, the MPs added that they would back Ruto in the 2022 polls.