@ppcheti Lamu residents have called for the immediate restocking of Depo-Provera to enable women to plan their families and avoid unwanted pregnancies. A medic at King Fahad Hospital who didn’t want to be named said Depo has been missing in all health facilities for the past six months. Family planning in public hospitals is done for free, while similar services are charged at private facilities. Private hospitals and chemists now make a killing, overcharging women seeking to have the Depo and other family planning services. They have to part with at least Sh500 for Depo, a fee out of reach for many women. The situation has hurt women in mainland areas like Mpeketoni, Witu, Faza, Hindi, Mokowe and islanders on Faza, Kizingitini, Kiunga, Kiwayuu and Manda, among others. Munira Shaban, a mother of two, says she cannot risk another pregnancy as the doctors have warned her that it would kill her. “I have always had my Depo at King Fahad Hospital but since October last year, they have kept telling me that they don’t have it. I had all my kids via CS and the doctor said a third pregnancy would be a life risk. The Depo works for me and I can't change to anything else,” Shaban said. Ummi Mohamed, a mother of seven from Faza Island, says she is struggling to take care of her children and does not intend to get pregnant again. However, the fact that she hasn’t been on Depo for the last seven months is giving her sleepless nights. “My husband has warned that he will divorce me if I get pregnant again. I also don’t want more children. I prefer the three-month Depo injection because I tried the others and the side effects were unpleasant. The hospitals say they don’t have it and don’t know when they will restock,” she said. She says she has been forced to go the natural way in the meantime by only having intercourse during her safe days. “I am just scared that one day I will miscalculate and miss my periods. My world will end. I hope they bring back the Depo.” Speaking on Tuesday, Lamu Health executive Anne Gathoni admitted the lack of Depo-Provera in Lamu. She, however, said there were many other long-term family planning methods still available in health facilities which women can use. "There is no reason for women to miss out on family planning because of the lack of Depo-Provera in Lamu. They should understand that there's a countrywide shift on the Depo that has generally affected the supply. Our Depo-Provera stock ran out. However, other family planning methods like implants, the coil and oral contraceptives are available. I want to encourage women to try them out,” Gathoni said. Lamu has over the years recorded a decline in the use of contraceptives. According to a 2015 survey by the National Council for Population and Development, only 42.2 per cent of Lamu women are actively on contraceptives. The county's health sector has been put on the spot over the deplorable state of facilities and lack of infrastructure, drugs and medical personnel. King Fahad Hospital, the region's only referral facility, does not have an intensive care unit. The sector grapples with rising cases of Covid-19. 