For the users of social media platforms, there have been updates that take place on the platforms. Snapchat being one of the most used social media platforms has updates that will enhance the user’s experience. One of the updates is on the navigation tools. Snapchat is introducing a new way to navigate as well as new features for the Snap Map and Stories. For contextual help it has a new Action Bar element that is designed to provide “top level navigation” from the moment you open the Snapchat mobile app. It is supposed to contextually change based on what you are doing or watching. Snap Map, a map feature that shows what your Snapchat friends are up to and highlight stories from Snapchat community is updated. It will make it easier to find spots that are popular around the globe. A place profile includes Snaps from the location, the address, hours of operation and reviews from TripAdvisor and Foursquare. With the update, you will also be able to order food at places such as Uber Eats. The Our Story section on the app will get topical. This is where Snapchat users can submit their snaps and videos about the events happening around them and other users can see it globally. Since there are more than three million snaps per day shared with Our Story, there is a new way to use a Top Sticker or submit your snap to a community Topic. There will also be Story Replies to make it easy to communicate with the Snap Stars that one is following. These celebrities can turn one’s Story Replies into stickers and add them to their stories for things like questions and answers sessions. Recently it announced the new lenses and Augmented Reality (AR) experiences that developers, creators and everyday users will be enjoying. The Snap’s main Augmented Reality product consists of lenses made by Snap’s own design team and a global creator community. Developers and creators use Snap’s free desktop app, Lens Studio to build and distribute these AR experiences on the app. Snapchat users will soon be able to use Local Lenses, a new feature which enables persistent, shared Augmented Reality world built right on top of your neighbourhood. One will enter a virtual space and decorate nearby buildings with colourful paint. Snapchat users can press and hold on the camera screen to unlock relevant lenses based on what the camera sees. To improve on this feature, it has partnered with PlantSnap so the Snapchat camera can identify 90 per cent of all known plants and trees. It is also partnering with Dog Scanner allowing the camera to recognise almost 400 breeds and will add a nutrition scanner that will provide a rating on the quality of ingredients in many packaged foods. With these updates, one will be able to enjoy and continue using this application.