Special education teachers in Mombasa county have been urged to take more precaution to protect children living with disabilities. County executive director representing people living with disabilities Charity Chahasi said Covid-19 containment measures are not working for such pupils. “It is a very tough time for these children because there are measures that are supposed to be followed in school but they are hard for them,” she said. Chahasi said the children need help because most of them like touching surfaces and therefore washing of hands all the time is a challenge. She said the decision to reopen schools was not considerate of their situation, hence it is very hard to cope. “These children are not safe, education is not safe for them and something should be done to accommodate them in both special and integrated schools,” Chahasi said. She said the children cannot hold their breath for long and cannot put on masks for a long time. Chahasi urged the government to ensure handwashing points are disability-friendly to cater for those using crutches and wheelchairs. “Schools are not friendly because they don’t have ramps. I'm also urging the government to do the mapping of all special and integrated schools and deploy more special teachers to support the children,” she said. Port Rietz Special School head Mercy Mwandenje said the situation is difficult but they are trying their best to protect the children. “Covid-19 is here and we have to cope with it, the containment measures are hard to implement because some children have severe disabilities so it is not easy,” Mwandenje said. She saidthe school received handwashing equipment from donors but they do not have soap and sanitiser. County chief Education officer John Musuva said the county has deployed staff in all public schools to help manage children living with disabilities. “We are working with the department of public health to ensure the integrated and special public schools get handwashing equipment and face masks but if we get a specific request from private special schools, we will give them our support,” Musuva said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris