The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has employed 600 nurses as it plans to open four health facilities next week. The nurses will be deployed in the 24 hospitals being constructed by director general Mohammed Badi's team plus two other main hospitals, Korogocho and Mama Lucy. “The newly recruited health professionals will be deployed to meet the demands of health care services in Nairobi, with most of the hospitals near completion and awaiting hand-over to ensure delivery of the much-needed health services in the county's 17 subcounties,” NMS director for health Josephine Kibaru-Mbae said. The four-day exercise started on Monday where all the 600 nurses presented their documents for verification and issuance of appointment letters. “This is a continuous exercise that will eventually see all the cadres advertised absorbed and deployed to various health facilities across the city, an exercise being conducted by the NMS human resource management,” Mbae said. Last October, NMS published an advert announcing the recruitment of 600 nurses, 173 clinical officers, 3,116 medical lab technologists, 344 medical specialist and 130 medical officers. The NMS will next week commission four out of the 24 hospitals which have been under construction since last October. Dr Mbae said Uthiru, Kiamaiko, Ushirika and Soweto-Kayole health facilities are complete and only final touches are being made. “The facilities are ready and constructors are installing the equipment and other final touches. They will be ready next week," she said. President Uhuru Kenyatta directed Badi to construct 24 hospitals in Nairobi's informal settlements at a cost of Sh2 billion aimed at clearing the backlog of unattended patients in Nairobi, especially at Kenyatta National Hospital. He said the project was part of his plan to deliver health services to the poorest in the country. "I note with satisfaction that NMS is on course to deliver the facilities by end of January 2021. The idea is to take health services as close to the people as is possible,” he said. The other hospitals are in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole, Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Mukuru Kwa Reuben, Kibera and Githurai 44. Nineteen out of the 24 health facilities are being built from scratch while the rest are being rehabilitated. Ten out of the facilities to be built entirely will be level two hospitals and the rest will be level three. Level two facilities are dispensaries run by clinical officers offering outpatient, VCT, tuberculosis, laboratory, antenatal and postnatal services, curative treatment and issuance of referral letters to other facilities. Level three facilities are health centres run by at least one doctor, clinical officers and nurses. Services offered include curative, laboratory, antenatal and postnatal, maternity in-patient services, dental, pharmacy, TB clinics, diabetes and hypertension clinics and issuance of referral letters to other facilities. "All the 24 hospitals are at different levels of completion and the first four will be ready next week where we will expect the President and director general to officially open them,” Mbae said. The NMS is also targeting the completion of five more health facilities in early February. The director of health revealed that Amref had been contracted to built and equip all the 19 facilities while the other five are fully being done by NMS. “By the time NMS was being established, works in the five health facilities had already started and completion might delay a bit but efforts are being put in order to complete them as soon as possible,” Mbae explained. She said the NMS encountered some land challenges which eventually slowed down the project. “We faced challenges especially due to lack of land and had to look for alternatives and architects had to redesign the structures. In informal settlements, there are no free spaces where a level two facility can fit,” Mbae noted. Edited by Henry Makori