NCBA rolled out a creative campaign to demonstrate the real-life impact of its promise to its customers. Dubbed ‘Numbers That Matter’, it tells the customer’s story of real life meaning behind the financial services solutions they have received from NCBA Bank. Numbers that Matter is anchored in the fundamentals of the NCBA brand – the spirit of “Go For it” and centers the customer’s take, with authentic life moments that happened because they pursued their ambitions. The three outstanding things about the Numbers That Matter campaign include: “We remain committed to keeping our promise to help our customers Go For It.” said John Gachora, Group Chief Executive, NCBA. “The new Numbers That Matter campaign will increase our ability to listen to our customers, building on the bank’s tradition of stability and reinforcing our commitment to offer our customers more choices.” added Gachora “More than ever, we recognize customers want to engage NCBA in different ways, and whichever way they want, they want us to listen. Through the Numbers That Matter campaign, we will reach out to our customer, emphasizing that we are listening and intent on helping them Go For It.”. “The Numbers That Matter is more than an advertising campaign. It's a culture shift initiative.” said Rosalind Gichuru, Group Director; Marketing Communications and Citizenship, NCBA. “Through this initiative, we bring to life small yet simple actions and behavior that customers can appreciate while interacting with the NCBA brand. The Numbers That Matter campaign has rolled out in the Kenyan market and is scheduled to do so at various times within the year across the other NCBA markets in the region. NCBA’s brand spirit Go For It was rolled out in October 2019 and the regional bank has since focused on enhancing the customers’ experience through supporting their ambitions. The Numbers That Matter television brand film was released as part of the campaign launch. The release of the product films will be done sequentially in Quarter 2 of 2021. However, NCBA customers can expect to immediately share in the excitement of the Numbers That Matter campaign by participating in an immediate online launch experience dubbed “Behind The Numbers, The Code”. Customers will have a chance to win gifts by finding the significance in a few special numbers featured on the NCBA’s campaign microsite.