Tusker FC's Kenya Premier League encounter against defending champions Gor Mahia on December 16 last year was billed as a David vs Goliath duel based on the results of previous matches between the two. The brewers, who have eleven league titles to their name, have been on the receiving end of  back-to-back thrashing by the 19-time league champions — the last one being a 5-2 walloping in the 2019/20 season opener. Despite their financial problems and a quorum hitch on the technical bench, K’Ogalo were heavy pre-match favourites going by their impressive head-to-head record against Tusker. However, just like the Biblical story, it was the 19-year-old rookie, who struck the killer blow to the 'Green Army' to end Tusker's almost three-year wait for victory over their bitter rivals. Henry Meja’s expertly taken second half goal was all the Ruaraka-based club needed to silence Gor as Tusker walked away 2-1 winners. The goal flipped the script and almost all Kenyan football fans now know  Meja as a fleet-footed striker and one of Kenya’s brightest football teenagers — and not as the younger brother of former Thika United left back Sammy Meja. Unbeknown to many, Meja has enjoyed a trophy-laden career in his short stint as a footballer. The youngster  made a name for himself after scooping the Most Valuable Player (MVP) gong during the 2019 edition of the Cleophas Malala Super Cup in a Lihrembe Arsenal shirt, attracting interest from suitors in the top and second-tier clubs. His move to the brewers was still a surprise, which felt like a wrong one owing to his league inexperience and the stiff competition for playing time he would face from the senior forwards at the club. There was little or no fanfare when Tusker took to their social media pages to announce the arrival of Meja in January last year. Very few had been heard and written of the rookie while in Tusker colours until he came off the bench to notch in the winner against Gor as he registered his first league goal. Meja hasn't looked back after the goal and has gone to etch himself as a key player in Robert Matano’s squad by scoring goals for fun. His latest was a winner as the brewers brushed aside Zoo Kericho 2-1 in a Saturday afternoon league fixture to continue their impressive start to the 2020/21 season. Nonetheless, as the old adage goes, ‘sometimes it is the little things that make  the difference', Meja’s goal against Gor remains his  best moment. The national U20 Rising Stars' striker considers his rather short football journey a success. "I regard my football journey a successful one thus far having won the nationals with Kakamega High School and claimed the Malala Cup twice. However, scoring my first league goal against Gor remains my best moment in football," he says. The second last born in a family of eleven credits his incredible rise from primary school football to the country's creme de la creme football competition to his elder brother Sammy , who is one of Tusker's reliable left back and an Harambee Stars' trialist. His parents, Alfred and Fridah Meja, influenced him to drop rugby — his first love — to fully concentrate on football. It is  a choice he says is paying dividends and has no regrets about. "My brother Sammy and Dad, who was a footballer in his youthful years, encouraged me to take up football seriously. When I was a young boy, Sammy used to take me training so that I may be close to the game. I used to carry his boots and within a short time, I developed interest in the game. I also played rugby in primary school but the influence from my family helped me to choose football over the former. Playing football has helped me give my parents a decent life and together with Sammy, we have been paying school fees for our last born," he narrates. Rarely do players who hone their skills at Kakamega High School grapple to get offers in the league and beyond and Meja's case wasn't different. Having excelled in the school games and at the same time in a regional tournament while in school, top clubs were salivating for his signature in advance. Many were itching to get the business done once he had wrapped up his studies in December 2019.  However, it is Tusker who had the last laugh after acquiring his signature, a move which he says the club did not break sweat to make it happen as donning the yellow shirt and playing alongside his brother was his dream. " Tusker was my dream team since my days in high school and it wasn't a tough choice to make. I trained with them for a day and I was fully convinced that I would settle there with ease. Sammy also inspired me to join and his presence helped me settle in faster and focus on helping the team achieve the set goals.The rest of the team were also welcoming and have been guiding me to become a better player every day," he reveals. Unlike the past where Tusker had a penchant for poaching proven goal players, coach Matano's dalliance with young players in the recent years and his advice were essential to his meteoric rise. The club has adopted a policy of promoting two outstanding players every season from their youth team to the senior team. "Coach Matano told me to stick to the basics and avoid playing to prove a point. His advice and patience with me helped me adapt to the league and everyday, I try as much as I can to repay the faith," he adds. With five goals thus far this season, Meja who considers Kariobangi Sharks centre half Kuol Chol as the toughest defender he has ever faced in the league, says the success hasn't gotten to his head. The Arsenal die hard fan, who earned his maiden call up to the U20 in October last year when the team was gearing up for the Cecafa Championships, harbours dreams of scaling up to the U23 Emerging Stars and the senior team. "I am aware there are talks making rounds to the effect I have the potential to be the next big thing but I am fully focused on achieving my targets. I want to find the back of the net at least 15 times this season and work extra harder for my long term dreams, which include playing in the U23 and the senior team," he says. Besides establishing himself in the national teams, Meja envisages launching his professional career soon after his stay at Tusker lapses. " I want to last in the FKF PL for only two years. I believe by that time I will be ripe for European football," he discloses. Considered a successful rookie, Meja says the only challenge he has faced in his journey is lack of boots in his formative years. He counsels his peers and those behind him to embrace discipline and hard work.  Bio Name -Henry Atola Meja Date of birth 21/12/2001 Weight 72 Kgs Favorite dish- Ugali& Fish Favourite club-Arsenal Toughest defender in the league- Kuol Chol  Education -Shiseno Primary School 2004-2012 -Shikokha Secondary School 2013-2015 -Sirakaru Secondary School 2015-2017 -Kakamega High School 2017-2019  Achievements -Won KSSSA Nationals with Kakamega High School in 2018 -Won Cleophas Malala super Cup with Lihrembe Arsenal 2018/2019  and Golden Boot award (both years) after scoring 12 goals -Joined Tusker in February 2020 -Handed maiden call to the Rising Stars team in October 2020 -Scored first league goal in January 2021