Women leaders in four Nyanza counties have been forced back to the drawing board on seats they will vie for in 2022 General Election after release of the BBI report. The report proposes the seat of the Woman Representative as well as nomination, which mostly favours women in both National Assembly and Senate, be scrapped. It instead proposes creation of 94 senators comprising one man and one woman elected in each of the 47 counties while it calls for the governor and deputy to be of opposite gender. Migori Woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo and her Homa Bay counterpart Gladys Wanga have started campaigns to be the next governor in their respective counties. Governor Okoth Obado of Migori and Homa Bay’s Cyprian Awiti are set to retire after serving their second terms. Speaking on Monday to the Star, Siaya Woman Representative Christine Ombaka said they are back to the drawing board and have mapped out their future as the referendum changes have women at heart. She said in Siaya most seats are pre-negotiated and she looks to take a stab best-placed seat. Ombaka said she is still consulting widely either to vie for Siaya female senator, be the next governor to replace Amoth Rasanga who retires in 2022, be the deputy governor of the county, speaker or even Gem MP. “Right now my options are open and I am laying strategy on the best option and launch my campaigns later,” she said. Migori first Woman representative and currently a nominated MP Dennitah Ghati said she will be in the ballot for the female senate. Ghati, even before the report was proposed, was already mobilizing grassroots and Orange House support to regain her seat which she lost to Odhiambo in last polls. “My eyes and focus are firmly rooted on the seat of the female senator. Kenyans decided to scrap the seat of Woman Representative but none has been lost,” Ghati said. Kisumu county Woman Representative Rosa Buyu is said to have kept her cards close to her chest, with her team weighing for her to vie for Kisumu West MP seat which she lost to Olago Oluoch in 2013 General Election. She is said to also consider the female senator seat. In Homa Bay county, Suba North MP Millie Mabona who is serving her second term has left voters guessing on her next political move if she will either defend her seat or move to a county position. Nick Oluoch, a communication lecturer at Kisii University, told the Star BBI has forced the ODM party and female leaders to make drastic changes. “In Siaya, Migori and Homa Bay where all governors will leave after serving their second terms the Woman Representative stands a chance to make the region produce the first female governors; most have seized the moment,” he said. He said Raila will be forced to lead negotiations in most seats and is lucky as there are more options to prevent fallout.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris