A Bungoma assembly ad-hoc team has handed over four reports recommending the expansion and creation of new municipalities. The nine-member team was appointed by Transport CS James Macharia after Governor Wycliffe Wangamati in 2019 wrote to the CS requesting the delineation of boundaries of four urban centres in the county. Wangamati had proposed the creation of Webuye and Chwele municipalities and the expansion of the boundaries of Bungoma and Kimilili municipalities. “The report shall be brought before the cabinet, then taken to the county assembly for approval before forwarding to the Cabinet Secretary for his nod,” the governor said. Wangamati said that by the end of February, the new municipalities shall have been gazetted and their board constituted. “As a result of the new municipalities and expanded boundaries, Bungoma county will benefit from grants earmarked for urban infrastructure and development on the strength of its increasing urban population,” he said. The county chief said with the expanded boundaries, the county will improve infrastructure in satellite wards like Kabula and Musikoma, among others within the municipality. According to the reports, Webuye Municipality with an estimated population of 146,579 sitting on 179.5km² will cover 16 sub-locations. They are Maraka, Nang’eni, Matulo, Township, Lugulu, Malaha, Mitukuyu, Mihuu, Kituni, Sirisia, Misikhu, Mukhe, Nambani, Sirende, Marinda and Magemo. Chwele Municipality will cover 12 sub-locations with a population of 110,554 covering 178.7km². The sub-locations are Chwele, Kibichori, Mukuyuni, Sichei, Sikulu, North Nalondo, Sikusi, Mukhweya, Central Namwela, Kolani, Sibumba, and South Namwela. The new boundaries for Bungoma Municipality will cover 22 sub-locations with a population of 269,764 sitting on 274.7km². They include Bungoma Township, Khalaba, Namamuka, Namasanda, Samoya, Sio, South Kanduyi, Tuuti, Mayanja, Kisiwa, West Nalondo, Nangwe, Ndengelwa, Ranje, West Sang’alo, Namwacha, Kabula, Watoya, Mateka, Muanda, Ng’oli and Mayanja. In Kimilili, the new boundaries will cover 18 sub-locations with a population of 162,038 sitting on 179.5km². They are Bituyu, Kimilili Township, Khamulati, Kimilili Rural, Kibingei, Kitayi, Chebukwabi, Kamusinga, Kibisi, Sikhendu, Kamasielo, Nasusi, Kimakwa, Musembe, Nabikoto, Makhonge, Mapera and Mbongi.  