KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno has admitted that he is hard pressed to meet the target set by his employer for the new season. The veteran tactician joined the bankers in 2019, a couple of years after they gained promotion to the top tier following an impressive season in the National Super League. Prior to joining the club, Zico had served as assistant coach for close to three years at reigning champions Gor Mahia. At K'Ogalo, he gained vast experience having been part of the team that clinched the back-to-back league and reached the quarter finals of the CAF Confederation Cup after qualifying for the tournament for the second year in a row. Although Zico was cagey with the details on the targets, impeccable sources indicate that the management expect nothing short of a podium finish from him and his charges. "Of course there are set targets. My employer made clear their expectations prior to the start of the season," said Zico. The bankers have already made their intentions to clinch the league quite clear, having kicked off the season with a bang after registering six consecutive wins against highly-rated rivals. They began their campaign with a convincing 3-0 win over Posta Rangers and never looked back until last Sunday when their unbeaten run was brought to an abrupt halt by 13-time KPL champions AFC Leopards who edged them 2-1 at MISC, Kasarani. Zico says the disappointment is now behind them as they seek to spring back to their triumphant ways. "That match is now behind us. We noted some shortcomings which we are working on before our next encounter,"he said. KCB are favourites to see off Western Stima in their next assignment at Afraha Stadium on Sunday and Zico believes his charges will redeem themselves in the tie. They sit pretty at the top of KPL summit on 21 points from seven matches. Zico said he wasn't keen on bolstering his squad with new signings in the second player transfer window that begins on  January 25. "The transfer market has arrived too soon. We only had the first one the other day. We are not planning to go for any new signings unless we spot an exceptional player," said Zico.