Wazito FC striker Clinton Okoth is down with a serious illness that threatens to curtail his vibrant career if he is not given urgent medical attention. In an interview, Okoth revealed that he has been bed-ridden at his house in Buruburu Phase III after his right ankle began swelling mysteriously a week ago. He added that the condition has deteriorated with medics unable to diagnose the genesis of the malady. The 19-year-old industrious forward, who joined the money-bags from Kenyan champions Gor Mahia during the last transfer window, says he is slowly sinking into depression over uncertainties about his career. "I'm confused. I don't know what's really happening to me. I had trained the entire week hoping to feature in our next match against Nairobi City Stars at Utalii Grounds but unfortunately my right leg began swelling mysteriously. I've been attended to, by medical doctors who have been unable to diagnose the problem," said a dejected Okoth. "I've been to hospital but the situation is yet to be corrected. I've now decided to travel upcountry to seek help from traditional medicine men because conventional therapy seems not to work," he added. Okoth romped to limelight during the 2018/2019 National Super League season when he was leading the scorers' chart by mid-season, after netting 15 goals for Nyanza-based side Migori Youth FC. His impressive run caught the attention of Gor Mahia scouts who drafted him to the team. He, however, struggled to make a good impression of his abilities at K'Ogalo, hardly coming off the bench in league matches. At that time, the Gor were teeming with quality talent in the attacking front in the likes of Jacques Tuyisenge, Samuel Onyango and Lawrence Juma, who has since moved to Sofapaka dominating the starting line-up. Wazito, who currently sit fourth on the KPL log after round seven matches, have won three encounters, played out to two draws and lost twice. Their strikers have struggled to find the back of the net, only managing to score six goals in all their matches.