Chelsea’s new recruits need time to develop an understanding with the rest of their teammates and a congested fixture list amid the Covid-19 pandemic has not helped the process, striker Tammy Abraham said. Chelsea spent heavily in the close season to bring in the likes of midfielder Kai Havertz, forward Timo Werner, defender Ben Chilwell and winger Hakim Ziyech but the London club sit ninth in the Premier League with 26 points from 17 games. Germany international Werner is among those who have come in for sharp criticism due to a dip in form after failing to score in his last 12 games in all competitions, but Abraham said all of Chelsea’s new signings need time to settle. “We have hardly had any time to train together and to work out how each other play so we’re just taking every day as it comes at the moment,” Abraham told Chelsea’s website. “Every game we play, we’re learning new things about each other. I’m starting to understand them more and they’re starting to understand me more so hopefully we drive each other and be the best we can be.” Chelsea, who have lost four of their last six league games, take on Morecambe in the FA Cup third round on Sunday before a league trip to Fulham on January 15. Meanwhile, Crystal Palace captain Luka Milivojevic has apologised for breaching coronavirus rules after attending a New Year’s Eve party. The 29-year-old Serbia midfielder was pictured at a gathering with at least seven other people. At the time, London was under tier four Covid-19 restrictions, in which households could not mix. “I want to publicly apologise for my actions on New Year’s Eve,” said Milivojevic. “As captain of Crystal Palace Football Club, I am fully aware that my responsibilities go beyond football, and that in this instance I have let the fans, the club, my manager and team-mates down. “In what is a really difficult and challenging moment for everyone, I am truly grateful that I am able to continue to do the job I love and I do not take this for granted. I am very sorry to anyone who has been made to feel angry, hurt or upset by my actions. “I am making a donation to the local NHS service to help them continue their incredible work in our community fighting this virus.”