The Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) will reward those with credible information about unfair trade practices with Sh1 million. In a public notice, the competition watchdog said the Informant Reward Scheme targets persons with credible intelligence regarding restrictive trade practices, mainly cartel-like conduct. He added that “cartels, who harm consumers through impeding choice, innovation and increasing prices, flourish under a veil of secrecy. The authority said the informant's identity will be treated in confidence. Some of the unethical trade dealings cited by the authority include agreements between undertakings to fix purchase and selling prices, maintenance of minimum resale prices, controlling production levels and market allocation, and collusive tendering. The scope of the programme also extends to misrepresentation and safety of products, abuse of dominance, abuse of buyer power, mergers and acquisitions implemented without approval, and unconscionable conduct. The reward scheme comes five years after the regulator designed a Special Compliance Process (SCP) to encourage trade associations to conduct a critical self-assessment of their rules and practices in order to identify any potential anticompetitive conduct in 2015. The SCP grants associations a chance to streamline their operations and adhere to the competition law. It is aimed at addressing and resolving inadvertent contraventions of the competition law and foster better practices in the future. The competition body set a penalty of $107,526 (slightly above Sh10 million) or imprisonment of up to five years for entities or individuals found engaging in restrictive trade practices. Besides pushing up the cost of products for consumers, unfair trade practices also deny the government revenue. Unfair trade practices which are still rampant in East Africa prompting member countries to form a regional competition authority to create a conducive investment climate, free of unfair competition practices and also promote intellectual property rights in the region. In 2016, EAC appointed five commissioners to the East African Community Competition Authority (EACCA). It is an independent organ of EAC but subject to judicial review by the East Africa Court of Justice (EACJ). It is mandated to develop appropriate procedures for public sensitisation, consultation and participation. It also provides information to citizens and businesses on competition whereas consultation involves asking stakeholders for comments and advice regarding the Authority’s enforcement practice and on matters it intends to regulate.