Bidco United head coach Anthony Akhulia has downplayed the looming exit of former national U-23 forward Piston Mutamba as a blow to his plans. Akhulia revealed that the towering striker quietly jetted out yesterday to Libya to finalise his move to an unspecified club. However, the youthful tactician said his exit will not be felt as it is a blessing in disguise to his understudies who were starved of playing time. Mutamba joined the Thika-based club at the start of the season after being on the receiving end of the August purge at Wazito, which swept more than ten players. The Kakamega High School alumnus who has a number of Harambee Stars caps under his belt was conspicuously missing when Bidco fell 2-1 to Wazito two weeks ago and was unavailable during their last weekend 2-0 loss to Kakamega Homeboyz. With the transfer window set to open next month, Akhulia will in the meantime rely on the quartet of  of Steven Waruru, Erick Gichimu, Nelson Chieta who is the club top scorer so far  and David Orem for goals. "We wish him well as he pursues his dream to play abroad, specifically in Libya. He had his time with us and I believe he leaves a better striker than he joined us. "His exit does not necessarily mean we will struggle to score goals as the remaining forwards are talented enough to fill in his shoes. "This is also an opportunity for the other players who did not enjoy sufficient playing time in the past rounds to show what they can do on the pitch," said the former player at the club. While Akhulia acknowledged that the former Sofapaka man was in his future plans, he revealed plans to sign more forwards in a bid to win matches convincingly. The league debutants have found life relatively tough in the elite league, collecting maximum points once in ten rounds, a run which Akhulia attributes to poor finishing. The club is ranked fifteenth with eight points. "We have registered more draws than wins and this means we would be among the top teams if we had clinical finishers. We are creating open chances in every match but our finishing has been wanting thus I will need fresh blood upfront."