Anne Kananu was sworn-in as the first female Deputy Governor of Nairobi on Friday afternoon. While giving her first speech, Kananu said she will work tirelessly and together with the Nairobi Metropolitan Service boss Major General Mohammed Badi to ensure all transferred functions are further strengthened to ensure services are delivered. "Together we will work round the clock to ensure expectations of Nairobi people are not only met but exceeded in a bid to accelerate the social and economic sector bringing development to our beautiful city," she said. Kananu was vetted in the morning and her name was passed in the assembly unopposed by MCAs. Kananu was vetted in the morning  by a 10-member Select committee on  Appointments team led by Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Guyo as the vice chair. Reliable leader The MCAs described Kananu as a reliable leader. Minority Deputy Whip Moses Ogeto said she was up to the task and qualified to serve as the deputy governor of Nairobi. Nominated MCA Emily Oduor said Kananu has demonstrated her commitment while serving as a chief officer in the Disaster department. "The Deputy Governor nominee is a reliable person. She always receives our calls at night whenever an area in Nairobi encounters a disaster especially on fires and matters are solved," she said. While calling upon the assembly to approve Kananu's name, Guyo said there was no time for a by-election, urging those eyeing for the seat to wait for 2022. " I want to tell those preparing for the position of the Governor that there will be no by elections in Nairobi..." Kananu is  also looking forward to becoming Governor subsequent to her installation as Deputy Governor. However, Guyo  said Kananu could not assume the position of governor until an ongoing court case that had been filed by former Governor Mike Sonko is determined. “Kananu at the moment cannot assume the office of the Governor due to ongoing cases. We shall have to wait for the court ,” he said. To ensure that both the executive and legislative sides of the county government are running, Kananu committed to create a good rapport with the assembly. However, she is no stranger in the assembly as she has been the Chief officer for Disaster and management for the past three years and appeared before assembly committees when called upon. "I extend my working hand to the county assembly leadership with whom we shall together work to ensure operations in the county are running," she said. In addition, Kananu expressed her gratitude to the Jubilee Party led by President Uhuru Kenyatta for having faith in her to serve in the position. At the same time she also thanked her former boss Mike Sonko for nominating her as the Deputy Governor. Sonko  nominated  her to the position on January 6, 2020.