Thirdway Alliance party is urging President Uhuru Kenyatta to rescind some of the Covid-19 containment measures which have become an obstacle to the economic recovery. The party said in a statement on Saturday that it is time to open the economy and to let Kenyans breathe and earn the sweat of their brow. It said that, “The whole nation is economically fractured and calling for the containment knee on their necks to be lifted, now, before it is too late.” “We are calling on the President to, urgently, remove this knee that is pressing hard on the throats of Kenyans. Let Kenyans breathe normally and let them do what they know best – earning an honest living free of these discriminative, impoverishing, and suffocating restrictions,” the statement reads. The party has claimed that Covid-19 containment and attendant protocols have become part of day to day living and its mortality rate can be managed. “The mortality rate of Covid-19 at 1700, as compared to that of Malaria at almost 10,000 Kenyans annually, gives us a sigh of confidence that it is containable and manageable under an even more eased environment and free economy.” Further, the party has argued that politicians continue to operate normally and in total disregard of the containment measures, yet the restrictions including a night curfew are still in place. “With the BBI and early 2022 campaigns taking a heightened political turn, we see rallies bringing thousands together without any consideration to the established protocols.” It added that the legitimate businesses must be allowed to thrive freely and like they did during the pre-Covid time. “Interestingly, bank loans and charges have also been reinstated to what they were, while other reliefs granted to the people have also been removed.” The president and his deputy William Ruto including ODM leader Raila Odinga have been at the forefront drumming up support for BBI and 2022 campaigns despite the executive order issued banning such gatherings for 60 days. Earlier this month, the president issued an executive order extending some of the containment measures. Uhuru said that all forms of public events and gatherings which may act as ‘super spreader’ events for the virus, including political and roadside gatherings/meetings, shall remain suspended for the next 60 days. The nationwide curfew will continue to be enforced between 10 pm and 4 am daily. The executive order was to ensure that the eco-system is manageable as children reopened schools.