Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang’ata should resign from the post if he cannot sell the Building Bridges Initiative agenda, Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has said. Mwathi said Kang’ata’s office is well supported to lead the BBI process and he should quit if he can’t do the job. The MP was reacting to a viral letter allegedly written by Kang’ata to President Uhuru Kenyatta suggesting the BBI process was headed for a spectacular failure in Mt Kenya. Kang’ata on Monday distanced himself from the letter. Mwathi said Kang'ata has shown the country that he cannot be trusted to fulfil the duties of his office. The lawmaker said Kang'ata's move was an indication that he has joined the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee Party that is rooting for Deputy President William Ruto's bid for the Presidency. "The leader has shown the President that he cannot lead; he has lost touch with people and cannot sell the document," Mwathi said. He urged Mt Kenya residents to concentrate on the benefits of the BBI changes since some leaders might mislead them in their decision-making. He said the BBI provides for fair governance of the country, better revenue allocation, distribution of resources and inclusive representation. "Some politicians in Central have taken the BBI [process] to do politics of 2022. This is very unfortunate" Mwathi said. "Our counties have over one million people and there are other counties which have fewer than five hundred thousand people and we get the same revenue allocation." This is where one man, one vote, one shilling, campaign is; we shall ensure resources are distributed as per the population, Mwathi said. He spoke while issuing Sh29,966,000 bursary cheques to parents and head teachers of 7,336 students in the constituency. Limuru deputy county commissioner Charles Mukele, constituency CDF chairman Waweru wa Njathi, manager Laboso Chepng'eno and Limuru East MCA Ngige Karuga were present. Karuga asked people to support all elected leaders to deliver on their mandate. He criticised leaders who keep insulting President Kenyatta and others to score cheap political points.  (edited by o. owino)