These stories told by parents about back to school would be really funny - if they didn't also have a troubling side. After nine months of closure and in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, parents narrate 'amusing' incidents from young and older learners alike on schools' reopening. We've rounded up some 'hilarious' posts and parents' interviews about Day One: In a post that went viral on Twitter, a user identified as Mohamed Wahliye narrated how his niece came back with a different mask from the one she wore to school in the morning. “She told her mum she didn't like hers & she swapped it with Angela! With a straight face,” the tweet reads. The tweet has gained traction with social media users giving their reactions and observations on observance of Covid  protocols. Sam Mwenda17 narrates his kindergarten son's experience. He tweets, “My son in PP2 resumed school today for the first time post-Covid-19 and all they did today was learn the Covid precautionary measures. I just went to pick him from school and found him sharing a lollipop with his friend." Another user, @ iDismas, replying to the tweet, said, “Well, at least amerudi na mask [he is back with a mask], my nephew is back na anasema ako njaa [he is hungry]. Can’t ask about mask because one of the shoelaces is missing.” @BlazeCassidy said, “I am waiting for my backbencher son, because I think I will have him take a bath at the doorstep.” A sarcastic comment from Ba Mdogo noted the list of noisemakers will now be replaced by the list of those without masks. Tweep with username Philosopher replied to Mohamed Wehliye, “Another one here is telling us  how they wore masks when the teacher is in class. "Akitoka watu wanatoa masks. She's already bored, eti kesho hataki kwenda shule.” Others commented how students will be borrowing masks from classmates so they can go see a teacher in the staffroom. “Bro, nisaidie [help me with your] necktie na mask niende [to go to the] staff-room, this will happen in every school, furthermore they will also share utensils, especially tablespoons." An interviewee told the Star that on jokingly asking his nephew on why he was not wearing his mask in class, the child replied, “Nilikua nimevaa, lakini ilikua tu hapa chini ya mapua.” Loosely translated, "I was wearing it but below my nose." (Edited by V. Graham)