A stand-off looms in the Senate after President Uhuru Kenyatta appears to have reneged on his pledge to allocate Sh370 billion to the counties in 2021-22. Senators have threatened to shoot down anything less than the agreed amount – setting the stage for another a gruelling battle in the senate. Last September, the President, in the company of ODM leader Raila Odinga, promised the senators to give the counties an additional Sh53.5 billion in the next financial year. It sweetened the pot but the Covid-19 pandemic has devastated the economy, making it impossible to come up with the money promised to cash-strapped counties. The pledge – to increase baseline from Sh316.5 billion to Sh370 billion – unlocked the protracted stand-off over the third basis for sharing revenue among the 47 counties. Last week, the commission on revenue allocation recommended Sh316.5 billion as a baseline equitable share with Sh17.02 billion advanced to the devolved units as unconditional grants. In addition,  Sh36.48 billion will be transferred from Ministries, Departments and Agencies to counties for recurrent functions in health, crop development, livestock, fisheries, water, irrigation and sanitation. However, in a Budget Policy Statement (BPS) released by the Treasury on Monday, the government offered a new baseline of Sh326.5 billion – Sh43.5 billion less than amount pledged by the President. on Tuesday, senators were adamant they will not accept anything less than the agreed Sh370 billion as the baseline promised by the President. “The year 2021-22 is the year for the Sh370 billion. Not less. It can only go up. That is the basic minimum that the head of state promised the counties to unlock the stalemate,” said Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula, who co-chaired the 12-member special committee that brokered the deal. The vocal senator added, “Anything less is an abrogation to an agreement but more importantly, a violation of the constitutional provision.” Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, who co-chaired the special team with Wetang'ula, said, “The Sh370 billion is supposed to be equitable share. That is the amount we are stuck at. We will fight.” Senate Majority Chief Whip Irungu Kang'ata reinforced Sakaja’s assertion, saying the Sh370 billion the President promised was equitable share and does not include grants. Minority chief whip and Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said the issue is going to trigger a serious dispute in the Senate. “That matter is going to be very controversial. Extremely so. The Treasury is increasing the baseline by Sh10 billion, from Sh316.5 billion and Sh326.5 billion.  It is very difficult to dissuade anyone that the President’s intention was to do a fix.  It is going to look very bad. It will look terrible,” he said. Mutula asserted the Treasury should bridge the gap between tabling the Division of Revenue Bill so as to avoid a dispute. “We hope that between BPS and tabling of the Division of Revenue Bill we can bridge that gap. Otherwise, you can bet, we are going to have a serious dispute,” Mutula added. In the BPS set to be sent to Parliament for consideration, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani cites dwindling collections occasioned by the coronavirus as the reason it cannot raise Sh370 billion for the devolved units. “Owing to the sustained underperformance in ordinary revenue, now worsened by economic and fiscal repercussions of the Covid-19 pandemic, a 16.9 percent growth in counties’ 2021-22 equitable revenue share allocation is not fiscally achievable,” the draft BPS reads. The contentious county sharing formula had last year split the senators down the middle, with those whose counties were set to ‘lose’ revenue in the proposed formula, vehemently rejecting it. The stand-off was characterized by 10 adjournments, aborted Kamukunjis, arrests, intimidation, bribery claims and blackmail. However, it is the 53 billion pledge by the President that induced a section of aggrieved senators adopt the formula to defer the problem and unlock the release of cash to counties. (Edited by V. Graham)