The Garissa county assembly chambers and MCAs' offices were extensively damaged by fire on Thursday morning. The 8.20am fire started at the assembly chambers before quickly spreading to the adjacent two-storey building housing MCAs' offices as well as committee and staff offices. No injuries were reported. Valuable papers were salvaged. The cause of the fire could not immediately be ascertained but assembly clerk Mohamed Santur said the buildings have had faulty electric power for quite some time. It took the Garissa fire brigade, which is about five kilometres away, about 45 minutes to reach the scene. By then the fire had spread to MCAs' offices. The brigade ran out of water in a few minutes, witnesses said. A KDF water bowser that arrived an hour later could not do much to put out the fire. “The losses so far are huge. At least 40 per cent of the buildings in the compound were damaged," Santur told the Star. "However, most important is that we managed to salvage important documents from both the chambers and the MCAs' offices,” he said. The public tried to help, but the building materials were highly flammable, including carpeting and painted wood. MCAs offices were prefabricated. Several county vehicles parked near the building were salvaged and pushed away from the blaze. The MCAs offices also include offices for 20 assembly committees and staff. Sittings were to resume on February 8, and it was not immediately known where the sessions would be held. Mohamed Abdi, a watchman at nearby shops, said he saw black smoke billowing from the building and ran into the compound to see what was happening. "I found security officers manning the compound frantically trying to put out the fire. I joined them, but we were overwhelmed as the smoke grew thicker, dark and choking,” Abdi said. Boda boda rider Joseph Wambua said it was shocking the five brigade took more than 40 minutes to arrive, though it is only a few kilometres away. “This is not the first time the fire brigade has let us down. What is even more embarrassing is that they ran out of water barely minutes after they arrived. They need to put their house in order,” Wambua said. The fire department, police and other agencies are investigating the cause of the fire. (Edited by V. Graham) 