High Court Judge Said Chitembwe will preside over a bench hearing a case filed against Acting Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu seeking her removal from office. Chitembwe is the same judge who shot to global infamy for freeing a man convicted of defiling a minor. The judge in a decision delivered in April 2016 ruled that the minor appeared willing to have sex with one Martin Charo. Chitembwe will now sit in the bench appointed to determine Mwilu’s case together with Justices Weldon Korir and Roselyne Aburili. Parties in the case appeared in court on Monday for purposes of fixing a date for highlighting their submissions. The matter will now proceed on February 18 and 19. The case will be heard for four hours non-stop. On August 14 last year, Mwilu obtained orders at the High court suspending the hearings filed before the Judicial Service Commission (JSC). The hearings are seeking her ouster. Mwilu had opposed the JSC hearing, saying two of the commissioners - Attorney General Kihara Kariuki and Macharia Njeru - are biased against her. The JSC dismissed the bias claims, so she moved to the High Court, which blocked the hearings. Chief Registrar of Judiciary and secretary of the JSC Anne Amadi has since asked the court to suspend the order stopping the JSC hearings and subsequently strikeout Mwilu’s case. Amadi says Mwilu obtained the August 14 order through non-disclosure of relevant facts that would have enabled the court to make an informed decision. There are currently four cases pending before the Commission seeking Mwilu’s ouster. But according to the documents, Mwilu has never responded to any of them despite being directed to do so on July 8 last year. Amadi says the DCJ has failed to exhaust the dispute resolution mechanism provided in the JSC which receives and investigates complaints against judges. On the issue of striking out Paul Kihara Kariuki and Macharia Njeru from the present proceedings, Amadi says Mwilu has made allegations of bias without providing any proof. Mwilu claimed that the AG by virtue of his office is biased against her and therefore his sitting as a member of the commission in a petition for her removal would prejudice her right to fair administrative action. The allegations Amadi says are unsubstantiated and not backed by any evidence. The commission comprises 11 members among whom are Mwilu and Kihara and Macharia.