AFC Leopards coach Anthony Kimani hailed his players after coming from a goal down to beat KCB 2-1 in a Kenyan Premier League match played at the Kasarani Annex on Sunday. Kimani said the players deserve a pat on the back for the hard-fought win, which saw them end the bankers unbeaten start in the season, having registered wins in their opening six matches. Leopards, who prior to the match had lost twice in succession — to Wazito and Western Stima — had Elvis Rupia to thank as his brace was all what they needed to down KCB. Samuel Mwangi netted KCB’s consolation goal “The boys punched above their weight considering that we had lost our previous two matches. Credit to my players for they fought till the final whistle. KCB had not lost nor conceded in six matches but my players showed character and were psychologically strong throughout the match,” said the former international defender. While Kimani was over the moon following the win, his KCB counterpart Zedekiah ‘Zico’ Otieno was bitter with the two goals conceded. However, the former Gor Mahia defender partially welcomed the result, observing that it would relieve the pressure of maintaining an unblemished run. “It was a tough game and credit goes to the opponent. They gave us a run for our money. However, we somehow gifted them two easy goals. Regardless of the result, we have taken the unbeaten tag off our shoulders and thus we will focus on our next match,” said the former Gor Mahia assistant coach. Elsewhere, at the Utalii grounds, Wazito rallied from a goal down to fry debutants Bidco United 2-1, a result which saw them register four wins in a row. Nelson Chieta had given the Thika-based side the lead but Wazito responded through Dennis Shikayi and second-half substitute Vincent Oburu. Meanwhile, Posta Rangers ended their wait for a win this season after edging Vihiga United 1-0 at the Mumias Sports Complex. The mailmen had not bagged maximum points from the opening seven rounds but William Odero’s second-half goal was all that they needed to take home the three points.