The Nyamira assembly’s Appointments Committee has declared deputy governor nominee James Gesami unsuitable for office and recommended that his nomination be rejected. In their report from Friday’s vetting tabled in the assembly on Tuesday, the team said Gesami presented an expired Certificate of Good Conduct and was not cleared by the Credit Reference Bureau and his party ODM. The party certificate is key for clearance by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. "Following the above stated indecencies, the county assembly of Nyamira, has rejected the appointment of Dr James Gesami as the county deputy governor," said Majority leader Callen Atuya who read the report on behalf of the committee. The veteran politician and former West Mugirango MP was nominated by Governor Amos Nyaribo on January 6. The MCAs were due on Tuesday afternoon to debate and vote to either approve or reject the report of the committee chaired by speaker Moffat Teya. The rejection of Gesami's nomination had been preceded by behind-the-scenes intrigues. The nomination had triggered a split among politicians within the county, amid deep cracks among MCAs. On Sunday, former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mong’are alleged that Teya and three MPs were out to block Gesami from taking office over claims he was old and tired. He said Teya should have recused himself from chairing the Appointments committee if he wanted the deputy governor’s post. Teya denies the claim. There were also reports that key political leaders including top state officers were secretly lobbying for Gesami's approval. In the assembly on Tuesday, Magombo MCA Richard Onyinkwa said there were legal issues that should be considered before they can debate the report. He added that the committee does not have the power to reject the nominee. "When you state that the name has been rejected, then it means you are a god. It also means you have said the governor had no powers to appoint. The term rejection is terminal; it means the person cannot be back at any time. It is better to delete the term rejected and replace it with the term suitable," Onyinkwa said. During the sitting, the matter of whether Teya had an interest in the deputy governor position came up. Ekerenyo MCA Thadeus Nyabaro asked Teya to declare whether he had been interested, a situation that would cause a conflict of interest. But Manga MCA Enock Okero said Nyabaro’s statement should be quashed because it was a rumour. Nominated MCA Hyline Mayaka supported Nyabaro’s demands. "I also had interest in that position and I was barred because I am married in a different county. So the speaker should not have chaired the vetting committee if he had interest in the same position," Mayaka said. Bomwagamo MCA Charles Barongo demanded that Teya makes a statement on the matter so that he can be investigated. "Whether it was a rumour or an allegation, the speaker should come out clear on this and let us know it right here; the speaker is here," Barongo said. Teya, however, denied the allegations. "Honourable members, I am the speaker of the assembly and I chair the Appointments committee. I wish to confirm to the house that I am not interested, I was not interested and I will not be interested at any time for the position," Teya said.   (edited by o. owino)