Mozzart Bet Company has donated medical equipment worth millions to various health centres mostly located in the Eastlands area of Nairobi. Being part of its ongoing Corporate Social Responsibility initiative named “Supporting Our Healthcare Facilities”, major health centres across the city received a donation worth Sh 14.5 million of medical equipment. The initiative is aimed at supporting healthcare facilities around the country with necessary medical equipment. Kayole 1 and 2 health centres each received medical equipment worth Sh1.5 million to boost services. Equipment donated included patient monitors, incubators, oxygen concentrators, patient beds with Macintosh mattresses, bedside lockers, foetal scanning machines, foetal doppler equipment, digital baby and adult weighing scales. The similar equipment was donated to Mama Lucy Kibaki hospital at Sh3 million. Being the main hospital in Eastlands, Mama Lucy is currently being upgraded to a Level 5 facility by NMS. Mama Lucy acting medical superintendent Dr Essam Said Ahmed said the equipment will assist the facility which is currently functioning as a 24/7 hospital. Last month equipment amounting to Sh10 million was donated to four other health centres including Kahawa West health centre, Mathare North health centre Ngara health centre among others outside the capital. Out of the Sh10 million, Pumwani Maternity got goods worth Sh3 million, a specialized Continuous Positive Airway Pressure therapy machine worth Sh400,000 which was donated last week. The machine is used to help a person who has obstructive sleep apnea breathe more easily during sleep. A CPAP machine increases air pressure in the throat so that the airway doesn't collapse when a patient breathes in. With the new equipment, it is expected that patients visiting the facilities will go up across Nairobi. Records from City Hall in 2019 revealed that deliveries at Pumwani Maternity Hospital doubled from 11,169 to 19,267 per year an increment of 42 per cent. At Mbagathi Hospital, the number of patients recorded in the outpatient department rose from 98,471 in June 2017 to 113,916, an increment of 14 per cent. At Mama Lucy Hospital, the number of patients increased to 314,000 from 214,150 in 2017, marking a 32 per cent rise. In the financial year, 2019-20 Nairobi's health sector was allocated Sh7.4 billion, with at least Sh400,000,000 million meant to upgrade community health centres. This was a partnership between Nairobi county government, private organizations and community health centres to enhance service delivery, According to City Hall, the upgrade was to include the acquisition of more equipment and enhance the capacity to handle more patients. With the health sector now under NMS, it is expected that two newly constructed hospitals will be opened across informal settlements. Already, a health centre is up and running at the Green park terminus whose construction works is ongoing. “For once we have a functioning health centre within the city centre that can be accessible by commuters‚” NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris