The Machakos senatorial campaigns over the weekend took a different turn with candidates urging voters to consider one's education and experience. Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Mutua Katuku on Sunday said he was the best candidate because of his academic qualifications, job experience and global connections. He has previously served as MP for Mwala for 10 years between 1998 and 2007. “Elect me for better services and accelerated development. I am well educated and I have the experience and networks both nationally and internationally to get more resources to Machakos county,” Katuku said Mwala Catholic Church faithful. Born in 1965, Katuku holds an MA in Sociology from Kenyatta University and a BA Arts in Social Work from the University of Nairobi. He has held various positions in government, including serving as Minister for Water and Irrigation between 2006 and 2007. Katuku urged residents to remain peaceful during the campaigns. He said a senator’s work isn’t to fight with the governor but to work harmoniously with the county boss to achieve development. Katuku promised to work with all leaders, including MCAs, MPs and Governor Alfred Mutua for development. He criticised some of his competitors whom he said were not well educated and lacked the experience to serve as a lawmaker. "I am the right man for the job," he said. Wiper candidate Agnes Kavindu slammed her opponents, saying they were taking  advantage of her academic qualifications. She addressed the public at Katani Primary School in Mavoko constituency on Sunday. Kavindu said the Senate doesn’t require a person who will get there only to sleep during sessions. "Such a person won’t deliver," she said. She said her ex-husband Johnson Muthama had groomed her to be a professor in politics. Muthama is a former Machakos senator. Kavindu urged the electorate to vote for her, saying she is a born-again Christian who is also serving as a priest. "I have no lust. I only want to lead." Kavindu, Katuku and United Democratic Alliance’s Urbanus Ngengele remain the frontrunners. The by-election is scheduled for March 18. Ngengele traversed Masinga constituency over the weekend. He was with interim party chairman Johnson Muthama. Eighteen candidates, including six independents, have been cleared by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission to run.