A certain man got paid and immediately transferred the money to his M-Pesa. He then went to a hole in a wall somewhere to quench his thirst. There he met a girl, bought her a few drinks and ended up at her house. This was on a Friday evening. He emerged on Monday morning without a penny. Girl had to give him bus fare to his place of work. At work, he told his colleagues about his weekend. He said he slept on the whitest of sheets and girl peeled her tomatoes, unlike his wife who chopped them up, skin and all. Girl was apparently kind to him. So kind that she managed to take, well he gave her all his money. He could not wait until the end of the month (for his next salary) to see girl again. He claimed she had bewitched him. I say he is just a daft man. We used to be told women bewitch men and take all their money or worse still, steal them from their wives. Men play along and claim not to know what overcame them, saying they find themselves giving these strange women all their worldly belongings. This is a scam that sits on the same bench as pyramid schemes. These are just men who suffer from an inferiority complex. You see a woman you do not think you can have. You only have the balls to approach her when your wallet is full. You have something to prove. So of course when she asks, nay demands, for money, you keep giving. You cannot say no because you approached her with the ability to fulfil any cash needs she or the country at large might have. She holds you to it and when you cannot meet your end of the bargain, she changes. She becomes vile and scornful. The worse she treats you, the more you want to prove yourself. You go out and work harder. You come back with more money. It is sad really. This is a mental issue. No one bewitched you. It is not sustainable to attempt to use witchcraft on you. Listen, I also used to believe in women bewitching men. It is more palatable than “the man you are married to is a mongoose who has no problem leaving you and his children hungry, maybe even homeless, to prove that his penis works”. If we were really able to bewitch men at will, why would we choose these ones with small money? Also why only one? The economies of scale needs to come into play. I mean if I could, I think I would have a ranch of rich, handsome and tall men to do my bidding. Self-esteem is at an all-time low, especially in many men. Most only find their voices when they have money. There are women who have studied their own version of psychology and know how to challenge this breed of men to gain. The scale is always tipped in the woman’s favour. She has no feelings for the man. She knows his weakness and has no mercy. It is usually very embarrassing for the man when he comes out the loser and it is easier to call her a witch than to admit he is a fool. Dear wives, there is no witchcraft, some men just prefer to be treated badly, which could be the secret to a happy marriage for you. It makes them want to give you all their money or even do the dishes. So if you find out your husband is taking all his earnings to a woman or if you hear he washes dishes in her house while in yours he does not even know if you have a kitchen or not, you may be too nice to him. Stop praying, break your fast you are starving for nothing and take the pastor off speed dial. That one is used to rough treatment. I promise you, that woman is not nice to him. Cheza kama wewe and sharpen your claws as well, that man is turned on by mistreatment. Be the witch in his life.