Kenya Commercial Bank's Rwandese import Ernestine Akimanizanye believes Kenya's dominance in continental volleyball in Africa is down to experience and the combative attitude of the players. The setter — one of the seven signings brought into the team this season — added that the Kenya Volleyball Federation league is intense and players hack it due to their world-class levels of endurance. "The Kenya Volleyball League is at a different level from the Rwandese top-flight because of its competitive nature. The game is fast and you have to be on top of your game for you to earn a position," said the 26-year old who was scouted in 2018 during the Africa Club Championship in Egypt. "In Rwanda, we are used to a slow-paced and dull kind of game yet the sport has come off age on the continent." She added: "Kenyans can play for a long time during a match and that's why they have been so prevalent on the continent alongside Cameroon. Kenyan players are also used to energetic foods and are physically fit." Akimanizanye turned out for Rwanda Revenue Authority before moving to KCB and is part of the Rwanda national team. At KCB, she competes for starting role with 18-year old Immaculate Nekesa. Akimanizanye said KCB, under the guidance of experienced coach Japheth Munala, has the quality to compete on all fronts. "I love the competition at KCB both at a personal and team level. The relationship between the players is mutual. With the resources at the club, we can justify our quality by winning the KVF title and battle with clubs for the continental gong," she said. Akimanizanye said she has been transformed since moving to KCB and it will be a dream come true to play against a Rwandan team in the near future. "My game has moved to another level and I can only get better. It will be great to come up against one of the Rwanda teams in the near future. I actually wish to meet my former employers," she said. KCB play  Kenya Defence Forces and Kenya Pipeline in the second leg of the KVF league this weekend at Nyayo Stadium.