A former KDF officer who was arrested last week in connection with defrauding recruits was arraigned in Kerugoya where he denied all the five counts levelled against him. Robert Maina Marichu denied the alleged fraud in two separate incidents within Kirinyaga and Nyeri counties. The suspect with another not before the court is alleged to have obtained  Sh212,000 from Susan Wanjiku on the promise he would help her two children — Martin Ndegwa and Winnie Ndegwa — secure placements at the KDF. He allegedly committed the offence in Kagumo village, Kirinyaga county between January 23 to February 4. The ex-navy officer, 35, is further accused of forging KDF calling letters and uttering fake documents. In the second charge, Marichu also denied having swindled Wilson Karuiru, a Kirinyaga Central resident, Sh50,000 to help him secure employment at the Kenya Defence Forces. "On diverse dates between February 13, 2021 and February 16, with intent to defraud jointly with another not before the court, obtained from Wilson Karuiru Sh50,000 falsely by pretending that you had the capacity to employ him in the Kenya Defence Forces as a recruit," read the charge sheet. The accused through his lawyer pleaded for reasonable cash bail as he promised not to interfere with witnesses. He also requested the court to order for the release of some of his properties that had been confiscated. Chief principal magistrate Erick Wambo granted the accused a Sh200,000 bond and a surety of a similar amount or a cash bail of Sh100,000 under the first charge while under the second, he was ordered to pay a Sh30,000 cash bail or Sh50,000 bond. Wambo further ordered for the release of the accused's vehicle, an ATM and his identity card. However, the investigation department requested the holding of his three cell phones as the probe continues. The case will be mentioned on March 8. Earlier, the accused had requested the court to bar the media from covering his case saying it is infringing on his right to privacy. However, the court overruled his request. Kirinyaga Central DCIO Samuel Agutu told the media that the accused's documents indicated that he served in the KDF under the navy department from 2007 to 2009 when his services were terminated. According to his service card, the suspect was relieved of his duty for not completing his training. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara