The Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital in Eldoret has a new board chairman after President Kenyatta appointed Sitoyo Lopokoiyit to take charge for three years. Lopokoiyit will chair the hospital board with effect from March 29, according to a gazzette notice dated February 17. He replaces former Eldoret East MP Joseph Lagat who served for one year and his term ends this month. “In exercise of the powers conferred by the State Corporations Act, I appoint Sitoyo Lopokoiyit to be chairperson of the board of Moi Referral Hospital for a period of three years,” said part of the gazzette notice. Lopokoiyit has long working experience in the telecommunications sector. In December President Kenyatta re-appointed Dr Wilson Aruasa to serve for another term of three years as the hospital CEO. The President in a gazette notice dated 18th December re-appointed Dr Aruasa to serve his new tenure from January 22, 2021. "In exercise of the powers conferred on me by the Moi Referral Hospital board order and the State Corporations Act I appoint Dr Wilson Kipkurui Aruasa to be Director/CEO of MTRH for three years," said part of the gazette notice. MTRH is a national hospital which serves patients from more than 22 counties and neighboring countries including Uganda, Rwanda and South Sudan. Dr Aruasa has been heading the hospital since he took over from Dr John Kibosia under whom he served as deputy director for several years. Dr Aruasa said he is grateful to God for the re-appointment. “I am delighted with the re-appointment by the President and I sincerely thank him and the government for the recognition and support given to us. I promise the President and Kenyans that we will continue to serve the public to the best of our ability”, he said. Dr Aruasa rose through the ranks initially serving as a junior officer at the hospital and then rose to management. Dr Aruasa has steered the facility to one of the best managed in the region and he has played a critical role in the ongoing war on Covid-19, leading experts who have been training health workers on the frontline and advising governors on how to tackle the pandemic. Sitoyo and Dr Aruasa are expected to steer expansion of the hospital to improve healthcare in counties in the region. Edited by Henry Makori