 Kisumu city manager Michael Abala Wanga is a man in the eye of a storm. He is spearheading the demolition of structures to pave way for the construction of new housing units and the city beautification programme. He spoke to the Star in an interview. Who is Michael Abala Wanga? I come from South Gem of Gem subcounty in Siaya. I am a business graduate from Strathmore University and also Law degree graduate from Kampala International University. I started my career as a medical laboratory technologist and have risen from the grassroots to this level. I have also worked in the management of civil society. What plans do you have for Kisumu city? I see Kisumu as Singapore and my passion with the guidance of Governor Anyang Nyong'o and in consultation with partners is to transform the city to make it a Singapore in East Africa. We might not achieve the Singapore standards but we're working to make it that little Singapore. When I took over as the acting city manager, I did what I was taught at Strathmore University, they called it Harvard Cotters - eight steps of implementing change. We have partnered with private sectors and experts and formed a technical working group to implement a seven-point agenda for the city in 12 months. They include drainage, integrated solid and waste management system, environmental conservation and stewardship, street lighting and maintenance, public health and sanitation, development and management of city markets and design of Dunga waterfront and a marina. The idea to transform the main Kisumu park area into a major trading centre with a big shopping mall is aggressively being pursued once the other parks are ready. We are working on greening and the beautification of the Kisumu Highway corridor, from Kisian to Nyamasaria including the bypass. Why the ongoing demolitions? The demolitions will go on for a span of 12 months and it is necessary because the governor and the city board hired a consultant a year ago to re-plan Kisumu afresh. They came up with the Local Physical and Land Use Development Plan which has given a different dimension for Kisumu. A lot of public lands including pathways, playing grounds, city houses, school compounds and markets were grabbed by individuals. The initial sewer line, water treatment and wetlands have been destroyed completely. This is the mess that we are correcting as a city to make it more habitable. What are your plans for the traders affected by the demolitions? Our plan is to create habitable spaces for traders to do their businesses comfortably. Currently, we are upgrading Kibuye and Otonglo markets to modern standards. We have also repossessed grabbed markets and resettled traders. At Chichwa market, a component of the Sh241 million Non-Motorised Project in the city, more than 500 traders have been given stalls. The Uhuru Business Park with a capacity of 10,000 stalls is nearing completion. There are claims that some people are being targeted in the ongoing repossessions of the grabbed public land. What do you say about it? No one is being targeted. The landgrabbers and those who fraudulently acquired public property know themselves very well. There are innocent buyers who bought the grabbed lands and then there is the fraudster who colluded with land officials and prepared fake title deeds and sold to different buyers. We are interested in how the land left the government to go to these fellows, so if we identify fraud we'll take it up irrespective of the status of the suspect in the society? This will be the last time to extensively deal with the landgrabbers in Kisumu. How many parcels of land are earmarked for repossession and how many so far have been reclaimed? There are many but we have zeroed in on 67 parcels that we must take back. Already, we have demolished 15, out of which five are in court and three are negotiating on how they can surrender the land. The grabbers even have no respect of the cemetery like in Polyview estate which was grabbed and sold to private developers. What are the plans to decongest the city in terms of public transportation? We have currently drawn the traffic routes and identified seven growth mode areas so we want to interface CBD with Lake Front. We don’t want heavy traffic in the city. Already, we have designated areas for trucks, buses and matatus. Buses are required to close down their offices within the CBD by March. There will be modern bus parks in Nyamasaria, Otonglo and Mamboleo for public service vehicles. Already, the Sh99.8 million Nyamasaria satellite bus park is under construction. The CBD will only be a dropping and picking point for town service matatus. What have you achieved so far since you took over as the acting city manager? Have been here (in office) for about three months. Together with the working group, we have developed a 12-point agenda and designed all the beautification aesthetics of the city. This can be witnessed from what has been going on within the city for the last three months. We have to reorganise the traders to go to different places. We are going to create more space in the city. We have managed to start the beautification process and at the same time repossessed a couple of properties while also managing the challenges. We are also aggressively implementing the Kisumu Urban Project, including those that stalled because of slow and lackluster contractors. We have put a checklist to monitor and push their work. Already, Kibuye and Otonglo markets are under construction. We are going to reorganise the sewer systems and have managed to start opening up the drainage, reorganising the city through controlling traffic and repossessing grabbed markets lands. We are scaling the stairs and chewing the gum at the same time. We have reorganised traders to different places. With the demolitions and repossession of grabbed land, you have probably stepped on so many people's toes. Have you received any threats and how do you deal with such? I have been receiving threats from day one when we were taking back one of the county houses. There are some fellows who have also told me that they will shoot me alive while naked. I do receive death threats every day and offers for a good bribe. But you have to objective and look at your moral standing and obligations. It's either I die or do it. We have to do it now. Some time back you wanted to run for a political position, is that ambition still on? I don't have any political ambitions for now. My focus now is to reorganised the city and deal with the responsibility the governor has given to me. No more political ambition. What is your parting shot? Kisumu is going to face Lake Victoria. We have the Lakefront Development Corporation, so watch this space because by June we will have finished designing the Dunga Waterfront and Marina, and the design for the promenade. The promenade will run around the Lakefront. It will promote walking along the lake, cycling and regulate driving to showcase the beauty of Lake Victoria. It will also showcase available economic opportunities to attract investors. We are currently finalising negotiations with Kenya Urban Roads Authority on the promenade. We welcome investors now that the city will host an international conference and Lakefront will run a half-day symposium. So we want all the Sheratons, Radissons and other hotels to come and put up very beautiful marinas and hotels at the waterfront. The next kid in Kisumu is lakefront development.  Edited by P.O