ODM Kwale chair and former Matuga MP Hassan Mwayoha has eulogised Muslim rights activist Sheikh Amir Khamis Banda, terming his death as a blow to him and the Coast region. “He was my campaign coordinator in 2013 and has left a big gap that will be hard to fill, ” Mwayoha said Banda died on Tuesday morning while undergoing treatment at Mewa hospital in Mombasa for health complications which had caused a stroke at one point. The cleric, who hailed from Msambweni in Kwale county, was an ardent ODM supporter. He was among the delegates who met party leader Raila Odinga and deputy  Hassan Joho at Diani Reef Beach Hotel in the aftermath of the December 15 Msambweni by-election. Kenya Muslim National Advisory Council described Sheikh Banda as a firm believer, promoter of Islam and a peace crusader in East and Central Africa. Speaking to the Star on phone, Kemnac chair Sheikh Juma Ngao said Banda organised and championed for peace. Sheikh Banda was the founder of the Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya, which started as the South Coast Council of Imams and Preachers. “He helped many madrassa teachers and imams get Islamic education in Sudan. He ran up and down looking for sponsors to take these imams to Sudan,”  Ngao said. He used to organise Igitimai - a gathering of Muslim scholars, in East and Central Africa including Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, DRC Angola Malawi and Zanzibar. “For this work, he mentored many madrassa teachers, sheikhs, imams and made many people convert to Islam,”  Ngao said. Sheikh Banda was an aggressive defender of Muslim and land rights, which made him rub shoulders the wrong way with the high and mighty. He was at one time detained during the Moi regime for what authorities said was inciting residents against the government. “When he was detained, he also spread his message among his fellow detainees causing riots in the detention camp,” Ngao said. Kwale ODM coordinator Nicholas Zani described Sheikh Banda as a fighter who fought ill-health for a long time. “Even in sickness, his fighting spirit was dominant. He has been in and out of hospital coming out stronger each time. This time, however, God saw it fit to make him rest,”  Zani said. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire said he has lost a friend and an advisor. “Sheikh was a man of his word and a firm believer in justice, especially social justice,” he said. Banda’s body was taken to Markaz Mosque in Diani at 1 pm and interred at his Milalani home in Msambweni at 4 pm on Tuesday. He has left behind two widows and many children.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris