Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli has threatened to go to court should Health CS Mutahi Kagwe refuse to withdraw a circular stopping remittance of unions' dues. In a letter dated December 22 and addressed to Public Service CS Margaret Kobia, CS Kagwe said the Ministry and county governments would henceforth not play the agency role of remitting dues to trade unions in the health sector. This targeted nurses', doctors' and clinical officers' unions, among other public service trade unions. "Arising from the consultative meeting held between the Ministry of Health and the Council of Governors on December 21, 2020, it was decided that with effect from the date of this letter, the ministry and county governments will not play the agency role of remitting union dues to the unions in the heath sector," it read. The letter was copied to then-CoG chairman Wycliffe Oparanya and the Health PS. Oparanya recently handed over the office to Embu Governor Martin Wambora after serving for two terms. On Saturday, however, Atwoli appealed to the CS to immediately withdraw the circular so money can reach the unions. He said that should Kagwe fail to act, they will seek legal redress. "We know that sometimes employers, particularly government ministries, do not respect court orders. Failure to heed our calls, he will see the full force of the Kenyan workers," he said. Atwoli said he will urge President Uhuru Kenyatta, whom he referred to as the number one worker, to sack the CS from the position. He termed Kawgwe's directive illegal. He noted that Kenya is a signatory to the International Labour Relations Convention, which allows free registration of trade unions and freedom of association. Atwoli said the Jubilee administration must not fail to apply and implement the check-off system that was adopted and made a law in 1965 by the government.  He said every employer has to deduct and remit union dues within 14 days after deduction, hence Kagwe or the government, being no exception, has to comply. "Members are contributing to their unions willingly, they are not forced to contribute. That is not money from the government exchequer, it's not from the government or ministry coffers," he said.