The Youth Enterprise Development Fund, an initiative by President Mwai Kibaki, could be on verge of collapse, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has said. Kenya is suffering from worsening unemployment and unfulfilled promises to provide jobs. The Covid-19 pandemic is putting many people out of work. In her 2018-19 audit report, she indicates the sustainability of the fund is at great risk and collapse is a real possibility as funds have been diverted to pay salaries. The fund has been billed as a pillar of Vision 2030. According to the report tabled in the National Assembly, the kitty that had a revolving fund balance of Sh3.8 as at June 30, 2019, has been depleted by Sh1 billion. The report was tabled last week by Majority leader Amos Kimunya. The money has been diverted to pay salaries, putting the future of the programme in great doubt, Gathungu said. She expressed doubt the Fund will be able to survive, given the ongoing depletion by management. “This implies the Fund management has over time utilised Sh1,093,839,342 of the revolving Fund for recurrent operations expenditure, thereby affecting the sustainability of the Fund,” Gathungu said. She also said the reallocation was done without approvals as the management failed to provide documentation to support utilisation of conditional grants for recurrent expenditure. “Under the circumstances, sustainability of the revolving Fund is at risk and therefore, doubtful,” she said. The report also queried Sh2.1 million imprests given to the former CEO and board chairman of the Fund, which they are yet to surrender. “The staff imprests further include Sh1.9 million and Sh292,800 which were irregularly issued to the former Chief Executive Officer and Board chairman, respectively,” the report reads. The Fund created by Kibaki in 2006 ahead of his re-election was converted to a state corporation in May 2007. It was meant to focus on enterprise development as a key strategy to increase economic opportunities for youth in nation-building. It aimed to provide easy and affordable financial and business support to youth keen on starting or expanding businesses. The Fund was supposed to reduce unemployment by creating job opportunities and encouraging young people to be job creators as opposed to job seekers. The auditor also raised the red flag on the loan balances totalling Sh150,000 and Sh500,000 disbursed in 2007 to Cooper Group in Ijara District and Nomads Welfare in Dujis, Garissa, respectively. “These welfare groups have never been traced for purposes of confirming the outstanding loans and their recoverability. The balance remains the same in the current year," the report reads. Gathungu also flagged irregularities at the Uwezo Fund, including unsupported deductions of monies at Central Bank and loan balances of Sh4 billion. There were no debtor’s ledgers detailing loans used by the Fund since inception. There was no detailing repayments made over the years on account of any loan recovery, nor were there comprehensive loan listing and or aging analysis in support of the outstanding loans. “In addition, no records of the loans advanced to groups including the evaluation and authority to issue loans were availed for audit review,” the auditor said in the report for the financial year to June 30, 2019. “Consequently, the existence, accuracy, completeness, validity, and recoverability of the loans to groups balance of Sh3 billion could not be confirmed,” the report reads. The Uwezo Fund was also put on the spot over imminent challenges it would have in recovering Sh19 million it paid to a supplier for installation of enterprise resource planning software. The Sh48 billion ERP project was called off though there is a valid contract between the Fund and the supplier, the auditor said. “The recoverability of part payment of Sh19 million is doubtful given that the Fund appears to have stopped the implementation of the software. The value for money received by the Fund in respect of the software could not, therefore, be ascertained,” the report reads.  (Edited by V. Graham) 