Billionaire and Forbes List Member Narendra Raval Guru has urged the youth to take risks and innovate new business ideas that would help reduce the rate of unemployment in the country. The motivational speaker says taking risks is what differentiates an entrepreneur from a want-to-be entrepreneur. He was addressing hundreds of youths during the 2021 Youth Business Summit at Taita Taveta University. Sharing his journey to success, he said everyone has a realistic shot in business and it only requires a dream to achieve it. Guru is the owner of Devki group of companies. “Dreaming is absolutely free. You will however have to work hard to achieve what you have dreamed about,” he told the exciting summit. With hard work and determination, Guru said one can build a successful business empire. He further urged the youth to embrace a saving culture that would enable them to accumulate substantial capital to start a business. “Most of the budding entrepreneurs face a lack of start-up capital. Any aspiring entrepreneur should develop a habit of saving money,” he noted Citing his story, Guru said he saved money while working in the temple as a priest with which he used to start his own business in Gikomba in 1986. “It is not possible to be wealthy if you are constantly engaging in reckless luxuries. Invest wisely. Work towards impacting lives of people,” He said through every unique idea a viable business opportunity is birthed. “The business venture you involve yourself in should be legitimate. Work on your success with diligence. Exercise patience if you want to scale the heights of success,” Raval told delegates. The billionaire who is on the Forbes list of Africa's most influential persons asked entrepreneurs to always cultivate a culture of paying taxes in a bid to follow the law and ensure a thriving economy. “Dream, think, be a visionary, be industrious and the wealth you desire will manifest at the right time. Be brave through challenges by building resilience to withstand any shocks and pressures your business is experiencing,” Guru advised. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja stated that the summit targets to allow youth to tap into entrepreneurial skills and knowledge that shall enable them to engage in meaningful activities. “An outcome of an investment is a dividend. I urge the youth to utilize this forum and apply whatever they have learnt to ensure sustenance in their entrepreneurial ventures,” Governor advised in his remarks. He noted how the youth are agents of sustainable development and this can be achieved by imparting knowledge towards this demographic.