The search for a missing flower farm worker in Naivasha ended on a sad note after some of her body parts were found dumped in a latrine. Sarah Nafula, a mother of two, went missing on December 9, 2020. Her legs and one hand were found dumped in a latrine in a residential area near Buffalo Mall following an exercise carried out by DCI officers from Gilgil and Naivasha. This follows the arrest of two suspects in connection with the murder. After the family reported the incident in Gilgil, police initiated a search leading to the arrest of her boyfriend and an accomplice. Gilgil OCPD John Onditi confirmed on the phone that they were holding the two suspects in relation to the murder. He said they would continue with the recovery exercise and have the body parts to submitted for pathological tests. “We have so far arraigned the two suspects. We sought 14 more days to finish our investigations and the only missing part is one hand,” he said. Last week, the suspects led the police to an abandoned structure where the skull and torso were recovered before turning to a latrine in a residential plot where the couple lived. Emotions ran high among neighbours and former colleagues as police carted away the body parts. According to Dickson Pallang’a, an uncle of the victim, they could not bury the recovered body parts as this was against their tradition. He said they were still trying to come to terms with the murder. Nafula had been cohabiting with her boyfriend—the main suspect—for over a year. “We have yet to know the motive behind this murder and we hope police will assist us recover all the remaining body parts so we can give her decent burial,” the uncle said. He narrated how the boyfriend first lied that the deceased had left the country for Dubai before police unearthed the truth. Nafula's brother Samuel Itunga said the boyfriend had earlier been arrested and later set free for lack of evidence. Police officers investigating his sister's disappearance later established that she was last seen with the boyfriend. They rearrested him. “The police arrested the boyfriend who confessed to killing my elder sister and we have so far recovered the legs and one hand,” Itunga said.