The Communications Authority of Kenya  has awarded contracts to five companies to roll out telecommunications cellular mobile network infrastructure and services in 101 sub-locations across the country. The firms include Safaricom PLC, Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd, American Towers Company (ATC) Kenya Operations Limited, Seal Towers Limited and Alan Dick & Company (East Africa) Limited. The five firms beat 11 other firms in a competitive tendering process valued at Sh1.57 billion. Safaricom has won the lion’s share of active component of the tender with 21 lots valued at Sh295,044,253 followed by Airtel who won five lots valued at Sh14,424,660. The tender for the provision of the passive components has been awarded at a total cost of Sh745,638,175.40. The project is being implemented through the Universal Service Fund (USF) that seeks to avail communications services in underserved  areas in Kenya. The sub locations are in Turkana, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Garrissa, Isiolo, Samburu, Kajiado, Kilifi ,Kitui, Laikipia, West Pokot, Narok, Mandera, Tana River, Wajir, Lamu, and Marsabit Counties. The awarding of the tenders now paves way for implementation of Phase 2 of the Voice Infrastructure and Services Project that will spur increased mobile voice and broadband connectivity and in effect opening new possibilities to citizens in the beneficiary areas. “The deployment of services in the selected sub-locations will facilitate residents of beneficiary sub-locations to enjoy a host of services, including mobile voice, data, Internet and a bouquet of other value-added services,” said Ngene Gituku, Chairman of the CA Board of Directors. Gituku challenged the five contractors to move with speed to ensure that they execute the project within the stipulated timeline of 24 months. “With the additional 101-sub locations earmarked in the second phase, the Authority intends to narrow the gap of those unserved and under-served areas in Kenya by the year 2022,” said Mercy Wanjau, the CA Ag. Director General. Prior to the deployment of the telecommunications infrastructure through the support of the fund, residents in these remote locations had to travel long distances to make or receive calls. The rollout of the USF projects is part of the wider government’s effort to ensure that all its citizens have access to modern, high-quality communication services. In the first phase, the Authority connected a total of 78 sub-locations covering a total of 330,342 people spread across 15 counties in Kenya. With the additional 101sub locations earmarked in the second phase, the Authority intends to narrow the gap of those un-served and under-served areas in Kenya by the year 2022.