Dairy farmers in Mt Elgon catchment earned Sh115 million from raw milk sales to Brookside last year, an official has said. The Mt Elgon catchment, which traverses Trans Nzoia and Bungoma counties, is known for maize growing, but more farmers are moving into dairy farming due to guaranteed payments for milk delivered to processors. Brookside milk procurement and manufacturing director John Gethi said on Wednesday that farmers from Trans Nzoia earned Sh85 million. Those from Bungoma received Sh30 million for raw milk. He said in spite of market shocks associated with Covid-19, the income from the dairy sub-sector in the two counties grew by two per cent last year. Gethi spoke at the processor’s Kitale cooling centre. He attributed the improved performance to better animal husbandry and investment in feed production. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said on February 10 that the dairy sector has been doing well since the government began stabilising prices. He said the average price of a litre of milk from the processors is Sh37, while cooperatives are paying an average of Sh35. Geoffrey Malombo, a dairy farmer from Mt Elgon Livelihoods CBO in Kitale, said the increase in milk production has been attributed to animal feed conservation, which has enabled milk supply to remain at optimum levels for most of the year. According to the Kenya Dairy Board, the country’s annual milk production is 5.28 billion litres, produced by 1.8 million smallholder dairy farmers. Out of the annual production, 600 million litres are formally marketed. The sector has created 1.2 million jobs directly and indirectly. Munya said the National Dairy Master Plan 2010 projects that the growth in milk production in the country will reach 12 billion litres by 2030. “To achieve this, the country is expected to produce over 650 million litres annually over and above what we are producing currently. Kenya, on the other hand, has a high per capita consumption of milk estimated at 110 litres annually,” he said. The CS said the national consumption is projected to grow at six per cent annually owing to increased population and an increasing middle income group. “This will ensure efficient utilisation of installed processing capacities in a country which is currently at a low of 41 per cent,” he said. Gethi said they have increased the capacity to procure more milk from farmers, following an upgrade of the cooling facilities at the Kitale raw milk bulking station. It has a peak performance of 100,000 litres per day. “Our emphasis has always been a market-oriented approach to production that ensures sustainable milk supply across all seasons of the year," he said. Gethi said farm practices that ensure that milk is produced by healthy cattle under sustainable economic, social and environmental conditions remain the hallmark of their extension services to farmers. “A vibrant dairy cooperative movement in both Trans Nzoia and Bungoma has contributed to the success of the dairy sector, with an increasing number of farmers opting to take up the enterprise for generation of regular family income,” Gethi said.  