Kikuyu elders in the Mt Kenya region have embarked on a campaign to engage the youth in promotion of peace and national cohesion. Kikuyu Council of Elders held a meeting on Wednesday at their headquarters in Ruaka, Kiambu county, with youths drawn from the region. National secretary Peter Munga said the council recognised the role of the youth in leadership through mentorship. “The KCE structure involves the men's wing, women's wing and the youth wing pillars. Last year as elders we had embarked on structuring the women's wing so that they can be well founded and represented in the council. "This year we are going to make sure that the youth are well structured in the council and their role recognised and well represented,” Munga said. The elders noted with concern how Mt Kenya youths are misused by politicians and their worth downgraded. Munga said they ought to be mentored to be able to demand what is rightfully theirs and not handouts. Mungai said the region unanimously supports the Building Bridges Initiative and President Uhuru Kenyatta as Mt Kenya kingpin. “For the few who have been used to disrupt us and our unity we tell them that their time is coming and our enemy will not thrive because the Kikuyu nation is rising in unity,” Munga said. The youths planted indigenous trees as a sign of faith, unity and commitment to national cohesion. Waruguru wa Kiai, a member of Daughters of the Mountain, said the youths' incorporation into the Kikuyu Council of Elders is worthwhile as they have a platform to champion their interests. “We as youths are learned and joining Kikuyu elders will help us to realise the capacity and potential to lead the country. We want to be treated and regarded with respect because we have earned our worth in this country,” Waruguru said. She pleaded with other youths in the country to value themselves. Sasha Wamae, founder of Young Women for Kenya, said there is a lot of division amongst the leaders and youths have been dragged into it, which is dangerous for the country. Meetings preaching peace, unity and cohesion are important. Kimani wa Kamau, a youth leader, said their issues are pertinent and the disconnect between elders and them should be bridged to ensure the region is united. “There are people coming to Mt. Kenya with disempowering strategies to our people whereas when you go to their areas they have empowered their people formally. It is time for youths in Mt Kenya to go back to their roots and engage each other to ensure peace and harmony and forge a way forward in unity,” Kimani said.