With the number of connected devices and demand for bandwidth- intensive applications continues to soar, increasing quantities of data require high performance connectivity. SES, a telecommunications company that deals with satellite and terrestrial network provider deals with supplying video and data connectivity worldwide to broadcasters. They have come up with O3b mPower technology that will facilitate better connectivity for their customers even in the remotest areas. The O3b concept is about connecting the unconnected. It has the Geostationary Earth Orbit (GEO)constellations at 36,000 km above the earth having a longer round trip delay. They have also invested inMedium Earth Orbit (MEO) to reduce the round trip latency and started using the Ka-band. The O3b’s ability to leverage the low latency of MEO and high capabilities of the Ka-band have allowed them to provide unprecedented levels of connectivity to their customers. They have a lot of band width terminals across the globe within the coverage area of the O3b MEO constellation, with the current O3bMEO capabilities. O3b mPower will be able to provide thousands of user beams per satellite and it will bring a lot more flexibility in terms of the gateways and user beams the customers can use. Initially it will have seven satellites adjacent to the existing O3b MEO constellation but it is not about the seven satellites. SES is working on building an ecosystem combining the seven satellites with the existing O3b MEO andGEO constellations and terrestrial components. With this, the customers can access all of SES’s infrastructure and define the best means of delivery for each packet of data. It will also provide many more user endpoints, improve link budgets, provide much more connectivity,increase flexibility, lower the cost per bit and allow SES to scale up. O3b mPower will help the company to serve existing business segments better while also allowing the company to serve some segments that they have not had the capacity to serve in the past. By combining the O3b MEO and GEO capabilities within the O3b mPower ecosystem, the company can be able to bring cloud closer to the customer and enable edge computing to support things like 5G. There will also be flexibility to data flow where there will be forward to return ratio for residential broadband. It will be delivering flexible service models by dynamically controlling power levels and frequency allocation to reliably meet robust service level agreements. It has an unrivaled scale, which will be enabling high performance services that scale to multiple gigabits per second per connection virtually anywhere on the globe. It also uses breakthrough innovations in space, ground and software systems to modernize your network and fuel your organization’s growth. O3b mPower’s performance helps you deliver a differentiated end-user experience everywhere you operate.