ODM leader Raila Odinga has asked Kenyans to prepare for a plebiscite in June as county assemblies continue to approve the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Raila said he is optimistic that by Tuesday next week more counties are going to approve the bill and surpass 24 which is the required number before they go for the referendum. Raila described the day as ‘Super Tuesday’ where he and President Uhuru Kenyatta expect more counties to give nod to the Bill. Currently, 11 out of 12 counties have approved the Bill with only Baringo rejecting it. “Get ready with your vote because Super Tuesday is coming where we’re going to get 24 counties approving the Bill and help us move to the next level,” Raila said. He spoke on Saturday during the burial of the former clerk of Homa Bay county council Zachery Origa at Ratanga in Ndhiwa constituency. Raila wants critics of the BBI not to make an about-turn now that more counties are approving the Bill. “We’re telling doubting Thomases who have been fighting BBI to continue doing so. They shouldn’t change their mind until we meet at the ballot,” he added. Other leaders present included Governor Cyprian Awiti, his Deputy Hamilton Orata, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, MPs John Mbadi (Suba South) Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Martin Owino (Ndhiwa) Ongondo Were(Kasipul), Lillian Gogo (Rangwe) and for Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and politician Louis Ogingo and several Homa Bay MCAs. Raila took the opportunity to ask his counterparts in Nasa to focus on BBI campaigns instead of demanding for him to support them in the 2022 elections. Last week, Nasa leaders Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) asked Raila to return the favour on grounds that they have supported in previous presidential elections. The trio spoke during their joint campaigns for the upcoming by-elections in the Western region. Kanu national chairman Gideon Moi was also present. Raila described the three as cowards who failed to stand with him during the mock swearing-in at Uhuru Park. “Those who want to be endorsed now disappeared at the hour of need. At Uhuru Park, I looked around only to find none of them. Let’s support BBI because 2022 is yet to come,” he said. Mbadi asked Kenyans to support Raila and the BBI on grounds that he has their interest at heart. “We saw a lot of economic growth in Kenya during the Grand Coalition Government. The country is currently enjoying peace and stability after the handshake,” Mbadi said. Awiti, Orata, Kidero and Wanga said BBI will benefit many areas which were previously marginalized. Kidero and Ogingo said they stand with Raila in his endeavours to transform Kenya.