Elected leaders should consider their responsibility to their families and voters before engaging in shameful acts in public, the ethics agency has warned. Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission chair Eliud Wabukala said it is shameful to be called in to probe cases where elected leaders have engaged in fistfights in the assembly. “Let us be people of integrity in leadership because as a leader you are a role model,” Wabukala said. He spoke in Mombasa on Saturday during a meeting between the commission and Kilifi MCAs. Wabukala said leaders should be able to handle their differences without having to resort to physical violence. Violence has erupted in county assemblies over the last one year, with the latest being in Baringo where MCAs engaged in fistfights over the BBI Bill. “But I want to assure you that the moment that happens, it automatically invites EACC. We have dealt with about 10 or so (incidents) since 2017,” Wabukala said. The EACC chair said the tradition of hiding behind tribal cocoons always makes their work difficult. “The challenge with Kenyans is that they will always find a reason to say they are being targeted,” Wabukala said. He however said the EACC does not care about the environment in which elected leaders misbehaved. “When you are a father or a mother and you are in an assembly and then you start fighting there, you see you are on television and your children are looking at you,” Wabukala said. “If you are a married man, your wife at home is watching you. Is she happy with it?” EACC has partnered with various county public service boards to ensure corruption in counties is eliminated, he said. But the fight against corruption starts at an individual level, Wabukala noted. “If each person works with integrity then it will go a long way to eliminating corruption in the counties,” Wabukala said. He called on CPSBs to ensure those they give jobs to are people of integrity by doing due diligence before hiring. Lumatete Kadenge, Kilifi assembly majority leader, said building the capacity of MCAs will go a long way to ensure morals and integrity is enhanced. “We will be able to seal graft loopholes in the country with higher integrity in the counties,” Kadenge said. 