Kenya's  Gross Domestic Product (GDP) could contract by one percent, if the economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic weaken in the first half of 2021, according to global data firm Statista. The firm that specialises in market and consumer data however notes that forecasts had pointed out a strong rebound for 2021, with the GDP growth at 6.9 percent. This is under the same baseline assumptions, which consider the availability of vaccines and additional therapeutic treatments. “The GDP is expected to shrink further in 2022 to 5.9 per cent,” Statista notes, this as the political temperatures continue to rise. The pandemic is expected to dramatically affect East Africa's economy. The GDP in the region was revised downwards from 5.1 per cent to 1.2 percent in a baseline scenario (when the virus is contained by the third quarter of 2020), and to 0.2 per cent in a worst-case scenario (when Covid-19 persists to the end of 2020). Before the health crisis, all East African countries were expected to have a positive growth, except for Sudan due to conflicts. The East Africa's economies are transitioning from agriculture to services. The region's growth is boosted by strong public spending in infrastructure, growing domestic demand, stability, new investment opportunities, and incentives for industrial development. KNBS data shows that the economy contracted by 1.1 percent between July and September last year, making it the second consecutive quarter of GDP shrinkage. The country has a long way to go before it's economy can start performing at pre-Covid levels, even as the slowing rate of infections offer hopes for a quicker recovery this year. Before the decline in quarter two of 2020, the economy last contracted in the third quarter of 2008, when post-election violence led to a 1.6 per cent drop in output, according to the statistics body. Kenya will need to expand by double digits in the remaining part of the 2020/21 financial year to jump into positive growth territory, which will be difficult given that the economy has not grown by more than 10 per cent in any year in the past decade.