Professor of Literature and Stylistic Henry Indangasi once told of a relative who sought his help days before he was to give a tribute at his mother's burial. Indangasi, who was conducting a speech writing workshop for senior civil servants at the Kenya School of Government in 2012, said he was surprised for two reasons. The first reason was that typically, tributes to the departed in rural areas are delivered orally and almost always unrehearsed. He therefore found it strange that his relative was thinking about writing a speech. The second reason was that his relative should not have asked anybody what he ought to say in paying tribute to his mother. He, however, advised him to think about what he instinctively remembered about the mother whenever he thought about her. “That should form the basis of your speech when you are called upon to speak during the burial,” Indangasi advised. Indangasi drew laughter when he said his relative not only forgot the advice he gave him, he also went ahead to write down his speech. In the speech, he referred to the year his mother wed. “Were you there?” a section of the audience asked him, Indangasi recalled. The reference to the wedding date raised poignant principles around communications in general and public speaking in particular. The rule of thumb is that public speakers must be credible and empathetic in their utterances. They must address issues they know, through experience, education, or profession. That is not enough. The issues must be relevant to the audience. He must also address the emotional needs of an audience. The needs may be familial, institutional or national. In the context of a sleepy village, an audience wants to see speakers talk about issues around familiar people and things. In the context of an institution, an audience—employees, their families and stakeholders—want to hear about where the organisation has come from, where it is at present and where it is going and what is there for them. The same applies to the nation. The citizens want leaders to address their fears and their hopes. The citizens want to be told, in the words of John the Baptist, that: “Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked ways shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth.” A public speaker, regardless of his or her station in life, is a leader. At that fleeting moment when people are listening to him/her, or while he holds an institutional office or influence in society. For that reason, he must be a dealer in hope. Public speakers are expected to raise people’s expectations and calm down their fears about the future. The speech must give hope. Whether it is a speech for information, persuasion, or entertainment, it must be sensitive to people’s needs. It should be a speech to share important information, persuade them to abandon an attitude, a value or an action that is negative to their best interest or adopt an attitude, a value or an action that is positive to their best interest. All speaking occasions are subject to the idea that they must uplift and not depress the spirits of a family, village, institution or nation. As Indangasi noted, there are oral speeches and written speeches. There is no need for pen and paper when making a speech for people in the countryside. All the speakers need is communal knowledge and personal testimonies—without ceremony and sophistication. Speeches for formal institutions and with national reach inherently need prior thought in preparing them. Thought, decency, honour must suffuse the speeches regardless of whether the speaker sticks to the prepared text or speaks at the spur-of-the-moment. Speaking occasions provide an opportunity for public speakers to unfurl their visions, purposes and values about life. A tribute to the dead is a perfect occasion to articulate issues, the values and principles underlying a person or institutional response to issues, problems and challenges facing an institution or a nation. Public speakers in the past have seized situations to utter the right words in the right places targeting the right people—words that change the trajectory of events and attitudes immediately or over time. Students of political rhetoric all know about Pericles Funeral Oration. They also know about Abraham Lincoln’s famous Gettysburg Address. Some Kenyans remember the eulogy presented by Princess Diana’s brother Charles Spencer, 9th Earl Spencer during her burial. Suffice it to say that during solemn occasions such as burials, words matter. People remember words that stir their hearts. It matters little who the deceased is. The village is a microcosm of a whole nation. So in the village, as in the nation, words matter. They have the potential to spread hope or dejection. Stir the noblest feelings in a village as well as in a nation. They can make people warm up to you or walk away.