A large majority of Kenyans want President Uhuru Kenyatta to lift the 10pm to 4am curfew, a new poll has shown. The poll by Radio Africa Group shows a record 78 per cent of Kenyans want the curfew imposed about 11 months ago to come to an end. “There is a national consensus that the President should end the curfew,” the pollster concluded. Uhuru first ordered a dusk-to-dawn curfew on March 25, 2020, just weeks after the country’s first Covid-19 case was reported. The hours then were 7pm to 4am. The restrictions were relaxed but they dampened Christmas and New Year festivities and largely grounded night business, a first in Kenya. According to the latest survey, only 22 per cent of the respondents want the curfew restrictions to remain. Twenty-eight per cent of Kenyans said the curfew should end because it’s not effective, while 17 per cent cited the need to reopen 24-hour economy and resume night-shift jobs Fourteen per cent of the respondents said the curfew has hurt business and another five per cent cited the need to ease night travel and movement. Others said ending the restrictions had lasted too long while others said its end will stop police brutality in enforcing the curfew and extorting money. Still others said 10pm is too early to go home and that ending the curfew will help government increase revenue collection. However, 37 per cent of those who support the curfew cited improved security and reduced crime. Another 26 per cent said the curfew helps in containing the spread of the coronavirus while 8.5 per cent said it had reduced alcohol and substance abuse. Others said they are not affected by the curfew and that the restrictions have helped to curb loitering. They said it has improved personal responsibility and helped to unite families. South Rift tops the regions agitating for lifting of the curfew at 84 per cent. It is followed by Upper Eastern, Western, Nyanza and Central at 79 per cent. The other regions are Nairobi (78%), Coast (78%), North Rift (75%), Lower Eastern (74%), and Northeastern (70%), For months, Kenyan have been asking why politicians are allowed  to hold huge political rallies yet the curfew restrictions remain in force. Among the worst- hit sectors are the hospitality industry and long-distance transporters. Bar owners, for instance, have incurred major losses with many closing shop since the restrictions were imposed. (Edited by V. Graham)