Deputy President William Ruto will Monday meet more than 100 MPs as he prepares for a gruelling political duel with President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga. Ruto's strategy meeting comes as Parliament reconvenes tomorrow with a busy in-tray that could shape the 2022 presidential contest. The DP, under fire by nearly all political bigwigs including his boss Kenyatta, is also staring at a possible impeachment motion that is sure to test his grip on Parliament. Police have intensified their crackdown on former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, arresting aides, searching their houses and causing panic over allegations of terrorism activities. Seven more aides were arrested on Friday and Saturday by plainclothes detectives, some outside City Hall, some from their Nairobi homes and some on the road. Panic spread among Sonko friends and supporters who feared they may be targeted. Kisumu’s city manager Abel Wanga has been at the centre of demolitions in Kisumu county. In an interview with the Star, he says he seeks to transform the county to a sort of Singapore. His efforts have however seen him cross people’s paths as he says he has received several death threats, including when he sought to take back one of the county houses. Wanga says some have threatened to shoot him “alive while naked. He says he has also received bribe offers. The ongoing demolition will go on for a span of 12 months. ODM leader Raila Odinga is campaigning aggressively to consolidate his traditional turf as he aims for yet another stab at the presidency in 2022. Raila has undertaken a series of engagements in his bastions in his intricate strategy to unify his traditional the bases and ward off Deputy President William Ruto’s influence. On Monday, the former Prime Minister will chair a mega meeting of elected leaders, councils of elders, professionals and businesspeople from Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori counties. Palliative care patients and those suffering severe pain will get relief after the medical supplies agency said it will start distributing morphine to hospitals. The announcement brings to an end months of biting shortage in various treatment centres countrywide. Kenya Medical Supplies Authority said it was distributing 1,800 bottles of oral morphine solution to health facilities to the hospital in need. Kenyatta National Hospital retained 200 for their patients’ use.