A section of Nairobi leaders have told off Deputy president William Ruto claiming he has embarked on 'premature' 2022 campaigns in the expense of finishing Jubilee projects. Led by Youth and Gender Affairs Chief Administrative Secretary Rachel Shebesh, the leaders told Ruto not to take President Uhuru Kenyatta's silence for granted to engage in early campaigns. “Learn how to respect your boss, the President and refrain from early campaigns instead of focusing to complete the government's projects,” she said. Nairobi Woman representative Esther Passaris accused the DP of starting a "class war”, pointing out that the Hustler – Dynasty narrative could turn out to be dangerous ahead of next year's general elections. “What has now become a narrative of Dynasty versus Hustler could bring a massive division in our society which is very dangerous during the election period. We should not allow that narrative to divide Kenyans,” she said. Kibra MP Imran Okoth accused Ruto and his jubilee allies of abandoning their party leader, leaving Uhuru to spearhead the Government's agenda alone. “Ruto who is the President's deputy is suppose to assist his boss in implementing the government's agenda but he has left all the work to Uhuru as he is busy campaigning for presidency,” he added. However, Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director General Mohammed Badi refuted the claims that President Uhuru was left alone, noting that he has support due to the handshake between him and ODM Party leader Raila Odinga. “How can the president be alone yet he has the support of Kenyans and leaders who are fully behind his legacy, including NMS ?" he posed. Shifting talks to the Building Bridges Initiative, Nairobi Deputy Governor Anne Kananu urged the youths to support the bill as it was the only way to empower them . “How much can a wheelbarrow carry your load. Empowerment to youths will come through the BBI when counties are allocated more funds,” she added. Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi and his counterpart from Kamukunji Yussuf Hassan also asked Nairobi residents to support the BBI. The BBI bill was committed in the assembly on Tuesday and is expected to be debated next week after public participation. The leaders had gathered a charter hall where Sh. 176.5 million was disbursed to various youths groups, women and persons living with disabilities. Nominated Senate Beatrice Kwamboka, Roysambu MP Tim Wanyonyi , MCAs lead by Deputy Speaker Geoffrey Majiwa were in attendance.