Bandari head coach Andre Mbungo is open to the idea of reuniting with outgoing AFC Leopards coach Anthony Kimani at the coastal club. Kimani served as Mbungo’s assistant at Leopards between March to December 2019 and was subsequently elevated to the rank of interim head coach after the Rwandese gaffer left citing non-payment of salary. The youthful Kimani remained in Ingwe’s ranks until over the weekend when he shockingly tendered his resignation under unclear circumstances. The former Harambee Stars defender bade farewell to his playing unit moments after last Sunday’s Mashemeji Derby and hardly a day after relinquishing his role, suitors are calling for his signature. Besides Mbungo salivating for his services, 2008 Kenyan Premier League champions Mathare United and Kariobangi Sharks are said to be hot on Kimani’s heels. Mbungo, who joined Bandari last month said he was already relishing the possibility of Kimani deputising him at Bandari even though he is yet to officially recommend him to the club hierarchy. The assistant coach slot at Bandari is still vacant following the departure of Nassoro Mwakoba in December upon expiry of his contract. The towering trainer was full of praises for Kimani’s professionalism and the efforts he had made to ensure Ingwe were among the top five teams before his unceremonious departure. “I gave Kimani the first chance to coach in the top flight and I wouldn’t mind to reunite with him at Bandari. Currently, I don’t have an assistant coach and he would be a good pick. I understand it may be tough to land him at Bandari since he has a family and businesses in Nairobi. However, I must admit that he is a disciplined individual who gave the best for the club when we worked at Leopards,” said the Caf Level ‘A’ licence holder. Mbungo, in the meantime, revealed his plan to sign two attack-minded players to beef his misfiring striking front. “We have been playing well but we struggle to convert our chances. I have a shortage of strikers and I will be looking to bring at least two attackers to not only score goals but to inject competition in the department,” added the former Rayon Sport coach.