Fertiliser prices have  gone up by 35 per cent in most parts of Rift Valley  as maize farmers in the bread basket region are preparing to plant. Short rains have begun pounding parts of the region and planting is expected to start in two weeks. Farmers worry input costs will rise dramatically this year, mostly due to deprecation of the shilling that has increased the costs of petrol and diesel. “Fertiliser and fuel are imported  and prices have already gone up, so farmers will spend more on inputs this year than last," Kipkorir Menjo, director of the Kenya Farmers Association, said. Higher costs ultimately are passed on to the consumer. A spot survey of fertiliser outlets, including KFA, indicates DAP used for planting is selling for at least Sh3,100 per 50kg bag - an increase from Sh2,700 per bag at the same time last year. “Fortunately, we have enough quality fertiliser in the markets, including KFA," Menjo said. Suppliers including Yara, Mea, Baraka and  Morrocco-based OCP have increased supplies in the region ahead of the planting season. Moiben MP Silas Tiren said although scrapping of the subsidies programme had helped to eliminate cartels from the sector, small-scale farmers will suffer from higher prices. Tiren is chairman of Parliament's Agriculture committee. “The cartels were taking advantage of the subsidies programme to frustrate farmers with high prices and poor quality commodities. But now we have very good quality on the market, which contributed to increased production last year," the MP said. Some farmers want the government to introduce the E-voucher programme, proposed last year so small=scale farmers can still benefit from subsidies. Last year. due to quality fertiliser farmers produced more than 40 million bags of maize, compared to 36 million in the previous year. Governor Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu has urged farmers not to rely on maize but diversify to other high-value crops. Mandago suggested avocado, macadamia and coffee, among other  crops for commercial horticulture and floriculture. "As you prepare land for planting, set aside a portion for avocado, coffee and macadamia," the governor said. (Edited by V. Graham)