Banana farmers in Taita Taveta will benefit from a ready market after the county entered a processing deal with the Micro Enterprises Support Programme Trust. Taita Taveta Governor Granton Samboja said the collaboration will further help in sustaining the multimillion banana sector. “Smallholder banana farmers at the grassroots level will benefit from access to markets and value addition activities hence boost agricultural industrialisation and innovations in the county,” he said. The processing and value addition project is funded by the European Union. The county chief said increased productivity will ensure the region attains food security and create jobs. He spoke at the county headquarters in Mwatate. The Taveta area where bananas are predominantly grown has been the food basket of the Coast region. Farmers in the region are expected to expand their banana farming ahead of the completion of the processing plant. They produce at least 125,000 tonnes annually on the 2,080 acres under banana plantation. The industry will process eight tonnes in a day.  Once completed, it is expected to grow the economy by Sh7 billion. Farmers are targeting increased production to 246,000 annually to sustain the banana factory. MESPT chief executive officer Rebecca Amukhoye said they will closely work with the county government to achieve desired objectives. She said more women can be included in the banana value chain to promote inclusion when exploiting the crop. “This ambitious initiative will give birth to improved jobs and opportunities. We believe that this fruit pulp factory will ensure social and environmental responsibility not forgetting economic sustainability,” she said. According to Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Irrigation executive Davis Mwangoma, farmers have been sensitised on production to meet demand. Mwangoma said through the proper exploitation of the banana crop, the local population will be food secure. He said that the banana processing plant is 85 per cent complete with the department engaging in viable activities to ensure sustainability. “More than 20,000 banana tissue cultures have been given to farmers to increase production. The seedlings can withstand harsh weather conditions, pests and diseases,” Mwangoma said. He said the deal will go a long way in boosting income for the farmers who have been counting losses for lack of market. Farmers have been pushing the government to fast-track the completion of the processing plant and decrying the exploitation by middlemen.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris