Former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has brushed off remarks by his opponents that he has no business seeking to run for the Homa Bay governor's seat. Kidero said he was born in Rangwe and his parents are well known there so those asking him to try to reclaim his seat in the capital should prepare to lose. “You shouldn’t continue telling me to go back to Nairobi. I won’t return to Nairobi but to defeat you hands down,” Kidero said. Kidero's entry into the Homa Bay race and ensuing popularity has rattled leaders who had set their sights on the governor's seat. Current Governor Cyprian Awiti is serving his second and last term, opening the stage for a fierce contest for the ODM party nomination. Former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga, Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang', county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and ODM chair John Mbadi are all believed to be interested in the seat. Magwanga who contested and lost to Awiti in 2017 has accused Kidero of stooping too low in returning to run in Homa Bay. The former Kasipul MP told Kidero his reputation will suffer irreparable damage should he lose in the 2022 General Election. “Homa Bay residents and this community rated Kidero highly as Nairobi governor. But since you’ve decided to come for home politics you must prepare for any eventualities,” Magwanga said. Magwanga told Kidero at a forum in which they were both present that it is against Luo culture to abandon one's homestead for the parents'. “It’s a taboo and against our culture for a son who has constructed his homestead to ditch it and return to his father’s homestead. Just return to Nairobi because it won’t be an easy ride in Homa Bay,” he said. Magwanga said he is firmly in the race and dismissed claims he will bolt out and deputise someone else. “Let it be clear that I am not going to be anybody’s deputy in the gubernatorial race. I will be a candidate,” he said. Kajwang' said he does not know why Kidero who had been blessed to represent the community in politics outside Nyanza was going back to Homa Bay. The senator said Homa Bay residents will not vote for people of questionable political allegiance. Kajwang' warned residents against being hoodwinked by opportunistic politicians. “Time is coming when we’ll separate the grain from the chaff. Only people who take holy communion in ODM will be elected,” Kajwang said. They spoke at Gongo village in Kagan ward, during the funeral of Kajwang's aunt Prisca Ondigo. Rangwe MP Lilian Gogo and her Ruaraka counterpart Tom Kajwang’ were also present. On Saturday, Ogwe challenged Kidero to tell residents what he will do to make their lives better. “Let’s avoid chest-thumping and show of might as we seek votes. We should tell residents why we want them to vote for us not flaunt our fleet of cars,” Ogwe said. Kidero dismissed his opponents, saying he went to Nairobi to look for a job like any other Homa Bay resident. He has come back home to serve. He claimed that his opponents have sensed defeat.  (edited by o. owino)