Youths in Busia county have been assured of a transparent police constables' recruitment drive. National Police Service Commission vice chairperson Alice Otwala said corruption had been cited as a major challenge during previous recruitment drives. She said citizens had complained that corruption was very rampant in 2017, but promised that the commission will fight the vice. “Do not judge us by 2017, we are in 2021. Give us time so that you judge us after Monday [yesterday],” Otwala said. Otwala spoke on Saturday after conducting a sensitisation exercise on the recruitment process at Busia Vocational Training Centre. She advised residents against giving bribes, saying only those who have the required qualifications would be recruited. She said she does not understand why some people sell their property to give  bribes, yet no officer has demanded money. Otwala said the government plans to recruit 4,700 police constables across the country, admitting that it is a drop in the ocean considering the high demand. “But due to the economic factors that we have, coupled with the Covid-19 situation that we have just come through, this is what the government could afford at the moment,” she said. The 4,700 recruits will replace police officers who have exited the service through retirement, death or resignations. Otwala said the government spends a lot of money to train a police officer for nine months in Kiganjo and it does not want a situation where a number of officers drop out after they find out that they cannot do what is expected of them. Busia county police commander John Nyoike took the participants through the requirements and the training process the successful recruits will be taken through. Busia Women Cross-border Traders Association chairperson Florence Atieno hailed the commission for the initiative. Resident Isaac Okumu proposed that some locals be selected as observers during the recruitment. Charles Gregory said he has made several attempts to be recruited but has always been dropped on medical grounds. He said there is a need for fairness in the process. Kevin Owuor, who has also made three attempts, said medical examination is what lets most of them down. Erick Makokha, another resident, lauded the commission for sensitising residents.   