Senators and governors meet Tuesday to discuss the state of devolution and how to ensure county operations run smoothly. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka said the consultative meeting with the Council of Governors will be held in the Senate chambers. “This is to inform you that the Standing Committee on Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations has organised a meeting with the newly appointed leadership of the CoG to discuss the state of devolution,” Lusaka said in a communication to the House. The committee is chaired by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang'. The meeting comes at a time county governments have been decrying delayed release of funds saying it is crippling their operations. Treasury has delayed the disbursement by about three months citing Covid-19 pandemic has taken a heavy toll on the economy and revenue performance. The House is also set to approve the proposed allocation of Sh409 billion, including Sh370 billion equitable share, allocated to the counties in the draft Division of Revenue Bill, 2021. Lusaka told the Star that the meeting seeks to build synergy and strengthen relationship between the county chiefs and lawmakers. "We are going to have a reflection and self audit on whether devolution has worked or any other challenges. We also want to know the vision of the new CoG chairman," the Speaker said. Lusaka said devolution is the cornerstone of the Constitution and Senate being the defender of the counties and their government must make concerted efforts to protect and make it flourish. “We must shape and influence the discourse on devolution across all levels and ensure that our counties are adequately resourced and that we judiciously oversight counties to deliver services to Wanjiku,” he said. “The meeting is scheduled to take place next week on Tuesday, March 2, 2021 at 9am in the senate Chamber, main Parliament Buildings. The purpose of this communication is to extend an invitation to all members and to urge them to attend this meeting,” the Speaker said. The Star has established that the issues to be discussed in the Thursday meeting includes the ballooning of pending bills, which has been termed a serious threat to devolution by the County Public Funds and Investment Committee. Secondly, there is also the under-collection of revenue and misrepresentation of local revenue which has affected the budgeting and implementation of county services. In addition, senators are of the view that most counties face challenges in operationalisation of various IFMIS modules as required by the law. Non-remittance of statutory deductions to government agencies such as NHIF, NSSF, KRA, Pension and financial institutions has been a serious problem. Nominated Senator Rose Nyamunga, who is a member of the devolution committee said the meeting with governors will be one of the many geared to foster and deepen relations between the Senate and the county governments. “The meeting is  an introductory one, where we want to know each other and spell out how will be working forward with the new office bearers,” Nyamunga said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara