Leaders from Vihiga, Kisumu and Siaya on Wednesday clashed before senators over a boundary dispute pitting the three neighbouring counties. Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo, Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathew Owili and Siaya Lands executive Adrian Ouma were before the Senate's Devolution and Intergovernmental Relations committee. The team is probing the boundary row. The probe follows a petition by 17 residents from the locations seeking the House’s intervention to end the historical row. The petitioners claim that members of the Banyore community have been split into three counties. They sought the Senate's intervention to bring the clans under one administrative unit. "This unfair delimitation not only ensured that the Luhya community was divided between the predominantly Luo administrative jurisdictions but also that the major institutions were on the other side," the petition reads. The three made their case before the Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang-led committee, with each party claiming the disputed locations. Ottichilo told the team that the three locations were hived off from Vihiga in the 1960s and several attempts to resolve the dispute have been unsuccessful. “When you go to the ground today, you will not know exactly where the boundary is because there are no beacons. We need to resolve this issue urgently so that people can live in harmony,” the governor said. Ottichilo said members of the Abaluhya community, whose parcels were hived off and now stay in Kisumu and Siaya, have endured frustration and discrimination. “The issues raised in the petition are valid, and they are historical. We need to resolve these issues once and for all so that we can live together,” he said. The county chief said area leaders, from the pioneer Emukhaya MP to the current Luanda MP Chris Omulele, have been petitioning Parliament to resolve the dispute in vain. But Owili refuted Ottichilo’s submission, saying that from pre-colonial time, the three locations, including Maseno, have always been within Kisumu. “Maseno falls within the territory of Kisumu. Maseno has been part of the larger former Nyanza province,” he said. The deputy governor said several studies and maps show that the locations are within Kisumu and challenged the parties in the dispute to prove otherwise. Owili said the perceived row has been incited by politicians and other leaders who are out to score political goals from the conflict. He denied claims of discrimination, saying Kisumu is a cosmopolitan county, which is obligated to serve all residents equally and fairly. Ouma said members of the Luhya and Luo communities residing in the area have co-existed peacefully. “The boundary between Siaya and Vihiga spans a distance of about 15 kilometres. The people there share amenities, and we have never had any petition or complaint of any nature,” Ouma said. “As far as Siaya is concerned, we have not had any complaints about shared amenities or lack of services.” But Vihiga Senator George Khaniri insisted the Luhyas are administratively being mistreated and discriminated against. He urged the committee to seek a solution to concerns of discrimination as it continues with its probe into the boundary dispute. “This issue has been here for many years. I don’t think the Senate can resolve this matter. It is only the actualisation of Article 188 of the Constitution that can resolve this dispute,” he said. Article 188 of the Constitution requires Parliament to establish a commission to deal with county boundary disputes. 