President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga have their work cut out for them in the push to have a BBI referendum go through, a new poll by Radio Africa Group shows. The national poll conducted between January 28 and February 5 shows that 43% of the 3,127 respondents said that they oppose BBI with less than 25 per cent saying they support the amendments to the Constitution. The poll also shows that those opposed to the BBI have risen from 34 per cent in October while those in support have dropped from 33 per cent. Support for BBI is highest in Nyanza at 46 per cent and lowest in Rift Valley and Central at 13 per cent and 15 per cent respectively. A damning report by the Auditor General has exposed how county governments created avenues that enabled ‘Covid-19 billionaires’ to thrive in the devolved units. The report tabled in the Senate on Wednesday shows Counties received Covid 19 related funding amounting to Sh7.70 billion in grants, own source budgets and donations. Akin to the procurement mess at Kemsa that birthed ‘Covid billionaires,’ the counties mutilated procurement laws and regulations and engaged in ‘acts of criminality,’ leading to possible loss of public funds. The report shows that six counties did not conduct market surveys prior to procurement of the items while 12 others handpicked suppliers. Close to 80 per cent of Kenyans are of the view that the ongoing curfew imposed over the spread of Covid-19 should be lifted. A new poll shows that most Kenyans argue that the curfew has been ineffective and a blow economically with the closure of the 24-hour economy. Meanwhile, the poll shows that the high cost of living tops the list of concerns among Kenyans with a majority saying they cannot meet basic needs, a new national survey shows. The poll says that 78 per cent of the respondents cannot afford basic needs, pointing to tough times. The National Political Opinion Poll conducted by Radio Africa Group between January 28 and February 5. Public outcry has greeted the move by Salaries and Remuneration Commission to approve car grants for MCAs with the majority of Kenyans questioning its independence. On Tuesday SRC chairperson Lynn Mengich, in a memo to Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora gave the counties the green light to process the sh 4.5 billion for the MCAs and assembly speakers. A section of leaders and members of the public who spoke to the Star criticized SRC for giving in to the directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta to approve the monies as part of the goodies lined up for MCAs to pass BBI Bill. The country’s economy is hurting with the effects of the Covid-19 and the move by SRC to grant the request that will see each of the 2,237 MCAs pocket Sh2 million each is seen as a slap on the face of the taxpayers.