The Nairobi county government, Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the assembly will this month commence meetings that will decide whether Nairobians will dig deeper into their pockets to finance county’s sh 37.5 billion budget. The meetings are aimed at reviewing a raft of new proposed taxes by the Finance Bill 2020 among them a Sh2, 000 charges for fire certificates in all city households and Sh3, 000 offloading fee for agricultural produce. Speaking today, Nairobi county assembly finance budget and appropriations committee chairperson Robert Mbatia explained that the meetings were also aimed at streamlining revenue collection operations in the capital and will also rope in the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA). “The meetings will ensure that the county can set realizable revenue targets because we have an issue in the charges as currently constituted. It will also set the record straight on issues such as who should KRA report to between City Hall and the NMS, ”he said. “There is also a need to address the fact that some of the revenue collection staff seconded to NMS and KRA do not have the capacity to aid in efficient revenue collection,” Mbatia said. He said the current revenue collection systems were to blame for the dismal revenue collection performance such as the duo payment USSD codes that is *235# run by City Hall and *647# fronted by NMS which he said brought a lot of confusion to residents wishing to pay for county services. Mbatia who also doubles as Kariobangi South MCA further stated the need to agree on the many laws that need to be in place for effective revenue collection. “There are also laws such as the Revenue Administration Act that was passed but never activated, the License Act and the Transport Act which all need to be implemented if we are to fund our budget,” he said. Other proposals in the finance bill include; under the solid waste management, the bill suggests that residents living in informal settlements pay Sh100 monthly, while those in medium and high CBD and upmarket estates will pay Sh300 and Sh600 respectively. Private garbage collectors will feel the pinch if the bill is passed as it is by the assembly, as they will be forced to pay more from the previous flat rate charge of Sh20,000. They will be forced to pay between Sh30,000 and Sh40,000, depending on the number of trucks they own. Those with one to five trucks will part with Sh40,000 and between six to 10 trucks, Sh35,000. A contractor with 11 trucks and above will part with Sh30,000. The budget committee noted that all charges, despite the new ones, were compared to the FY 2018-19 and not FY2019-20. Last year’s bill was never gazetted after former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko failed to assent to it. However, it took effect following the lapse of the stipulated 14 days as required by law.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris