Three Nairobi MCAs accused of conspiring to obtain a Sh1 million bribe from a private school owner have asked court to acquit them for lack of evidence. David Mberia (Lang'ata), Jared Okode (Mathare) and Abraham Mwangi (Woodley), through lawyers led by Robert Asembo, told chief magistrate Thomas Nyioki that the prosecution had failed to prove a corruption case against them. Highlighting submissions in the case, lawyer Asembo said there was no sufficient evidence to warrant the court convicting the accused persons. He said there was no evidence to show that the accused demanded a bribe as alleged by the prosecution. But the prosecution maintained that it had proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the accused jointly asked for a Sh1 million bribe from Samuel Kiragu. The trio allegedly sought the bribe from Kiragu to rescind their report to the assembly that the private school in Eastleigh was illegal. According to the prosecution, the offence was committed between April 8, 2019, and April 25, 2019, in Nairobi. The MCAs were to allegedly influence the outcome of an inquiry carried out by the Culture and Social Services committee. The committee had probed the ownership of the land on which Kiragu Waichahi School is constructed. During a previous hearing of the case, the court heard from EACC investigator Martin Ongara that the MCAs were arrested after pocketing a Sh200, 000 treated bribe from the school's proprietor. "Together with my colleagues, we treated the money after receiving a complaint from the complainant that the accused persons, who are members of Culture and Social Services committee, were demanding Sh1 million from him to influence a favourable report over his property,” Ongara told the court. The MCAs are accused of corruptly demanding Sh1 million from Maina to influence the outcome of an inquiry carried out by the Culture and Social Services committee of the Nairobi county assembly. Okode and Mwangi are accused of corruptly asking for Sh200, 000 each from the complainant so as to influence the same investigations. The inquiry was done in regards to the ownership of the land on which Kiragu Waichahi School is located in Pumwani ward of Kamukunji constituency. The magistrate adjourned the judgment until February 25. All the accused persons are out on Sh500,000 bail each.