More than 9,000 people had by Thursday applied to join the police as graduate cadets barely two days after the vacancies were announced. The number includes 166 police officers. Only 300 applicants will be recruited to fill the National Police Service slots. The deadline for applications is February 22. The announcement for the vacancies was made on Tuesday. The number of applications could shoot to more than 20,000, the National Police Service Commission said. The commission defended the decision to recruit 300, despite there being graduates already serving as officers. "We are looking for specialists in various fields. We also want to give those who are not police officers an opportunity to serve in the profession,” chairman Eliud Kinuthia said. Kinuthia was responding to complaints by serving officers that they have been discriminated against by the move to recruit fresh graduate cadets. The officers threatened to move to court to oppose the move. But on Thursday, Kinuthia said they are an equal opportunity service. He encouraged serving officers with specialist skills to apply and added that 902 officers from various ranks had joined their colleges for promotional courses. Besides 300 cadet slots, 4,700 other recruits will join the General Service Unit and Administration Police. The recruitment will take place on February 22 in all constituencies. Recruits will be bonded for 10 years. Officers in their thousands have left the service. In the past three years, the service has lost about 2,000 officers yearly. The majority resigned and some retired or died. Others were incapacitated by different work-related hazards, including injuries and diseases. There is, therefore, a crisis in the service as it had not prepared to stay for more than three years without hiring replacements. Commanders had also not prepared to fill the gaps left by those being pushed out. Again, the service has been under pressure to increase the number of police stations across the country but has been financially constrained. When President Uhuru Kenyatta announced changes in the service in 2018, some 24,000 APS officers had to move to the Kenya Police. APS is now completely specialised in its core mandate that includes border patrols, guarding critical infrastructure and dealing with stock theft. The GSU requires younger officers to take part in operations that are much in demand. This has led to a huge shortage in some units, hence the need for recruitment to fill vacancies left.