The strike by nurses is collapsing, with the majority of the counties having returned to work. Only nurses in 13 counties—Baringo, Busia, Kilifi, Kisii, Kisumu, Migori, Mombasa, Nairobi, Nakuru, Taita Taveta, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, and Vihiga—are still on strike. Those in 32 counties, including 13 that did not go on strike on December 7, are serving patients in their hospitals. In Lamu and Nyandarua, some nurses are at work while the others are striking. All counties have been making weekly reports of the labour dispute to the Council of Governors. “Most nurses resumed work after series of court rulings that deemed their strikes illegal and ordered them to continue working as negotiations go on,” said last week’s report at the CoG. The last to receive such orders were Meru nurses. On February 1 they were ordered by the Labour and Employment Relations court to resume work as their officials and the county government resolve their grievances. Other counties such as Embu signed a return-to-work formula with the local chapters of the Kenya National Union of Nurses, ending the strike. KNUN has recognition agreements with individual counties and not the CoG. "There is no longer a strike since the county has become cooperative," Joseph Ngwasi, the KNUN national vice-chairman and Embu branch secretary, said. Embu Deputy Governor David Kariuki, who is the acting Health executive, said they agreed to be paying workers on time, act on due promotions and remit all pending statutory deductions. "We had several consultative meetings which brought to an end a strike that had paralysed health services in the region," he said. In Lamu, by Friday last week, 110 nurses had resumed work while 122 were still on strike while in Nyandarua half of the nurses were working. The CoG report shows the strike by clinical officers is also fizzling out, with only 17 counties remaining on strike. Medical laboratory technologists had also gone on strike in January but only those in Homa Bay and Baringo are still striking. When they went on strike on December 7, the nurses demanded higher allowances, adequate personal protective equipment, comprehensive medical insurance cover and an end to salary delays. Governors rejected any call for a pay increase, saying nurses are some of the best paid civil servants in the counties and do not deserve any more money. The lowest-paid nurse, at certificate-entry level, earns total Sh71,870 monthly salary and an extra Sh10,000 every year as uniform allowance. A certificate in nursing takes about two years and is open to people with C- (minus) and above. On the other hand, an entry-level clinical officer with a diploma earns a gross salary of Sh83,380 per month. “An increase in any allowances has a budget implication to the counties,” former Council of Governors' chair Wycliffe Oparanya said. The CoG reportedly advised counties to deal with their local union chapters because the issues raised are not uniform nationally.  (edited by o. owino)