KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno has termed the healing and subsequent resumption of training by Enoch Agwanda as a timely boost to their bid to muscle up for the Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League title. The burly striker resumed training yesterday at the club's training ground in Ruaraka after missing the past six weeks, thanks to an injury suffered while on duty in the opening rounds of the season. Zico, who was yesterday crowned as the December coach of the month by the league body welcomed the return of the former Sony Sugar man, whom he said his experience spanning to a decade in the league will add vigour in their quest to their first league title. Zico piped Kariobangi Sharks tactician William Muluya to the gong which came with a Sh50, 000 token from the league sponsor, Betking. The bankers have been in a class of their own this season after gathering 25 points from a possible 30 and have already been touted as title favourites. "Agwanda wasn't fully fit when the season began and we had to use him as an impact player. Unfortunately, he aggravated his injury which has kept him out in the past six weeks. Luckily, he has resumed training and when fully fit, I believe he will help us win the title. He is one of the experienced goal poachers we have around, " said the former Kenyan international With the first leg of the league nearly entering homestretch, Zico anticipates tough resistance notably in the forthcoming three matches, where the club will confront Nzoia Sugar, Sofapaka and Kariobangi Sharks. Zico conceded that the club had endured a moment of low peak before last weekend's break after picking maximum points twice in their last four matches. He, however, called on his troops to build on their 1-0 win over Vihiga United in their last match to maintain a winning run. "I am expecting our next three matches to be tough considering KCB is the team to beat. We haven't performed well in our previous matches but that's the nature of football. Sometimes teams experience tough moments and I am glad during our low peak, we have managed to collect points and I hope we will keep the fire burning, " he said