Nyeri county has welcomed the introduction of a warehousing receipt system by the national government. The Warehousing Receipt System (WRS) allows farmers and traders to deposit their commodities in a certified warehouse so that they are issued with a document of title called a warehouse receipt as proof of ownership. The WRS was formed about six months ago and a council formed to take charge. County Agriculture executive James Wachihi on Friday said the receipt issued upon depositing of harvests is bankable and farmers can use it to access credit. He said this will enable jobless youths with no title deeds to hire land, grow crops, take their produce to the warehouses and get the receipts. The storage facilities will also enable farmers to store their produce without losing their quality as they wait for prices to improve, especially when there is a glut in the market. Warehouses will help balance the supply chain during high and low supply seasons and reduce post-harvest losses. Up to 30 per cent of losses occur on farms, he said. "The losses are incurred because the farmer has no ability to store as facilities that were there some years back are no longer there,” Wachihi said. The intervention will also promote price discovery and ensure farmers do not sell their harvests in a hurry. “These will be storage facilities that have the necessary technology to store the produce for a period of time without losing the quality,” Wachihi said. The whole idea is to deal with supply fluctuations. He said farming in Nyeri is still largely rain-fed, hence much production comes at a particular time and farmers usually want to dispose of their harvests within a few months. Such moves do not give farmers enough returns when there is bumper harvests, given the law of supply and demand—the price is not competitive, he said. The county will identify warehouse or storage facilities and license them in consultation with the Warehouse Receipt System Council—the regulator. County governments are required to license warehouses. County secretary Ben Gachichio said the reforms mean that farm produce can be linked internationally so the country can export to the rest of the world. He said the county is adopting the programme and will fast-track it and sensitise farmers and the public to its benefits, so they, too, can come on board. He said the county will appoint a licensing committee to ensure standards and quality are guaranteed. Trade executive Diana Kendi said the introduction of the WRS council will help Nyeri become a manufacturing and logistics hub. The county officials spoke to the media at White Rhino Hotel in Nyeri town after an awareness and education campaign that informed sector players of WRS operations and benefits. The council is now spearheading WRS implementation as part of reforms in the agricultural sector to improve farmers’ returns. WRS chairperson Jane Ngigi said there are over 200 warehouses all over the country, most of which are under the National Cereals and Produce Board. "The farmer will now be able to aggregate his quality and accredited produce so that processors or consumers have access not only to quality materials but also the right quantity,” she said. Ngigi said this will end a situation where farmers bring in both poor and good quality produce to storage facilities that is then mixed. “We expect that it will not be the usual maize and beans but also fruits and other perishables, including meat and fish that can also be warehoused for longer shelf life,” she said.