Nairobi MCAs have given the go ahead to the county government to borrow Sh150 million for services expenditure this financial year. This even as the county executive denied making a request to borrow funds. Deputy Majority leader Peter Wanyoike on Tuesday moved a motion requesting the assembly to approve a request by Finance executive to borrow money. “That, pursuant to the provisions of Section 142 of the Public Finance Management Act, 2012 this Assembly authorizes the request by the County Executive Committee Member for Finance and Economic Planning to borrow Sh150,000,000 for the purpose of meeting expenditure necessary to carry on the services of the Nairobi City County Government during the financial year ending on June 30, 2021,” read the motion. Finance Allan Igambi did not respond to calls when reached to clarify the matter. However, on his part, chief Finance officer Halkano Wako said he was not aware of such borrowing. “To borrow money from where and for what? I'm not aware of such borrowing,” Wako said. County Assembly Budget, Finance and Appropriation Committee chairman Robert Mbatia also said he was not aware of such a request by the executive. “To be sincere, as the budget chairperson, I'm not aware of such a motion. This is the first time I'm hearing of it,” he said Wanyoike said the borrowing request was from the executive on services that they had not specified. “The request was from the CEC for Finance, which I think there was an agreement between him and the assembly to borrow awaiting the supplementary budget," he said. However, the Supplementary Budget estimates were tabled last week on Thursday by Majority leader Abdi Guyo. Wako also confirmed that the supplementary budget had been tabled in the assembly. The MCAs still debated and passed the motion to allow the borrowing of Sh150 million. “I raise my voice in support of the motion so that we can carry on as assembly,” Pipeline MCA Stephen Gikonyo said. “It is a good motion because we have to move on as the assembly to cater for very important issues. I support,” nominated MCA Leah Supuko said. “I rise to support this motion because I believe what is good for the goose is good for the gander. Delay is not denial. By the end of this week, equality will be served here. I support,” nominated MCA Doris Kanario said. Roysambu MCA Peter Warutere also supported the motion. “Let me take this opportunity to thank all members who have supported this motion. It is good that from today, we are going to get some money so that we can carry on the services which Nairobi county needs. With that, I beg to reply,” Wanyoike said. 