Vihiga Queens' coach Alex Alumira has called for fairness from match officials as his side prepares to take on Trans-Nzoia Falcons in a top-of-the-table clash at Kenyatta Stadium, Kitale on Saturday. Several coaches who have visited Trans Nzoia at their backyard have raised concerns over the integrity of officials, accusing them of favouring the home team. Alumira said even though he hasn't experienced such, he still expects the match officials to be fair in order to allow teams play to their strengths. "Teams that have played at Kenyatta Stadium have protested about some poor and costly refereeing decisions against them. There's need for impartiality and every team should be afforded equal competitive edge," said the three-time title winner with Vihiga. Though some of the Vihiga players face a late fitness test with minor injuries, Alumira insisted that their aim is to get three points. Last season Vihiga won both legs (4-1 home and a 2-1 on the road). "We have a few knocks which will be assessed before the match," he said. Vihiga lead Zone 'B' with 16 points, three above their matchday opponents at second. A win for Vihiga will take their point tally to 19, while Trans Nzioa could drop to third if Wadadia beat Kisumu All Starlets. A bottom-of-the-table clash pits Oserian gainst Eldoret Falcons. Oserian have one point while Falcons remain pointless. Falcons are in a transition period with many of the players being new. SEP Oyugis will be searching for their fourth win when they welcome newbies Nakuru West Queens. Nakuru have proved a tough nut to crack and is the only team to record a point against the defending champions Vihiga Queens. In Zone 'B', Thika Queens who are chasing their second title, are expected to pick points against Mathare United women with the two teams having contrasting fortunes. Thika have registered six consecutive wins while Mathare are winless. Kayole Starlets entertain Kibera Soccer, second-placed Ulinzi Starlets battle Zetech Sparks as Makolanders try to stop Gaspo.