National Assembly leaders have said the BBI referendum will be financed even if the cash was not budgeted in the current financial year. Majority leader Amos Kimunya and his Minority counterpart John Mbadi said the Treasury can spend the money then regularise the expenditure later. Polls agency IEBC has projected that it would require Sh14 billion to conduct a referendum to implement the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Wafula Chebukati-led commission said the amount is backed by historical data and previous experience in managing elections in the country. IEBC compared expenditure of the 2010 referendum (Sh10 billion) and the 2017 fresh presidential election (Sh11.9 billion) – each having used one ballot paper. The commission says it needs the money for technology, ballot papers, hiring temporary poll officials and security. It is also holding nine by-elections. But Kimunya said the BBI was taken over by over three million Kenyans - who now own the process – and thus has to be funded by the state. “The Constitution gives them the right, which says the referendum must be held. We must provide resources.” “If IEBC says it can be held in May, we will provide the resources. If slated for July, we will factor in the next budget,” the Majority leader and Kipipiri MP said. He added that the bottom line is that the state must find money once the IEBC sets the date of the referendum. “We will find the money for BBI, roads, Covid1-9, pay salaries. It is a constitutional obligation. Even it is one person who conducted the process leading to a referendum; the government must provide the resources.” “We will discuss with the IEBC to rationalise. It probably won’t be that expensive. Being a non-contested referendum, we probably would not go to the extremes of training, kits, and all that,” Kimunya added. Mbadi said that spending on a referendum will not take huge amounts of money as has been suggested. “It is not an amount that can distort the budget. If the referendum is agreed on by June, it is just a matter of the Treasury giving the greenlight and regularising it within two months. If it will be after June, then it will be in the estimates,” the ODM chairman and Suba South MP said. Kimunya said: "If we can cut on the waste, there is a lot of money we can save. Covid-19 has brought that discipline, take for instance the travels… there is a lot of savings we will look at to raise the money." Budget and Appropriations Committee chairman Kanini Kega said they will reorganise the budget to fit the referendum needs, owing to the government policy direction on matters BBI. He dismissed IEBC's call for Sh14 billion, saying the vote would be simple, doesn't require any materials imported, and will not have much reliance on technology. The assurances may ease President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga’s headache in funding the referendum vote. To raise the additional cash this financial year, ministries, state departments, and agencies (MDAs) are poised for drastic budget cuts. The cuts would add pressure on their coffers that had already been raided to raise money for Covid-19 response and in austerity measures. The coronavirus has also presented a cash flow crisis amid the pressure on the President’s side to deliver key flagship projects before 2022. Already, the National Treasury has exceeded the budget for the current financial year by over Sh120.8 billion. It is currently seeking approval from the National Assembly for the extra expenditure. The estimates have no provision to the IEBC for conducting the referendum, meaning there would be a need for a second supplementary estimate to factor the charge. The 2021 Budget Policy Statement shows that the IEBC would receive Sh10 billion more in 2021-22 above its usual allocation of about Sh4.5 billion. Funding for the next general election is provided for in the budget for the fiscal year 2022-23 at Sh21.3 billion. In the same vein, the Treasury is grappling with funding a Sh1 trillion hole in the next financial year. Even so, Treasury says the BBI is considered an investment, and therefore likely to opt for further rationalisation to raise the cash. Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani earlier said there is room to forgo some projects and programmes to fund the referendum. “It is worth investing and allocating resources to. Who said this is not important? In my view, it is one of the most important things,” the CS told the Star. 