The Salaries and Remuneration Commission is yet to make a decision on the Sh2 million car grant demand by MCAs. Head of corporate communications at SRC Anthony Mwangi however told the Star the commission is scheduled to meet soon to deliberate on the proposal, which has now taken centre stage in political debates. “We have not fully deliberated on the matter and until then, we cannot have a position on the debate,” Mwangi said. The proposal to give ward representatives a car grant must however get the approval of SRC. County Assemblies Forum secretary general Kipkurui Chepkwony said MCAs are not demanding car grant as a condition to support the Building Bridges Initiative. The BBI bill, the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020, has already been forwarded to county assemblies for approval or rejection. “It is just by coincidence that we are demanding car grant at a time the President is asking Kenyans to support the BBI. Everyone in the country is aware that we have been having this discussion for sometime now. It started way back in 2014,” Chepkwony said. The law requires at least 24 county assemblies to approve the bill before it moves to the next stage. Failure to meet that threshold means the push for law change will collapse. Chepkwony said their support or rejection of the bill will not be determined by the promise of car grant. “I want to ask leaders to de-link the BBI from the car grant when they address gatherings,” he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta pledged to help MCAs get Sh2 million car grant each during a meeting with ward representatives from Mt Kenya on January 30. CAF chair Ndegwa Wahome, had earlier said MCAs will not support the BBI process because the President promised to help them get car grants. “Pronouncements were made and we were happy about it but the BBI has very little to do with the welfare of MCAs. There are several proposals in the BBI that have made us to support the document,” Wahome said. He cited the Ward Development Fund and the amendment to the Public Finance Management Act 2012 as some reasons to support BBI. A section of politicians had said the promise of a car grant was a bribe to MCAs to pass the bill, which is before county assemblies. Soy MP Caleb Kositany said MCAs deserve a car grant but warned that they might not get it just by approving BBI. “MCAs deserve car grants but the issue is dangled and once they vote in favour, they may never hear of it again,” Kositany stated. 