Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology (MMUST) head coach Ocheing Ahaya remains confident that the team will seal a slot in the Kenya Cup next season. MMUST take on three-time Kenya Cup champions Mean Machine in Kakamega for a chance to play in the top flight once the season kicks off. “I know it’s not an easy match because Mean Machine is a good and experienced team but the boys are ready. We are keen to march to the Kenya Cup,” said a buoyant Ahaya. “We have not had good preparations but we have been training since January last month.” MMUST has been boosted by the return of captain Samuel Mbeche after a long layoff due to injury. “Mbeche is back but I don’t think he is match-fit but you never know what will happen on Saturday,” said Ahaya. Last season, MMUST missed a chance of earning a slot in the Kenya Cup after crashing out in the semifinals after losing to Kisumu RFC. Mean Machine sealed a place in the playoff after thrashing Egerton University’s Wasps 37-0 at the University of Nairobi grounds while MMUST qualified after finishing second in the regular season. In the second play-off match, regular-season champions Strathmore Leos welcome KRU Championship debutants Northern Suburbs Cubs at the Strathmore University grounds. Cubs qualified for the playoffs without kicking a ball after United States International University’s Martials withdrew from the competition. Cubs coach Simon Jawichire says his team will go into the game as underdogs. “We started our training before them which will give us an advantage,” said Jawichire. His Leos counterpart Loius Kisia said: “Suburbs is an equally good team because they made it to the playoffs in their debut season. However, my charges are ready since we have had good training sessions in the last six weeks.” “I expect the boys will show class on Saturday. We want to return to Kenya Cup because that’s where we belong.” All fixtures will be played in adherence to existing Covid-19 protocols with no spectators in attendance.