A Nairobi court has dismissed an application to have Governor Okoth Obado’s corruption case transferred to Migori. Justice James Wakiaga declined to transfer the case, dismissing the application by Joram Otieno who is one of the accused. Wakiaga said he had taken into account the matters raised by Otieno in the application and found no merit. Judge Wakiaga also noted that some of the accused persons were comfortable with the case proceeding in Nairobi so he would not transfer it because of Otieno alone. "In this matter, it’s only Otieno and his related companies who approached the court for the transfer. All the other accused persons though served are silent on whether they would like the matter transferred," the judge ruled. Justice Wakiaga also said there were no allegations that the trial in Nairobi would not be free, fair and free from bias. "The only issue raised is hardship but he had not supported that by any evidence of his inability to attend court and mount a defence in Nairobi," he ruled. The DPP had opposed the application, arguing that because of the accused person's status and life in Migori then it would not be possible for a free and fair trial to be conducted there. Otieno through lawyer George Kithi made the application to transfer the case to Migori from Nairobi where they were charged last year. Kithi argued that the offences were allegedly committed in Migori county but the charge sheet was filed in a Nairobi court, which does not have territorial jurisdiction over the matter. “The discovery process is ongoing but the part already discovered confirmed that all the witnesses reside in Migori or are available in Migori and Otieno as well as all the accused persons hail from Migori and as such, there is a blatant disregard of the locus, cost and convenience of the trial,” Kithi argued. Otieno said it was only fair, reasonable and in the interest of justice that the court certified the matter as urgent and granted the orders prayed. He said the prosecution obtained orders freezing all his assets and monies and as such he had no means of livelihood having been put out of pocket. “It is therefore punishing and harsh to file the proceedings and case in Nairobi and against the constitutional provisions and the law,” he argued. Otieno said the deliberate filing of the case many miles from Migori where the offence was alleged to have happened had no legal excuse or justification but a ploy to deny him and his co-accused access to justice. At the trial court while the judge was reading his ruling, chief magistrate Lawrence Mugambi declined to stop the case pending Judge Wakiaga’s ruling. Edited by Henry Makori