It is a well-established fact that banks and other financial institutions are complicated and have the controlling authority over the entire financial industry. But people have been looking out for other reasonable alternatives to the traditional banking systems. By taking part in a financial method where only one side gains profit, these conventional financial institutions get direct access to one’s money and will be able to spend it as well, that too with expensive fee charges. However, this one-sided relationship gradually paved the way for the emergence of cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin are a representation of the modern concept of digital currency. The recent success of Bitcoin has revolutionized the concept of investment and trading in the business community. Early investors of Bitcoin out of living example how it has provided an opportunity of making thousands and millions of dollars in profit smart trading technique and patience. This is why today Bitcoin is extremely relevant to the global economy. Understanding what is ‘Financial Independence’? Financial independence means that there is no involvement of a third-party (any financial institution or regulatory authority) in the confirmation of transactions and payments. This is achieved by the use of cryptocurrency as a form of any monetary transaction. It eliminates the need for any sort of bank or financial institution. Instead of a bank, the user's transactions are being looked over by the blockchain technology, which also secures the funds. Ethereum is also one renowned crypto that offers these features to its users. Its success can be seen by the point that over a billion U.S dollars are being kept in the Ethereum platform. What makes crypto so powerful is that instead of custody solutions, it makes use of smart contracts. It eliminates any potential chances of risks caused by the counterparty. Having financial independence creates a straightforward and trustworthy economy. Apart from custody, these financial institutions cost a hefty additional fee. Hence, writing a contract saves up more money than running a bank. Hence, it can be concluded that using crypto can provide higher interest rates and can save up money as well because of its financial independence. Digitization of Transaction and Payment Gateways To take part in the conventional method of transactions and payments, banks have put up a lot of requirements. It begins from entering one's personal information to then adding an initial fee in the account for it to run. However, crypto does not exclude anyone, it counts on people with or without bank accounts, and caters to all in the same manner. Additionally, digitized money is easier to travel across borders and break all sorts of barriers. People can also conduct international transactions over their smartphones without any hassle. The future, utilization, and market size of cryptocurrency have grown rapidly and will continue to grow rapidly, because of its financial independence. This is a major transformation in today's economy, the reason being that many traders and investors have hopped on this method. To find a genuine trading platform traders can check out the bitcoin lifestyle app to have a better understanding of the features of cryptocurrency.