Hundreds of British troops are on lockdown in Nanyuki and living on rations after a Covid-19 outbreak struck their training base. The British Army confirmed four personnel with a battle group had tested positive for the coronavirus. The outbreak has thrown the unit’s plans into disarray. It was expected to conduct the first major training exercise in Kenya since suspending operations in the early days of the pandemic in 2020. High commissioner to Kenya Jane Marriott tweeted that some of the troops in isolation will be released upon testing negative. “We are partnering with authorities and local community to minimise risks,” Marriott said. After the positive tests were confirmed, 320 military personnel in Nanyuki for 'Exercise Askari Storm' were placed in isolation on site, half of them quarantining in tents. The total number of troops on location is 1,606, including at least two infantry battalions. Officials said more than 1,000 troops are eating rations after the camp commander ordered the cookhouse shut down and banned local staff including chefs from the camp for their own safety. The Ministry of Defence said the camp at British Army Training Unit Kenya had been split into isolating groups by flights upon arrival. Then they were subjected to further quarantine orders once the positive tests were confirmed. It was feared soldiers who travelled from the UK last week might have introduced the new UK Covid-19 strain. With kitchen staff and others sent home, the troops are eating  rations. The UK Ministry of Defence said all soldiers who travelled to Kenya were tested for Covid-19 92 hours ahead of their flight. The different groups were required to isolate for six days on arrival to curb transmission of the virus, and were constantly asked about  symptoms daily. They received PCR testing. It was during this period that the four soldiers tested positive for Covid-19. UK Secretary of State for Defence Ben Wallace on January 26 opened new barracks named Nyati at the BATUK camp in Nanyuki. The unit is a permanent training unit in Kenya with bases in Kahawa and Nanyuki and hosts six infantry battalions per year. It is one of the main British defence assets in the country. The troops come to Kenya annually to train with live fire at Archer’s Post. which has some of the harshest terrain in the country. The troops also undertake civil engineering projects and medical deployments, providing primary health care assistance to the local communities. Since the Defence Cooperation Agreement was signed in 2016, BATUK has contributed more than Sh5.8 billion to the local economy. (Edited by V. Graham)