Kenya Ports Authority’s second East Africa Maritime Awards (EAMA) ceremony is scheduled for May 21, 2021 in Mombasa, Kenya. The awards that recognise and award notable users of the Port of Mombasa and individual players are open to companies from across the breadth of the maritime sector. This comprises the shipping, ports, services, engineering, and leisure marine industries with operations in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan, and the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Speaking in Mombasa, Kenya Ports Authority acting managing director Rashid Salim said the awards had come at a time the local, regional and global economies were facing a period of significant challenge following the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic. “The Covid-19 pandemic has tested all sectors of the economies globally, however the maritime business has remained resilient, enabling and sustaining regional trade," Salim said. He said the maritime sector players need to come together and plan for  a post-Covid future, which however, will still be presenting substantial challenges such as responding to climate change. "In many ways, therefore, the current pandemic makes this year’s East Africa Maritime Awards even more important than before,” Salim said. Partners in the awards include Kenya Maritime Authority (KMA), Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA), Kenya Trade Network Agency (KenTrade), Shippers Council of Eastern Africa (SCEA) and East African Business Council (EABC), EAMA. It appreciates exceptional contribution to the industry and regional economies, encourage innovation and healthy competition among regional industry players and improve overall performance of the sector. The awards have been grouped into nine clusters based on their maritime functionality and service offering with a total of 27 distinct categories including Exporter of the Year, Importer of the Year, Best Cargo Transporter, Best Cargo Freight Station and Best Regional Cargo logistics provider. Others are Best Clearing and Forwarding Agent (for each participating country), Best Warehousing Company, Best Shipping Line, Best Shipping Agent (Liner Agency), Best Shipping Agent (Tramp Agency), Best Shipping Agent (Coastal and Inland Shipping), Best Cargo Consolidator, Partner Government Agency, and Private Sector Business Membership Organization(each participating country). Also recognised are Auxiliary Services, (Bunkering, Ship Chandling, Marine surveys, Ship contracting, Pre-shipment inspection), Financial Services, Marine Cargo Insurance Services, Maritime Education and Training, Environmental Protection, Occupational Health and Safety and Innovation. There is also a category for Corporate Social Investment, Outstanding Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise (MSME), Maritime Journalist (for each participating country), Young Achiever, Outstanding Woman, and Lifetime Achievement.