Thirty-one Covid patients were in intensive care units on Thursday, 13 were on ventilator support and 16 on supplemental oxygen. An additional two patients were under observation, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement. Another nine patients were separately on supplementary oxygen in general wards. “There are 360 patients admitted in various health facilities in the country while 1,292 are on the home based isolation and care,” Kagwe said. The CS confirmed that 62 more patients recovered from the virus, pushing the number of recoveries to 84,790. From the number, 17 of the patients were discharged from health facilities, while 45 were discharged from the home-based care programme. The virus caseload in the country hit 102,353 after 132 more patients tested positive from a sample size of 4,220 tested in 24 hours. This represents a positivity rate of 3.1 per cent. Of the new cases, 21 were foreign nationals. The cases comprised 70 males and 62 females aged between 11 years and 96 years old. The number of cumulative tests conducted in the country to date is 1,228,047. “Unfortunately, three patients have succumbed to the disease, pushing the cumulative fatalities to 1,794. Our sincere condolences to the family and friends of those who have lost their loved ones,” the CS said. Nairobi continues to lead in the number of cases after recording 96 more, followed by Kiambu with eight, Taita Taveta with six, Kisumu and Nakuru with four each and Meru with three cases. Kilifi, Mombasa and Uasin Gishu recorded two cases each, while Embu, Garissa, Machakos, Kajiado and Kericho had one case each. Nairobi’s Dagoretti North and Westlands recorded 13 cases each; Embakasi West and Lang’ata with eight cases each; Starehe with seven; Kamukunji, Kibra and Mathare with six cases each; and Embakasi East with five cases. Other subcounites that recorded cases in Nairobi include Embakasi South and Makadara with four cases each; Dagoretti South, Embakasi Central, Embakasi North and Ruaraka with three cases each; and Kasarani and Roysambu had two cases each.