State accounting officers will be fined Sh10 million or jailed five years for failing to report their spending to the auditor general within a month of the end of a financial year, a bill has proposed. The public finance management law is being tightened to require that accounting officers present their financial reports to the auditor general in good time. At the moment, accounting officers of ministries, state departments, and agencies are required to submit reports within three months after June 30. But the government wants the provision changed in what it says would ensure the office of the auditor general gets adequate time to carry out the required reviews. The changes are in the Public Finance Management (Amendment) Bill, 2020, sponsored by Homa Bay Woman MP Gladys Wanga – chairperson of Finance Committee of the National Assembly. “The bill proposes to sanction non-compliance by accounting officers. It proposes the application of penalty for accounting officers found guilty of breaching the proposed provisions,” Wanga said in the bill’s memorandum. The provisions will also apply to county treasuries, administrators of county public fund and receivers of revenue of county and national governments. Apart from accounting officers, the National Treasury will be required to submit to the auditor general financial statements in respect of the Contingencies Fund. The administrator of a national public fund will also have to prepare financial statements for the fund for each financial year no later than a month after the end of each financial year. The statements will be sent to the auditor general and copied to the National Treasury, Commission on Revenue Allocation, and the Controller of Budget. In the new rules, an accountant would be expected to deliver a copy of the statements to the relevant county treasury, the Controller of Budget, and the Commission on Revenue Allocation. State agencies will also not have the luxury of sitting on recommendations by the Controller of Budget on the use of funds. After Parliament adopts a report of the Controller of Budget, accounting officers will be required to prepare a report on actions taken by the entity. This will be in regard to steps taken to implement recommendations made by a National Assembly committee reviewing such reports. In the case of a national government entity, the report will be copied to the National Treasury and the Controller of Budget. Treasury also has two months after the end of a financial year to present statements and summaries of the same to the auditor general. The bill also proposes that the county treasury submits to the auditor general statements in respect of an Emergency Fund established for a county government. Controller of Budget Margaret Nyakang’o has over time complained of late submissions of reports by government entities. She says late submissions of financial reports by the county and national government treasuries affect timely preparation of budget implementation reports. Late or non-submission of reports has also been flagged in various reviews conducted by the auditor general. MPs, largely in the audit and appropriation committees, have been pushing for harsh penalties for state agencies that file fiscal reports late. The Public Investments Committee at one point cited a situation where government bodies failed to submit audit documents only to appear with the voluminous files after the auditor had raised queries. “We must be firm with such state corporations which intentionally refuse to cooperate with the office of the Auditor General,” PIC chairman Abdulswamad Nassir (Mvita) said.