President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday reached out to youths to secure their support ahead of the referendum vote. The two leaders met youths separately in Nairobi where they made a case for the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020 popularly known as BBI Bill. Uhuru met over 3,000 youths from across the country at Moi International Sports Center, Kasarani Stadium while the ODM leader was engaging youth groups’ representatives from Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi regions. Speaking a day after the Bill received overwhelming endorsements in county assemblies, the leaders dangled tax holidays and a youth council as some of the low lying fruits to count on when the document is passed. Uhuru said BBI will not only ensure an environment conducive to business but also guarantee the survival of youth-led enterprises through the seven-year tax holiday. He said the tax holiday to be enjoyed by all start-up businesses owned by young people and will give them ample time to stabilise. “In fact, the BBI initiative, which is about constitutional change and legislative change as well, will facilitate this process. Through the legislative aspect of BBI, we intend to provide a seven-year tax holiday for young entrepreneurs like the 750 grantees of this project,” Uhuru said. “Instead of taking Sh1 billion in taxes from the 250 young entrepreneurs in seven years, we are proposing to have them retain this money and expand their endeavours,” he added. Raila on his part called on the youths to take advantage of the moment and approve the BBI referendum which he noted has more benefits in store for them. He said the youths do not require wheelbarrows being distributed by Deputy President William Ruto and instead should be empowered with the right skills and opportunity to serve so as to take part in meaningful nation-building. “Youths can be a blessing or a curse. If you don't develop them they will become delinquent, drug addicts and even criminals. If you empower them then they can be a source of wealth creation,” Raila said. He added: “Wheelbarrow will not take anybody anywhere, wheelbarrow is only used in a construction site.” The AU special envoy on Infrastructure also termed the push to have a referendum alongside a general election impractical saying its proponents are cowards who fear leading the ‘No’ team. Ruto and his team had demanded, among others, that the referendum be held alongside the 2022 General Election. But according to Raila, the proposal would confuse the voters who will be confronted with many ballot papers on the day of elections. He said those pushing for the idea are basically saying ‘No’ but are not courageous enough to lead the anti-BBI drive. He also noted the idea will delay the gender gains promised in the document. "If we do referendum with elections in 2022 then we shall realise the two-thirds gender rule in 2027 and are our women ready to wait?" Raila said. The Opposition leader also lauded MCAs for the overwhelming endorsements the document received in the County Assemblies. "Kenyans talked loud and clear through their MCAs. Kenyans can clap for you but when critical time comes, they make the right decision," he said. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 