Owners of properties built without approvals will be forced to engage the county government of Nairobi as it embarks on developing the Nairobi City County Regularisation Act, 2021. This will assist in the regularisation of unauthorised developments in the county. Unauthorised developments are those that have been constructed but had not received the necessary approvals under the National Physical Planning Act and other relevant Nairobi City County legislations. County executive for lands and urban planning Charles Kerich on Wednesday said a task force has already been gazetted to come up with the act. “The team was gazetted today (Wednesday) and will take a month to come up with the regulation before we take it to the assembly for discussion and approval,” he said. Kerich said initially there was the Nairobi City County Regularisation Act, 2015 which was passed but not implemented. Due to lack of capacity, City Hall has been unable to monitor constructions of all the buildings in Nairobi most of which are irregularly built. “Looking at the Nairobi City County Regularisation Act, 2015 it had a span for one year but also allows the CEC to extend the timeframe for another six months and could be done twice,” Kerich explained. “After consultation, we had a decision to either redo regulations for an act that is already dead by extending it then do regulations, or do a new one," he added. He said going through the process, the regulations will compel people that have constructed to bring their plans for review and in return be told the amount they owe the county. If the plans are structurally fine and architecturally sound, the county government will give the approval the property owners ought to have gotten before and thereafter pay the requisite planning approval plan. The approvals together with the occupation certificates will only be issued upon inspection and the building found to be okay. “Basically one will be going backward because instead of coming for an approval first, they built but because we can have a conversation to assist where the applications will be checked a building inspected,” Kerich said. However, buildings found to be not structurally right will not be regularised. “If the development is found to be structurally absurd, it does not mean it will be brought down immediately. Our engineers can advice. But if they write it off and is condemned then the structure has to be brought down,” he said. According to the CEC, the review not only serves the purpose of capturing the revenue but also ensures the safety of residents. “Apart from safety, the review is also a good source of revenue for the county as it is certain many people will come to regularise their buildings to avoid them being demolished,” Kerich added. Building Permits is one among the five own revenue sources of the county which have yielded poor results over the years. In the last Financial year 2019/20 Sh456.7 million was collected for building permits, Sh1 billion in FY 2018/19, Sh 239 million (FY 2017/18), Sh843 million ( FY 2016/17), Sh1.2 billion ( FY 2015/16) and Sh760 ( 2013/14). The decline in the revenue stream has always been attributed to nondisclosure and non-adherence to building regulations.  Edited by Sarah Kanyara  