Al Shabaab has in recent weeks attacked and destroyed more than 12 installations in Mandera, Wajir and Garissa counties, killed residents, and attacked public service vehicles. They target communications installations to disrupt police response. The attacks, which are taking place 200km inside Kenya’s territory, have affected health services, education and business across the counties. Al Shabaab has made roads impassable or dangerous. The cost of living has gone up, schools have closed or remain with few teachers, while the cost of travelling has gone up. Al Shabaab is surging towards Kenya. The militants use private-owned dams as a source of water on the outskirts of main villages. They move around at night on motorcycles, especially when the moon is out. Coronavirus has affected the local economy. With the militia willing to pay exorbitantly, people are naturally willing to do business with them, as they have no understanding of the long-term ramifications of this. What are the Interior Cabinet secretary, Permanent secretary and head of military doing about this? Why are they in denial? Many security officers and civilians have been killed, maimed and property destroyed in the northeast since KDF entered Somalia in 2011 to push back the Al Qaeda-linked group. Al Shabaab has stepped up attacks in Kenyan counties bordering Somalia in the last few years. Kenyan is not among the countries most affected by terrorism. Nigeria, DR Congo, Somalia, Yemen, Syria, Philippines, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq and India have suffered great loss in terms of human life and property. In these countries, conflict continues to be the primary driver of terrorism activities. Prolonged insurgency and increased tension between splinter and national groups are the order of the day. The fundamental question is, why can’t they be repulsed, captured or killed? Using traditional or conventional warfare with militants is not an immediate strategy. Externally imposed ‘top-down’ political solution are unlikely to work unless those previously excluded are roped in, particularly where there is a deep mistrust of the political process. Humiliation and degradation are key drivers of political violence. Young Kenyans have been duped into joining al Shabaab, others were trafficked, kidnapped, or forcibly recruited, as explained by those captured or who voluntarily surrendered to security agencies. Others join voluntarily, as the idea of belonging to a group appeals to them. Others are driven to the group as a result of economic exclusion and the promised economic stability, fame, respect and personal connections. Al Shabaab has morphed into a more tactical and powerful militia in the horn of Africa nation—in fact it can be said to have turned into an international syndicate.