With Kariobangi Sharks' chances of claiming their maiden league title diminishing, captain Erick Juma says their focus has shifted to claiming this year’s Betway Cup, which gets underway this weekend. Sharks face Naivasha-based Flamingo at the Finlays grounds in the round of 64 on Saturday. The slum boys launched their bid to win their first league title this season on a high but have seemingly lost their footing hardly ten rounds into the campaign and are currently ranked fifth on the log. Ahead of the Cup duel, Juma has warned his teammates against underrating the minnows. Sharks won the Cup in 2018 and were awarded the rights to represent the country in the CAF Confederations Cup, a stage Juma dreams of leading the team to again. “We have never played Flamingo but we will approach the match with the seriousness it deserves. We cannot afford to underrate them since they are equally in contention for a place in the next round. Our aim this season is to win the Cup and return to continental competitions matches. We also want to win it for our fans and Betway, who are our shirt sponsor,” said the right-back. In other matches planned for Saturday, 2017 champions AFC Leopards face Tiki at the Wundanyi Stadium while 2016 winners Tusker will travel to play Mihuu United at the Sudi Stadium, Bungoma. Ulinzi Stars will be hoping to shoot down Elim of Kitale at the Kenyatta Stadium while Nairobi City Stars entertain Kitui’s Mutomo Tigers. High-flying National Super League side Fortune Sacco tackle FC Shells at the Mbaraki grounds. On Sunday, defending champions Bandari will lock horns with struggling NSL side Murang'a Seal at the St. Sebastian Park. Three-time champions Sofapaka play Kitale All Stars at the Kenyatta Stadium, Kitale while Bidco United tackle Masinde Muliro University. Saturday matches   Sunday matches 1. Sigalagala TTI vs Dero (Sigalagala Grounds, 3 pm) 2. Rware vs Posta Rangers (Ruringu Stadium, 3 pm) 3. Black Diamond vs CUSCO (Sawagongo Grounds, 3 pm) 4. Alphose vs Administration Police (St. Sebastian Park, 1 pm) 5. Muranga Seal vs Bandari (St. Sebastian Park, 3.15 pm) 6. MMUST vs Bidco United (Approved School, 3 pm) 7. Nyabururu Sportif vs Keroka TTI (Gusii Stadium, 1 pm) 8. Kiandege Jets vs KCB (Gusii Stadium, 3.15 pm) 9. Twomoc vs Naivas (Nakuru Athletic Club, 1 pm) 10. Nax Fussball vs Mara Sugar (Nakuru Athletic Club, 3.15 pm) 11. Kobare vs Egerton (Nyathi Complex, 3 pm) 12. Blessings vs Equity (Kenyatta Stadium Kitale, 1 pm) 13. Kitale All-Stars vs Sofapaka (Kenyatta Stadium Kitale, 3.15 pm)