The ANC could have a headstart in the Matungu by-election race slated for March 4. The choice of a candidate from the largest Wanga clan (Abashitsetse), who finished second to the late Justus Murunga in the 2017 race, and the acceptance of the ANC party in the region, appears to favour Peter Nabulindo. The Nabongo of the Wanga Kingdom is also from Abashitstetse clan. Also complicating matters for other candidates is the morphing union between ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula, who are backing single candidates in both Matungu and Kabuchai in their push to consolidate the vote-rich region ahead of 2022. Some residents have taken it as the beginning of the Luhya awakening that is long overdue. The hostility the ODM and UDA brigades are facing in the campaigns could perhaps point at the likely outcome of the race. ODM campaign team led by Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, party secretary general Edwin Sifuna, and director of elections Junet Mohammed were attacked  by some youths at Koyonzo and Namamali during the launch of David Were's campaigns on January 19. Oparanya's convoy was stoned on Saturday at Matungu center after he campaigned for Were at a funeral for a relative of former nominated MCA Atsieno Passi, forcing police to fire in the air. Deputy President William Ruto also faced a hostile group of mourners during the burial of mother to 2017 candidate Paul Posho at Enjinja on January 30, forcing him not to mention his UDA candidate Alex Lanya. Nabulindo could have an edge because he is being fronted by Mudavadi and Wetang'ula, perceived as the Luhya community political supremos. Already, ANC is the lead party in western in terms of MPs and MCAs. The race has attracted 15 candidates, among them nine independents, including the late Murunga's widow Christabel Amunga and son Eugene Amwere. Charles Kasamani (UDP), Paul Achayo (MDG) and Faida Auma of Maendeleo Chap Chap are also in the race. Other independents are Bernard Wakoli, Gregory Atoko, Kevin Nectus, Wilberforce Lutta, Anzelimo Kongoti and Samuel Muyekenye. On the other hand, Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya, who is leading the ODM campaigns, former senator Boni Khalwale and Mumias East MP Ben Washiali, who are leading the UDA, are facing resistance because they are seen as "working for outsiders" and therefore opposed to the Luhya community working together. Former assistant minister Javan Om’mani said ODM has remote chances of winning the seat. "What Luhyas want is to strengthen Mudavadi because we need to regain our pride as a community. You can't go to Nyanza and be elected in any position," he said.