Kenya is gravitating towards monumental violence, if the politically instigated chaos and intolerance in the country are not tamed, peace crusaders have warned. Speaking separately to the Star on Tuesday, the concerned clergy and civil society groups said it is unfortunate that politicians are the main catalysts of the chaos. They called on the National Police Service and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption to deal with the politicians fanning chaos ahead of the 2022 General Election. Retired Christ Is The Answer Ministries Bishop David Oginde said the religious leaders have repeatedly warned that if utterances and actions of some politicians are not checked, “they will take the country to the 2007 route”. “We have spoken about it before. The balkanisation and political rhetoric that we are seeing is not good at all. If it continues like this, we are likely to witness the violence that we saw in 2007. It is time politicians change their narratives and the manner in which they push their agenda,” Oginde said. A month ago, youth in Nandi county stopped Baringo Senator Gideon Moi from making his way to Kapsisywo where he was to be coronated as a Talai elder. And last week, youth believed to be supporters of Deputy President William Ruto  disrupted ODM leader Raila Odinga's BBI rally in Githurai, Kiambu county. They following day, another group believed to have been hired to retaliate attempted to interrupt Ruto's meeting at Burma market, Nairobi. Again on Monday, the situation seemed to worsen when chaos and fistfights characterised the burial of Abel Gongera, the father of Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. International Center for Policy and Conflict executive director Ndung’u Wainaina said the political intolerance is as a result of President Uhuru Kenyatta regime that has become tyrannical. Wainaina said the move by the President to opt for “biased ethnic mobilisation” is dangerous to the cohesiveness of the country. “He must stop politics of my way or the highway. This has made communities to be highly polarised and divided. He is in the last 17 months of his term in office. He must fully desist from being a political player for 2022." "Right now, the President has become a key actor and very polarising figure. It is even abhorrent for him to appear biased and an ethnic mobiliser,” Wainaina said. The human rights activist said the biggest danger facing Kenyans now is the state institutions with low public trust since they have been "captured and weaponised by the powers that be". He called on Kenyans, especially the youth, to desist from being misused by politicians to cause violence. “Public institutions have become very  partisan, captured and lacking credibility. Most of these institutions are seen as political actors rather than neutral arbiters and custodians of the rule of law. They have failed the Constitution and the people of Kenya. They must redeem and repair themselves before Kenyans' eyes,” he said. "Any form of intolerance and violent acts must be strongly condemned and appropriate action to stop any escalation." Suba Churchil, the coordinator of the National Civil Society Congress, called on the EACC to investigate and take disciplinary action against South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro and his Dagoretti North counterpart Simba Arati who fought in Kisii county on Monday. He said their public conduct does not befit that of a public officer as stipulated in the Ethics Act. “The unfortunate thing is that it is the politicians who are leading by bad example. The two MPs exchanged blows in public, [which] is misdemeanour and a criminal act that should be dealt with by the police and the EACC,” Churchill said. National Cohesion and Integration Commission chairman Samuel Kobia is on Wednesday expected to issue a statement in regards to the heightened political activities that are driving the country to the brink of violence. NCIC head of corporate communication Olivia Metet said Kobia will announce a raft of measures to be taken against members of the public who are in breach of the National Cohesion Act. “Following the rise of political temperatures in the country, there is need to embrace tolerance and diversity amidst the new political developments such as the forthcoming 2022 General Election,” Metet said. On Monday, Ruto cautioned leaders against misusing youths to cause chaos to achieve their selfish ends. The DP said it was wrong for leaders to use youths to engage in violence for political reasons, calling on leaders to take the lead in championing peace and development. "As leaders, we must stop misusing the youths to cause chaos for political reasons. We want to unite and live peacefully as Kenyans in any part of this country. We should, as leaders, take the lead in preaching peace and harmonious coexistence among our people," Ruto said in Ogembo, Bomachoge Chache constituency in Kisii county. 