City hospitality industry players are optimistic about the future as they expect more conferences to be hosted in Nairobi once the Expressway is complete. The hospitality industry has been touted as one of the major beneficiaries of the Sh62.2 billion Nairobi Expressway project which is expected to reduce travel time to and from Jomo Kenyatta International airport and Syokimau SGR station. PrideInn Hotels Managing Director, Hasnain Noorani, said the road will be a big boost to the industry considering the reduced travel time and easy connectivity. “The Expressway will reduce the time spent in traffic and make Nairobi an exciting place for local and international conferences and tourists," Hasnain said. “The road, linking JKIA to the city’s tourism hub will avail a faster transport option to both local and international tourists yearning for leisure and conferences in Nairobi." Road infrastructure and tourism represent positive implications for mutual relations and constraints. “Upon completion of Nairobi Expressway, we foresee hospitality segments such as accommodation, restaurants, built-up attractions, tours and transport boom,” Noorani said. PrideInn Group Sales and Marketing Director Farzana Zahir said such amenities will contribute towards making Nairobi’s tourism products enjoyable, reliable, and sustainable. "This road will provide the first critical impression of Nairobi as a destination. It shall also improve inland mobility and experience,” Zahir said. The 27.1km Expressway will be key in enhancing Nairobi’s competitiveness as a regional hub by decongesting CBD and the Northern transport corridor. The Expressway will have 10 interchanges at  Mlolongo, SGR, JKIA, Eastern and Western bypasses, Capital Center, Haile Selassie, Museum Hill, Westlands and James Gichuru Roads. Transport CS James Macharia has maintained the project is on course to becoming a reality as key project milestones continue to be achieved. Macharia said the road which is being done by the China Road and Bridge Corporation- CRBC is expected to be completed by December 2021 as opposed to the initial timeline of December 2022.