Plans to resume construction of the Sh38 billion Itare Dam in Kuresoi North, Nakuru county, are under way. A new contractor has been identified. Construction works stopped in September 2018 following reports of massive corruption and abandonment. The dam will benefit the people of Molo, Eleburgon, Rongai and the populous Nakuru town. It was scheduled for completion in April this year but suffered further distress when the contracted Italian firm—Cooperative Muratoi Cementisti Di Ravenna—filed for bankruptcy in its home country. Speaking after inspecting the site, Tourism Principal Secretary Safina Kwekwe said the government is consulting stakeholders to ensure the project runs smoothly this time round. She was accompanied by county commissioner Erastus Mbui Mwenda, Deputy Head of Civil Service Wanyama Musiambo, Njoro MP Charity Kathambi Chepkwony, Social Protection PS Nelson Marwa, Paul Maringa (Infrastructure), Engineer Peter Tum (Labour), Ambassador Peter Kirimi Kaberia (Mining) and Ambassador Simon Nabukwesi (University Education), among other senior government officials. “The government is working closely with the project’s implementing body, Rift Valley Water Works Development Agency, local community and leaders to address issues that stalled the construction,” Kwekwe said. She acknowledged that the project had faced many challenges, including compensation of landowners, alleged flawed procurement processes and numerous court cases. The dam is expected to supply 100 million litres of water a day and will provide clean drinking water to about 800,000 residents of Nakuru county. Nakuru has suffered perennial clean water shortages, a situation that has led to relocation of companies such as Rift Valley Bottlers. Kwekwe said CMC Di Ravenna had covered 30 per cent of the work—foundation, treatment plant, outlet tunnel and pipeline. Experts indicated that the pending works could take another one-and-a-half years for a new contractor to complete. On roads, Kwekwe and her team directed truck drivers using the newly completed Mauche-Borubo-Olenguruone-Kiptagich-Silibwet road to adhere to the harmonised East African Community axle load regulations. Maringa said they were satisfied with the quality of works on the 126km road. He said final touches are being put, including erection of signs, and every thing will be completed in less than a month. “Carrying heavier loads than the authorised axle load limit will destroy this road, which cost the government Sh3.5 billion,” he said.