If a thief had not sneaked into his bag and snatched his camera, Shami Mwinyi would have been in Europe playing basketball. It so happened that Mwinyi and his schoolmates were attending an inter-school tournament at Shimo la Tewa High, where he brought with him a camera to capture some of his best moments in the basketball court. A friend in France had promised to link him up with a professional team once he was through with his high school education. The friend had asked Mwinyi to compile and send him some nice video clips that would adequately market him as a fine basket-baller. "In high school, I was a basket-baller too and I loved basketball more than football," says Mwinyi. "I had a deal to travel to France which didn't go well, so I quit and came back to football," he observes. "My friend asked me to submit all my action clips to him so that he could help me get a team in France but the memory card that had all the moments was stolen alongside the camera," says Mwinyi. The culprit timed his act well enough to commit the felony immediately Mwinyi sunk into slumber. "They were stolen while I was deep asleep. I was in Form Four and that year we had camped at Shimo la Tewa," says Mwinyi. So distracted and distraught was Mwinyi that he threw in the towel and called it quits. Every cloud has a silver lining though. Despite the incident, Mwinyi, 27, has turned out to be one of Kenya's finest footballers, thanks to the harrowing encounter with the mindless kleptomania. Although he rues missing out on a trip to Europe, Mwinyi now prides himself on being a successful midfielder in Kenya's top tier, where he turns out for last season's runners-up, Kakamega Homeboyz. Born on February 28, 1993 and a fifth born in  a family of eight, Mwinyi attended St. Thomas Primary School in Kilifi. He was a naïve 6-year-old when he began carving out his own path in football. During that time, he would link up with a youth team christened Safina that was located at Mnanari, Kilifi where his first football coach, Omar aka Fundi, took him through his first steps in football. Mwinyi joined St. George’s High School, Kaloleni after sitting for his Kenya Certificate of Primary Education. At St. George's, he found a conducive and robust environment for nurturing his talent given the established football culture at the school. "I played football quite a lot at St. George's but we had a weak team that never went beyond the provincial finals." As soon as he was done with his high school education, Mwinyi joined former Kenyan Premier League side, Thika United who at that time were still plying their trade in the National Super League and battling for promotion to the country's top tier. "It was Malindi Academy's coach Ricardo Botta who spotted me and asked me to accompany him to Thika, where he introduced me to coach John Kamau. I was taken through trials and Kamau was impressed and offered me a deal trusting that I had a bright future at the club." At Thika, Mwinyi struggled for a role in the starting lineup but eventually got a breakthrough after months of persistence and determination. "It took me time before I got drafted into the first team. I found them battling for promotion in the National Super League." After six months, Thika managed to secure the rights to flex muscles with the big boys in the Kenyan Premier League. He did business with them for around 6 to 7 years before decamping to KCB. "I featured for KCB for a whole season before they deployed me to AFC Leopards on-loan for a year," he said. After a season with Ingwe under coach Andre Casa Mbungo, Mwinyi attracted interest from Kakamega Homeboyz, where he currently serves. The skillful midfielder still draws a lot of inspiration from former French international Zinedine Zidane who currently guides Spanish La Liga side, Real Madrid. He still recalls how he was inspired to pursue the sport by his childhood role model Moddy Munga 'Afisa'. "It was Munga who got me interested in the game. He featured for Nacet FC in our neighbourhood at Mnarani in Kilifi county." Mwinyi's best moment in football came in 2017 when he netted the all important goal for Thika United to enable them retain their slot in the KPL. "We were facing Bandari at Thika Municipal Stadium in a match that was meant to determine our fate in the top tier. I scored from a free kick, about 25 yards from the goalmouth and we won 1-0." He earned his first senior national team call up in 2017 under coach Stanley Okumbi and made his debut during an international friendly match against Malawi in the same year. Mwinyi said his father Kibwana Shami and mother Florence Mbetsa never encouraged him to play football at all, at all. "They were totally opposed to the idea," he observes. The father of a two-year old daughter Samia Shami Mwinyi says he is not putting all his eggs in one basket and therefore juggles between pursuing his football career and attending to his apparel business in Thika. "I spend most of my free time in my shop at Thika, where I sell clothes. I have friends I've partnered with in the enterprise and they take care of business when I'm in Kakamega," says Mwinyi. He encourages fledgling footballers to uphold high moral standards if they hope to attain great heights in the sport. "Discipline, discipline, discipline that’s all I can say, then the rest will follow," concludes Mwinyi. BIO Name: Shami Mwinyi Date of Birth: February 28, 1993 Place of Birth: Kilifi Position: midfielder Education: St. Thomas Primary School, KilifiSt. George's High School, Kaloleni Clubs: Thika United (NSL, KPL) KCB (NSL) AFC Leopards (KPL) Kakamega Homeboyz (KPL)