Legal letters between gospel singer Daddy Owen and his wife Farida Wambui have emerged online. In a letter dated January 8, Farida’s lawyers Amadi and Associates send out demands to Daddy Owen, asking him to delete all her photos from social media as well as give her back her academic certificates. In the letter, Farida’s lawyers refer to her as ‘Ms’ not Mrs. “Immediately expunge the names of our client, images and those of the minors whatsoever in all your social media platforms as well as your agents and proxies,” reads part of the letter. Adding, “Immediately you return all the original academic documents belonging to our clients.” Responding to the letter, Daddy Owen, through his lawyers, Osoro Onyiego and Manyara Advocates, wrote back on January 11. “That our client denies in total all the allegations and innuendos as contained in the aforementioned letter that he made any false instigations and damaging or defamatory utterances against your client through any social media platforms or media houses or at all,” reads the response. Adding, “That our client is stranger to the said allegations or any purported defamatory words which, in any event, are not contained in your letter. Our client, therefore, has not committed any form of breach of privacy to your client. This only amounts to baseless and unsubstantiated allegations against our client.” In December, the singer had deleted their photos on social media, which cataysed speculations that his marriage was facing difficulties. In a post on social media, the Shilingi ya Kenya hitmaker wrote, “Thank you to all who have reached out to me in one way or another over the last few days with prayers or encouraging words of support following news circulating in the media involving me and my family.” He continued, “Thank you for all encouragement and as I journey through this season, I request for time, patience and lots of prayers as you’ve always supported me in my ministry. I appreciate you for always being there, and I remain confident God will see us through." In an interview with Massawe Japanni, the singer was reluctant to reveal the status of his marriage. “Niwekee wazi imfaidi nani? (Whom will it benefit for me to put it out there?)” he said.