Scott Parker says his Fulham side have enjoyed a “massive” week in their fight for Premier League survival after they claimed a vital win over fellow strugglers Sheffield United. Seven points from three games has seen the Cottagers move just three points behind Newcastle in 17th, having been 10 points adrift at the start of last Sunday. “We set a challenge to the boys tonight to not get swallowed up. To worry about ourselves and put in a performance where we showed our quality. I think we did that. We showed our quality,” said the Fulham manager. “Like all these games it took one moment to win the game and it came from Ademola [Lookman] and he found the net. “I’m really proud of this team because it’s a huge moment. Not just this game but this week. It’s been massive.” Parker’s side had dominated for long periods but it took them until just after the hour mark to break the deadlock. Joachim Andersen’s raking pass was superbly collected by Lookman, who profited from weak defending by Ethan Ampadu to cut inside and drill a shot through the legs of Blades goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale. Ruben Loftus-Cheek had earlier seen visiting defender George Baldock hook his goal-bound effort to safety after he prodded past Ramsdale. And while the hosts had goalkeeper Alphonse Areola to thank for a point-blank save which denied Enda Stevens an equaliser, they more than merited only their second top-flight win at Craven Cottage this term. While Fulham have now only lost one of their past seven top-flight matches, their biggest problem has been transforming creditable draws into victories. Only Brighton have drawn more games than Parker’s side this term and until Lookman delivered the game’s defining moment, it looked like being another occasion on which they were frustrated. However, having collected eight points from the past 12 available, Parker will now feel that his side have given themselves a chance of reeling in the clubs above them. “This team have real belief and I want us to focus on us,” Parker added. “The quality that we have will ultimately get us results in this division. We are a young team who want to improve and get better. We have got something about us that you need in these moments.” Newcastle, whose game in hand is at Old Trafford on Sunday, are the most obvious target but even the likes of Brighton and Burnley are now within sight. A third clean sheet in the past four matches augurs well in that regard but Parker will also be aware that his side need to become more clinical in front of goal. Just six of their 15 shots found the target and the likes of Lookman, Loftus-Cheek and Mario Lemina all had good opportunities to make the margin of victory more comfortable.