For the last one week, former vice presidents Musalia Mudavadi and Kalonzo Musyoka have been exchanging harsh words with ex-PM Raila Odinga over political endorsements. While the duo are justified in their efforts to have Raila endorse them, their arguments have raised concerns over their political independence. But truth be told. Raila build his own political power and consolidated his supporters. In 2002, while endorsing Kibaki in his famous "Kibaki Tosha," he said Narc is "unbwogable". The slogan became NARC's rallying call. In 2019, he called Kibera byelection "his bedroom" and the whole campaign season was about the bedroom. At the BBI launch,  he said "nobody can stop reggae" and the whole BBI process is now about Reggae. Last weekend he hinted on a "BBI Super Tuesday" when county assemblies were to vote on the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020.  Indeed the day was super as assemblies resoundingly passed the bill. Although Kalonzo and Mudavadi who have been in politics longer than DP William Ruto, they need to emulate one or two tactics in getting political independence. Like the duo, Ruto has been in a political coalition with Raila before, but unlike them, he learnt the master's political games and tactics. Like his former master, Raila, Ruto has built his political base with simple political slogans that are easily adapted by his supporters. For instance, in 2013, Ruto's political signature was "tumetenga pesa; kusema na kutenda; and tuko pamoja." He recently started the hustlers vs dynasties narrative, which has become a hot national discourse, with political leaders and analysts helplessly trying to debunk it.. While Mudavadi can claim a 2017 political signature "nasa hao" at NASA rallies, Kalonzo can only pick his 2007 remark "nitapita kati kati yao", referring to his candidature as a compromise between the two rivals. It is time for Kalonzo and Mudavadi to stand up and claim their space. Only through this can Kenyans take them seriously. They should avoid statements that undermine their political independence or anything that suggests that they can't survive or triumph politically without getting endorsements. This is way they need to emulate the DP on amassing a strong political support. Samson Nyasimi, Kericho