 Politicians have been warned against hooliganism in their campaigns ahead of the Machakos senatorial by-election scheduled for March 18. Athi River subcounty police commander George Kashimiri said they won’t tolerate politicians who incite their supporters to attack opponents whenever they hold campaign rallies within the region. “We are ready to deal with those who disrupt other people’s peace. They will have themselves to blame since all candidates for the Machakos senatorial by-election have constitutional rights to traverse the county and seek votes. They should be allowed to sell their manifesto,” Kashimiri said. He said those attempting to disrupt other people's rallies will be arrested and prosecuted. He spoke to the Star at Makadara shopping centre in Athi River where he responded to an attempted attack on Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Mutua Katuku on Wednesday. Katuku’s motorcade was forced to make a u-turn after angry youth affiliated to another political party lit tyres on the road after they realised that he was on his way to the shopping centre for campaigns. Katuku sped off. There was no confrontation during the incident. The politicians went to Athi River open market where he addressed traders before he returned to Makadara shopping centre and later held rally in Mlolongo town. Katuku condemned the attempted attack saying all aspirants should be given a level ground to popularise their manifesto. “I am saddened by attempted attacks on me in Athi River. Leaders shouldn’t misuse the youths to attack their political opponents during the campaigns. Let’s all engage in peaceful campaigns,” Katuku said. The fire had long been put-off by the locals by the time Kashimiri arrived at the scene accompanied by armed police officers in anti-riot gear. Kashimiri said they were in pursuit of the youths who participated in barricading the road and lighting tyres. “Let everybody do his own business, we will pursue those involved in the incident,” he said. He added, “All politicians have the right to do their politics and not to incite their supporters to violence against opponents. We don’t want that kind of interruption.” On Sunday, youths hurled stones at a UDA political rally that was organised by Johnson Muthama to drum up support for party candidate Urbanus Ngengele. The incident led to a confrontation between youths from opposing campaigns camps. Scores were injured. Kashimiri said he will not tolerate such incidents within Athi River subcounty. 