Kenya National Union of Teachers treasurer John Matiang’i has asked the Teachers' Service Commission to stop intimidating and frustrating teachers. Matiang’i who spoke at Kehancha during the election of Knut officials Kuria West branch fired at TSC for removing the teachers from the union register, a situation he said has frustrated their performance. He said the Constitution gives all workers the right to join any union that they choose and asked the employer to give them that right of joining any union of their choice. Matiang’i said if teachers are denied their rights then they will not be motivated to do their jobs as expected of them. He called on the TSC to follow the law and the government guidelines in employing and promoting teachers. “Teachers are being denied their rights to be in a union of their choice especially Knut that has constantly called for teachers strikes and has put the TSC on toes on matters that pertain to the teachers' welfare,”  Matiang’i said. Knut assistant national secretary-general Hesbon Otieno said that the commission has issues with the union and it is time the commission made it possible for the teachers’ union to thrive as it has been in the past. He echoed Education CS George Magoha’s sentiments that head teachers must reside in school to help curb the indiscipline exhibited by students. Otieno said some schools are even insecure for the headteachers to live in since some of them will be residing with their families. The unrest seen in most schools can only be curbed by including all the stakeholders to help stem out the vices and also advise the students accordingly before the national examinations start next month. Kara Nyasunke who is the Knut chairperson Kuria branch and the head teacher of Ekeregi primary, said as a union they are facing some challenges but they will do everything in their power to revive the union and bring it back to its former status. She called on all teachers to unite and work together with parents in disciplining the students and teach them the value of being responsible and well-behaved. Teachers play an essential role in a student’s life in terms of disciplining them and this is seen in schools how students are misbehaving all over the country after spending so much time away from their teachers. Edited by Kiilu Damaris