Some residents of Manyatta in Ruai and Maryland in Mavoko were forced to seek temporary shelter on Sunday night after strong winds blew rooftops and left them exposed. The winds swept the area as rains started at around 6pm and also brought down a transformer, crashing it on a house. No one was harmed. Martin Wanjala, a caretaker in a residence in Maryland on the border of Nairobi and Machakos, said 12 houses have been affected. Wanjala said he evacuated tenants to a safe place where they spent the night. Joshua Momanyi of Manyatta said some of them had to sleep outside in the cold. “The rain started at around 6pm yesterday (Sunday) followed by strong winds that blew rooftops from several houses,” he said. Dorris Atieno said they were caught unawareness. “The roof was blown while we were in the house and many of us ran to the toilet to look for shelter because it was the only safe place. Because outside electricity posts were also falling down,” she said. The residents are planning to relocate. One Maasai man lost a few sheep. The Meteorological department had said in the five-day forecast period ending on Monday that there will be some light rains in parts of Nairobi and Western regions. “Rainfall is expected over a few areas in the Lake Victoria Basin, the highlands West of the Rift Valley, the Central and South Rift Valley, the southeastern Lowlands and the highlands East of the Rift Valley,” the five-day weather forecast indicated. Areas that are likely to receive rainfall during the five-day forecast period include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia Counties. In addition to Nairobi county, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Laikipia, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka. The weatherman also warned that a few areas in Northeastern and Northwestern Kenya are likely to experience strong winds with speeds exceeding 25 knots. These include counties like Marsabit, Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Isiolo, Turkana, West Pokot and Samburu.