Foreign Affairs CS Amb. Raychelle Omamo has announced that Kenya will take over the rotational chairmanship of the African Union Peace and Security Council (AUPSC) from Monday, March 1, 2021. Peace and Security Council is the standing decision-making organ of the African Union for the prevention, management, and resolution of conflicts in the continent. It serves as collective security and early warning arrangement that is intended to facilitate timely, efficient, and prompt responses to conflict and crisis situations in Africa. The council also serves as a vital pillar of the African Peace and Security Architecture (APSA), which is the framework for promoting peace, security, and stability in the African continent. The CS said that the significance of Kenya’s chairmanship of the AU’s Peace and Security Council – while concurrently being a member of UNSC is of considerable importance to regional Peace and Security architecture. In a statement on Saturday, the CS said that Kenya's leadership of the PSC during the month of March 2021 dovetails appropriately with the country’s philosophy and belief in a rule-based foreign policy orientation that is also shored up by robust multilateralism. “It is also consistent with Kenya’s advocacy of a rules-based multilateral system that is deployed in a manner that attracts consensus and one that ultimately allows countries and other stakeholders to own, accept and implement decisions arrived thereof,” Omamo said. Omamo added that Kenya will seek to leverage her experiences, ethos, and philosophy during her chairmanship of the AUPSC on the following issues; Reinvigorating the role of the A3 in the UNSCl, and securing a sustainable peace in Africa, especially in the context of Silencing the Guns in Africa. Also, peacekeeping in Africa with regard to emerging challenges and critical lessons for sustainable Peace Keeping Operations, as well as on Women Peace, Culture and Gender Inclusivity. Addressing In his address to the UNSC on February 23, 2021, President Uhuru Kenyatta reiterated that Kenya would remain a strong voice for Africa on the UN Security Council. Consistent with the president’s strong commitment to advancing Africa’s Agenda at the UNSC, Kenya will seek to reinvigorate the critical role played by the A3 grouping during her March 2021 chairmanship of the AU Peace and Security Council. The A3 refers to the bloc of three African members of the UN Security Council, with Niger, Kenya, and Tunisia being the current members. The bloc plays a critical role in shaping Security Council debates, breaking geopolitical deadlock, and guiding the Council’s collective action. African unity is essential in achieving these efforts.