A woman whose husband and daughter were burnt to death late last month in their house in Mumias, Kakamega county, has succumbed to the burns. Miriam Echesa, her husband Eugene Omunyore and daughter Eiden were burnt when their house was set on fire in Eshikalame village in Mumias West constituency in the wee hours of Saturday, January 30. Eugene died later in the day after the arson attack. His daughter died two days later. All the three had been rushed to St Mary's Hospital in Mumias town from where they were referred to Life Care Hospital in Bungoma town. They all died at the Bungoma hospital. The family had initially planned to have the son and his daughter buried on Thursday, February 11, before those arrangements were thrown into disarray by news of Miriam's death on Sunday. “We thought she would survive but unfortunately she could not. It’s really sad to lose the entire family of my son,” Omunyore's father Apollo Kalio said. All the bodies have been moved to Butere Hospital mortuary, which is closer to their home. Apollo said burial arrangements are ongoing and the three will be buried on Saturday. Under the Luhya customary rites, the three bodies will have to be buried at night because they did not die a natural death. The practice is believed to forestall a repeat of such an incident in the family. Following the incident, a relative, Innocent Makokha, was arrested. He is still in custody and police said investigations were still ongoing. Makokha, a third-year student at Mt Kenya University, is said to have set his brother's family on fire while they were asleep in their semi-permanent house. Neighbour David Nambaka told the Star that the suspect had earlier complained that his parents liked his brother more than him and that he had threatened to do something unspecified. Omunyore's mother Sella Atsieno described her late son as a humble person who never differed with anyone within the community. Omunyore's friend Deogracious Lunyiro euologised him as a man of few words. "He was the epitome of politeness and humility. A very cool guy who rarely talks," Lunyiro said. He often played pool game at the nearby Buhuru trading centre with his friend. Sources intimated Apollo's family is sharply divided. The man has a large family with three wives. Atsieno who is a high school teacher is the third wife. 