Kenyans with cancer have been spared the high cost of travelling abroad for treatment after a new care provider Columbia Africa opened its doors. The facility is located in Nairobi's Lavington area. It began operations on Wednesday. More than 10,000 Kenyans travel abroad annually in search of medical treatment and end up spending at least Sh10 billion. Cancer patients make up more than 50 per cent of Kenyans seeking medical treatment abroad. Renal diseases account for 16.8 per cent of the travellers, followed by cardiovascular diseases with 7.8 per cent while skeletal disorders account for 3.4 per cent. Data from the Ministry of Health shows that approximately 50,000 new cases of cancer are registered in the country every year with 70 per cent of the patients dying. That means 35,000 lives are lost every year, mostly associated to lifestyle, genetic factors, exposure to chemicals in the environment and hazardous agricultural practices. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said a number of deaths are as a result of infrastructural and resource limitation in the healthcare sector. As a result, majority perish because their cancers are diagnosed when they are at advanced stages, hence too late for curative treatment. “This centre offers contemporary endoscopy unit for upper GI paediatrician and colonoscopies at reasonable costs. We will focus on both preventive and executive health checks that are comprehensive and scientifically designed based on one’s age and gender at very affordable prices all under one roof,” Columbia Africa Medical adviser Dr John Tole said. The Sh225 million facility offers medical services such cancer screening, doctors consultation, family medicine, mother and child care, dental and optical services. The hospital also has a range of specialists such as orthopaedics, cardiologists, paediatricians, dermatologists, plastic surgeons, dieticians and also offers x-rays and laboratory services. Studies by the Kenya Medical Research Institute shows that non-communicable diseases such as cancers and diabetes account for 27 per cent of the total deaths and more than 50 per cent of total hospital admissions. “These are worrying statistics and we believe with our international experience and technology we can address this problem by providing quality multispecialty services interlinked with patients best interest in mind,” Dr Linda Thorpe said. Thorpe is the Columbia Africa clinical coordinator and family medicine consultant. She added: “This will help reduce the cost and minimise the number of patients seeking medical services abroad. There is need to invest in modern healthcare where there is proper diagnosis of diseases which will save many Kenyans the cost of foreign treatment.” The facility has an in-house cutting laboratory unit and radiology service, bringing a huge relief to most patients who travel, abroad. In 2016, more than 880 rogue doctors were put under investigation after it emerged they were colluding with specialists in countries such as India to fleece patients. It came to light that doctors pocketed as much as Sh100,000 for every patient they referred abroad for cancer treatment, some even for services that were available locally.