Philip Moi has finally paid part of Sh1.8 million in legal fees to lawyers of his former wife Rosanna Pluda. He paid Sh405,000 with the balance to be paid within 30 days. A court had summoned the Muthaiga police boss to explain why he should not be jailed for failing to arrest Philip—the son of the late President Daniel Moi—over the money. The OCS was to appear before High Court judge Aggrey Muchelule on Thursday, but the debt was paid. The parties agreed to payment of the remaining money in instalments, but that information was not made available to the media. The OCS was ordered to arrest Philip for failing to pay the money—part of the legal fees Pludo was awarded in a suit against him. The order was issued on February 18, 2019, but Philip did not pay, prompting her to go back to court. She informed the court that her process server Willy Velle served the warrant of arrest through the regional police commander on May 12, 2019. She said Philip was defiant until May 21 when his advocates sent a letter saying he was willing to pay in instalment of Sh500,000. On July 30, 2019, Philip's advocates forwarded a cheque of Sh500,000, being the first instalment. On December 11, they forwarded a cheque of Sh500,000. The balance was Sh1.8 million. Pluda claimed Philip had no intention of settling the balance and the OCS had failed to arrest him. And on April 9, 2019, the court issued a warrant of arrest against Philip and directed that it be executed by the OCS Muthaiga police station. But two years later, Philip had yet to pay. Neither had he been arrested. In June 2019, Philip sought to lift the warrant of arrest against him, saying he had surrendered the house in Watamu valued at Sh140 million to Pluda. "Jailing me will affect me adversely. It is only fair and just that we are allowed to resolve our differences outside the conventional adjudication process," he said. Philip had also said in his affidavit that his constitutional rights to liberty and legitimate expectation were threatened. He said he would suffer and be humiliated if the arrest warrant was executed.