@ppcheti A family in Lamu is devastated following the mysterious disappearance of their son two weeks ago. Adan Mohamed Kulo, 28, a milk vendor at Makafuni village on Lamu Island, is said to have disappeared on the night of January 23 as he headed home after visiting Kandahar village to buy food. He never returned home. After searching, his family filed a missing person report with the police. His father Mohamed Ulo said he became suspicious after he could not reach his son because his phone was turned off. It's still off. Ulo said searches in nearby villages, police stations and hospitals have been unsuccessful. He said his son was a humble person, never involved in wrongdoing. He pleaded with whoever might be holding him to release him. “He is the first of my 12 children and has no trouble with anyone. He just works hard selling milk to support his family. I am appealing to the government to help me find him, alive or dead,” Ulo said. Police say they have been unable to find him and have circulated his details countrywide. They said he might have crossed into Somalia to join a terrorist group. Some residents fear he might have been abducted. Mkomani MCA Yahya Basode has accused the security department in Lamu of deliberate laxity in tracing and establishing who exactly took Adan. “I have known Adan as a straightforward person and a man of good morals. I don't understand why there have been no efforts by police here to find him. "We want to know if the government is involved in Adan’s disappearance or if he was hijacked by terrorists or something,” Basode said. Lamu county police commander Moses Murithi said police had nothing to do with the disappearance. He confirmed the missing person's report but said it should have been filed sooner. "I have the information on my desk. We've unsuccessfully tried to search for the man. So, we've dispatched information concerning him ton every police station across the country so they help establish where exactly this young man is," Murithi said. “We don’t have him as he was no criminal. At this moment, we suspect he might have crossed into Somalia to join terror groups. We, however, welcome any leads to help trace him,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)