A divorced woman seeking to inherit the estate of her late ex-husband suffered a setback after a judge dismissed her case. The woman named as SS in court documents wanted to be allowed to collect rentals from a property in Eastleigh II. The property in question is partly the residence of the man's widow initialled KRG. But High Court judge Aggrey Muchelule on Wednesday dismissed the case, saying it lacked jurisdiction as the parties are Muslims. Under Islamic law, a divorcee is not entitled to inherit her former husband's property. The judge also noted that SS did not even get the authority of her own children, who are beneficiaries of the estate, to file the case. “The complaints in the notice of the preliminary objection that the applicant (SS) lacked the capacity to file the petition, and that she did not obtain authority from her children to bring either the petition or the application is consequently merited,” Muchelule said. SS sued KRG over the estate. The man died on April 9, 2019, without leaving a will. In his first marriage to SS, they had six children, who are now adults. He divorced and married KRG and together they got two children. But SS filed a case as a widow even though she was already divorced before the man died. The two women are now fighting over a plot in Eastleigh. It is a developed property that partly houses KRG and her family and has rental sections. SS sought to have an order restraining KRG from collecting rent until her case is heard and determined. She also wanted the court to appoint her or an agent to collect rentals in the meantime. Currently, KRG collects the rent money, some of which she uses for the upkeep of her children. When her husband died, the court was told, the two families discussed the estate. Besides the plot, the man had left a car which they agreed to sell and share proceeds. KRG had opposed the application, saying the High Court lacked jurisdiction to hear the matter given they are Muslims, thus only a Kadhis’ court can handle the case. She also said the application by SS was not merited as she was collecting and using the rent in her capacity as the widow. The rent money is hardly enough to sustain her family, she said. The widow further said SS's children are adults and never authorised her to file the application because they knew she was not a beneficiary of their father's property. After hearing the matter, Muchelule said there was no evidence the children commissioned their mother (SS) to file the application. He dismissed the application. 