One of the biggest challenges in corruption cases is the decision to charge where everybody is put in the ‘bus’. Prosecutor-turned-lawyer Jemimah Aluda says if it’s a procurement case, you will find there are about 20 people who have been charged. “Each of them has lawyers and the lawyers have a right to address the court, so of course, that takes long to conclude the case,” Aluda says. Aluda says sometimes, the state may not be able to get sufficient evidence if all of them are charged together. “One of the things the DPP needs to do is to be strategic in making the decision on who actually is highly responsible for the offence or who should be charged,” she said. Aluda says from her experience, eventually these cases are likely to collapse because of the above reasons. “I prosecuted the corruption case of the former Eldoret South MP Peris Simam and in that case, Judge Ongudi clearly stated you cannot bring a case of conspiracy and just put everybody in it without looking at the categories,” Aluda says. She also said the DPP should trust his in-house prosecutors instead of hiring external prosecutors, as internal prosecutors are also well trained to do the job. “I served the DPP for nine years and anybody who knows me knows I served in that capacity diligently. When I appeared with senior lawyers, always I was able to give them a run for their money,” she says. Aluda says some of the corruption cases the DPP has taken to court when you look keenly, you will find that services have been delivered. “I want to challenge the state to be able to charge everybody equally. How do you explain that last week, the DPP withdrew charges against PS Kamau Thugge and made him a witness against his boss?” Aluda says. “How do you explain the fact that cases in the Ministry of Health have never been prosecuted, and we have mobile clinics that had been acquired and are still lying idle for years and no one has been prosecuted?” CHANGE OF TACK Aluda says now that she is in private practice, she wants to put the government on its toes if they are indeed fighting corruption. “We need to fight it holistically and not selectively, not picking one case and making it a limelight case, then at the end of the day it waters down,” she says. She also asks why one would take a 10-year-old boy to prison for stealing when all he needs is a second chance, saying perhaps it’s the circumstances that made him steal. “Why would you charge somebody for corruption and the matter takes 10 years, when the person tells you they are ready to refund the funds that were taken?” Aluda asks. She says the accused should refund the stolen money because you taking them to jail for one year does not give us back the stolen money. “For example, the cemetery case, the appellant was sentenced to pay Sh40 million in the alternative to stay in jail for one year. So they decided to serve the sentence rather than pay the fine,” she says. On some of the low moments in her career, she says losing a case when you have given it your best is very discouraging. “As a female lawyer, I would say the challenge is having the convincing power that actually you can represent them. They always feel like you are soft-spoken, they want someone combative,” Aluda says. One time while she was prosecuting the cemetery corruption case, the male lawyers said they wanted to teach me about law because they saw me as a female and young. “But now you have to be calm but when you speak, make sure you have your case ready and know how to back it up. Everybody in the court keeps quiet because they know you are talking substance,” she said. Aluda says she is yet to experience sexual harassment at work but some female advocates are not as lucky because they are harassed by their male counterparts. “It’s one of reasons I opened the law firm, to give an opportunity to female layers to work with us so they cannot be harassed out there,” she says. Edited by T Jalio