Sunny weather will resume on Monday, the weatherman says. Until then, Nairobi, most of Central Kenya and Rift Valley highlands will have a dull weekend that will be cloudy and rainy. Stella Aura, the Met director, said next week will be mostly sunny throughout the country except in Western Kenya and Rift Valley highlands. "Rainfall is expected to continue over the highlands east of the Rift Valley (including Nairobi county), the Lake Victoria basin, the highlands west of the Rift Valley, the central and south Rift Valley and the south-eastern lowlands at the beginning of the forecast period," she said in a five-day forecast that lapses on Tuesday. "Most parts of the country are expected to be generally dry during the second half of the forecast period," she said. The rains spread across the country beginning last weekend, mostly driven by the wet weather in Tanzania. The weatherman said some areas in the Northeastern and Northwestern parts of the country are likely to experience strong winds during the forecast period. In Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos and Taita Taveta counties rains are likely to occur over a few places until Sunday. The coastal strip and northeastern Kenya will remain sunny throughout. The rains have already displaced people in parts of the country. Some residents of Manyatta in Ruai and Maryland in Mavoko were forced to seek temporary shelter on Sunday night after strong winds blew rooftops and left them exposed. The winds swept the area as rains started at around 6pm and also brought down a transformer, crashing it on a house. No one was harmed. Martin Wanjala, a caretaker in a residence in Maryland on the border of Nairobi and Machakos, said 12 houses have been affected. Wanjala said he evacuated tenants to a safe place where they spent the night. Joshua Momanyi of Manyatta said some of them had to sleep outside in the cold. “The rain started at around 6pm yesterday (Sunday) followed by strong winds that blew rooftops from several houses,” he said. Dorris Atieno said they were caught unawareness. “The roof was blown while we were in the house and many of us ran to the toilet to look for shelter because it was the only safe place. Because outside electricity posts were also falling down,” she said. The residents are planning to relocate. One man lost a few sheep.