Imagine winning a parliamentary election by a slim margin of five votes, see the IEBC erroneously declare your rival the winner and then lose in a subsequent by-election. That was the pain that Bonchari MP John Oroo Oyioka, who breathed his last on Monday night after a long illness, endured in 2013. His political career that started in 2013 after he retired as a secondary school teacher has witnessed high voltage court petitions that ended up at the Supreme Court for determination. Before his election in 2017 on the People's Democratic Party (PDP) ticket, the late lawmaker had braved one of the most bitter election fraud that saw him robbed of his victory. After the March 4, 2013 General Election, Oyioka who was running on the Kanu ticket, then won a landmark court ruling against his rival Zepedeo Opore. The High Court in Kisii invalidated Opore's election on the Ford People ticket and in a historic ruling by Justice Ruth Sitati declared Oyioka the validly elected area MP without a by-election. Oyioka would become the first MP to be sworn in without a by-election after the Court validated the election results and faulted IBEC for erroneously declaring the loser to be the winner. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission had declared Opore the winner by five votes after garnering 8,992 votes against Oyioka’s 8,987 votes. However, a recount and scrutiny ordered by the court revealed that Oyioka had garnered 8,967 against Opore’s 8,963 reflecting a margin of four votes. The landmark ruling by Justice Ruth Sitati on September 19, 2013, would offer Oyioka a political lifeline, albeit temporarily as he would again be thrown out of Parliament. While testifying how his victory was stolen in 2013, Oyioka had been overwhelmed with emotion forcing him to breakdown as he recalled how tables were turned on his win. All along, Oyioka had told the election court, he was leading other candidates but at the end of it, the IEBC returning officer handed his rival who was trailing him the win. Opore would later move to the Court of Appeal and successfully managed to overturn the ruling, triggering a by-election that ended Oyioka's six-month stint as Bonchari MP. Oyioka had been sworn in as the validly elected Bonchari MP on October 2, 2013, after the High Court issued an order to IEBC issue him with the election certificate. In a bitter political contest that ensued, Oyioka decamped from the Kanu party and defended his seat on Raila Odinga's ODM party ticket, losing the subsequent by-election by even a wider margin. The Cord Coalition clashed with Jubilee under whose ticket Opore successfully defended his 'hot' seat. Opore won the June 24, 2014 by-election after garnering 10,947 votes, followed by Oyioka who received 6,977 votes. In the 2017 general election, Oyioka won the seat by a landslide after garnering 11, 963 votes. However, his election was among those that were challenged at the Supreme Court after Opore petitioned against his victory. The Supreme court upheld Oyioka's election in 2018 saying the IEBC had conducted a free and fair election in 2017. Oyioka, a former secondary school teacher, worked as a senior official in the Ministry of Education before his retirement. An Educationist, Oyioka ran the successful St Angelic teacher-training college in Suneka town, Bonchari Constituency. However, Oyioka's death could offer a political ring for political boxing with all eyes on ODM and Jubilee if they would trade off against in the interest of the handshake. Kisii region is believed to be ODM boss Raila Odinga's stronghold but Bonchari has always sprung surprises that could through Deputy President William Ruto's Tangatanga camp into the fray.