Samsung has lately been producing great devices and they have recently gone a step further to include a QLED screen, which is only seen in their TVs to incorporate in their laptop. The Galaxy Book Flex is their latest laptop and the first laptop to have a QLED screen. Similar to the OLED screens that stormed the premium laptop market, QLED uses the familiar LCD panels and LED backlight arrays. The difference is the Q, which stands for quantum dots, is Samsung’s marketing term for nanoparticles that emit or alter light at different frequencies when exposed to electricity. The QLED display has an extraordinary high rated maximum brightness of 600 nits. The brightness we get from consumer laptops is 500 nits and the extra 100 nits we have on the Galaxy Book Flex, is enough to make the device remarkable for outdoor viewing. Since it is a 2 in 1 convertible notebook, it has a 360-degree hinge display and you can transform the laptop into a tent for watching movies or an easel for displaying a presentation. You can also use it as a tablet by folding it completely flat with the screen parallel to the keyboard. Apart from this device having a QLED screen, it comes with an S-Pen. An advantage of having a 2-in-1 convertible laptop is the ability to write or draw on it with a digital pen while it is set up as a tablet or an easel. The stylus Pen on this device has an integrated holder built into the laptop’s right edge. It fits completely into its holder and recharges when it’s restored. It doubles as a remote control for many common software functions by simply waving it in the air. You can play and pause videos as well as raise and lower the audio volume with gestures in Microsoft Edge. When making a presentation from Microsoft PowerPoint, you can use the pen to advance to the next slide by flicking it to the right while holding down the button. Another advantage of having this device is that it has the longest battery life experienced in a Windows laptop. It will easily last you a whole day if you are one person who does not fancy carrying a charger. Just like the smartphones, it has a fingerprint sensor, which is beside the shift key, and the keyboard is genuinely great with the chiclet keys feeling nice and crisp with nice-spacing for the main part of the laptop. It has a special feature, which is the Qi wireless charger that is built into the touchpad. If you are using an external mouse, you can wirelessly charge your phone on your laptop while using it. With this device, you will enjoy a great display for your favourite movies and shows with it remarkable QLED screen.