There is a crop of political leaders in this country who were picked by the late President Daniel Moi from their comfort zones and placed in exceptional positions, deliberately. These leaders, in all their chasteness, were a lucky lot, because it was their birthrights and connections to political power brokers that was the deciding factor. Led by Kalonzo Musyoka, this bandwagon has an interminable list. However, a few stand out, mostly because they have a common dream — to become president of Kenya. They are Senator Moses Wetang’ula and former Vice President Musalia Mudavadi. There is another politically chaste leader, one Senator Gideon Moi, the current holder of rungu ya Nyayo. I include him here, deliberately too. Apart from Senator Wetang’ula and Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Gideon are the heirs to their father’s political and resource capital. They have the oil and the juice required for the campaigns. And since all indications have been that they are rekindling their Nyayo era memories, and toying with the idea of forming a political alliance, something interesting should be noted about them: They like being carried around by political heavyweights. They never want to work hard for their space. They want to get a free ride to the other side, without a single sweat. The reason for being this namby-pamby can be attributed to how they came into the limelight. There are students of President Moi, who were also picked deliberately, but decided to fight for their space within the Moi political empire, and they succeeded. Deputy President William Ruto is such example. We all know how he boxed MP Reuben Chesire out of his political turf, and was constantly harassing and punching fellow leaders in State House, right before Moi. President Uhuru Kenyatta himself had to start political wars and fights to create his space; otherwise he would still be another political namby-pamby. In the foregoing, this alliance should be encouraged, simply because the creators seem more confident in their normal traits than before, probably because Senator Moi appears to be willing to bring resource capital, the oil of the political campaigns. Let us therefore be nice to them, and wish them well JOmulloh Augo, political analyst