A senior politician from Nyanza and a key ally of ODM leader Raila Odinga (pictured) is between a rock and a hard place. Why? The governor's position he has been eying has become so competitive and the fear of losing is real. The trouble is that there is also a big threat in his constituency. A man with deep pockets is going hammer and tongs for the job. Sources whisper to Corridors that the man is being persuaded to drop his gubernatorial bid and try another fight in the constituency. His associates believe he could be given a ministerial portfolio in a Raila government should the ODM leader be fifth-time lucky. *** The principal of a university in the Rift Valley is facing allegations of corruption, nepotism and bias. The principal, according to our small bird, has been employing relatives in all critical positions to the chagrin of locals. What's baffling to many is the official’s preference for doing job interviews at night. Among the accusations is that money given to the university by county government for research cannot be accounted for. Youths who were engaged are yet to be paid. There are also claims that the official has been dismissing local leaders who worked very hard to make sure the university was set up whenever they seek audience with the university. *** Was a former MP from Gusii region locked out of the residence of a prominent politico from the region? The politician who accompanied other regional leaders during the visit was allegedly denied entry for undisclosed reasons on Thursday. It is not clear why the  former MP was locked out but there are claims that an influential member of the visited family issued the express instructions to bar him from accessing the home. The politician has had a personal and nasty political encounter with the host’s family. Some politicians from Kisii are said to have protested against the move but were overruled and allowed in as their peer drove off. *** An MP from the Rift Valley has come up with a proposal that some locals think is absurd. The MP has suggested that parents of teenage boys who make schoolgirls pregnant should bear the financial burden of bringing up the newborn. The legislator said a pregnant teen needs to be introduced to the boy's parents, who would begin to pay for the upkeep of the girl even before she gives birth. This was the lawmaker’s suggestion on how to deal with pregnancy cases in his constituency. The remarks left some locals trying hard to understand how the legislator's proposal would deter teenage pregnancies.