@Yobramos4 Victims of lead poisoning at Owino Uhuru village in Jomvu constituency have expressed renewed hope of getting compensated after their case was raised in Parliament. Area MP Badi Twalib on Thursday questioned the delay in implementing court orders that awarded them Sh 1.3 billion in payouts. On Saturday, Centre for Justice, Governance and Environmental Action executive director Phyllis Omido said despite the delay, she will not relent in seeking justice for Owino Uhuru residents. “We know Nema went to court and appealed and applied for stay of execution. The court did not give the orders,” Omido said on the phone. “This means we can still push for the orders to be implemented.” The court, in its July 16, 2020 ruling, also ordered a clean-up of the area within 120 days. Nothing has been done months later. The 90-day period given by the Environment Court for the community to be compensated lapsed on October 15 last year. The 120-day period given for the clean-up lapsed on November 9 last year. On Thursday, Twalib said residents are still reeling from the effects of the lead poisoning that led to at least five deaths. Speaking in Parliament, he said National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani should give Owino Uhuru residents an adequate explanation for the delay. “Would the Cabinet Secretary clarify why certain state agencies have not implemented a court ruling made on July 16, 2020, arising from petition No.1 of 2016 relating to Owino Uhuru village in Mikindani ward of Jomvu constituency,” Twalib said. The court ruled that five state agencies and two private entities were liable for the health and environmental harm inflicted on the community. “What action is the Cabinet Secretary taking to ensure the court decree is implemented considering that the 90-day period given by the court for the community to be compensated lapsed on October 15, 2020?” Twalib asked. On Saturday, Omido said justice has to be served for the victims. “In fact, next week, we will be looking for all the necessary court documents so we can start attaching the properties of Nema and the Health ministry,” said Omido, who was behind the class action suit that led to the landmark ruling. The residents had filed a petition in both the National Assembly and the Senate and presented it through Twalib and Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki. The National Assembly Committee on Finance and National Planning was tasked to give the appropriate statements on the matter. However, Omido has read malice in the state agencies’ inaction. “We are starting to mobilise MPs to start holding Treasury to account,” Omido said.