Sofapaka coach Ken Odhiambo has lashed out at his charges for failing to demolish Zoo when they had the opportunity to do so at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Wednesday afternoon. Batoto ba Mungu picked a comfortable 2-0 win to pile more misery on the visitors but Odhiambo reckons they should have celebrated more goals in the match. "We would have won by a bigger margin. Our players need to be more serious. However, I believe that after five more matches my players will have gelled well as a team," said Odhiambo. His  Zoo counterpart Herman Iswekha blamed their sixth defeat of the season on a squad that takes too long to warm up to a game. "Our players take too long to settle in the match. We failed to utilise our chances and the defenders were not up to the task," said Iswekha. The tactician further decried a packed midweek fixture that hardly gives them enough time to train. "We have too many midweek matches such that we hardly get enough time to train," said Iswekha. Sofapaka dominated play in the one-sided affair that saw them introduce their new acquisitions Timothy Otieno and Joe Waithira. Collins Wakhungu almost broke the deadlock in the 8th minute after being put through by Otieno but Zoo custodian Brian Lumumba threw himself on the path of the ball to thwart the attack. Lawrence Juma put Sofapaka ahead in the 10th minute after latching on to Timothy Otieno's cross into the penalty area. Undeterred, Sofapaka kept making inroads into the Zoo area and it wasn't long before Kepha Aswani doubled the lead for Batoto ba Mungu in the 28th minute after getting on the end of a lovely cross from Ken Okal. Sensing a heavy defeat, Iswekha made early changes by introducing Danson Kiprono for Elvis Kiplagat in the 37th minute. Coach Odhiambo brought on Joe Waithira for Aswani at the start of the second half while Timothy Otieno made way for Paul Kiongera. Following the win, Batoto Ba Mungu have dislodged Bidco from the 9th spot on 14 points while the loss piles more misery on Iswekha and his charges — stuck on two points — as they continue to stare at relegation right in the eye.