In a U-turn, Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi has said he no longer supports a separate Coast party but a coalition of existing parties. Kingi and Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho, who is the ODM deputy party chief, previously said it was time for a new Coast party to unify the region. The Kilifi boss had said the new party, Tufe, would be launched before June to unite Coast people. Kingi said on Tuesday the Coast already has a number of parties and a new one would complicate the quest for unity. The Kilifi county boss spoke after opening a Sh60 million road in Mariakani, Kaloleni constituency. “Creating a new party will create more divisions, therefore, we do not want to bring in  new party. We hall begin a process of uniting the existing parties,” Kingi said. The parties include Kadu, Asili, Shirikisho, Republican Congress and Umoja Summit. He said plans are underway to consolidate the existing parties and come up with a coalition to drive the region’s agenda. Kingi said the aim is for an umbrella coalition to serve as a strong  political vehicle for candidates and act as a bargaining chip. He said the coalition should deal with Coast issues and called for an MoU with other parties. The Kilifi governor criticised the recently registered UDP linked to Deputy President William Ruto. The DP was recently at the Coast, calling UDP its own party with its own candidates. Ruto supports the hustler nation narrative, emphasising jobs and economic empowerment for hardworking Kenyans. Its symbol is the wheelbarrow. Kingi told Coast residents to reject the hustler narrative as it does not mean well for residents. The governor said Ruto entered a coalition with Uhuru Kenyatta in 2013 and they formed a government with an MoU. That's why, despite all Ruto's troubles in the Jubilee Party, he remains Deputy President due to the agreement. “The journey [to a coalition] will not be easy, therefore, any form of cowardice has to be eliminated,” Kingi said. He urged residents to support coalition. The Kilifi governor also praised BBI, saying it would bring many benefits and development. He said it would increase funds allocated to counties from 15 to 35 per cent. He urged residents not to be "fooled or lied to" that BBI is meant to benefit only President Kenyatta and Raila Odinga by expanding the Executive . The governor said Ruto opposed the 2010 Constitution that brought in devolution and he also opposes BBI's changes that would create more constituencies to benefit the people. Kilifi would get four more constituencies, Kingi said, instead of Sh10 billion, it will get more than Sh20 billion. "Ruto is planning ill things for the counties,” he said. “He was here over the weekend and told Kilifi people to reject the billions and take a wheelbarrow. Stop following politicians but stand with the truth,” Kingi said. Present during the road opening were Kilifi Speaker Jimmy Kahindi, Mariakani MCA Fondo Kimosho, Nominated MCA Koki Musyoki, CEC members and chief officers. Edited by Kiilu Damaris