Residents and businesses along Mombasa Road will have dry taps from Thursday to Friday morning as the Nairobi water firm relays some pipes affected by the expressway project. Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company on Wednesday said in a public notice that the shutdown will begin at 6am Thursday and end at the same time Friday. Mukuru, Imara, Embakasi Village and Tassia estates will have no water during the period. Affected institutions include Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, Standard Gauge Railway, Athi River Export Processing Zone, Coca Cola, General Service Unit and Administration Police training schools, Nairobi Inland Container Depot. Industries along Masai road and adjacent areas and those along North Aiport Road. Nairobi Water managing director Nahashon Muguna said the interruption will enable the release of the Mombasa road median to the contractor. “The shutdown will facilitate interconnection of the relocated pipeline to the old pipeline from the junction of Enterprise roads and Mombasa Road to the junction of Eastern bypass and Mombasa road,” reads the notice. “We appeal to our customers for indulgence and urge them to use available water sparingly as we work towards restoring the supply.” Since construction works commenced, the Nairobi Expressway has interrupted water supply to most city estates. Muguna had earlier said the relocation of water pipes is at 90 per cent thus causing the on and off water interruption. However, once the relocation of water pipes is complete, normal supply will be restored. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the 27km project on October 16, 2019, as part of the plan to decongest the Central Business District. The project, implemented by Kenha, is a four-lane dual carriageway that connects the Nairobi-Mombasa section and the Nairobi-Nakuru highway section terminating at Waiyaki Way. In September last year, Kenya Power announced it was relocating power lines along the highway and will bill Kenha Sh1.08 billion. It is expected to be completed in December 2022 by the China Road and Bridge Corporation. The expressway will have 10 interchanges, including the SGR terminus at JKIA, Eastern Bypass, Southern Bypass and Enterprise Road. Others are at Capital Centre, Haile Selassie Avenue, Thika Road, The Mall in Westlands, Sarit Centre and James Gichuru Road. 