 The global pandemic has heightened humanity’s focus on finding solutions to the resulting pressing problems. Consequently, there is now an intense emphasis on value. If it is not valuable, people do not want it. Companies like Netflix, Amazon, Zoom, etc., have experienced high profits in this season because they are considered valuable. The global lockdown drove the world to Zoom – suddenly, the reliance on this platform for meetings and human connections skyrocketed. This is how value works. When you are considered valuable by people, they are drawn to you and want to do business with you. So, how do you become more valuable? Here are three simple ways. Value People: Zoom was not designed and launched during the pandemic; the company was founded in April 2011. Their value for people’s time led to a product that eliminated face-to-face meetings. So, when the pandemic happened, they experienced a surge. One common mistake by entrepreneurs is the thinking that they can increase their value without valuing people first. In the twenty-century, this approach is hardly sustainable because people know when they are not valued. To enhance your value, it is important to value people first; have a heart that genuinely wants to help people. Your value for people will reflect in the solutions that you provide for them. Increase Your Skills: This is a practical way to show that you value people because you are building the capacity to serve people better. The genuine value for people births an intoxicating drive in you to give them your best and would make you give your time, energy, and resources to acquire new skills with which to improve your solutions. As you grow in skills, you will grow in creativity because the more skills you have, the more tools your mind has for creative expression. To stay relevant, professionals are now expected to reskill and upskill; people who do increase their value because they grow in capacity to serve others. Know-How: Often, we hear that “knowledge is power.” Not in the twenty-first century. Now, knowledge is common. The real power is know-how. With a smartphone, anyone can drown in knowledge; people now struggle with the volume of information that they must process. Therefore, they gravitate towards people with know-how; those who can show them simple ways to solve their problems and get results. If you can master the art of constantly getting results in an area, people will find you valuable and pay to enjoy your offer. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com