There was little sparkle in Sunday's Mashemeji Derby as arch-rivals Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards renewed their rivalry with a dull barren draw at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. However, Leopards skipper Robinson Kamura is satisfied, observing that the outcome signals marked improvement from his side. "We are happy we picked at least a point from today's encounter. Our focus is now in the matches ahead of us. "Grabbing a point against a side as strong as Gor is a clear indication we are on the right track," said Kamura. Gor's Tito Okello is, however, not impressed at all and thinks he and his teammates deserved a better result. "We did everything we could and played according to the coach's instructions but luck wasn't on our side. "This is, nonetheless, only one match and we can't put our heads down because of it. We now focus ahead," said Okello. Gor took off on a high note and a second-minute aggressive inroad into the Leopards'territory yielded a setpiece, about twenty yards from the goalmouth. Benjamin Ochan, however, parried away Kenneth Muguna's resultant delivery for a fruitless corner taken again by Muguna. A few minutes later, Leopards were on the rampage and Alpha Onyango had to contain the situation by bringing down Fabrice Mugheni on the edge of the area for a free-kick. Kamura, however, blast Gor's wall while attempting to curve the ball into the net Clyde Sineji picked a yellow card for going hard on Muguna to earn Gor another setpiece. Muguna slotted the ball into the area but his effort bounced off the Leopards' defence and Charles Momanyi almost put Gor ahead on the rebound only to scoop the ball inches wide. Muguna squandered another one-on-one scoring opportunity against Ochan in the 10th minute. Leopards won a setpiece in the 36th-minute just a few metres from goal after Andrew Juma sent Elvis Rupia tumbling down. The resultant effort by Mugheni, however, came off the Leopards' wall. In the 44th minute, Samuel Onyango cut back a pass into the six-yard box but it went begging for attention with no-one in sight to finish it off. Leopards coach Anthony Kimani introduced Harrison Mwendwa and Peter Thiongo at the start of the second half to strengthen the flanks. Mwendwa almost put them ahead by releasing a rasping shot from the left channel but his shot swivelled past the goalmouth. Leopards were menacing and a few minutes later, Thiongo was breathing hard on the neck of Gor defence. In the 50th-minute, Samuel Onyango made a splendid run down the left channel and after beating three Leopards set a neat ball for Alpha whose feeble shot was easily collected by Ochan. In the 53rd-minute, Leopards introduced Eugene Mukangula for Sineji while Gor coach Carlos Pinto made a tactical change by bringing in James Macharia for Jules Ulimwengu. Samuel Onyango also made way for Clifton Miheso in the 69th minute. Bonaventure Shaka came on the end of Mwendwa's pass but poor finishing cost him a clear chance with Oluoch already out of position. Kipkirui made way for South Sudan international Okello in the 84th minute. In the 85th minute, Ernest Wendo committed an infringement against Rupia for a foul about 21 yards from goal. Mukangula's resultant effort came off Wendo for a corner which Rupia nodded wide to miss out on a chance to increase his season's tally. As the clock ticked on, the match was far from entertaining with Gor becoming a pale shadow of themselves and Leopards dominating play. The result left Gor seventh on the log on 15 points after nine matches while Leopards maintain their fourth position on 18 points after eight matches Elsewhere, Bidco United continued with their fine form with a resounding 2-0 win over Zoo at Kericho Green Stadium. Zachariah Gathu put Bidco ahead in the 34th minute before Alex Juma sealed the win in the 73rd minute.