Once upon a time, there lived a man called David Okiki Amayo. He was in charge of the dreaded Kanu Disciplinary Committee. Then there is Raphael Tuju of Jubilee. The more things change, the more they remain the same. These are the words of Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi in a tweet posted on May 14 last year. He was reacting to the sacking of Jubilee Senate Majority Leader Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Majority Whip Susan Kihika (Nakuru). The purge targeted Deputy President William Ruto’s allies as his fallout with President Uhuru Kenyatta deepened. Murkomen was replaced by Senator Irungu Kang’ata (Murang’a), who was kicked out on Tuesday for alleged disloyalty to the party and disrespect for party leader Uhuru. Six nominated senators were expelled from Jubilee on Monday. In the vernacular of social media, Tuju is overworking. Havi’s depiction of the ruling party secretary general as the reincarnation of Amayo of the Kanu era is fitting. Grown men with established political careers wetted their trousers when they appeared before the Kanu Disciplinary Committee Amayo chaired during President Moi’s dictatorship. Moi set up the Amayo committee in 1986 as he tightened his grip on Kanu, the only political party allowed by law at the time. The committee’s sole objective was to crush all critical voices in Kanu and enforce total loyalty to the President. “Its powers included the ability to expel party members or otherwise impose sanctions against those who, in its view, committed ‘any act which in the opinion of Kanu is not in its interest’ or in any way undermined the party president, the head of state, or the Kanu government,” political scientist Jennifer Widner writes in her 1992 book, The Rise of a Party-State in Kenya: From Harambee to Nyayo. Not even parliamentary privilege would protect an MP or minister from Amayo’s wrath. In 1987, Labour minister Peter Okondo was hauled before the Kanu kangaroo court after questioning it in Parliament. Upon coming to power, Moi transformed Kanu from a party that “was loosely organised and possessed limited representative functions to one in which the party became an instrument for political and social control under the guidance of the Office of the President,” Widner reports. “As Kanu became more and more a creature of the Office of the President, personal rule began to replace management of demands through institutional mechanisms.” Former Vice President (under Mwai Kibaki) Moody Awori recalls that Moi had a firm grip on Kanu. “He had long discovered that to keep all state power in his hands, he had to consolidate power through the party. He was in full control and those joining the system soon discovered that one ignored this only at great peril. A promising political career could be quashed for good just for not appreciating this fact,”Awori writes in his memoir, Riding on a Tiger. “Sycophancy was the safe route. Those were the days of the likes of Wilson Leitich, Kariuki Chotara, Mulu Mutisya, Okiki Amayo, Shariff Nassir, Stanley Oloitiptip and Ezekiel Barng’etuny. Intellectuals like Mwai Kibaki, who ironically was the party’s Vice President, and Dr Robert Ouko, the Kisumu branch boss, were viewed with suspicion.” There is no doubt that Uhuru yearns for the despotism of the Moi regime. He owes his entire political career to him, after all. Uhuru finds the 2010 Constitution and growing civic vigilance frustrating. He has brought Parliament to heel and tried to emasculate the Judiciary through budget cuts, flagrant disobedience of court orders and public attacks. The proposed expanded Executive under BBI will restore the imperial presidency. Not once, Uhuru has issued threats that he is fully in charge and people should respect him. Consequently, Jubilee politicians who do not toe his line have found themselves stripped of state security and harassed, or corruption and other criminal charges have been brought against them by state machinery. But the carrot and stick strategy of rewarding loyalists and crushing critics won’t help Uhuru much. His time is up. He is facing a relentless rebellion in his Mt Kenya backyard and nationally over his disastrous mismanagement of the economy and betrayal of Ruto. Crucially, the liberties enshrined in the Constitution are impossible to erase however hard he tries. Kenyans are ‘woke’. Today’s political circumstances are a world away from the dark era of Moi’s dictatorship when the system’s attack dogs like Amayo struck terror in the hearts of dissenters. Every time Uhuru strikes one critic, the rebellion grows. And overzealous apparatchiks like Tuju stand out as relics from a bygone era.