Strathmore University has launched a Master of Science in Data Science and Analytics (MSc. DSA) in Kenya. This is a unique graduate programme that aims to equip participants with a deep mastery of the business and IT underpinnings of Data Science and Analytics and provide the Kenyan market with highly skilled data scientists. The program is a collaboration between Strathmore Institute of Mathematical Sciences (SIMS) and @iLabAfrica Research and Innovation Centre. Jubilee Insurance Group CEO Dr. Julius Kipng’etich said during the launch that data skills such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Big Data Analytics are in high demand everywhere. “We are currently in an era where government and industry are moving towards data-centered decision making to better serve their constituents and clients. Skills such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Big Data Analytics are in high demand everywhere,” Kipng’etich said. To help uncover the true value of data, the MSc. in Data Science and Analytics is for all professionals looking to harness data in new, innovative ways and make data-driven decisions. “We need to use data science to understand customer behavior. Even the media industry need understand the customer in a very special way where data will help to customise news, they provide individual customers on various different platforms depending on the consumers generated patterns.” He added that “We need to start thinking of our education system, is it competitive enough so as to drive the culture for the demand for knowledge generated from Data, which gives information that generates knowledge that finally gives us the wisdom we need in decision making.” Kipnge’tich added that “We need to put a lot of emphasis in the education system on science and mathematics. We must re-look on how we teach Mathematics and science as a country because it is an ingredient skill in creating a data science culture.” Ninety-five per cent of the world’s data has been created in the past two years. Data is the next natural resource and Big Data is becoming the new differentiating factor of production. Dr. Vincent Ogutu, Vice-Chancellor Designate, Strathmore University mentioned said that the answers are already there in the data, which is everywhere, but somehow, we are not using these data. “We keep using the old methods yet, if we just did the analysis, we would find the appropriate answers we are looking for in our organizations,” he said. He continued that “It is scary to think of how much power people who hold your data, have over you. I am hoping in this course we will get professionals who can help us find solutions from data and at the same time be very ethical enough to help us understand how to protect ourselves from the people who access our data that is very exposed.” Also, Dr. Sevilla – Director of @iLabAfrica – Strathmore University stated said that data science is the combination of skills where people are able to understand mathematical models, how to implement these models using computer programs. “We are bringing out the skills of business, IT and mathematical modeling with the aim of shaping people who fall under business, IT and Mathematical modeling and are going to apply these skills in businesses."