Women's Premier League side SEP Oyugis captain Pauline Msungu has promised to use her football expertise to empower and improve the lives of her local community in Oyugis. Msungu was over the moon after her nomination as one of  International Olympic Committee (IOC) Young Leaders across the world. "I will bide my time to design, analyse and research in order to come up with a good project that will help benefit my community. I will research the urgent needs of the community before focusing on a project that can help create a positive impact and make a change in society, " Msungu said. Msungu said she will draw upon her vast experience in various leadership positions to fulfil this new role. "I have been part of the Society Empowerment Project Oyugis Kenya. Through the organisation, I was part of the Covid-19 emergency response project that focused on Reproductive Health, Wash program and Agri-business and I think I am up to the task," she said. The IOC Young Leaders Programme seeks to engage various sportspersons in improving the standards of living within their local communities through sports. The young leaders selected are charged with the task of developing a  localised sport-based solutions to unique challenges in their respective communities. Her coach Maurice Onyango said the midfielder rightfully deserves her new role. "Pauline is one of our key midfielders and a leader on the field. She fights for the team and always brings positive energy irrespective of results. She has influenced many young girls to take up football activities and she's more than just a leader," Onyango said. Msungu's decorated CV as a leader includes guiding the Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology Ladies soccer team to the University Games titles in 2016 and 2019. She is also an official of Bundesliga Youth Ambassadors Project in Kenya. Other sportsperson's selected from Africa include Lamti Zakaria (Morocco), Omar Bassyouni (Egypt), Olushinaola Ewuola (Nigeria), Emmanuel Sebata (Uganda) and Moussa Diedhiou (Senegal). The Tartar Girls' alumnus  previously played for Harambee Starlets in the African Women's Cup of Nations qualifiers (AWCON) and the Council Of South African Football Association COSAFA Women's tournament.