Wajir has become the latest county to pass the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020 bringing the number of those that have passed to 40. Addressing the press on Wednesday, deputy speaker Maulid Isaack said the MCAs unanimously approved the Bill after one hour of debating and voting. Out of the 49 MCAs only one had a dissenting view. Isaack said increment of a fair share of resources and having the Ward Development Fund were some of the reasons that made the MCAs support the bill. The chair of the house Implementation Committee Dahaba Yussuf said that he was happy that he delivered a document that had overwhelmingly support by members. “We did all that is required by law including subjecting the document to public participation that culminated in today’s vote,” Dahaba said. Governor Mohamed Abdi who was present in the house during the debate and subsequent passage of the Bill said ‘as leaders from the area and the region at large they were happy it sailed through." “I thank the members of the county assembly for rising to the occasion when it mattered most. By voting ‘yes’ they have joined other counties that have passed the Bill in sending a strong message that all we want is devolution strengthened among other good things that have been captured,” said Abdi. Abdi said that going forward they will take campaigns to the grassroots to ensure that the same support is replicated on the ground. “I want to urge our people to support this document that has been passed by their leaders. We should speak with one voice. Going forward, we want to explain to wananchi each and every clause and specifically why we supported it in the first place,” said the governor. Diif ward MCA Mohamed Shueb said the introduction of the Ward Development Fund which will empower the wards reps in the execution of their mandate was a plus. “Now that we are going to have an independent fund we will not be held hostage by the executive. The fact that we will have members appointed to the executive, will increase transparency,” said Shueb. The MCAs however continued with their appeals to have Wajir south split into two noting that through a delegation led by the governor, they will be presenting their request to the President.