The New Vision Party (NVP) formerly led by former powerful minister Nicholas Biwott has endorsed new leaders to revive it ahead of 2022. Engineer Richard Chelimo, a prominent Rift Valley businessman and politician, has been confirmed as the party leader, replacing Biwott who died in 2017. The NVP National Executive Committee approved Chelimo to take over and the changes have already been made by the Registrar of Political Parties. Coast politician Marere Wa Mwachai remains the NVP secretary general,  Johnston Ole Sadera remains the party chairman and Richard Mucheis  is the deputy secretary general. “We have already started to restructure and fully revive the party so it's stronger by the time we get to the next general elections," Chelimo said. Chelimo told the Star on the phone they plan to open the party headquarters in Nairobi and also open several branch offices countrywide to coordinate the NVP activities. “Our aim is to have a very vibrant party by the general elections.Chelimo said. He added the party might consider a coalition to support one presidential candidate. The party, he said, will field candidates at all levels. NVP recently fielded a candidate in the Msambweni by-election. It will field Michael Omollo in the MCA by-election on March 4. The by-election will replace MCA Peter Chomba who died of Covid-19 late last year. Omollo and Jubilee candidate Lucy Chomba are currently the leading candidates; nine others are in the race. A section Jubilee officials led by William Cherais are supporting the NVP candidate in the Huruma race. “We are working closely with NVP because it has strong and visionary leadership under Engineer Chelimo," Cherais said. He has been leading the campaign for Omollo in Huruma ward. The UDA party associated with Deputy President William Ruto is not fielding a candidate in Huruma and some of its supporters are  backing Omollo to replace Chomba. Huruma ward has more than 35,000 registered voters, making it the largest ward in Rift Valley in terms of numbers. The by-election in DP Ruto’s backyard has attracted interest from several influential politicians and MPs. (Edited by V. Graham) 