The Environment ministry has expressed concern that banned plastics are slowly coming back into the country. Kenya banned single-use carrier bags in February 2017. The ban went into effect on August 28 that year. However, the plastics are being smuggled into the country through porous borders, a situation that has been worsened by the fact that Kenya’s neighbours such as Uganda still use plastic bags. "Too many people have gone back to use of plastics and I want to warn everyone in Kenya that we are going to be very strict as we have done before. We have seen this menace come back again and so we are going to be in full action going forward,” Environment PS Chris Kiptoo said. “More important is that Kenyans need to be more educated so that they help us to actually address this problem because compliance is when people willingly subscribe to the law rather than us using enforcement officers to deal with them”. This has forced the National Environment Management Authority to heighten surveillance to help curb the problem, a move that has seen at least 60 people arrested in Nairobi and arraigned in Makadara. They were fined between Sh3,000 and Sh70,000. The court also ordered Nema to destroy all the exhibits. Single-use plastics and the resulting pollution have been cited as one of the biggest catastrophes of our generation and a major threat to biodiversity. It is estimated that about five trillion macro and micro-plastic pieces are floating in the ocean, making up 60-90 per cent of marine debris. Scientists have warned that there will be more plastics than fish in the world’s oceans by 2050 unless people stop using single-use plastic items. Being found with plastics draws a fine of Sh2 million to Sh4 million or a jail term of between one and two years, or both. Plastic pollution has over time surfed onto beaches, settling onto the ocean floor and rising through the food chain onto dinner tables. The PS has noted that the rising water levels in various lakes in the country is a result of environmental degradation, coupled with climate change and the Indian Ocean Dipole. Data from the Environment ministry shows that water in Lake Baringo increased by 108 per cent, Lake Nakuru rose by 82 per cent, Lake Naivasha by 42 per cent and Lake Bogoria by 26 per cent while Lake Turkana went up by nearly 11 per cent and  Lake Victoria rose by almost one per cent. “We have seen huge volumes of water and when you look at the causes our scientists are yet to tell us the level of attribution but clearly two factors come in, the first is climate, the second is the degradation of our land,” the PS said. The water levels in the Rift Valley lakes and Lake Victoria have been rising since 2010, submerging nearby areas, farmlands, infrastructure and causing a humanitarian crisis. Edited by Henry Makori