Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli has asked​​ the Luhya community to give ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi time to negotiate with other communities to support his presidential bid. Atwoli said Mudavadi has many friends across the country, who can support him if he approaches them. "Musalia you need to reach out to Kalonzo Musyoka, Hassan Joho, and Gideon Moi among others across the region," he said. Previously while in Vihiga, Atwoli had said Luhya only cannot make Musalia a president but he needs other regional leaders to support him. Atwoli's remarks came after Budalang'i MP Raphael Wanjala accused the ANC party boss of exposing his backyard to his opponents. "We have seen DP Ruto touring and traversing the region as well as Baba (Raila Odinga). What of Mudavadi?" Asked Wanjala. Atwoli says Mudavadi's political experience puts him at a better chance to lead this country. "Mudavadi is not a toddler in politics. Since 1989 up to date he has served as vice president and he has held various ministerial posts in this country. That experience is enough to run this country," he added. The trade unionist urged the Luhya community to come out in large numbers, not just only to vote but also to mobilise resources to ensure Musalia's campaigns run smoothly. He said for all those who go for the top seat in the country, their campaigns are funded by their own communities. "Let's not be on the frontline to beg from him, with this narrative of who gave me something is the one I will vote for," Cotu boss said. Atwoli said it's time the Luhya learnt how to support themselves. He said he will rally about four million workers behind Mudavadi presidential bid. He urged MPs Alfred Agoi, Beatrice Adagala, Ernest Kagesi, Omboko Milemba and other leaders in western to market Musalia in the region to strengthen his political base. "When Musalia has a strong base here in Western, we shall also have easy time to push his agenda in those other areas," Atwoli said. Atwoli further said with Mudavadi's strong base, he will have an easy time to place his name on the table. However, he warned DP Ruto against chest thumping and championing the hustler versus dynasty narrative. Atwoli said Ruto has realised that he won't clinch the top seat and "that is why he wants to tear the country into pieces using class wars." He warned youths not to be influenced by the hustler and dynasty narrative, saying it has nothing to do with Kenya's economy.