County governments have been urged to enhance surveillance up to the household level. This, the Health Ministry said, will play a key role in identifying suspected Covid-19 cases with a history of international travel and also detect new clusters of suspected cases and deaths. In an alert to all the county governments by acting director-general for health Patrick Amoth, the ministry said to achieve this, counties have been encouraged to utilise community health volunteers and engage Nyumba Kumi initiative committees. Amoth in the circular said counties should enhance entry screening of travelers at all official points of entry and high-volume unofficial border crossing points. Amoth said since mid-December 2020, there has been a notable decline in the covid-19 cases with a positivity rate of below 5 per cent in 2021. He however said with the recent global emergency of new SARS-CoV-2 variants and a surge of cases in the region, Kenya remains at high risk of importation of the new variants that could potentially instigate a resurgence of the cases and deaths. Amoth said the new variants seem to be more transmissible but there is still no evidence that they cause more severe illness or increased risk of death. "A rapid increase in the number of cases will put more strain on health care resources, lead to more hospitalisations and potentially more deaths," he said. This comes even as Kenya reported 102,048 confirmed cases of coronavirus after 104 more people tested positive in at least 24 hrs. This was from a sample size of 3,348 that was tested. cumulative tests conducted in the country so far stand at 1,220,043 since the first case was reported in March 2020. So far the total number of deaths stands at 1,789 with 84,542 recoveries. As a result, Amoth said counties must enhance cross-border disease surveillance activities including sharing information between border sub-counties and the neighboring country districts. "Counties must re-activate rapid response teams and facilitate them to respond timely to all alerts. They must strengthen laboratory capacity for specimen collection, shipment and timely confirmation," Amoth said. He said the counties have further been instructed to scale up risk communication and community engagement activities to enhance awareness on the public health implications of new variants to the public. They must also emphasise the importance of maintaining ongoing preventive measures to minimise transmission. "The counties must enhance involvement of all relevant stakeholders to ensure compliance with the recommended public health and social measures," he said. The statement comes shortly after IG Hillary Mutyambai directed police commanders to strictly enforce  Covid-19 rules saying there is a lot of laxity. In a statement on Tuesday, Mutyambai said some people have violated the protocols by holding unauthorized gatherings where there is no observance of social distancing or wearing of face masks.