A court will on Tuesday review former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko's medical report and decide if he should be detained in hospital or police cell. One of his lawyers, Evans Ondieki, said the Nairobi Hospital submitted a preliminary medical report as directed. The matter will be deliberated on at the Kahawa West law courts on February 16. “His blood pressure is still high and the hospital has submitted the report to the court ahead of the review of the same on Tuesday. It is after that when we will deliberate on the need to hold him as requested by police or not,” he said. The Kahawa West magistrate ordered that Sonko be taken to the hospital and the management file a report on his status. The magistrate ordered that the former governor be guarded at the hospital. Up to nine officers are guarding him at the hospital where he has been since Monday night. There was drama at the hospital when police earlier on Tuesday arrived there and picked up Sonko for the ruling on his assault case. Sonko had been admitted on Monday night after complaining of stomach complications and what officials called massive blood pressure while at the Gigiri police cells. Police drove there and picked him up and took him to the court. But witnesses said the hospital management said they did not want drama and allowed him to be taken away. He appeared in court in the company of an ambulance medic. He was released by a Kiambu court on Sh300,000 and a surety of similar amount in a multiple assault case he is facing. Sonko was later taken to the Kahawa West court in Kamiti where his lawyers applied he be taken to the hospital because he was unwell. At the Kahawa West court parties are arguing over an application by the police to be allowed to detain Sonko for 30 days as they investigate terror related charges. The operations on Sonko are being conducted by officers from Anti-Terror Police Unit (ATPU). Sonko has since February 1 when he was arrested been guarded by officers from ATPU, which deals with terrorism suspects. Police accuse him of recruiting a militia which is likely to destabilise national security. Aan affidavit sworn by ATPU chief inspector Newton Thimangu says the former governor has been wearing military attire that is associated with terrorism groups who pose a national security to the sovereignty of this country and hence need to have the said suspect detained for comprehensive investigations. “The suspect herein has started arming his private security agents with full military attire namely military boots, military jungle uniforms and firearms. "The suspect who was in company of unknown person had worn militia attire and together with the suspect they were both spotted in public in full glare of the media and in front of huge mass of people in a public rally,” says part of affidavit. He added he had intelligence information Sonko is connected to financing of terrorism activities and is in the advanced stage of procuring arms and ammunition using a wide syndicate which is complex and sophisticated. Thimangu added that the militia are ready and that they will be armed to create a threat to the citizens through triggering acts of war in Kenya. “It will be in the best interest that this court finds it prudent to grant custodial detention period of 30 days to enable investigations relating to this intelligence information to be thoroughly undertaken with a view of preventing, intercepting and or interrupting the criminal understandings by the suspect and his associates to forestall imminent danger,” said part of the affidavit. Meanwhile, his supporters said they stopped planned protests over his arrest because of a conditional order given earlier by an anti-corruption court. The order required Sonko not to allow his supporters stage any form of protest in the city.