Kenya Handball Federation's technical director, Coast region, Titus Kesekwa believes the federation had no option but to void the 2019/20 season. KHF cancelled last year's season, which was suspended due to the coronavirus pandemic at which point National Cereals and Produce Board and Nairobi Water were leading the men and women's league respectively. "I am sure that for the league committee to arrive at the decision, they consulted widely including with the continental body. Continuing with last season's fixtures would have been problematic because we were already time barred," Kesekwa said. Kesekwa concurred with KHF fixtures secretary Charles Omondi who said continuation of the league would have interfered with Kenya's conformity to the International Handball Federation's format. "In the East African region, it is only Tanzania who picked up from where they left last season. Even our neighbours Uganda decided to cancel their league as was done in many other countries. I hope that these reasons have been explained to the teams who were leading by the time the fixtures were suspended," he said. The 2021  national league is to kick off in  March albeit fixtures for the same are yet to be released. Kesekwa confirmed receipt of a letter informing them to begin training in anticipation of the resumption. "Many players are quite relieved and pumped up for the commencement of the league. They have been training hard since we were allowed to resume training but they were psychologically affected by the uncertainty surrounding the resumption. Many of them rely on this sport to earn allowances and the inactivity has affected their survival," Kesekwa observed. Regarding Kenya's preparations for the African Women's Championships set for June 2-12 in Cameroon, Kesekwa proposed a long-term view aimed at nurturing talents from the grassroots. "We need more corporates to come on board to enable us find resources to nurture talent at the grassroots. These preparations will be hard if we do not have a long-term plan," he said. The championship offers Kenya an opportunity to qualify for the IHF World Championship scheduled for Spain later in the year. It was originally slated for December 2-12 last year but for the Covid-19 pandemic that halted most sporting activities worldwide.