The beautification of roundabouts in Kisumu City has started in earnest, acting City manager Abala Wanga has said. Wanga said they have partnered with the corporate sector to transform all the roundabouts in the city through enhanced urban aesthetics. Under the 12-month transformative initiative for the city, Wanga said they are committed to greening and beautifying of Kisumu Highway corridor, from Kisian to Nyamasaria. “Our vision is to make Kisumu beautiful and a little Singapore. We are optimistic to achieve the objective,” he said. More than 15 roundabouts are earmarked for beautification. They are Oginga Odinga, Oginga Odinga/Angawa, Oginga Odinga /Jomo Kenyatta Highway, Airport, Nyanza Golf Clun, Kondele, Patel Flats roundabout, Aga Khan, Kachok and Kisumu Boys. Others are Okore/Nzoia, Mamboleo junction, Coptic Kakamega highway, Kona Mbaya and Ramogi Institue. The city, Wanga said, is also beautifying and greening parks to make them habitable. He said they also target to plant 10 million trees to develop eco-friendly urban green spaces and roads canopies. To realise this, Wanga said they are mobilising participation of corporate sectors, residents and other government agencies to plant and grow trees, shrubs, and flowers in the city. Upon completion, he said the tree planting programme will enhance urban aesthetic in the city, reduce the impact of air pollution, dust as trees and shrubs are known to be natural sink of air pollutants. The initiative will also provide much needed shade for pedestrians and reduce the impact of noise pollution caused due to increase in number of vehicular traffic and moderate the effect of wind by acting as windbreakers. Beautification and cleaning chairman Lalji Kasam said they want to make Kisumu a regional beautiful lakeside city. Kasam said they are committed to transforming the city through a comprehensive initiative to enhance urban aesthetics through the beautification of roundabouts, gardens, parks and open spaces, urban afforestation and streets capping. He said the business community has adopted most of the roundabouts and major parks to aggressively beautify the city and make it a better place and leave in. “I want to welcome all the Kisumu residents to shower us with ideas and give us more knowledge that we can use to improve Kisumu for their own,” Kasam said. 