The results from the second window of the FIBA Africa 2021 Qualifiers in Yaounde, Cameroon, can only show one thing – Kenyan basketball has come of age Morans not only qualified for the continent’s biggest basketball festival after a 28-year hiatus, they did it in grand style by stunning 11-time African champions Angola. What made it so memorable and special is that history was made. Their shock 74-73 win came via a buzzer-beater from Tylor Ongwe. The whole country was so proud of the feat that it never mattered if they lost 71-44 to bottom-placed Mozambique in their ultimate fixture. Morans, who had lost 76-65 and 110-40 to the same team in 1985 and 1989 respectively, posted a 2-4 record in Group B. During the first window in Kigali in November, Kenya did not line up their best squad. Two players — Tom Wamukota and Preston Bungei — did not play because of varied reasons. Joe Awiti was unavailable whereas skipper Griffin Ligare played only the last game. Regardless, Kenya had enough resources to beat Mozambique after twin thumping by Senegal and Angola. The self-belief all started in Kampala, Uganda, during the FIBA Africa Zone Five Qualifiers. Kenya beat Egypt for the first time ever to top the regional meeting. It got even better in Bamako, Mali, during the inaugural Afro-Can tournament where the team bagged a silver medal. Since then, they have been on an upward trajectory. Kenya will now be among 15 other nations at the AfroBasket Tournament – Africa slated for August 24-September 9 in Kigali, Rwanda. Kenya Basketball Federation chairman Paul Otula, while praising the team’s virtuoso performance in Yaounde, Cameroon, said the hard work begins now. He also praised the government for their support. “We will ensure that the team prepares adequately for this championship by bringing in professional players home early. Once we get the full report from Cameroon, we will hit the ground running,” he said. Ronny Owino, FIBA Africa Coaches’ instructor and former national women’s head coach concurs with the chair’s sentiments. “We don’t need to worry too much about our opponents, we just need to prepare our team well for the tournament ahead,” he said. An equally elated KBF treasurer Peter Orero said they will request the government to host the team at Kasarani so they can prepare well for the August finals. “Kasarani hostels will be good for our boys when we assemble for training for the championship because, besides the accommodation, the gym is just metres away,” he said. Former KBF chairman and FIBA commissioner Agina Wesonga, who is based in London, said a good performance in Kigali will boost Kenya’s profile in basketball. “Morans now need proper preparations for the finals. Their good performance will ensure our referees and commissioners get more slots in international assignments.” 