@ManuelOdeny There was confusion in the Migori county assembly after police sought orders to block the speaker, his deputy and seven other top leaders from accessing office. MCAs are currently on recess until February 9 when they are expected to resume to consider the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020 better known as the BBI. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has forwarded the bill to all county assemblies for rejection or approval before the referendum being pushed through the Building Bridges Initiative can proceed. Siaya has already passed the bill giving BBI proponents hope of getting the required approval from at least 24 county assemblies. In Migori, however, that debate might not take place soon. In a letter dated January 18 and signed by John Kariuku for Director of Criminal Investigations and copied to Migori Governor Okoth Obado, police sought orders from the High Court in Kisumu against the nine individuals. The DCIO sought the order following a criminal case 661/297/2020 where several top county assembly leadership and contractors faced charges of conspiracy to commit an offence of corruption contrary to section 47 A (3). Those sought to be barred include speaker Boaz Okoth Owiti and the entire county assembly service board which which the speaker chairs. Others are deputy speaker David Chacha (Bukuria Central MCA) Brian Osodo (Kachieng), Roland Asiga (Wasimbete) and Tagare MCA Nicholas Ngabiya. Others charged in the case are acting clerk Emmanuel Abala Kingwara, Tom Opere, Steve Omondi Okello who is the supply chain management officer and Clifford Jobando a member of the board. According to Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes law section 63, a public officer can be suspended if charged with corruption and economic crimes. The speaker, his deputy and 13 others were on December 3 released on a bond of Sh3 million each after denying the corruption charges. They were arraigned before Kisumu chief magistrate Peter Gesora. The case will be mentioned on February 15.