Embattled Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi, who has waded from misfortune to misfortune recently, is blaming the evils on his political enemies. Maangi told worshippers yesterday that he has forgiven those enemies. “There are times as a leader to calm your heart and tell it to get rid of the past and forge on. Today is one such a time when I want to rid those ill thoughts I had towards all those who mean bad for me,” Maangi told worshippers at Riasomba Seventh Day Adventist church in Masaba South in Kisii during a Sabbath service. Maangi the said "enemies" are unhappy with his support of Deputy President William Ruto. “I can list them, some of them had been my friends who I have sat and shared a meal with. It is pure vanity to hold ill thoughts towards people who know not what they are doing. In the spirit of reconciliation I vouch to rid any ill will feelings I had about them,” the Deputy Governor said. Misfortune has followed the DG closely behind this year. Maangi, South Mugirango MP Sylivanus Osoro and Kisii ex-mayor Samuel Omwando were arrested last week as they prepared to attend the funeral of former Nyaribari Chache MP Simeon Nyachae. Maangi was picked by detectives as he waited the Deputy President’s plane to land at Kisii School while Osoro was lured out of the tent as Nyachae’s funeral service got underway. Omwando was arrested a day early from his house in what the police said was a move to avert ‘disturbances ‘ at the politician’s funeral. All the three politicians have since denied plan to orchestrate violence in the burial. “There was none of us was plotting to do anything, we had all anticipated a peaceful burial to send off our political grandfather when police came for us,” said Maangi. He said Charles Nyachae was their Tangatanga ally and there was no justification that they were plotting to cause chaos. “There is not moral justification, not place to hang on the lame excuse that any of us had plant to do that, and we want whoever is doing that to desist,” said Maangi. On Wednesday last week, Maangi was involved in a road accident at Olulung'a area on the Narok-Nairobi Highway. A boda boda operator and his pillion died on the spot, when thir motorbike collided with the car. Boda boda riders then set Maangi's car ablaze. Speaking Friday in South Mugirango, Maangi, Osoro and Omwando said they were mulling going to court to fend off constant harassment from security agencies every time there was a big state function in the region. They said their support of Ruto would not be quenched by the arrests and intimidations from the state. "Persecution does not quench the  fervour with which people support a cause, it fans the spirit, increases the its tempo and popularity. If  this is what the state is out to do, then we are ready for the further persecutions for Ruto’s sake,” said Maangi. He said the country should not sink so low as to open up its arsenal against supporters of the DP across the country. “We cannot allow this culture where everybody who is associated with Ruto is arrested arbitrarily and incarcerated without any charges being preferred against them. We have said enough is enough and we must sue for this. We have already instructed our lawyers to file cases,” said Osoro.