Mourners including Gusii leaders on Tuesday morning trooped into Bonchari MP Oroo Oyioka's home to pass their condolences to the family. The MP died on Monday. He had been admitted at the Aga Khan hospital for weeks before he succumbed. Kisii County Governor James Ongwae paid the family of the MP a visit at Bomorenda area in Suneka and condoled with Teresa Oyioka widow to the deceased. "I have always known him as a humble man, one who was dedicated to transforming the lives of his people. As a Governor I pray that God gives you strength in this difficult times," he said. He said Oyioka's love for education was exemplified in the college and schools he founded. "They are an enduring testimony that he was truly a man who meant well for the children of the community," said Ongwae. Deputy Governor Joash Maangi in a tweet described Oyioka as one who played a crucial role in uplifting the standards of education in the constituency. He said he learned of the MP's demise with a heavy heart. Other leaders who sent condolences include MPs Ezekiel Machogu (Nyaribari Masaba), Innocent Obiri (Bobasi), Senator Sam Ongeri and Women Rep Janet Ongeri. Charles Mogaka who unsuccessfully vied for the MP seat with Oyiako said he knew him a man of a tender heart and cheerful giver. Villagers around Bomorenda where the MP set up his home said the deceased lived with them with humility. "He was often jovial when he passed by and could stop to buy us even sugarcane to chew," said Midian Kerumbe. David Kerumbe, an inlaw to the MP said the MP was instrumental in opening schools in the area. His death comes hours after the burial of former cabinet minister Simeon Nyachae. He was sponsored to the Parliament during the 2017 general election by the Kenya African National Union and a Coalition Member of The People’s Democratic Party (PDP). President Uhuru Kenyatta on Tuesday eulogised Oyioka as an accomplished educator and determined legislator. In his message of comfort and encouragement to the legislator's family, Uhuru described the MP as a determined leader who always sought and worked for the improvement of his constituents through education. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi described Oyioka as an active member of the Departmental Committee on Education, Research, and Technology. Muturi added that Oyioka will be remembered for his advocacy towards improved quality of education in the country.