County health departments and port health services have been advised to reactivate Covid-19 response teams and help them respond to alerts in the wake of the new variants. The 501Y.V2 variant, first identified in South Africa, is predominant and powering record case numbers in the sub-region. It has now been found in Kenya, Botswana, Ghana, Comoros, Zambia and 24 non-African nations, the World Health Organisation has warned. The counties have also been tasked with ensuring enhanced cross-border disease surveillance activities, including sharing of information between border subcounties and neighbouring country districts. In a letter to all Health executives and county directors of health, acting Health director general Patrick Amoth has further ordered that they ensure screening of travellers at all official points of entry and high volume unofficial border crossing points, as well as strengthen laboratory capacity for specimen collection, shipment and timely confirmation. “Since mid-December 2020, there has been a notable decline in the Covid-19 cases being reported in Kenya with positivity rates of below five per cent in 2021,” Amoth said. “However, with the recent global emergence of new SARS-CoV-2 variants and a surge of cases in some countries in the region, Kenya remains at high risk of importation of these variants that could potentially instigate a resurgence of cases and deaths.” The counties and port health services will also be required to enhance surveillance up to the household level to promptly identify suspected Covid cases with history of international travel and be able to detect new clusters of suspected cases and deaths. The counties have thus been urged to employ the use of community health volunteers and engage Nyumba Kumi initiative committees. In addition, they have been ordered to scale up risk communication and community engagement activities to enhance awareness on public health implications of the new variants and emphasise the importance of maintaining preventive measures already in place in an effort to minimise transmission. “The new variants seem to be more transmissible but there is still no evidence that they cause more severe illness or increased risk of death, a rapid increase in the number of cases will put more strain on healthcare resources, lead to more hospitalisations and potentially more deaths,” Amoth said. He said measures employed by the counties should enable early detection, notification, timely laboratory confirmation, isolation of suspected cases and quarantine of close contacts. “Subsequently, the MoH, through national public health laboratories, will then collaborate with testing laboratories to track emerging variants through genome sequencing," he said. Last month, the World Health Organisation warned that if care is not taken, the new variants could fuel the country’s second wave, despite its curve having been flattened in the past weeks. The global health agency is already working to track and tackle new variants by helping countries build and boost the complex genomic surveillance capacities needed to detect and respond to new variants, shipping samples to sequencing laboratories and providing supplies and technical guidance. So far, the agency, in collaboration with Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, has set up a Covid-19 genomic sequencing laboratory network with laboratories in several countries, including Kenya. Countries without the labs will be required to ship at least 20 samples to sequencing laboratories every month to help map the fast-evolving situation and best target responses at all levels.