Kemsa has entered the third phase in the distribution of about 10.1 million long-lasting insecticide-treated nets to boost malaria control. The four-phased mass long-lasting insecticide-treated net (LLIN) distribution exercise started in March last year, before slowing down because of Covid-19 and then accelerating in June and August in a bid to cover endemic regions. Edward Njoroge, acting Kemsa chief executive officer, explained that the third phase commenced late last month and is expected to be completed in the mid of this month. “Our distribution teams are on the ground making sure all the nets reach the right place, at the right time and in the right quality,” Njoroge said. He pointed out that the third phase will see vulnerable residents of Lamu, Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi and Tana River receive the nets. He said under Phase 1, Kemsa distributed slightly more than one million nets in Kirinyaga, Baringo, Marsabit, Turkana and Vihiga. “In the second phase, we issued 3,020,656 nets in the counties of Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori,” he said. The fourth phase slated to commence in May will target Bomet, Nyamira, Kisii, Nandi, Kericho, Uasin Gichu, Taita Taveta, West Pokot and Trans Nzoia. Kemsa distributed over 600,000 Piperonyl Butoxide (PBO) nets, procured through the Presidential Malaria Initiative (PMI), to Busia county in February and anticipates to commence distribution of over 1,500,000 PBO nets to Kakamega and Bungoma in April. PMI procured a total 2,793,300 LLINs for the three counties. Routine distribution of PMI nets started in June 2020 and 24 counties have been serviced. “Despite the infrastructural challenges, especially the rough terrain in some remote regions, we are able to reach the drop off points in good time,” the CEO said. He thanked the Global Fund, Division of Malaria Control and the National Treasury for playing a pivotal role in mobilising and providing resources to facilitate mass net distribution in the fight against malaria, which is a major killer in Kenya. Malaria in Kenya accounts for about 16 per cent of outpatient consultations and 75 per cent of the population is at risk of the disease. Njoroge said collaboration with all key stakeholders is part of the government’s strategy to improve health service delivery and places a high premium on malaria prevention and control, with eventual elimination listed as one of the strategic objectives of the Kenya Health Policy. The government is guided by the Kenya Malaria Strategy (KMS) and its Monitoring and Evaluation Plan 2019–2023. It aims to reduce malaria incidence and deaths by at least 75 per cent of 2016 levels by 2023. Njoroge emphasised that KMS outlines six strategic objectives to be reached by 2023, one of which is to protect 100 per cent of people living in malaria-risk areas through access to appropriate preventive interventions. “Kemsa plays a critical role in fulfilling this objective by availing the required health products and technologies and utilising its medical logistics capabilities to reach every targeted region in the mass distribution of nets,” he said.