Baringo county assembly members have called on the government to protect them. Their request comes following Thursday’s afternoon incident where a teargas canister was lobbed to the assembly after they rejected the BBI bill. “Our security is at risk because we do not know who did this barbaric act,” Churo-Amaya MCA Ameja Zelemoi said. The motion was moved in the assembly by Jubilee MCA Charles Kosgei of Mogotio ward. The chaos erupted when Kabarnet MCA Ernest Kibet seized the microphone from Kosgei rebuking him for tabling the anti-BBI motion. The commotion which took the entire afternoon saw the pro-Deputy President William Ruto and KANU leader Senator Gideon supporters engage in a fight. The bill was tabled a day after the 48 MCAs returned from the Jubilee party headquarters in Nairobi where they met the party secretary-general Raphael Tuju on Wednesday. 30 MCAs rejected the Bill in comparison to 11 who voted yes. The KANU members had earlier appealed for adjournment of the process due to lack of a tangible report, but the speaker turned down their plea. Clashes began soon as the voting procedure was done and the Assembly speaker David Kiplagat was about to announce the results, where an unknown person lobbed a teargas canister that exploded inside the house forcing everyone to run for safety. The members sustained minor injuries during the aimless scamper. “We cannot tell who did so but I guess it must be a malicious plan by the losers but we don't bother as long as we have snapped the fake bill,” Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol said. Others who opposed the bill were Silas Tochim(Tenges), Nixon Lemlem(Marigat), Kipruto Kimosop(Mochongoi), John Aengwo(Kipsaraman), Julius Ngotie(Eldama-Ravine) and Jeniffer Kabon(Kapropita). Among the few who supported are Nelson Litela(Silale), Ameja Zelemoi(Churo-Amaya), Reason Barkei(Mukutani), Betty Birchoko and Francisca Cheburet(Norminated). After winning, a team of Jubilee MCAs rushed out to address thousands of people who crowded outside the assembly shouting and chanting 'hustlers power'. The armed Anti-riot police officers had to rush to the assembly grounds to protect themselves from the wrath of the rowdy population, the majority being the youth.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris