“It is not a crime to support the Deputy President and if it is a crime then I'm guilty.” That was Senator Isaac Mwaura's defence before the Jubilee Party Disciplinary Committee on Thursday. Mwaura will know in a fortnight whether the crime is punishable by expulsion from the party. The committee can also mete out another punishment to him. Mwaura had been dragged to the disciplinary committee after Jubilee Party's national chair Nelson Dzuya complained he had been disloyal. Dzuya also told the committee chaired by lawyer Muchai Lumatete that Mwaura had pledged allegiance United to Democratic Alliance. UDA is associated with William Ruto and the hustler movement the DP leads. Dzuya was represented during the Thursday meeting by Jubilee's director of legal affairs Mwendani Franklin. The nominated senator said his woes have nothing to do with pledging alliance to UDA, but everything to do with supporting Ruto’s 2022 presidential bid. Mwaura described the disciplinary process as a witch hunt and accused Lumatete's team of being hell-bent on expelling him. He said the summons came soon after Dzuya and vice-chairman David Murathe asked for his removal from the party. He has no faith in the independence of the committee. "You already have a determined position. David Murathe has actually said I'm going to be expelled and he has also declared he will support Raila Amollo Odinga for president, this meeting is just pure witch hunt," Mwaura said. He also wondered why he was targeted when both Murathe and Nominated MP Maina Kamanda have drummed up support for people outside the party without being punished. "Maina Kamanda, another nominated member, has been openly campaigning for ODM candidate in Kibra. Why did you not summon him? That to me is discrimination. You are implying partiality," Mwaura said. “How do you explain a situation where [the] President flags off [2019 Kibra by-election hopeful Macdonald] Mariga as the party candidate and Kamanda goes ahead to campaign against him?” Mwaura's witness Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichung'wah told the committee to set aside more time to hear cases of disloyalty. "If associating with DP has become a crime in the party then be ready to sit here every day," Ichung'wah said. The senator denied advancing the interest of another political party, insisting he has never voted against a Jubilee position in the Senate. "I am a paid-up member of JP. I pay Sh20,000 every month... I have strongly defended the party position even when the party position is not clear to anyone," he said. He was accompanied by MPs Caleb Kositany (Soy), Nixon Korir (Langata), Millicent Omanga (nominated), Nelson Koech (Belgut), Kimani Ichungwah and Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango.) (edited by o. owino)