President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday gave his critics an ultimatum to choose  whether they are in or out of  his government. After launching a health clinic in Uthiru, Kenyatta said there was no way his critics conveniently criticise his administration and at the same time take credit for Jubilee's successes. Without mentioning names Kenyatta said: “If you feel the government is good, stay with it. If you keep criticising it, leave and let others continue working.” “Our aim is unity of the people and not to be divided. We want people to pull as one. We want leaders who will cater to issues affecting Kenyans and not divisive politics,” the President said. Allies of Deputy President William Ruto have been criticising some decisions made by the Jubilee government. Ruto has himself raised concerns about BBI and promised to not take part in the referendum if it would be divisive. On Friday, Kenyatta said he wouldn’t engage in unnecessary political fight and accused his critics of double-speak . “You cannot with same mouth say the government is bad and also say we have achieved this and that as a government. How many governments do we have?” he asked. The President for the first time dared his deputy to walk out if he was dissatisfied with his administration.  President Kenyatta, calling for respect, said it was wrong for his critics to insult him and yet claim they are working together. “I am not a person of fights. Mine is for Kenyans to benefit from development projects that transform their lives,” he said. He said people cannot compete on the basis of insults. He extended an olive branch to his critics to join him in working for Kenyans. The President rooted for the BBI saying it would stage more resources to Kenyans, especially those in areas with extra constituencies. “We are either together or apart. You cannot claim credit and at the same time insult the same people you are working with,” he said. President was on a tour of hospital projects undertaken by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services.