The family and friends of a 38-year old woman who was abducted a week ago are in shock after her body was found dumped at the Kajiado mortuary. Caroline Wanjiku Maina was reported to have been abducted by unknown persons one week ago before the matter was reported to the police. Preliminary findings show she was tortured before being killed and her body dumped in a thicket in Kajiado. The body was discovered two days after her abduction by locals who alerted police. She wore the same clothes she had when she went missing, police said. The family has sought help to trace her after she went missing. In the February 13 report at Muthangari Police Station, Wanjiku's Toyota Axio car was found abandoned in Nairobi's Kawangware area near Gatina Primary School, a day after she went missing. The case was then taken over by the Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) Nairobi Area Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau (CRIB) working alongside Dagoretti-based counterparts, who swung into action arresting four suspects. Heightened investigations uncovered that prior to the victim's disappearance, she had withdrawn Sh350,000 from one of the banks in Nairobi, before proceeding to a meeting for a business deal. The woman worked at a local bank. Innocently driving into her death trap, Wanjiku had made a call to a female friend explaining her meeting with the suspect who was to guide her into boosting her Stima Sacco shares with the withdrawn amount. Investigations have shown once at Ngara, Wanjiku was forced into a black Toyota Crown car in which the suspect was waiting before she was sandwiched by the other suspects and handcuffed. The family had circulated posters with her pictures and details seeking public help to trace her whereabouts. After their arrest, the team handling the case escorted two of the suspects to Kajiado's Paranai area, the scene where the suspects dumped Wanjiku's body after allegedly torturing her to death. The detectives said a pair of handcuffs used to restrain the deceased, her company stamp stolen from her car and a surgical face mask believed to have been worn by her were recovered. Police were then working to identify the body. Accompanied by Wanjiku's younger sister, the team then proceeded to Kajiado hospital mortuary, where the sister identified Wanjiku's body, reported to have been collected at the earlier said scene on February 15. The body had physical injuries on both wrists and its entirety, with the eyes plucked out of their sockets. Another Mercedes-Benz car believed to have been used to dump the victim's body has since been recovered at one of the suspect's home. With further investigations ongoing, the four suspects are pending arraignment for murder. A magistrate in Kibera allowed police to detain the suspects for 10 days as they complete their investigations into the gruesome murder. DCI boss George Kinoti said they are pursuing more leads on how and why she was killed. “We will gather more with time. This was cold blood murder,” he said. The incident comes weeks after a lawyer was also abducted from the South C area by unknown people. The family of Benson Njau Kayai had reported to police he had been missing since February 7 when he was apparently abducted from along Muhoho Avenue in South C, Nairobi. Njau, 54 is a Nairobi based lawyer and practised conveyancing, property law, family law, commercial law and other issues. No arrest has been made so far but police say they are investigating the incident.