On February 11 Iranians around the world will mark the 42nd anniversary of the Islamic Revolution of 1979, which shook the world and has dominated international affairs since. The people of Iran led by the spiritual leader Imam Khomeini, not only overthrew the Shah, a US puppet, but also embarked on a course to make the country totally independent of the oppressive and exploitative policies of all tyrannical powers, especially the United States. Iran’s new sensitivity to its independence and rejection of hegemony and triumph of the Islamic republic has never been digested and forgiven by different consecutive US administrations, as it has always been considered a strategic loss by Washington. As stated by President Hassan Rouhani during last year Islamic revolution anniversary rallies in Tehran, “conflict between Iran and the US is over Iranian rights for a choice, because Americans believe the nation did not have the right to choose the Islamic Revolution over the royal system which the US had installed in Iran’’. By not accepting the reality of change in Iran, the US has entrapped itself in a chain of wrong assumptions, poor concepts, misleading analyses and ultimately destructive policies, which have all resulted in the US malignant obsession with Iran, which mounted to its utmost by former President Trump and Iran hawks in the White House. Trump walked out of the deal in May 2018. He did more: he imposed a raft of illegal sanctions against the Islamic Republic of Iran targeting its institutions as well as individuals. Sanctions that have caused massive suffering to the Iranian people who cannot get medicines. The arrival of Joe Biden as the new US President is being viewed with guarded optimism in Tehran. He served in the Barack Obama administration that inked a historic nuclear pact with Tehran in 2015, and in 2020 he expressed willingness to return to the deal almost three years after his predecessor exited from the agreement. Today, Iran has become a powerful country in the region and political analysts believe that the secret behind the endurance of the revolution is the huge support from people. It is no minor accomplishment for the republic to have maintained an independent geopolitical course for a period of 42 years in spite of the overwhelming diplomatic, economic and military pressure employed by the United States and its allies.