Kenyans will pay Sh1,500 for the new patient-friendly tuberculosis preventive therapy set to be rolled out starting this month and March 2021. Kenya is among the first countries set to benefit from this treatment that will last for three months. The fixed-dose combination treatments will reduce the pill burden from nine to three pills a week for adults and prevent TB in those at highest risk of developing the disease. The dose is a  combination (FDC) of “3HP”, short-course tuberculosis (TB) preventive treatment (TPT) is a combination of two drugs, rifapentine and isoniazid. The treatment is being funded by U.S. President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR), Unitaid, USAID and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria In a press release on Wednesday by the three organisations, there is enough treatment for up to 3 million patients and it is expected to be made available for eligible countries this year. “A new fixed-dose combination (FDC) of “3HP”, short-course tuberculosis (TB) preventive treatment (TPT) combining two drugs, rifapentine and isoniazid, is starting to be rolled out in five TB high burden countries in Africa,” reads the statement in part Other countries that will provide the new treatment are Ethiopia, Ghana, Mozambique and Zimbabwe. Welcoming the new fixed-dose combination TB preventive treatment WHO said that will enable better adherence and outcome from reducing the pill burden. “This collaboration between Unitaid, the Clinton Health Access Initiative and manufacturers has been vital to supporting the uptake of TB preventive treatment as recommended in WHO guidelines,” said Dr Tereza Kasaeva, Director of Global TB Programme at WHO. The organization says it is looking forward to a surge in action from national programmes supported by donors and partners to scale-up access to TB preventive treatment and reach the UN High-Level Meeting targets. USAID, being the largest bilateral funder of TB efforts globally, has been a leader in partnering with high burden TB countries in the successful implementation of their national TB strategies for over 20 years. In 2019 alone, 10 million people were reported to have fallen ill from TB. Close 1.5 million people succumbed to the disease with over 95 per cent of whom were living in low and middle-income countries. The statement also highlights that about one-quarter of the world’s population is infected with TB bacilli and most of them do not have the disease and are not contagious. “If left untreated, TB infection may progress to TB disease, the form of TB that makes people sick and is capable of being transmitted from one person to another,” reads the statement It is said that people with TB infection, often dubbed “latent”, have no symptoms, are not contagious and most do not know they are infected. Without treatment, 5 to 10 per cent of these people will develop active TB, the form which makes people sick and can be transmitted from person to person. Edited by Kiilu Damaris