Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) have put plans in place to ensure Morans are ready for FIBA Afro-Basket 2021 Championships in Kigali, Rwanda later this year. KBF chairman, Paul Otula revealed they have plans to build a strong side that can make an impact in the  August 24 September 4 continental festival. He said KBF will liase with the respective professional players’ clubs to release them at least two weeks before the event so that they can train together for long. “We know due to clubs’ commitments, we can only try to negotiate for the professionals release early. It’s possible to bring them home early for preparations,” said Otula. Kenya made history on Saturday when they stunned former 11-time African champions Angola 74-73 before crushing 71-44 to Mozambique in their final Group ‘B’ qualifier in Yaounde, Cameroon A jovial Otula said they are trying to make the team better by continuing to work closely with the government and the clubs to ensure Morans remain on course “The government has never let us down. They have always stepped in to help us. You can see the boys also gave them value for their money by that historic performance,” said Otula. He added, “We are waiting for the report from the technical bench in Cameroon before charting the way forward. The boys gave it their all and did the country proud.” Otula heaped praise on Joel Awich who made his debut in Cameroon without having played together with the rest at all. He said, “It was his first time but the Kenyan in him was not lost. We will add more players and I am sure no one will feel threatened as this is one family.” Treasurer Peter Orero was equally over the moon. He said they will request the government to host the team at Kasarani so that they can prepare well for the August finals. “Kasarani hostels will be good for our boys when we assemble for training  ahead of the Rwanda show because besides the accommodation, the gym is just metres away,” he said. KBF, he said, will still open doors for more players both at home and from the diaspora, Those in Cameroon will be retained because they have proved their worth. “There is room for any players in the team. We will identify more foreign-based players and invite them to the team. Afro-Basket needs the best talent,” said Orero.