The 2022 battle for the governorship of a Nyanza county played out on Monday between two heavyweights during a meeting attended by ODM leader Raila Odinga. A witness whispers to Corridors there was heightened tension between the two moneyed aspirants as each employed all manner of tricks to outdo the other. They mobilised delegates to attend the function, rallied the region to back BBI, even attended to seating arrangements. It has now emerged that there could be a scheme by some national political heavyweights to hatch a plan to stop the main competitor’s growing influence including his sudden ties with “Baba”. Time will tell which of the two politicians will carry the day. We recently told you of a land registrar representing counties in both Central Kenya and Rift Valley. He is under fire for laxity and arrogance.  The man has been in the spotlight for years. In 2019, residents took to the streets to protest laxity and poor services. They demanded transfer of the registrar. In fact, a county woman representative raised the matter with Lands Cabinet Secretary Farida Karoney (pictured). Those in the know claim the man sometimes goes to work as late as 10 am, meets staff, leaves for lunch and returns at 4 pm. He is not bothered by the queue of people, including old men and women, waiting for his help. As he leaves the office, he locks away his seal, though a deputy is willing to serve. A businessman whose name featured prominently in a recent corruption scandal seems to have found a way to cleanse his tarnished reputation. The wealthy businessman who enjoys the trappings of power recently donated some goodies to a government entity, though they are meant to be shared to benefit several state institutions. Government officials who received the assorted goods could not hide their joy. However, the people who are in the know about the source of the goods could only speak to each other in low tones. It would appear the trip and subsequent reception of a political stalwart in one of the 47 counties caused seismic waves in the political arena. Corridors of Power understands the handlers were given tacit instructions not to attack or peddle any manner of propaganda against his political nemesis. The directive has thrown into a spin the spin masters, politicos, strategists and hangers-on who have been making a killing and careers by throwing insults and unpalatable verbiage. Talk is rife that with imminent betrayal that is common in Kenyan politics, the explosive duo could be back in the same fold.