Budding KCB setter Immaculate Nekesa wants to quickly adapt to the team's style of play in order to nail down a regular spot. The 18-year-old who turns 19 in June has been introduced gradually into the team. She grabbed the chance with impressive displays in her first two appearances against the Directorate of Criminal Investigation DCI and the defending champions Kenya Prisons. Nekesa faces competition from Joan Muindi and Rwandese import Ernestine Akimanizanye in Japheth  Munala's star-studded side. The Kwathanze Secondary School alumna is in her first season with the bankers having been signed last year. She said she will have to be inch-perfect in training as she comes to terms with the demands of playing for the Ruaraka-based side who are keen on both national and continental glory following the huge investment in the squad. "Club game is very different from what I was used to at Kwathanze. In school, our attackers were a bit slow but here at KCB, they are swift. I have to adjust to their moves, get the ball in the right positions for them to blitz," she said. "The presence of the more experienced Muindi and Akimanizanye has been a learning curve for me and pushed me out of my comfort zone. I can only get better." Nekesa was part of the Machakos-based Kwathanze, who have been dominant in national and East Africa School games, winning in both categories in 2017, 2018 and 2019. She was a KCB fan in her teens and was therefore hard to turn down their offer. Nekesa said an opportunity to play with the best players and to be coached by a top cream technical bench informed her decision to join at the club. "I used to hear about KCB when I was still in Bunjosi Primary in Bungoma. When my interest grew in the game, I purposed to one day play for them. It is a dream come true to be part of the long term project of this club. KCB has been like home for me since setting foot here," adds Nekesa. His coach Munala has called for patience with all his young players as they try to exploit their potential. Munala has also previously stated that it won't be too long before Nekesa gets a national team call up.