United States President Joe Biden on Friday telephoned President Uhuru Kenyatta for talks on the importance of strong ties between the US and Kenya. The White House in a statement said that Biden affirmed the importance of the strong bilateral relationship between the two countries. Biden, the statement reads, also emphasized the United States’ continued commitment to working closely with Kenya to support regional peace and security, including at the United Nations Security Council. The two leaders also discussed the deteriorating humanitarian and human rights crises in Ethiopia’s Tigray region. Washington says the discussion was centred on the need to prevent further loss of life and ensure humanitarian access to the region. “The President applauded Kenya’s leadership in the Horn of Africa and commitment to counterterrorism, economic growth, addressing climate change, and sustainable development,” the White House said. “The leaders also discussed the need for cooperation on other matters of regional stability,” the statement reads. President Uhuru Kenyatta expressed confidence that the conclusion of the ongoing negotiations for a Kenya-US Free Trade Agreement (FTA) will help further strengthen the strong economic ties between the two countries. Kenya is the fourth largest trading partner of the US in Africa. Kenya and the US launched the FTA negotiations on 8th July 2020 with the objective of reaching a comprehensive trade pact that can serve as a model for similar agreements in Africa. Once again, President Kenyatta thanked his American counterpart for the support Kenya continues to receive from the United States of America in sectors such as Healthcare, Economy, Security and Governance, and assured President Biden of the Kenyan Government's strong commitment to continue working closely with the new US administration. Kenya and the US have had cordial ties dating back to 1963 on economic and security issues. Among the latest engagements are on the bilateral Free Trade Agreement, hailed as the first in Sub-Saharan Africa.