AFC Leopards' head coach Patrick Aussems says concentration in the entire match  made the difference in their Premier League match against Ulinzi Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Wednesday. Aussems commended his charges for making remarkable improvement from their last tie against Bandari who beat them at Mbaraki a week ago. "We controlled the game and played a full 90 minutes unlike in our last match when we only concentrated for 45 minutes. He believes the win is vital as they head to Bukhungu for their next fixture against Kakamega Homeboyz. Onn the other hand, Ulinzi coach Benjamin Nyangweso lashed out at his squad for collapsing at the 11th hour even after they threw away numerous chances. "We were punished for our defenders' mistakes. We failed to utilise our own chances," said Nyangweso, who still believes they stand a good chance this season. "We are still in strong contention for the league title because we are  in the initial stages." The match got off to a slow start with both sides seemingly reluctant to launch meaningful attacks and looking comfortable in their own halves. In the initial minutes, AFC Leopards appeared limping and a pale shadow of themselves judging by the pathetic bluntness in front of goal. Leopards stands ultimately erupted into song and dance when second-half substitute Austin Odhiambo beat his markers before setting up Peter Thiongo whose clinical finish broke the deadlock in the 78th minute. KCB squandered an opportunity to narrow the gap on Tusker after playing out to a two-all draw against Sofapaka at Wundanyi Stadium. Lawrence Juma put Sofapaka ahead in the 35th minute before Victor Omondi levelled terms seconds later to halt the bankers' celebration. Second half substitute Reagan Otieno drew the visitors level in the 76th minute. Francis Kimanzi found the going tricky against his former side after his charges Wazito were held to a one-all draw at Kasarani Annex. Elsewhere, Zoo Kericho held Kakamega Homeboyz 1-1 at Kericho Green Stadium.