The rise in arson attacks in schools is not new. The recent spate has led to discussion on the reintroduction of corporal punishment in schools. Education CS George Magoha champions the reintroduction of caning, blood testing for drugs, among other measures, to help reduce criminal activities. The question is, how far will these proposals go in taming students’ unruly behaviour? The government banned corporal punishment in schools in 2001 through the Children’s Act, 2001. The repeal of this act may do more harm than good, as the risks and disadvantages associated with corporal punishment outweigh the advantages. Whereas it helps to serve as a deterrent, often it is counterproductive as it hardens children. Some students may drop out of school. When this type of punishment is used excessively, it has the effect of making children very hostile to their teachers and some may fight back. The other challenge is regulation of corporal punishment. We have previously had cases of children who were severely injured or even died as a result of a beating. Caning is never the best option and should remain banned. Teachers have a built-in capacity to administer non-corporal punishment to students. This capacity can be enhanced. The blanket condemnation and victimisation of students and parents after an arson attack is unfair. Why should a parent of a well-disciplined children be forced to contribute or pay for what his/her child never destroyed? As the CS suggests, drug abuse among some students may be contributing to the unacceptable behaviour. But how are students accessing the drugs at school? There are more questions than answers. The move to test and expel students found with traces of drugs in their blood and barring them from any other school goes against the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948), which states that education is a fundamental human right. There are many ways of dealing with drug abuse among students, from basic counseling to rehabilitation, which the ministry should prioritise. The increase in electricity penetration and advancement in technology uptake present a window of opportunity to end or drastically reduce the unfortunate incidents in schools. Nearly all public boarding schools have electricity and where not, solar panels can be used to support the installation and use of surveillance cameras. Many private schools have installed CCTV camera, so it’s possible to do the same in public schools. The Education CS should involve the Ministry of ICT in finding lasting solutions. Which will also have other collateral benefits such as improved quality of teaching and work ethic among teachers and increased educational achievement by monitoring students’ class attendance. Reproductive health advocate