Kenya’s Olympic Gold medalist and marathon world record holder Eliud Kipchoge will lead Kenyan youth in the fight against malaria. In a campaign dubbed ‘Draw the Line Against Malaria’, Kipchoge will be joining other African change makers such as Nigerian actress Omotola Jalade, the captain of the South African national rugby team the Springboks Siya Kolisi, award-winning Rwandan-British choreographer Sherrie Silver and South African explorer Saray Khumalo. The campaign is fronted by a team of change makers coming together to inspire young people from across the African continent and the globe to call on their leaders and push for political action to end malaria within a generation. The campaign launches exactly four months ahead of the Kigali Summit on Malaria and Neglected Tropical Diseases, to held on the eve of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Rwanda on June 24. The summit is a milestone moment in the malaria fight and enabler of game changing political decisions including delivering the commitment to halve malaria across the Commonwealth by 2023, organisers say. The campaign, which supports the growing Zero Malaria Starts with Me movement, reflects the energy, talent, and cultural influence emanating from the African continent with references to art, fashion, music, sport, and entertainment. The campaign combines an interactive digital platform at zeromalaria.org and is brought to life through a powerful film highlighting young people taking charge of their lives and refusing to allow malaria to steal their futures. “I believe in the power of human potential and our ability to change the world, because no human is limited. Malaria has no place in our lives today. This disease has stolen from us for too long, stopping people from working and children from going to school,” Kipchoge said. “Even now, malaria is still taking the life of a young child every two minutes. We can change this, we can overtake this preventable, treatable disease and end it in my lifetime. Join me and let’s draw the line against malaria once and for all.” Unifying communities and leaders everywhere, the Draw the Line Against Malaria campaign aims to inspire a new generation to join the Zero Malaria Starts With Me movement, supporting the African Union’s Catalytic Framework to end AIDS, TB, and Eliminate Malaria in Africa by 2030, and ALMA’s Malaria Youth Army. The goal of the Kenyan national malaria strategy is to reduce malaria incidence and deaths by at least 75 per cent of the 2016 levels by 2023. The campaign launches against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Although 90 per cent of life-saving malaria prevention campaigns were delivered as planned in 2020, the World Health Organization has warned that disruption to malaria diagnosis and treatment could lead to thousands of additional deaths across the African continent. Before the pandemic, half of the world’s population were already living with the threat of malaria and, despite promising progress since the beginning of the millennium, the parasite is fighting back. “Countries held the line on malaria during 2020 – and this year we must draw the line for good. Long-time investments in the malaria fight continue to pay dividends and are pulling double duty during the pandemic. By strengthening our health care systems, we can better respond to both new and existing health threats,” CEO of RBM Partnership to End Malaria Dr Abdourahmane Diallo said. Diallo added: “Together, we can end malaria, and today’s youth can be the generation that rids the world of this ancient and deadly disease and achieves a malaria free future for all. Today, we must all draw the line against malaria and recommit to achieving zero malaria in Africa and around the world.” A recent WHO World Malaria Report showed that 229 million new infections and over 400,000 malaria deaths were reported in 2019. The vast majority of these deaths are young children under five across Sub-Saharan Africa. Edited by Henry Makori