Motorists in Kisumu will from Monday not be allowed to park on the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Triangle within the city. In a notice issued by acting City manager Abala Wang, all vehicles, tuk tuks and motorbikes are required to park along the back street. “Notice is hereby given to all private vehicles, boda bodas, tuk tuks and taxi operators within the city centre not to park along Oginga Odinga Street,” Wanga said. He said the triangle is constituted with streets that surround the parks.  They include Oginga Odinga , Jomo Kenyatta and Angawa Streets. Wanga said they are also opening the back streets of Angawa. The traders have also been directed to stop selling their wears on the newly constructed Non-motorised transport lanes. He, however, said dropping and picking of passengers is allowed with a time frame not exceeding five minutes. Wanga urged motorists to fully comply with the notice. “In event of non-compliance within the stipulated time frame, the county government shall itself move and tow/impound such vehicles, motorbikes, tuk tuks and wares without further reference to the owners and at their own risks as to cost incidental thereto,” Wanga said. The notice is copied to Governor Anyang Nyong’o, County commissioner Josephine Ouko, County police commander Samuel Anampiu and Kisumu Central OCP Peter Katam for implementation. The county has also demolished perimeter wall of the Reinsurance Plaza Building to pave way for the ongoing construction of the walkways. Barring of motorists from parking on the street comes as the beautification works of roundabouts in the City starts in earnest. Wanga said they have partnered with the corporate sector to transform all the roundabouts in the city through enhanced urban aesthetics. Under the 12-month transformative initiative for the city, Wanga said they are committed to greening and beautifying of Kisumu Highway corridor, from Kisian to Nyamasaria. “Our vision is to make Kisumu beautiful and a little Singapore. We are optimistic to achieve the objective,” he said. More than 15 roundabouts are earmarked for beautification. They are Oginga Odinga, Oginga Odinga/Angawa, Oginga Odinga /Jomo Kenyatta Highway, Airport, Nyanza Golf Clun, Kondele, Patel Flats roundabout, Aga Khan, Kachok and Kisumu Boys. Others are Okore/Nzoia, Mamboleo junction, Coptic Kakamega highway, Kona Mbaya and Ramogi Institue. Wanga said they are also beautifying and greening parks to make them habitable. He said they also target to plant 10 million trees to develop eco-friendly urban green spaces and roads canopies. He said they are mobilising participation of corporate sectors, residents and other government agencies to plant and grow trees, shrubs, and flowers in the city. City head of environment Bernard Ojwang said the tree planting programme will enhance urban aesthetic in the city. He said it will also reduce the impact of air pollution, dust as trees and shrubs are known to be natural sink of air pollutants. “The initiative will also provide much needed shade for pedestrians and reduce the impact of noise pollution caused due to increase in number of vehicular traffic and moderate the effect of wind by acting as windbreakers,” Ojwang said. Governor Nyong’o will on Wednesday commission the ongoing beautification project. Beautification and cleaning Chairman Lalji Karsan said they want to make Kisumu a regional beautiful lakeside city. Karsan said they are committed to transforming the city through a comprehensive initiative to enhance urban aesthetics through the beautification of roundabouts, gardens, parks and open spaces, urban afforestation and streets capping. He said the business community has adopted most of the roundabouts and major parks to aggressively beautify the city and make it a better place and leave in. “I want to welcome all the Kisumu residents to share with us ideas and give us more knowledge that we can use to improve Kisumu for their own,” Karsan said.