Kenya and Italy are seeking areas of collaboration in sustainable architecture, global health, sustainable agriculture, and circular economy. This emerged on Wednesday during a virtual conference on sustainable architecture to reflect on new perspectives, innovative technologies and solutions to reduce costs and energy. This, the Italian embassy said, is to respond to the increased interest in new ways of cutting costs, taking lessons from traditional building methods, conserving energy, and promoting reuse as African cities grow rapidly. A statement by the Italian embassy said the event was the start of a series of engagements between Kenyan and Italian academic institutions through virtual meetings to promote debate and discussions on “issues of importance to the two nations”. “This event is intended as the first of a cycle of academic co-lectures in collaboration with the University of Nairobi aiming to pave the way to a further development of bilateral cooperation in academic, research and scientific sectors,” the statement said. For the first cycle, three key sectors for academic collaboration between departments of the University of Nairobi and some respective Universities in Italy were selected — architecture, global health, sustainable agriculture, and circular economy as well as the Italian language. Italy Ambassador to Kenya Alberto Pieri said he believes in the importance of academic and scientific cooperation as a tool to strengthen relations between countries, in this case Italy and Kenya. Urban development is among the four main areas of cooperation between Kenya and Italy, the others being health, water, natural resources and environment. “We have selected sustainable architecture because we believe in the growing importance of a global approach to tackle climate change issues, that is only possible by reducing consumption and raising energy efficiency,” Ambassador Pieri said. He added that smart and sustainable cities are a priority of the Italian presidency of the G20 this year, focussing on people, planet and prosperity. The other key speakers were Professor Musau Kimeu of the University of Nairobi and Professor Niccolo Aste of the Politecnico di Milano, who has authored a book on tropical architecture. When the then Italy Prime Minister Matteo Renzi toured Kenya in 2015, he visited the University of Nairobi where he spoke about terrorism. During the visit, Kenya signed a Sh34 billion bilateral deal with two Italian banks — Italy’s BNP Paribas and Intesa San Paolo — for the construction of Itare dam. State House said the agreement brought Italy’s total financial assistance to Kenya to Sh59.3 billion. In November last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta was in Italy where he discussed trade and investment, tourism, and the global fight against Covid-19 with his Italian counterpart  Sergio Mattarrella.