Newly elected Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora on Saturday promised persistent salary delays for county staff would end immediately. The Embu governor said he had security a Treasury promise on prompt payment. He announced Sh100 million had been set aside to improve youth businesses. Wambora and Agriculture CS Peter Munya met coffee farmers to discuss reforms and better profits in the sectors. He made the announcements in a speech after he arrived home in Embu to a rousing welcome, a week after he was elected to the powerful position. Embu town came to a standstill at 11am as hundreds of residents lined the streets to cheer him. His convoy was escorted by about 200 boda boda outriders. The CoG chairman was forced to make impromptu stops to address crowds along the way. In his address at county headquarters, Wambora said his first task as COG chairman would be to end persistent delays of salaries for county government staff countrywide. “I met Treasury CS Ukur Yatani recently and we agreed the persistent salary delays will end immediately," the governor said. Last Saturday, Wambora was elected the fifth chairman of the County of Governors, deputised by Kisii Governor James Ongwae. He is em Embu's first governor assured residents he would bring them many benefits mara moja, or at once. Some residents told the Star they waited for five to six hours under the scorching sun  to welcome Wambora "I have been here along the tarmac since 7am waiting for the chairman. Finally he has come!" Mary Ruguru, a 56-year-old farmer from Mbeere North, said. The CoG chairman, who is known as Ciiko (Actions), proceeded to his hometown of Runyenjes, where he received a thunderous welcome. “All  young people should troop in their numbers to the ward administrators and fill out the forms for loans starting next week," Wambora announced. While supporting the Building Bridges Initiative, the governor said BBI will benefit the residents of Mt Kenya most and urged the people to vote in big numbers in favour of the constitutional amendments. “BBI is not about individuals but it assures all Kenyans a better future for us and the generations to come,” Wambora said. Later, Wambora and Agriculture CS Peter Munya met coffee farmers to discuss proposed reforms. “Our farmers should earn a minimum of Sh100 for a kilo of cherry,” Wambora said. He announced the county government has already secured markets for coffee in the US and Europe. “It’s just a matter of time and coffee will be the black gold of Embu,” the governor said. The meeting was attended by Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga, Embu Deputy Governor David Kariuki, Runyenjes MP Eric Muchangi and Nominated MP Cecily  Mbarire, among  other. (Edited by V. Graham)