Mount Kenya University is planning to put up a multibillion-shilling cancer treatment centre as it embarks on a new phase of growth. The Thika-based institution has unveiled a strategic plan for the next 10 years. It identifies cancer treatment and research as one of the areas it will deeply delve into over the next decade. Its ambition is to continue being a learning institution whose research and innovation touches on the lives of ordinary people and solving the problems that they experience every day. The MKU 2020-29 Strategic Plan creates a roadmap to help it position itself as an international teaching and research-focused institution of higher learning contributing global solutions to challenges facing mankind. In the plan, the university said it aims to achieve the vision of becoming a ‘global hub of excellence in education, research and innovation’. Key highlights of the blueprint include the establishment of MKU Cancer Teaching and Referral Hospital, which it envisions to be a global centre of excellence. The university said the hospital would be an ambitious project that will deliver knowledge, innovation and technological advancements in the war on cancer. It also spells out plans to transform its campuses into specialised centres of excellence in different fields and establish a world-class administrative office block at its headquarters in the Happy Valley area. “The search for excellent performance has continued to propel the university to become a leading centre of excellence offering quality academic programmes to its students,” said Prof Simon Gicharu, the founder and chairman. “The 10-year strategy provides an ambitious and exciting blueprint as the university charts its institutional roadmap for offering quality training and education. “The strategy comes at a time when institutions of higher learning in Kenya have been adversely affected by various elements, key of which include the global Covid-19 pandemic, sharp decline in student numbers and revenues… in spite of these challenges, the university has continued on its growth path, often re-inventing itself to adapt to the dynamic environment.” The plan also focuses on green energy and other environment-friendly technologies to help the institution play its part in mitigating climate change fallout. Prof Gicharu said the plan will also help diversify the institution’s revenue streams. “The strategy will be delivered at an approximate cost of Sh38.73 billion, which shall be mobilised through a diverse mix of approaches ranging from increased income from primary revenue stream to increased income from enterprises, as well as a greater focus on partnerships with specific emphasis on research grants and other approaches. “These strategies are seeking to increase and diversify the university’s revenue streams, thereby reducing the imminent institution risk of depending on the first revenue streams for survival," he said. The university is currently retooling, including reviewing its programmes to be able to offer quality education in line with the competency-based curriculum. “MKU is determined to review its existing programmes and develop world-class transformative academic programmes. This strategy will result in the production of graduates with high level of knowledge, skills and values so they become agents of change needed by our society,” Gicharu said. They expect to build on the achievements of the 2015-19 period when they implemented a four-year strategic plan. The strides included global recognition in research and innovation. “The key result areas proposed for pursuit in this strategic plan are a true reflection of a dynamic, robust and forward-looking institution. The MKU Council is convinced that implementation of these key result areas shall lead the institution in the right direction and support it growth development and sustainability,” university council chairman David Serem said.