We first must appreciate that we had tax breaks during the Covid-19 pandemic last year to cushion Kenyans. For instance, value-added tax was reduced from 16 per cent to 14 per cent, corporate tax reduced from 30 per cent to 25 per cent,  while Kenyans earning less than Sh24,000 were granted 100 per cent tax relief. Now, the VAT and corporate taxes have been restored to pre-Covid levels, while the tax relief for Kenyans earning less than Sh24,000 is still in place. But my concern is on the need to reconsider discriminatory taxes such as VAT. Now, everybody pays the same for consumer goods. For instance, if you earn Sh5,000 a month and another person earns Sh100,000, you pay the same for bread. We must look for ways to cushion this person earning Sh5,000 and others on the bottom of the pyramid. How do we do this? We should accelerate cash transfers and broaden people who are covered by such. The government should also expand programmes such as Kazi Mtaani. When people lose jobs, the dependency ratio becomes very high.  If you remember, during the pandemic the economy shed more than one million jobs. These are people with dependants. It means those affected are more than the one million. The government also needs to reconsider taxes on fuel, which are already too high. This affects all people across the board because the cost of consumer goods will go up. For the county governments, there’s a need for a shift to the facilitative role of government. Some offices are more interested in demanding licences than with business. This is a time to discuss partnerships. How do we support you to restart your business? Shoeshiners are being harassed all over yet these are actually jobs. The lower parts of the pyramid are part of the equation. Licences are good for businesses, but it should be a collaborative framework to have a win-win situation. My advice to those affected is, work with what you have. You might need to skip a meal and be thrifty with the little cash left. Source food from cheaper alternatives, because you will spend less. Use innovative approaches to stretch the shilling. Let’s also look at our social safety nets so we can support one another. We must survive this. The economist is a policy and governance expert at Sovereign Insight consulting firm.