Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM has pushed by a month the deadline for the presidential candidate applications. Initially, aspirants had up to February 26 to apply for the party’s flag bearer in the 2022 presidential elections. ODM National Elections Board chairperson Catherine Mumma Thursday announced that interest applicants now have up to March 31 to tender their application letters. “Further to the notice of the National Elections Board (NEB) of January 21, 2021, calling for the submission of applications by individuals interested in consideration as the ODM party presidential candidate for the 2022 general elections, this is to extend the deadline for the submission of applications from 26th February 2021 to 31st march 2021,” Mumma said. “All interested interest candidates are required to submit their application in the prescribed manner.” Last month, the Orange Party invited applications from aspirants to fly its flag in the high stake 2022 presidential elections. Anyone interested in the seat should be a Kenyan, registered voter and life member of the Orange party. Such a person was also to pay Sh1 million non-refundable registration fee to the party’s bank account. In line with the law, aspirants have to be a holder of a degree from a recognised university. Already, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has submitted his papers in a race that is widely expected will see him compete against party leader Raila Odinga and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The party also plans to conduct grassroots elections from the polling stations to the national level, an exercise it hopes will not only strengthen its structures but will also provide fresh energy. The exercise will be undertaken at both the subcounty and county levels next month. The party has already strengthened its nomination rules to ensure outsiders known for last-minute party hopping are blocked from the outfit. In the new regulations, contesters for various seats on the party ticket must be registered as bonafide members of the party at least two years before the elections. The countrywide exercise will start next month and continue to April when the delegates will converge in Nairobi to elect the national office including the presidential candidate.