Did you receive some flowers from a loved one this past Valentines weekend? While not all countries in the world celebrate the day, in Kenya, it offers an apt opportunity for businesses to reap a fortune but this year it wasn't that rosy. To top on the economic fallout caused by the Covid-19 pandemic that has seen Kenyans squeeze their bugets, 'the day of love' fell on a Sunday adding insult into injury. The streets of Nairobi on Sunday witnessed an outpouring of hawkers displaying both low-priced and costly Valentine's gifts. The day seemed busy but it wasn't that successful for flower vendors in the city. “I did not get any profit from the business I did on Sunday as many people were home and also I understand people are living in hard times,” said Elvis Wainana who sells flowers in Westlands. Wainana also noted that flower farmers in the country had increased the price of the commodity and therefore they also had to transfer the cost to Kenyans. “I had prepared some flower baskets for the big day but I only managed to sell 30 of them, in other years I sell 500 and above,” he said. Wainaina who is also Chair to the Flower Vendors Association of Kenya said that he visited various flower selling points in the city and the case was the same for all vendors. “I really feel for my fellow vendors, there is one at City market who had prepared 52 baskets but only sold 5, we didn't have high hopes but we didn't expect it to be this low,” he said. For William Kibua who also sells flowers at Westlands, this Valentines was unusual as he had very low sales but he was grateful for the little he was able to sell on the day. In the middle of the Nairobi CBD, sits Henry Karanja who sells flowers at City market, for him business wasn't that bad as he discovered he can sell both online and offline. “I discovered people have started selling flowers also online and that was a game changer for me this season as I wasn't only depending on what I'm selling on the ground,” said Karanja. Karanja owns a website cosmetflorist.co.ke where he was able to get 30 orders, for offline he was able to get more than 150 orders. Jack Kneppers, who owns a flower farm in Naivasha said his focus is the export market and orders came in two weeks ago. “Business was good for me as I even had more produce owing to the good weather we have had over the past few weeks,” said Kneppers. He noted that his competing flower farms in Ethiopia had cold weather in the past few weeks therefore his farm was able to sell more owing to the low produce from Ethiopia. Europe accounts for nearly 70 per cent of Kenya’s cut flower exports. Official data puts Kenya as Africa's top exporter of freshly cut flowers to the European market, ranking fourth in the world with the Netherlands leading the pack. The country exported 170,000 tonnes of flowers in 2020.