A senior police officer has lost a bid to stop his prosecution over the murder of a woman during demonstrations held by traders in Malindi six years ago. Malindi High Court judge Reuben Nyakundi dismissed Ezekiel Omollo's case, saying he will have ample opportunity to prove himself innocent before the trial court. Omollo, currently a training instructor at Kiganjo police college, sought to have his prosecution halted and the charge quashed on grounds that it was a violation of his rights. But the judge said the Inspector General of Police and IPOA in directing Omollo's prosecution had not violated any of his rights. He also said there was no evidence to prove there was any unlawful action or malice on the part of the Inspector General of Police and IPOA for him to halt criminal proceedings against the officer. "It is not enough to simply state that the decision by the agencies to undertake an investigation and mounting criminal charges against him constituted an abuse of court process. Omollo has not demonstrated any evidence of intimidation so as to impede the likelihood of him getting a fair trial," the judge said. Omollo faces a charge of murder of Kasichana Dzitso Ngala. He has conceded having shot in the air during the Malindi demonstrations in March 2015. IPOA said that upon investigation, they established that it was Omollo's weapon that was discharged and caused the death of Ngala. Court documents indicate that Omollo shot the woman during the fracas. He says he was left with no choice but to shoot in the air to disperse the rowdy crowd chanting, "Governor Kingi must go!" "In the heat of the chaotic situation that had ensued, the officer avers that as he was outnumbered and fearful of what would ensue, he shot his weapon in the air in a bid to disperse the crowd. After the shot was made, the protestors began to disperse, according to him an opportunity to call for reinforcements from the nearest AP camp. In the fracas, he shot a lady," read the papers. The judge in dismissing his application said Omollo was accorded an opportunity to record a statement and that he could not now turn around and say he was not aware of the investigations. The office of the DPP, he said, could not be faulted for exercising its discretion to initiate charges against Omollo. "Once it had examined the file forwarded to it by IPOA and established that there was a basis to form a criminal charge, it went ahead and instituted the petitioner’s prosecution; this is well within the mandate of the office of the DPP," the judge ruled. Regarding the delay in bringing the charge against Omollo, it was said that the investigations were of a complex nature and took time to be completed. "In any case, it was argued, there was no limitation with regard to investigations and prosecutions for the offence of murder, which is what the petitioner was faced with in the impending prosecution," judge Nyakundi said.