Water supply to State House and top Nairobi hospitals will be interrupted on Wednesday as authorities upgrade the city's main water pumps. The interruption will last 24 hours and will also affect various estate, the Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company said. In a public notice on Monday, NCWSC managing director Nahashon Muguna said the Kabete Water Works will be shut down for an upgraded. A number of city estates will experience dry taps to facilitate the upgrade of Uthiru and Dagoretti pump suctions. “There will be an interruption of water supply to customers served from Kabete Water Works starting February 3 at 6am to February 4 at 6am,” the notice says. The station at Kabete will be upgraded to pump an additional 25,000 cubic metres of water per day to Karen, Riruta, Satellite, Kawangware and Uthiru areas among others. Estates to be affected by the interruption include those along Naivasha Road such as Riruta, Kawangware, Dagoretti Corner and Ngando. Kilimani, City Mortuary, Kenyatta National Hospital, Nairobi and Coptic hospitals, State House, the Department of Defense headquarters, Lavington, Kileleshwa, Kibera, Forces Memorial Hospital, Kemri, Gold Course estate, Kenyatta Market and Karen will all be affected. Along Langata Road, St Mary's Hospital, Langata, Madaraka, KWS, Langata Barracks, Strathmore University and Wilson Airport will experience interruptions. The University of Nairobi's main campus, Parklands and Chiromo campuses, Westlands, Parklands, Mountain View and Kangemi estates will get no water supply on Wednesday. Residents in the affected areas have been advised to reserve and use water sparingly before and during the period of interruption. Upgrading of the Kabete pumping station to produce an additional 42 million litres from the current 30 million litres per day is part of the city modification project. A 500,000-litre tank and pumping station at Kenya High School is under construction. Once complete, it will serve residents of  Kawangware, Dagoretti, Riruta, Kabiria, Mutuini, Waithaka, Uthiru and Karen estates in the western parts of the city. The project will connect 45,000 households with water and serve an estimated 336,000 residents in the peri-urban areas of Nairobi. The modification project consists of the 14km Western Transmission Pipeline (Kabete-Uthiru-Karen) with a five million-litre capacity reinforced concrete water storage tank and the Eastern Transmission Pipeline (Kiambu-Embakasi). The Western Transmission Pipeline consists the Uthiru storage tanks, Uthiru-Karen pipeline, the Karen tank site and the Karen ponds. The modification and expansion works are expected to meet the current water deficit and serve Nairobi until 2042 without challenges. A pipeline from Kabete Water Treatment Works to South C is also being completed to increase water supply in the city. The multi-million-shilling project will supply Kenyatta, Woodley, Kibera, Langata, South C and Nairobi West. A huge storage tank is to be put up in South C to supply most of the estates. Muguna said the storage tank and the pipeline will be ready in December next year. The pipeline will run along James Gichuru Road and the Southern Bypass. Nairobi has been experiencing water shortage over the years with the January 2017 crisis being the most notable after water levels at the Ndakaini Dam dropped significantly. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has been sinking boreholes in various estates to address the shortage. The Athi Water Development Agency is also undertaking several expansion works to address the supply deficits in the city.  Edited by P.O