Can Interior CS Fred Matiang'i or any Kisii leader fit in the shoes of former Cabinet Minister Simeon Nyachae and rally the Abagusii community behind a political cause? That is the million dollar question that lingered on the minds of many soon after news of the death of the former powerful and influential minister broke. For more than 20 years, the former long-serving Nyaribari Chache MP and distinguished civil servant single-handedly controlled the politics of the community. The tycoon was for decades regarded as the kingpin and political gateway to the community. He weathered the political turbulence to keep together his community behind one political vehicle – Ford People. Observers opine that Nyachae’s family name, networks built from his long service as public servant and immense riches placed him at the apex of the community politics. “He benefited from family name. Nyachae’s father - a chief - was very powerful. Those days people really respected chiefs,” university don Herman Manyora said. Mzee Musa Nyandusi was a paramount and dreaded colonial era chief. Manyora said Nyachae’s long service as head of civil service, minister and MP gave him a platform to build networks that he exploited to control his community politically. “Nyachae had the President's ear….whether Kenyatta, Kibaki or Moi. If you asked Nyachae to take you to Moi, you were assured you would see Moi,” Manyora reckoned. From a provincial administrator to the head of the civil service, analyst Martin Andati said Nyachae used the economy to empower his community – sponsor their education, both locally and abroad and facilitate their employment in public service. “He managed to build a political figure and political networks because he was part of government. He used the position to empower the people. He gave them access to loans,” Andati said. Nyachae, who died aged 88, served as the Chief Secretary, Head of Civil Service and Secretary to the Cabinet between 1984 and 1987 when he retired from the civil service. He joined politics and was first elected as Nyaribari Chache MP in 1992.  This paved the way for his appointment to the Cabinet by the then President Daniel Arap Moi. He was appointed Minister for Agriculture before the now late President Moi shifted him to the Finance docket in 1998. In 1999, he fell out with Moi and resigned from the government after he was ‘demoted’ to the Ministry of Industry. He also resigned from Kanu and joined the opposition Ford People. In 2002, he ran for President on the Ford People party ticket but lost to Mwai Kibaki – who led a united opposition. The opposition parties worked with Kibaki’s Democratic Party (DP) and formed the National Alliance of Kenya (NARK) which carried the day in the December, 2002 General Elections. Though he lost the presidency, his party won 14 parliamentary seats – including all parliamentary seats in Kisii region. In 2004, Kibaki recalled Nyachae to Cabinet following the turbulence that hit his government. He was appointed Minister for Energy before being moved to Roads and Public Works. Nyachae lost his parliamentary seat to Robert Monda in the 2007 General Election. The opposition wave swept his Kisii stronghold and Nyachae was soundly defeated as it happened to the majority of Kibaki's government ministers and nearly all Ford-People candidates linked to him. Since he departed the political scene, the community has struggled to remain politically united – a situation that has reduced it a political battlefield for those seeking the presidency. None of the current politicians and civil servants from the region has successfully managed to rally the community behind one political outfit. In fact, in the run-up to the 2013 elections, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto sought Nyachae's blessing to penetrate the region. “Someone like Matiang'i is powerful as minister but may not have experience and networks as Nyachae to influence the community politically,” Manyora said. The community has remained divided with a section supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, on one end, and Deputy President William Ruto, on the other. Early this month, Gusii elders endorsed CS Matiangi as the community’s spokesperson and political kingpin. “We want to thank the CS for accepting to attend our meeting and consenting to our request to be the spokesman of the community. He meets all the requirements we were looking at,” Gusii Council of Elders' chairman James Matundura said. 