A month-long search for a missing flower farm worker ended on a sad note after her body parts were found dumped in Naivasha. The discovery followed the arrest of Sarah Nafula's boyfriend who confessed to killing her, cutting the body into pieces and dumping them in different locations. He was arrested alongside a suspected accomplice. Nafula, 24, mysteriously disappeared in December. She had been living with the suspect for over a year. Already, police from Gilgil where the case was first reported have recovered the skull and parts of the hands. It is feared that other body parts could have been eaten by dogs. Nafula was cohabiting with the main suspect when she disappeared. According to a police source, the suspect claimed the woman had gone back to her rural home after a domestic disagreement. She worked in a Naivasha-based flower farm. “The family however got concerned as they could not reach her forcing them to report the matter to Gilgil police station where investigations started,” the police source said. Police traced her last phone call that was made in Industrial Area estate in Naivasha where detectives moved in and arrested the boyfriend and an accomplice over the weekend. On interrogation, the suspect confessed that he murdered the deceased on suspicion of having an extra-marital affair. “He has led the investigating team to four sites where the skull and hands were discovered dumped under a culvert near the Naivasha Mall,” the police source said. Gilgil OCPD John Onditi confirmed the arrest. He said police will be seeking more time in court to allow the officers search for the other missing body parts. Onditi on Monday said investigations had revealed that the main suspect murdered the deceased before locking her body in the house for a day. Later and with the help of his friend, they would cut her into pieces before wrapping them in polythene bags and dumping them in different locations. “The suspects have confessed that some of the body parts were dumped in a latrine in the residential plot where the couple lived,” Onditi said. “The other parts were dumped in different parts of the town including an abandoned structure and we have so far recovered the head and arms,” he said. Neighbour James Omondi said he was shocked to learn about the murder of the woman. “We have known the two for a long time and they looked happy before the woman went missing with the man claiming that she had left for her rural home,” Omondi said.  Edited by P.O