The net effect of President Uhuru Kenyatta's Sagana III sojourn will be to set in motion a process that will unwittingly balkanise the country. The president seems hell-bent on railroading his wish on the Mt Kenya voters and in extension, whoever succeeds him against a tide that is completely indifferent. By inferring that anybody who goes to Central without passing through certain individual (s) is an enemy, Uhuru is perpetuating the politics of kingship, where tribal chiefs run roughshod on their communities despite not representing their aspirations. And as the clock ticks towards the 2022 General Election, President Kenyatta is increasingly growing wary of his dwindling fortunes in the vote-rich Mt Kenya region as DP William Ruto's star gets brighter. While the region has constantly said what they feel is not going right with Uhuru's second term, the President and his handlers seem to think that their predicaments are as a result of the DP's aggressiveness. And even as everything is blamed on Ruto, the President is silently redirecting vast resources to the restive region to try and assuage the public anger and tame the growing rebellion. Herein lies the problem that 2010 Constitution was meant to tackle. In a cynical way, the leaders with eyes on 2022 election are pulling all stops to appear as favourites. But just as going solo to cobble a political pact with Raila Odinga, in disregard to the party rank and file, resulted in a rebellion in Jubilee. The latest bear knuckle public spats at the DP will snowball to a dangerous level that may resurrect the ghosts of tribal tiffs and ethnic animosities of yesteryears if the DP decides to go hammer and tongs against his boss. Such unwarranted tensions must be avoided. To do this, the President must tower above ethnic schisms. Pledging non-existent funds at a time of great austerity is the height of hypocrisy and lack of vision given the government is yet to get money to pay doctors and nurses. Even the county governments that won't be receiving a huge chunk of their portion will be expected to gleefully support the BBI changes, thanks to the weaponisation of sleaze as a tool for whipping their support every time they show signs of rebellion. The BBI referendum is reaching a crucial stage and a lot of drama will be inevitable going by the selfish determination by its proponents to pass it. 