A family in Mbooni, Makueni County has said Isinya Feeds Ltd management neglected their relative, a caasual worker who was paralysed after an alleged dog bite at work for the factory. The family claimed Joseph Mutisya, 40,was bitten by a dog while on duty on April 28, 2018. His mother, Nduku Kioko, told reporters at their home on Friday that the company failed to cover medical bills. She said the her son later lost his speech and eyesight, his arms and legs were paralysed. Nduku, 63, cares for him at their home in Yatwa village, Mbooni subcounty, where she talked to the media on Friday last week. “Mutisya is my son, he went to work ... but returned home after he was bitten by a dog belonging to the employer while on duty in April 2018.” She said her son returned home in August the same year after falling sick following dog bite-related complications. The family took him to several hospitals, including Mbooni, Thogoto, Kenyatt, and Machakos Level 5, but they could not help him. “He is now bedridden, he has no strength. It's difficult to take care of him. The company neglected him and his wife abandoned him after he was paralysed, the woman said. Isinya Feeds Ltd management said Mutisya worked at the factory for almost to three years. They dismissed claims that he was bitten by a dog while he was on duty at the factory. The Star went to the factory. Four senior managers on Friday demanded proof the former employee was bitten by a dog. Only one of the four identified himself - Robert Mushage, a sales manager. The others declined. “He has never sent anybody here to make such claims, he wasn’t bitten by a dog,” Mushage said. He continued, “We would want his family to come so we can talk. Our workers have insurance coverage that caters for injuries when they get injured while on duty." Mushage said none of the family members had approached the firm for help. A woman who accompanied the senior managers said they were only aware of two other cases of dogs bites at the factory. They said the victims were compensated. She did not identify herself. “Let them come with evidence he was bitten by a dog. Why would someone be bitten by a dog while on duty in 2018 only to make claims three years later?" she asked. Mutisya’s brother Alex Muasya said he had earlier accompanied his brother to the company - before he lost vision and was paralysed - to seek support and compensation. He said they were turned down. “We have challenges taking care of him since he is bedridden. He can’t walk, the last time we went to the company with him while he was still walking, he hadn’t lost sight. We have had lots of challenges taking him to hospital,” Muasya said. He said they were told to write a letter to the company’s management, which he said they did in 2018, but said they hadn’t received any response. They are calling on the government to intervene. (Edited by V. Graham)