A Kitui teacher who in 2006 went to court seeking the revocation of the ban on corporal punishment in schools says he has now been vindicated. Nicholas Kaloki Kasolya says last week's call by Education CS George Magoha for the reintroduction of caning in schools to stem growing indiscipline among learners has vindicated his move 15 years ago. The ban on corporal punishment was imposed by the state through the Ministry of Education. Kaloki, 56, filed a civil suit at the Machakos High Court to challenge the 2001 ban on canning in schools by then Education Minister Kalonzo Musyoka. Although the court did not quash the ban, Kaloki on Thursday said CS Magoha's call for the re-introduction of corporal punishment left him buoyed and vindicated. Magoha last week said some of the cases of indiscipline among students can be corrected through the administration of corporal punishment. He spoke at St Joseph’s Nyabururu Primary School in Kisii county in the wake of burning of schools and assault on teachers by students. “As opposed to Kalonzo who was a politician, Magoha is running the Education ministry professionally and that is much the reason why he has seen the need for the return of the cane. Kalonzo who is our son danced to political whims when he banned caning,” Kaloki told the Star on the phone. He warned Kenyans to prepare for the worst cases of indiscipline if caning is not urgently reintroduced in schools. “I am not a pessimist but if corporal punishment is not restored then riots by unruly learners will increase amounting to wanton burning of schools and destruction of property worth billions of shillings,” he said. Kakoki who has since quit teaching to pursue a career in counselling and children affairs, is unhappy that although the judge who was handling his 2006 suit advised for around table resolution to the matter, he was short-changed. “We had a sitting and agreed that the gazette notice banning corporal punishment be lifted and the cane be returned to schools but under certain restrictions,” he said. The petitioner, said the parties in the suit had agreed learners should be canned by headteachers only with a standardised bamboo cane and with approval of a parent or guardian. That was never implemented, Kaloki said. Former Cabinet Minister Daniel Mutinda on Thursday confirmed that he represented Kaloki in court. He however said he could not give the details of the case since it was a long time ago and he had archived the file. In his affidavit, Kaloki said he sought the restoration of the cane because indiscipline had increased among school children since the ban was effected. He reportedly said the outlawing of cane had also stripped teachers of the authority to enforce the rule of law.  Edited by P.O