Another funeral, another near-fistfight between politicians. On Wednesday, former Machakos Senator Johnson Muthama jumped from his seat and charged towards Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka as he spoke during the funeral for African Inland Church Bishop Bernard Nguyu in Mitaboni Primary School grounds. It took the timely intervention of MPs seated near the podium to stop Muthama from reaching Kalonzo who had irritated the ex-senator by mentioning his ex-wife in the speech. Kalonzo had said he would soon return Muthama’s former wife Agnes Kavindu to him as Machakos senator. Kavindu is running in the Machakos senatorial by-election scheduled for March 18. “I am telling you that next year, you will see Muthama running to perch on my chest because he knows where we are and where we are going. Even if he gets irritated, I'll hand over his wife (Kavindu) back to him,” Kalonzo said. It is after those words that Muthama shot up and went for Kalonzo before MPs Patrick Makau (Mavoko), Victor Munyaka (Machakos Town) and Robert Mbui (Kathiani) held him back. Some mourners grumbled at Kalonzo's remarks as others cheered. The Wiper party leader then cut short his speech and handed over the ceremony to clerics. Ten days ago in Kisii, MPs Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Simba Arati (Dagoreti North) were engaged in a brief scuffle at the funeral service for Abel Gongera, the father of Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto watched. The Wednesday gathering in Machakos had brought together Ukambani leaders for the first time in a long period. Kalonzo, Muthama, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Makueni county chief Kivutha Kibwana and several MPs attended. Mutua, Muthama, Kalonzo and Kibwana had not shared the same platform since the ex-senator and Makueni boss ditched Wiper for other political formations. Kalonzo had arrived at the burial with Kavindu towards the end of the ceremony as Muthama made his speech. Muthama criticised the government for allocating Sh2 million car grant each to MCAs so they can pass the Building Bridges Initiative changes to the Constitution. He was booed by the crowd and forced to cut short his speech. Earlier, Mutua, who coordinated the VIP protocol, had warned politicians against making inflammatory remarks. “After consulting with the presiding bishop, Abraham Mulwa, we have thought it prudent to advise our political leaders not to politic at this ceremony. We are bidding farewell to a respected clergyman and all we are calling for is a peaceful send-off of our bishop,” he said. Mutua said although the Kamba community had three presidential aspirants in Kibwana, Kalonzo and himself, residents should be allowed to support the most electable candidate. “I'm ready to support anyone between Prof Kibwana and Kalonzo, if they are more popular than me across Kenya. Similarly, I expect the same of them,” Mutua said. Bishop Nguyo was until his death the Machakos regional presiding bishop of AIC. He died on January 31 aged 63. He is survived by his wife Lucy Kamene and four grandchildren.  (edited by o. owino)