The Busia government and the Laptrust County Pension Fund have partnered to construct affordable housing units. CPF Financial Services Board of Trustees chairman George Kwedho said the move presents an opportunity for the pension fund to provide decent and affordable housing, stimulate economic growth and spur industrial growth to create jobs. “We are ready to partner with the county government to roll out the project in line with national governments’ affordable housing agenda. We will continue to engage your technical team candidly on various aspects to ensure the governor’s legacy is realised,” he said. Kwedho spoke during a courtesy call on Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and officials from the Lands department, led by Lands executive John Mwami. He said the scheme had diversified its investment portfolio as a way of unlocking value on existing properties across various counties. Kwedho was accompanied by Joseph Rono (CPF director strategy, finance and investment), Christopher Mitei (head of operations), Gideon Mweke (Quality Control), Patrick Omapito (county relations officer) and Samuel Melly (Western regional manager). Rono said the scheme's capacity to undertake the project was majorly anchored to pension funds collected from county and water companies’ employees countrywide summing up to about Sh46 billion. “Once the project is complete, units will be sold at an introductory price of Sh1.5 million (one bedroom), Sh2.5 million (two bedrooms) and Sh3.5 million (three bedrooms),” Rono said. "The scheme also comes with premium two-bedroom and three-bedroom units to be sold at an introductory price of Sh3.5 million and Sh4.5 million respectively." Ojaamong said they have enough land for the project and would be glad to put up modern county headquarters or even an office plaza, which the Lands department can rent out and boost our revenue streams. Mwami said the county was in dire need of housing units and estates occasioned by its position at the border of Kenya and Uganda. “We would wish that even our civil servants have a decent place to stay. This project will also come as a relief to residents who are eager to break from the threat of a lifelong rent burden,” he said. Also present were Lands chief officer Teresia Mbingi, his Urban Development counterpart Andrew Otiti, county secretary Nichodemus Mulaku, Busia municipality manager Ken Nabulindo and principal administrator David Maende Mbingi proposed that existing county houses be demolished and replaced with storey buildings to accommodate more staff and residents. “We have prioritised affordable housing units for residents and an office block because most of the structures owned by the county government are old, occupy a lot of space and few tenants. Second, we have few offices that are scattered thus derailing service delivery to residents,” she said.