The weather can really be a bum sometimes, never making up its mind, confusing our bodies almost all the time and forcing us to keep changing our outfits. Well, that's the world we live in. Nothing is promised and you just never know what will happen the next day and the weather is equally unpredictable. Nairobi and other cities have been experiencing some confusing weather changes; one minute it's raining, the next minute the sun's out with all it's glory. I mean you just never know how tomorrow will turn out. For weeks now, it's been quite hot and sweaters are a no no, well don't stash them away because it gets chilly at night and all of a sudden Nairobi is raining almost every night. All your clothes are clean and well arranged in your closet, but you just don't seem to settle on the right outfit for the right weather. Well, let's try a few outfits you can always go for when caught in a confusing weather; 1. Light sweaters These are heaven sent as you can wear them whether during a hot or cold day. They don't make you feel uncomfortable especially when it's hot because they are light. And when it gets chilly, your arms are well covered. If you want, you can always carry a light scarf to wrap around your neck and chest just in case you are out at night and it can also play as a head wrap in case you don't want your hair wet on a rainy day. 2. Leggings Whoever invented leggings was clearly chosen to come save us because they are the most comfortable clothing one could own. During a sunny day, you can throw in a pair of colourful leggings or if you are a  subtle person you can settle for your greys and blacks. Pair your leggings with a beautiul top of your choice and if you are going out to the mall on a Saturday afternoon, pair that look with cute sandals so as to let your feet get some fresh air. When it's a bit chilly, pair your leggings with a warm jumper and closed shoes such as sneakers. Trust me, you don't want your feet wet. It's quite uncomfortable. 3. Jumpers Jumpers are life savers if you ask me. I mean, they come in handy in so many ways than one. When it's cold that's a go to and when it's hot and you don't want to remove your jumper, you can still rock it if its light. There's no rule to when you can wear your jumper. Rock it baby boy/girl. 4. Sweats Now, lets talk about sweats for a bit. Sweats are the most comfortable clothes you'll ever wear. One, they are super comfortable, two they are so convenient. The minute Covid-19 hit our streets, most of us had to work from home and sweats were bae from the get go and they have been just that ever since. Whether you are going to the mall or just to the shop, sweats will never disappoint you. In case you haven't gotten yourself some sweats, trust me, you are missing out. 5. Socks When exactly are you supposed to wear your socks? That is a question asked by so many but the answer is simple. When it's cold, socks come in handy because you won't feel cold and end up getting sick. Remember the cold can access your body in so many ways than one. Invest in some warm socks that you can exchange when they get dirty. Trust me, you don't want to get a cold during this period or season. 6. Gloves. Well, gloves are at times not necessary depending on which area you are in but having a pair or two won't hurt you. Again remember, you can get a cold in so many ways than one. Why don't you get some gloves and avoid getting sick? You can easily get gloves for Sh 50 in Nairobi and other cities. Cheza kiwewe boss. When it comes to rocking a look, you can do it easily. You just need to know when to rock a certain outfit, and trust me, you are good to go. Rock that outfit Babe. You earned it.