Farmers supplying Ragati Tea factory in Nyeri will be trained in mass-producing sanitiser, handswashing soap and masks by Greenland Fedha company. Greenland Fedha general manager Anne Gathuku said the training will ensure sustainability. The project is being implemented in 12 factories across the tea growing zones “In Nyeri we have picked Ragati Tea Factory to be the place where we are implementing the initiative. We have brought 50 handwashing stations and they will be distributed in the buying centres,” she said. Farmers can produce them on their own whenever they need to replenish them in their tea buying centres, factories and for use in their farms. Greenland Fedha, a subsidiary of Kenya Tea Development Agency, is a microfinance company that provides loans to smallholder tea farmers countrywide. Gathuku spoke when she handed over a donation of 50 handwashing stations and 3,000 facemasks to Ragati Tea Factory for distribution to farmers’ collection centres. The project is funded by FMO, an international development bank in the Netherlands, which gave the institution a grant of Є100,000 (Sh13 million). The money will buy the handwashing equipment, detergents, masks and be used to train the groups on how to make the items as well as extend seed capital grants. “We have bought 600 handwashing stations which we are in the process of distributing to the 12 factories and we have so far procured about 50,000 masks in phase one and we will be doing phase two for the masks,” she said. Greenland Fedha is supporting the government in ensuring compliance to the Covid-19 regulations, she said. “We are also providing them with face masks so that as they come to sell their tea or to visit the factories, they will be complying with the directives,” Gathuku said. Ragati Tea Factory chairman Eustace Karanja said the donation will benefit about 9,000 farmers from the factory. The handwashing stations, he said, will remain in use post Covid-19 pandemic. “The donation will be very useful to the farmers of Ragati and this is essentially because it is going to help in the provision of washing facilities. We have already made sure that we have water at the tea buying centres,” he said. Farmer Lawrence Kamami said the tanks will go a long way in addressing the shortage of handwashing points. Sofia Rwamba said many of the washing equipment they bought soon after Covid-19 broke out had worn out. 