Nairobi Metropolitan Services has embarked on rehabilitating 38 roads in Industrial area. This follows the announcement of the tendering process for the restoration of the roads by NMS which have been categorized into different lots. “NMS invites bids from interested and eligible tenderer to submit their bids for the following tenders before March 10, 2021,” said NMS deputy director-general Kang’ethe Thuku. The roads set to undergo rehabilitation include  Lot 1 - Garage Road, Homa Bay Road, Workshop Road, Pate Road and Dar es Salaam Road. Lot 2 include Busia and Kampala Roads while  Lot 3, Gilgil, Bamburi and Changamwe Roads. Lot 4 roads include  Dakar, Funzi, Athi River and Addis Ababa Roads while Lot 5 roads are Catalysts Road, Machakos Road, Baricho road and Wundany Road. Lot 6 include Rangwe, Mareba, Hola, Lusingeti and Kitui Roads while Migiwani Road, Isiolo, Bandari, Wajir, Chogoria and Jirore Roads are under Lot 7. Butere, Yarrow, Bunyala and Factory Street under Lot 8 while the last batch will include  Ndume, Nyahera, Runyenje, Lokitaung, Mogadishu roads. NMS will also undertake non-motorised transport in the area. President Uhuru Kenyatta while opening Kayole -Soweto hospital two weeks ago said he would consult  NMS  director-general Mohammed Badi on upgrading more roads in the Eastlands area. NMS together with Kenya Urban Roads Authority has already embarked on the construction of 408 kilometres of access roads across different informal settlements in Nairobi. Areas to benefit include Kawangware, Riruta, parts of Dagoretti North, Mathare, Kangemi, Mukuru, Kibera, parts of Githurai 44 and 45, Mwiki and Zimmermann, among others with the access roads in the areas upgraded to bitumen standards. Last year September, the Badi lead team highlighted that it intended to speed up road repairs across the capital following the completion of a new asphalt (bitumen) plant on Kangundo Road. The plant can produce 2,400 tonnes of bitumen daily with an amount enough to recarpet three kilometres of road. Nairobi has been relying on asphalt from a plant on Nanyuki Road in the Industrial Area which produces only 150 to 300 tonnes of asphalt a day. NMS has been involved in re-carpeting and tarmacking of roads in the city centre and surrounding areas. Currently, it has already re-carpeted several roads in Nairobi’s central business district including City Hallway, Moi Avenue, Wabera Street with Grogon and Kirinyaga Roads also nearing completion. Kenyatta Avenue, Wabera and Muindi Mbingu Streets have also been transformed into NMT corridors with pedestrian and cycle paths constructed in the three streets. The development is aimed at providing safe walking and cycling space for Nairobi residents who would want to walk or cycle in and out of Nairobi’s CBD.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris