DCI boss George Kinoti has narrated how four people planned the murder of a young man in Wendiga village in Nyeri. In a series of tweets on Wednesday, Kinoti said detectives established that three long-time friends had been hired by the deceased's father; Stephen Wang'ondu Kinini in December 2020 to murder his son at a Sh160,000 fee following a family feud. Wang'ondu had given his driver (Mahinda) a facilitation fee of Sh20,000 instructing him to form a team that would execute his atrocity at the said fee. Mahinda had then proceeded to Embu on December 31, where he picked his accomplices, briefing them on their target, his residence, movements and the car he drove in. Once in Mweiga, they purchased a murder weapon at local hardware, with which they used to murder Daniel, 32,suspectedly in the dead of the night. They then went into hiding. Describing them as 'rock face for bloody buddies', Kinoti said the four went into hiding for nearly two months. They were arrested three days ago when DCI detectives unravelled the mystery behind the January 1, 2021 killing. Daniel, a businessman at Nyeri's Mweiga town was found soaked in a pool of blood at the gate to his house in Wendiga village in the wee hours of Jan 1, 2021. "So puzzling was the motive behind his murder that nothing had been stolen from him or his house, not even his Volkswagen Golf car beside which he lay lifeless,"  Kinoti said. Kinoti said weeks of probing into the case by Mweiga-based detectives saw the intervention of the Central Regional Criminal Investigations Officer, guiding a team of DCI officers into vital clues drawn from the crime scene and forensic-led intelligence. On Saturday, February 20, the first suspect; James Mahinda Mwangi, driver to the deceased's father was traced to Nairobi's Githurai area and arrested. Upon interrogation, he led officers to Embu at Matakani area where two other suspects; Geoffrey Waturi and Eddy Kariuki Ngari were also arrested. The trio escorted to the RCIO's offices in Nyeri. The four, alongside a lady; Charity Muchiri who is believed to have been involved in the heinous plan were arraigned at Nyeri Law Courts on a miscellaneous application for more days to complete the investigations. Ruling on the same will be made on Friday 26. Kinoti said a manhunt has been launched for a sixth suspect; Raphael Wachira, who is also believed to have aided the suspects, and who has since run into hiding.