A parliamentary committee wants swift legal and administrative action taken against politicians and officers inciting Kenyans to violence. The Administration and National Security Committee has recommended to the law enforcement agencies to act speedily and tame the inciters or the county will descend into chaos. Committee chairman Paul Koinange criticised politicians he said are inciting Kenyans along class lines. “This incitement along class lines is bad for the country as it can be very easily lead to the disintegration of the national fabric,” Koinange said. Koinange issued the statement moments after his team held a closed meeting with Interior CS Fred Matiang'i at Parliament Buildings on Wednesday. “Going forward, we have given a firm recommendation to relevant authorities that political incitements will not be tolerated,” he said. “Swift legal and administrative action must be taken against any and all inciters regardless of their political or social standing in this country.” Deputy President William Ruto and his allies in the Tangatanga faction of Jubilee party have been under intense criticism for allegedly inciting Kenyans against the middle and upper classes. The DP has fashioned his movement as that comprised of ‘hustlers’ – those who struggle to make it in life – against the ‘dynasties’ — those who have benefited from generational wealth and privilege. Koinange's statement came at a time the country has been witnessing a spike in incidents of political violence. On Monday, South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro and his Dagoretti North counterpart exchanged blows during a funeral in Kisii. Last week, rowdy youth stoned and disrupted ODM leader Raila Odinga’s rally in Githurai. Later, Ruto's political gathering in Burma market, Nairobi was also disrupted by rowdy youth. Koinange also warned political and government officials fuelling ethnic wars in their regions to desist or Parliament will remove them. He cited skirmishes in Marsabit county and gave leaders he alleged are fuelling the wars to stop. “We have given firm instructions to area leaders both elected and appointed that they must henceforth stop coordinating and funding their respective tribal and community factions to create violence,” he said. “In particular, we are giving the leadership of Marsabit 30 days to end the tribal wars which we have credible information that they are fuelling in their region. “Failing that, we shall have no choice but to commence proceedings in Parliament and the judicial system to hold liable those elected to office for shedding the blood of innocent Kenyans.” He said that the committee will commence removal proceedings in the National Assembly of any appointed or state of public officials implicated in the violence.