Politicians and Kenyans are losing the respect that ought to be accorded bereaved families during burials, Nyeri Catholic Archbishop Anthony Muheria has said. Muheria described the trend where leaders have been using podiums at funerals to do politics, hurl insults and even engage in physical fights as worrying and unfortunate. “There is nothing that can in any way explain the intolerance, polarisation and the abuses that we have been witnessing especially among our leaders,” he said. Such actions by leaders, the archbishop said, are sowing hatred and violence. Muheria addressed the media at Our Lady of Consolata Catholic Cathedral in Nyeri town on Sunday. He called on leaders, Christians and all God-fearing Kenyans to stick to their calling of bringing unity, harmony and desist from such actions. “We are really appalled by the level that the funerals have descended to in the name calling, abuses, polarisation and instigation and also even descending into physical fights,” he said. Everyone, he said, has dignity irrespective of their political stand, age, wealth, education and position in society. Muheria said it is only in Kenya where people attend funerals to do politics. “People, our leaders, what has come over us? Is it that we no longer fear God? Is it that we no longer give respect to the dead?” The archbishop cited an incident where one politician, whom he did not name, is recently said to have told a priest that they can bury their dead when the priest told them that they should not speak in funerals and hurl insults. The country has created a new politics of funerals, said Muheri, adding that it is time that Kenyans must reflect and change the behaviour. Instead of giving consolation to families, praying for them or bringing those families together, politicians use the podiums to destroy them , he said. He said all leaders should give places of worship due reverence and respect and desist completely from any politics in churches. It is not right for Kenyans and politicians not to give God his respect, he said. Politicians, he said, should also desist from making any reference to whatsoever good political things they have in churches and funerals but instead keep God only on his throne. He advised Kenyans to decide that they are not going to be party to cheering of insults and fights. “It is a call to all of us and not only to politicians to return to our senses, especially in regard to funerals. Let us make funerals to be funerals and prayer places to be player places,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori