The National Treasury has instituted tough measures to clip spending spree at government parastatals and instil tight budgetary discipline as realities of the tough economic times kick in. It will not be business as usual at the 48 entities in the face of the directives on budget elements they must consider as they prepare the next financial year's estimates. The new rules by Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani will see the entities have less control of their operations as the same will have to be approved by the National Treasury. Expenditures on travel, training, seminars, consultancies, legal expenses, overtime, and all non-core activities will be capped at the bare minimum. Going forward, parastatals will only undertake “critical activities and programs that maximize on returns and efficient service delivery.” Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is set to know if he will be free on Tuesday in two key court rulings. A Kiambu Magistrate’s court will first rule on his application to be released on bond in a multiple case of assault and robbery he is facing. Then a Kahawa West court will also make a ruling on an application by the police to be allowed to detain Sonko for 30 days as they investigate terror-related charges. His legal team is concerned with reports that police plan to revive old cases that they believe were settled. Sources said officers from the Serious Crimes Unit at Directorate of Criminal Investigations had visited Mombasa court and Shimo La Tewa prisons as part of efforts to revive the case. On Monday, head of Anti-Terrorism Police Unit John Gachomo said they are holding nine men believed to be aides to the former governor. The stalemate between the Judiciary and the executive over the appointment of 41 judges is far from over more than a year since the president refused to swear them in. Now President Uhuru Kenyatta wants the court to stay two cases filed in court challenging the move by the president not to swear in the judges. In the case, Katiba Institute has sued President Kenyatta for declining to swear into office the judges. Speaking in court on Monday, the president’s lawyer Waweru Gatonye asked the court to stay the case pending the determination of the case at the court of appeal. In the appeal, the AG has challenged the judgment by the high court that declared that the president’s decision not to appoint 41 judges as unreasonable and unconstitutional. The Senate and the National Assembly have started republishing at least 40 Bills that were introduced without the concurrence of the two houses. This is in line with a court order that there must be concurrence between the speakers of the bicameral parliament before any bill is processed. The Star has learnt that the National assembly has so republished at least 28 bills with the Senate republishing 12 proposed laws that they originated and tabled without consensus. In October last year, the High Court ruled that the Speakers must seek concurrence before any bill is tabled in accordance with Article 110(3) of the Constitution. The court went ahead to nullify 24 pieces of legislation that were passed by the National Assembly without the input of the senate. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has launched machines to sweep streets in the central business district. The machines will be deployed every night to clean up streets, replacing the labour-intensive system. Sweepers who have been working on the streets will be deployed elsewhere. According to a statement by the Directorate of Environment, the machines will operate from 9pm along Harambee, Kenyatta and Moi avenues. They will also be deployed at Tom Mboya, Standard, Mama Ngina, Kimathi and Muindi Mbingu streets. The sweeper machine has the ability to sweep up to 2.5 metres with a functional system that picks garbage into the container within the truck.