The victorious paralympic team to last weekend's World Para Athletics Grand Prix in Dubai will report for a residential camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani next week in readiness for the next round of the Tokyo Paralympics qualifiers. Kenya National Paralympic Committee president Agnes Oluoch said the Ministry of Sports has committed to supporting the athletes' preparations. "The better option is a residential camp because it enables the athletes to concentrate on their training. This is as opposed to where they have to shuttle between their homes and the training ground," Oluoch said. She said KNPC is set for a meeting to decide on the team to the Tunis Grand Prix in Tunisia in a week's time. "Tomorrow, we will have a meeting to see the number of available slots for the team in Tunisia. Afterwards, we will look at the performance of the different athletes to select those to go to Tunisia," she said. The athletes jetted back into the country yesterday morning after amassing 20 medals in Dubai, which is part of a series of qualifiers for the quadrennial event set for August 24-September 5. In the 5,000m, Rodgers Kiprop led a 1-2-3 finish as he clocked 14:37.82 to finish ahead of compatriots Bernard Koskei and John Lokedi who timed 14:58.61 and 15:03.52, respectively. Likewise, in the men’s 1500m T46 final, Felix Kipruto led Wesley Sang and Stanley Misik to a clean sweep of the medals. Kipruto crossed the finish line in 4:03.34 whereas Sang and Misik clocked 4:04.43 and 4:05.92 to finish second and third respectively. Oluoch was elated with the performance, describing it as a sign of things to come. "The performance was excellent as each of the athletes gave their all to secure positive results. We expect many more of such even as we head to Tokyo. Those who qualify for the event will do so based on their performances," she said. Apart from Tunis, other Paralympics qualifiers will be held in Italy (April 16-18), Beijing (April 23-25), Paris (May 5-7) and Nottwil, Switzerland (May 14-16). Sao Paulo, Brazil, is also expected to host another qualifier although the date for the same is yet to be confirmed.