Eight counties with a high burden of trachoma are set to benefit from a Sh4 billion project aimed at eliminating the disease in Kenya. Trachoma is a neglected tropical disease and is the leading infectious cause of blindness. The government has signed a memorandum of understanding with the International Trachoma Initiative that will see the country receive medicines for the next three years. The high burden counties include Isiolo, Marsabit, Wajir, Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo, Narok and Kajiado. “We expect to receive medicines worth approximately Sh4 billion every year for the next three years which we will now distribute in eight counties that are affected by trachoma,” Dr Sultani Matendechero said. Matendechero is the Head, Division of Vector Borne and Neglected Tropical Diseases at Ministry of Health. “After the three years, we will be checking again to see and we actually expect that we will eliminate this disease in all the eight counties. Within the next three to five years we should be able to eliminate trachoma from the counties,” he said. Trachoma is a disease of the eye caused by infection with the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. The infection is transmitted by direct or indirect transfer of eye and nose discharges of infected people, particularly young children who harbour the principal reservoir of infection. The discharges can be spread by particular species of flies. It is a public health problem in 44 countries including Kenya, and is responsible for the blindness or visual impairment of about 1.9 million people globally. Blindness from trachoma is irreversible. Data from the World Health Organisation shows that as of March last year, 137 million people were living in trachoma endemic areas and are at risk of trachoma blindness. In Kenya, it is estimated that six million people are at risk of infection. This is because such populations live in poor conditions especially where households cohabit with cattle in dry rural areas, poor environmental sanitations and inadequate water supply. The disease prevalence varies widely from region to region. High prevalence is associated with high climatic aridity, and lower prevalence is associated with areas of greater rainfall, sustainable agriculture, and a higher general standard of living. Within high-risk regions, there are wide variations in age-specific prevalence and severity of the disease. Potentially blinding trachoma is more prevalent in females than in males. The World Health Assembly adopted resolution WHA51.11 in 1998, targeting the global elimination of trachoma as a public health problem. “There is a lot that is going on in terms of interventions and we are very optimistic that within the next 10 years, with the roadmap we have launched, we should be able to eliminate this disease by 2030," Matendechero said. 