MPs will give top priority to the 2021-2022 Budget Policy Statement and the annual revenue Bills when they resume sessions Tuesday. The Public Finance Management Act requires the National Treasury to submit the BPS for tabling in the House by February 15 each year. Thereafter, the Budget and Appropriations and the 15 departmental committees consider it before approval by the House. This paves way for the introduction and passage of the annual Divisions of Revenue Bill and the County Allocation of Revenue Bill by both Houses. The BPS is only part of matters in a full in-tray that awaits members. First on the agenda of Tuesday's sitting will be to approve the calendar for the Fifth Session. The calendar will reflect the special circumstances caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and resultant protocols. Five committees will be reconstituted: the House Business, Parliamentary Powers and Privileges, Members’ Services and Facilities, Appointments and the Budget and Appropriations Committee. The House will also prioritise pending Bills sponsored by the majority party and those brought in by committees. Also on the list are 50 Bills sponsored by members (previously referred to as Private Member Bills) and various reports of committees. The eight majority party pending Bills are Public Private Partnerships (Amendment) Bill, 2017, the Refugees Bill, 2019, the Kenya National Library Service Bill, 2020, the National Aviation Management Bill, 2020, the Waqf Bill, 2019, the Social Assistance (Repeal) Bill, 2020, the Mediation Bill, 2020 and the Business Laws (Amendment) (No.2) Bill, 2020. There will also be 15 committee Bills for consideration among them the Referendum Bill, 2020, the Referendum (No.2) Bill, 2020, the Gaming Bill, 2019, the Parliamentary Pensions (Amendment) (No. 3) Bill, 2019, the Public Fundraising Appeals Bill, 2019 and the Public Participation Bill, 2019. The Referendum Bill 2020 is expected to attract attention as the country is gearing up for a possible plebiscite. The Bill provides the legal framework for a referendum, spelling out the procedure, conduct and amendments to the Elections Act 2011. The proposed referendum law does not give a time frame within which Parliament must consider the Bill, leaving it to the discretion of the House Business Committee, the top decision-making organ. The Bill, sponsored by Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee chairperson Jeremiah Kioni, if enacted into law, will regulate the procedure to amend the Constitution by popular initiative. MPs are also expected to consider the report of the Committee on Environment and Natural Resources on Sessional Paper No. 1 of 2020 on the Kenya Wildlife Service Policy, the report of the Select Committee on Parliamentary Broadcasting and Library on the formulation of Parliamentary Broadcasting Channels and the report of the Mediation Committee on the Public Private Partnerships (Amendment) Bill, 2017. 