International partners have continued to mount pressure on Somalia to reach a consensus for the forthcoming election. The partners said all of Somalia’s leaders must find consensus on electoral implementation as an urgent matter of national interest. The partners have been pushing for an inclusive election by urging Somalia to pursue compromise and dialogue in order to avoid any uncertainty. In a joint statement on Friday, the partners said they welcome the meeting among President Mohamed Farmaajo and Federal Member State leaders now underway in Dhusamareb. Led by the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM), Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, European Union (EU), Finland, France, Germany and the  Intergovernmental Authority on Development-IGAD, the partners said it is crucial that all participants engage constructively to agree on the implementation of a national electoral process that respects the 17 September model. Other partners include Ireland, Italy, Japan, League of Arab States -LAS, Netherlands, Norway, Sudan, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States and the United Nations. "We underscore that any alternative outcomes, including a parallel process or partial elections or other measures short of an agreed electoral process, would be a setback that would not obtain the support of partners," the joint statement read. "We, therefore, call upon all political leaders to prioritise finding a way forward without further delay." Last month, Puntland and Jubbaland agreed to join Somalia's electoral process after intense pressure from the partners compelling them to participate in the February 8 election. As a result, the two regional states nominated eight members each to the electoral committee. The move eased one of the hurdles to holding elections in Somalia, which has been delayed since last year after a dispute arose over the listing of polling officials meant to oversee the elections. Puntland and Jubbaland said they had agreed to take part in the process after persuasion by the international community. The two states however called for a meeting of the National Consultative Forum (NCF) before the end of January to address outstanding issues. The forum comprises President Farmaajo and the presidents of the five federal states of Jubbaland, Galmudug, South West, Hirshabelle, and Puntland, as well as the Mayor of Mogadishu. The dispute arose after Jubbaland and Puntland declined to nominate their respective members of the electoral committees They argued that the Electoral Committee was composed of spy agents and civil servants loyal to Farmaajo, rendering the whole process unfair. Jubbaland in its opposition said they would only take part in the process after Farmajo withdraws his troops from its Gedo region where heavy fighting had been reported earlier. The tenure of the current parliament ended November last year while Farmajo's term ends this February. The parliamentary elections ought to have been held in December to pave the way for the presidential polls.