Smallholder maize farmers in Kakamega, Vihiga, Kisumu and Siaya are set to have easy access to quality fertiliser to boost production. This follows the launch of the Yara East Africa’s Microp fertiliser in the region, a move that will reduce the troubles farmers have been going through in accessing the input. During the launch of in Kakamega on Tuesday, Yara East Africa’s regional agronomist Kefa Maranga said the fertiliser will greatly boost maize production as it is a blend of five micro-nutrients essential for growing of the crop. "This will increase quality and output of the maize crop and it will be sold at an affordable price," Maranga said. He urged farmers to observe proper crop nutrition to realise high and quality yields. The agronomist said constant tilling of arable farmland in the region has over time depleted some important minerals in the soil. "Some of our soils have become acidic, thus it is difficult to produce good yields," he said. He noted that the introduction of the fertiliser will provide the soils with an additional five micro-nutrients that help maize develop a good rooting system, which is important in absorption of nitrogen, phosphorus, ammoniacal nitrogen, sulphur and zinc. The minerals are responsible for healthier and stronger crops. Maranga said Yara, in partnership with county governments, have been encouraging farmers to undertake soil testing from time to time to establish the right regime of farm input to use. Samuel Munoro, Yara East Africa’s territorial manager for Western and Nyanza region, appealed to farmers to put into practice the right agronomical methods to promote soil health and reap the benefits of quality yields. “Our sales and marketing representatives working hand in hand with the agro-dealers, retailers, distributors, village-based advisers and agriculture extension officers provide continuous training to farmers in the best ways to prepare one’s land, to purchase the correct seed and fertiliser, to plant proper spacing, correct fertiliser application and timing during planting and topdressing, as well as aeration of soils by weeding to promote growth and good crop yields,” he said He promised a constant and consistent supply of the Microp fertiliser to smallholder maize farmers across the region. He also encouraged the growers to prepare their farms for the onset of the March planting season.  Edited by P.O