The death of veteran politician Simeon Nyachae has left the Abagusii community at a political crossroad without a clear-cut kingpin, some leaders have said. Nyachae died on Monday after a chequered political career spanning over two decades. A de facto leader of the region, politicians said his death is the biggest blow to the community that is struggling to find a common political bearing. The former Cabinet minister's political shadow loomed large across Gusii region for 13 years, despite his retirement from political life in 2007 after losing his Nyaribari Chache parliamentary seat. With his demise, the political space in Gusii region is tipped for a major  showdown in the coming months as leaders position themselves in the succession matrix. However, some warn that there would be no need for any jostling for the community's mantle as a leader would naturally emerge without being pushed or imposed on the people. Former South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara on Tuesday described Nyachae's death as a monumental political loss for the Abagusii community. “Mzee's death has struck the community to the core because he leaves behind big shoes, politically speaking, for any of us to fill but a time would come when the community will decide who will be their leader,” Magara said. The former assistant minister, who was first elected to Parliament in 2001 on Nyachae's Ford People party ticket, said Mzee had a rare political glue that united the community. “Mzee introduced me to politics and mentored me on how to run a political party, he also taught me that you can only galvanise your voice as a community through political parties,” Magara said. “A leader who will succeed him will naturally emerge, not through imposition by political merchants but through their actions, fearless leadership and integrity.” Wiper national vice-chairman and Kitutu Masaba politician Victor Swanya told the Star that Nyachae's death perhaps came too early before a natural successor emerged. Swanya argued that infighting among Kisii politicians scrambling for the community's baton has been the cause for the disunity being witnessed. “Leaders must now come out and demonstrate maturity so that we can offer our people direction, otherwise if we continue being intolerant and selfish, our people will continue to suffer,” Swanya said. He went on: “The leadership in Gusii has failed because of selfish interests and that is why we have not managed to bring together the community and get a platform to negotiate for our people.” Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri who described Nyachae's death as a big loss to the Abagusii community hailed his political exploits that rallied the region to a common cause. “Nyachae was an industrious, focused and dedicated leader who did what he could for the community under difficult circumstances,” Ongeri said. Ongeri, who worked with Nyachae in the Cabinet said the Kisii kingpin used a lot of his resources to champion for the community's interests during his reign. Dagorreti North MP Simba Arati, the self-styled Kisii spokesman, said despite Nyachae's death, the leaders remaining behind will work tirelessly in pursuit of his unity agenda. “We will ensure that his dream of having a Kisii president will one day come true and despite the challenges we are facing, the community is in safe hands,” he said. But Nakuru Town West MP Samuel Arama said the Kisii community will be safe under the hands of Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i. “The community already has a leader who stepped in years ago even when Nyachae was alive, there is no vacuum at all and even as we bury our hero we should know this,” Arama said. Nyachae solely rallied and united Omogusii under his Ford People party in the 2002 General Election when he ran for President and went ahead to sweep all parliamentary seats in the region. He is also hailed for having decided to invest his wealth in Kisii under his Sansora brand when most rich politicians from the community opted to invest elsewhere.  (edited by o. owino)