Jumia customers will benefit from reduced delivery fee following the launch of City Partner Program in Mt Kenya region. The new program is aimed at empowering local businesses by boosting their revenue and providing better services to the consumers. Entrepreneurs will earn between up to Sh100,000 per month by becoming Jumia pick-up stations (with their existing shops) and by helping customers in the area to place orders. "This is a great way for businesses to earn additional income and serve as Jumia representatives in the Mt.Kenya region. City Captains will also be responsible for recruiting & training young people in their towns - so that they can earn income via our JForce Program,” Jumia Kenya CEO Sam Chappatte said. “We continue to see unserved customers in towns outside of Nairobi. We believe our large range of products and competitive pricing is even more relevant for customers in these towns. By expanding our pick-up station network and working with local entrepreneurs, we hope to grow the penetration of e-commerce upcountry.” Customers in Kabati, Kenol Town, Sagana, Karatina, Nyeri, Nanyuki, Meru, Chuka, Embu, Mwea and Kutus will have access to over 10 million products on Jumia at 50 per cent lower delivery fees than previously. They will also be able to interact with the city partners via their local pick up stations, to ask questions about the e-commerce ordering process and for help placing orders. “This partnership with Jumia is a game-changer for businesses in Nyeri county and especially for me as a woman because this will help me grow my sales knowledge too. "I have enough space in my shop to accommodate Jumia orders as more Jumia customers will now collect their orders from my shop at a cheaper delivery fee," Loise Njeri, Owner of Belosi Cyber Café in Nyeri county said. She believes that this will boost her revenue, as Jumia customers eventually become his customers too. “This partnership with Jumia is a great boost for me as a shop owner in Kabati. Jumia is a big company and with that comes bigger expectations as more Jumia customers will now collect their orders from my shop at a cheaper delivery fee," George Ngugi, Manager of Neema Salon in Kabati, Muranga county said. He believes that this will further expand his knowledge about online sales and boost his revenue, and later he may employ 1-2 people to help him run the business. Jumia’s strategy is to expand its countrywide pick-up station network over the course of the year, with over 100 more pick-up stations expected to go live every month.