Governors in the North Rift are pushing for a master plan to end banditry and criminal gangs in the Kerio Valley and revive the economies of  marginalised counties. The county chiefs in the North Rift Economic Bloc want to work with the national government and other stakeholders in drafting a blueprint on security. The aim is to wipe out the age-old problem of cattle rustling, and the newer problem of criminal gangs, and open the region for development. The governors on Monday demanded they be involved in finding a solution to the insecurity crisis in Kapedo, along with all other counties affected by banditry in the Kerio Valley corridor. “While we support the security operation in Kapedo, as governors we feel we need a masterplan to get to the root cause of banditry and deal with it firmly,"Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos said. Noreb is chaired by Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who is  organising a conference to discuss insecurity and general economic revival from the effects of Covid-19. Banditry, criminality, boundary disputes, feuds over water and pasture, clan violence and political incitement have been blamed for the insecurity in Kapedo and other parts of the region. Tolgos said poverty, lack of jobs and development, illiteracy and marginalisation have promoted banditry, hence, economic uplifting and  security are essential. Counties affected by banditry include Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu, West Pokot and Turkana. Speaking on Monday in Eldoret, Tolgos said they had asked Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to meet them and other political leaders to find alternatives to the massive military intervention underway. Matiang'i has said the problem in Kapedo is not just old-fashioned banditry but organised criminal gangs. “It's fine for the government to crack down on the armed gangs and bring them to book so other people can live in peace. But as leaders we should be involved in putting in place lasting solutions," Tolgos said. Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya has said the ongoing security  operation will only end when the bandits have been wiped out. “For many years, we have been postponing this problem but this time  we are there until we find the criminals and talk to them. We will not retreat," Natembeya said. In the last few years, more than 50 people - innocent residents and police - have been killed by gangs. Clerics led by Abubakar Bini, who is chairman of the Muslim Preachers and Imams in the region, have asked the government to quickly end the insecurity crisis in Kapedo so schools can reopen. “Many children are now out of school along with their teachers and we urge the government to do everything possible so normalcy can return," Bini said. Tolgos said one of the long-term solutions was for increased government and county investments in the region to open it up for development and give residents alternatives to banditry means to earn a living. Other leaders from the region, including Petroleum CS John Munyes, say the boundary dispute between Baringo and Turkana over Kapedo should also be sorted out urgently. (Edited by V. Graham)