Uncertainty surrounds the fate of candidates who might fall ill with Covid-19 in the midst of their exams, with some stakeholders mulling for a resit test. With the tests only five weeks away, there is concern the Education ministry and the examination regulator are yet to give a clear guide on how the pandemic will be factored in managing the test. The lack of a proper plan B now puts immense frustration for teachers, parents, and the candidates. The Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo on Sunday argued that to keep schools open and exams running, the government should also consider the possibility of infections. Maiyo said without a proper plan on what should be done, the sector and the national examinations could be thrown into a state of unnecessary confusion. "It would be unfair to say no thought had gone into how exams might be affected by Covid-19,” Maiyo told the Star. His concern comes at a time the number of Covid-19 infections in the country is rising. Latest data from the Health ministry show the infection rate in the country stood at six per cent by the close of the second week of February. KCPE exam commences on Monday, March 22, and end on Wednesday, March 24. On the other hand, KCSE candidates will do their rehearsals on March 25 before sitting their exams from March 26 to April 21. Kenya National Examination Council did not respond to various requests by the Star on its plan for those who might contract coronavirus during the exam period. One of the proposals is for them to take examinations in isolation. This has been done before, especially with girls sitting examinations when due to deliver. Another proposal — far-fetched and one that has never been done in the KCPE, KCSE history — is to have the examination reconsider resit exams for those who might fall ill. Proponents argue this will ensure fairness as the learners will be disadvantaged by falling ill. However, this has opened up questions as to whether Covid-19 is the only ailment that could disadvantage student performance. Some argue that this should be standard procedure for learners who might have any ailment. The silver lining the Education ministry could be betting on is that no severe case is expected to arise during examinations as most infections are asymptomatic. The age bracket of those taking KCPE and KCSE also falls among the least susceptible. In the UK, students who miss exams because of coronavirus will have an opportunity to resit the test or be assessed on the results of other tests in the same subject. Maiyo argues that time is ripe for the examination council to consider reviewing the rigidity in the administration of the national exams and especially consider those not fit to take tests on its due date. He said the set-up of the KCPE and KCSE exams condemn some candidates to a path of failure as they were not fully fit to take them. 