The Bomet County Assembly has said it will not conduct public participation on the constitutional amendment bill across the county as earlier planned. The Committee on Administration, Justice and Legal Affairs will instead hold one major forum at the county assembly grounds on Tuesday next week where residents have been invited to attend and give their views. The decision according to some members has been informed by the need to save on the wastage of public resources since the view of the residents with regard to the document is already determined. Committee chair Samuel Keter confirmed that they will not be going around the five subcounties collecting views from the residents as organized as it will be a waste of time and public funds. “Our people already have a predetermined mind over this document and it will be aimless for us to go round the county as this will amount to a misuse of resources,” he said. Hostility from the residents on the ground has also been cited as the main cause by the assembly to shelve the planned forums. All MCAs both elected and nominated retreated to Kisumu on Friday where they will spend the weekend analyzing the document before coming up with a common stand on whether to support or reject it once it is tabled on the floor of the house for debate. Keter hinted to us that there was the probability that the members might pass the document since it has some benefits to them as a county that outshines its demerits. The MCAs will now ferry people from their wards which are the representative samples of the population to contribute to the document Speaker Nelson Mutai told the Star that as soon as the committee collects views from the public on Tuesday land compiles the report, it shall be tabled on the floor of the house for debate where members will be at liberty to either pass or reject it. “What we only want are the views from the people for us to discuss this bill and that will happen probably next week or the subsequent week,” he said. MCAs Alfred Langat (Singorwet) and Robert Serbai (Embomos) echoed the sentiment saying they had already made up their minds claiming what was only achievable in the bill was the creation of the positions but the 35 per cent funds to the counties.