Police Spokesman Charles Owino has hinted at a plan to leave the uniformed service and venture into politics. Owino said he is competent enough to clinch the Siaya gubernatorial seat in the 2022 general election. Speaking on Mayienga FM, a vernacular radio station owned by the Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC), Owino said as a graduate of political science and communications, he is well informed and aware of Kenya's dynamic political landscape. Owino said he is competent enough to seek the position. While reiterating that he will ensure that Siaya county is completely transformed within 10 years, he said there is a need for leaders to initiate development projects that are beneficial to the people instead of promoting a culture of handouts. “I will ensure that sustainable projects like water projects are initiated for the benefit of our people. With my tenure I will transform Siaya to be the best county because I have the brains to do so," he said. Owino said he has served in different positions including as a trainer at the CID Training School. "I studied political science and communications at university and so I understand what politics is,'' he said. Asked to reveal more details on his plans, Owino said for now he could not because he is still actively in service. He said he plans to retire from the service in December after he turns 51 in July. For now I am still in office and cannot delve much into matters of politics. What you should understand is that retirement is a process and at 60 years it is called forced retirement but from 50 you can retire early from public service," he said. He said his sentiments on the vernacular radio were meant for Siaya constituents but when the right time comes, he would make an official announcement. He said his plan is to contest on the ODM ticket because of the party’s popularity in Nyanza region. “Even in the US, there are those States that are popular with either Democrats or Republicans and so you choose which party augers well with the people around you,” he said.