Cane farmers in Nyanza and Western will stage a protest next Tuesday should the government fail to address the falling sugar prices. The farmers decried the glut in cane production, as millers cited their inability to crush and compete with cheap sugar imports into the Kenyan market. Other sector players have also raised the alarm over the cheap sugar imports flooding the market. The Kenya Sugar Millers Association is expected to hold a meeting with the sugar directorate to deliberate on the matter. In view of the situation, Kenya Sugarcane Growers Association secretary Richard Ogendo said in Kisumu that they will hold a silent protest at all sugar factories in the region over the matter. "We will tie our hands and seal our mouths. Given the rate at which things are going, government facilities will be forced to close down and not pay farmers, hence this matter should be addressed urgently," he said. He castigated the Kenya Revenue Authority for allowing clearance of duty-free sugar long after the Comesa import window had elapsed. KRA had in January published a circular to its staff to expedite the clearance of 57,000 tonnes of sugar by the end of this month to exhaust the 250,000-tonne quota allocated by the Comesa safeguard. Ogendo faulted the move. "We register our disappointment with the political leadership of this country and KRA and its director general. We are going to hold a silent protest in all the sugar factories so the whole world can see that the sugar cane farmers in the country are left alone, totally orphaned and being treated as second-class citizens," he said. Sugar Campaign for Change secretary general Michael Arum, however, called for the implementation of the gazetted Sugar Regulations, 2020. He blamed the political class for frustrating government efforts to revamp the sector. "The sugar regulations were gazetted by the Agriculture minister, then the political class decided to sponsor a group of farmers to oppose these regulations and have them suspended, yet they would ensure farmers are paid Sh4,600. So do not tell us about the price of imported sugar,” he said.