Amani National Congress (ANC) has invited members seeking to contest various seats in the 2022 elections to apply for nomination. The Musalia Mudavdai-led party, in a paid advert, asked aspirants to submit their applications in a form available at the headquarters and on its website “The elections board of ANC party hereby gives notice to all interested applicants for various in 2022 elections to submit their applications in the prescribed form available at the party headquarters Loyangalani Drive Lavington or party website,” the chairperson of elections board Salim Busaidy said. It comes hot on the heels of an announcement by coalition affiliate ODM to members interested to contest for the presidency to apply for nomination. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has since submitted his presidential nomination papers to ODM. ODM leader Raila Odinga could face Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and Joho in the battle for the party's 2022 presidential ticket. Last month, National Elections Board chair Catherine Mumma placed an advert asking interested candidates to pay a Sh1 million non-refundable fee to participate in the nominations. The party's nominations are expected by February next year. Applicants have up to February 26 to submit their applications. ODM has further announced that civil servants who wish to vie for positions in 2022 will be required to resign at least one year to the polls. Secretary-General Edwin Sifuna and National Chairman John Mbadi announced that aspirants on its ticket have until August this year to register for life membership. Mudavadi, being the party leader, is the automatic presidential candidate for ANC. Mudavadi, together with Gideon Moi (Kanu), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) has nonetheless announced forming a super alliance ahead of 2 Mudavadi, Moi, Wetang’ula and Kalonzo announced on Tuesday that they will form a union that will provide the best bet at forming the next government. Mudavadi, Kalonzo, Moi and Wetang’ula first announced that they were working together during a public rally in Machakos on January 27.