The automotive cooling system comprises several structures. All these structures have to be in tip-top condition for the system to work appropriately. Today, we discuss simple ways of halting overheating if it ever happens while you are on a safari; but before we get to that, let's find out what some of the causes of overheating in your car engine are: COMMON CAUSES OF OVERHEATING In many cases when a car overheats out of the blue, the most common culprit that can be fixed by the user on the go is the radiator cap, coolant and punctured hoses. Anything beyond this becomes the work of technicians which may only be possible if the car is at a workshop. Sometimes the car's temp gauge may rise while in traffic and drop down when the car picks movement. This is usually a sign of two things. Either a worn-out water pump which means on low engine revs, the vanes are not pumping enough coolant to circulate throughout the engine sufficiently but when the car moves the higher engine revolutions somehow it makes the water pump to improve circulation making the engine temps to drop. The second reason may be faulty cooling fans, at a standstill, the fans are unable to force the air through the radiator fins but when the car comes into motion the natural air turbulence in the atmosphere goes thru the fins hence exchanging the heat in the radiator. SOLUTION In the event of such a thing happening while you are driving, using your car's interior heating system, select hot and direct it onto your feet (sometimes this can get uncomfortable), by so doing, you employ the interior heating system to act as a heat exchanger from your coolant hence making it easier for you to get to your destination safely without damaging the engine. Thereafter, seek professional assistance. However, this method should not be used as an everyday optional driving technique for the overheating car because it doesn't offer sufficient cooling as per the manufactures desire. Note: Always use good quality coolant to avert oxidation in the cooling system which may cause the water pump to deteriorate as seen in the pictures below. Different coolants have a different chemical composition which makes them not appropriate to be mixed. If you are not sure which coolant has been used on your car, you would rather top up with clean tap water instead of mixing coolants because the more you use the coolant the more the water content in it evaporates. This makes the coolant chemical composition more concentrated just the same way the battery acid behaves. So to bring the battery back to its chemical composition distilled battery water is usually toped up, in the case of the coolant clean tap water will bring the coolant back to its required levels of concentration (this is only applicable if the coolant level has gone down due to evaporation and not due to the punctured cooling system. Until next week on motor clinic have a stress free weekend ahead.  The writer is the owner of Boosted Auto automotive repair shop Facebook: Boosted Auto 