Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko wants President Uhuru Kenyatta ordered to constitute a commission of inquiry into the violence following the 2017 General Election. In documents filed in court, Sonko accuses Interior PS Karanja Kibicho of having a hand in coordinating, funding and supervising acts of violence in the immediately after the 2017 election. The documents indicate that Sonko on January 24 during a rally at a school in Dagoretti South uttered words to the effect that Kibicho coordinated, oversaw, supervised, funded and arranged acts of violence and destruction with the sole purpose of tarnishing the name and image of ODM. Through lawyer John Khaminwa, Sonko says by publicly disclosing that information, he became a whistle-blower acting in the public interest. “In making those utterances in public, I made it known that Kibicho participated in acts of criminal nature,” the documents read. The case is awaiting directions at the Milimani law courts. Sonko says since he blew the whistle on Kibicho, he needs protection from mistreatment at the workplace or by any other powerful interested parties. He also says the act of Assistant Inspector General of Police John Kariuki of issuing a summons against him was at the behest and direction of Kibicho. The requisition, according to Sonko, was issued to him to appear before the Directorate of Criminal Investigations offices along Kiambu Road on January 27 but was deferred to February 1.  He has asked the court to quash that requisition. “The requisition was not in regard to the comments I made on January 24 but it requires me to give evidence with regard to the offence of incitement to violence and undermining the authority of a public officer,” Sonko says. He adds that at the rally, he did not make any utterances that could be construed to have incited anybody to commit violence. “My comments at the rally could also not be construed as undermining a public officer for my comments were to reveal to the public that Kibicho had committed criminal acts in the past.” He says the offence of undermining a public officer, being contrary to Section 132 of the Penal Code, was pronounced by the court as being unconstitutional in the Robert Alai case. In the case, he has sued Kibicho, Interior CS Fred Matiang’I, Kariuki, the Inspector General of Police, the Director of Public Prosecutions and the Attorney General.