Everton goalkeeper Jordan Pickford and midfielder Allan could return from their injury layoffs for Wednesday’s Premier League home game against Manchester City but striker Dominic Calvert-Lewin is still out, manager Carlo Ancelotti said on Tuesday. Pickford missed the last three league games due to a rib injury, while Allan has been out since mid-December because of a hamstring issue. Ancelotti said Calvert-Lewin, who suffered a hamstring injury last week, could be fit to face Merseyside rivals Liverpool at Anfield on Saturday. “Pickford trained yesterday and it was OK. We will check again today and if he is available, he is going to play,” Ancelotti told reporters. “Allan is in contention. He is fit. Calvert-Lewin is not available for sure. He is really important because he gives us the opportunity to play different ways. Without him, we lose some opportunities to play. “(But) we played really well without him and Richarlison against Wolverhampton Wanderers so I’m not too worried about the players that won’t play.” Everton, seventh on the standings with 37 points after 22 games, will have to show efficiency against leaders City, Ancelotti said. City are on a 16-match unbeaten run in all competitions. “Most of the time, City are going to have the ball. We have to use quality in the time we have the ball,” Ancelotti said. The Italian coach also praised City boss Pep Guardiola, saying the Spaniard is “one of the best managers in the world”. “I have a lot of respect for what he (Guardiola) has been able to do at Manchester City, at Bayern (Munich) and Barcelona,” Ancelotti said. “He has reached the top, without a doubt.” Meanwhile, striker Mason Greenwood has extended his contract with Manchester United until June 2025, with the option of a further year. The 19-year-old, who made his senior debut for England last September, was already under contract until June 2023. Greenwood is a product of United’s youth academy and has been with the club since the age of seven. He has scored four goals in 18 starts this season, giving him a total of 21 goals in 82 games for the Red Devils. United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer handed Greenwood his first-team debut in March 2019, at the age of 17 years and 156 days. The Bradford-born youngster had 17 goals in all competitions during the 2019-20 season, and his latest goal came in the FA Cup win over Liverpool last month. Greenwood made his international debut along with Manchester City midfielder Phil Foden during England’s 1-0 Nations League win over Iceland last September, but both then had to leave the squad after a breach of coronavirus quarantine guidelines.