The Coca-Cola Africa Operating Unit has appointed Debra Mallowah as the new vice president for the East and Central Africa Franchise, effective February 15, 2021. In her new role which will be based in Nairobi, Debra will oversee the development and implementation of business strategies across the East and Central Africa Franchise. Bruno Pietracci, president Coca-Cola Africa Operating Unit, on Monday described Mallowah as a "highly accomplished leader" with a wealth of experience gained within leading multi-national organisations. "She has a strong track record of driving growth and is a versatile leader with deep understanding of customers and markets in Sub-Saharan Africa," Pietracci said in a statement. She has held senior leadership positions in fast-moving consumer goods, including the beverage industry, manufacturing, and technology companies. "I am confident that she will lead the Coca-Cola Franchise in its next phase of growth,” said Pietracci. Mallowah expressed optimism as she takes up her new role. “A lot has changed around the environment we operate in especially in the last one year driven by the ongoing pandemic, but there are many growth opportunities for the Coca-Cola business and that is my focus,” she said. Mallowah joins Coca-Cola from Safaricom Plc (Vodafone Group) where she was the Chief Business Development Officer and played a key role in developing a blueprint for entry into new geographical territories and expanding the business to new growth areas. She has worked as the general manager for East and Central Africa at GlaxoSmithKline; vice president at Unilever with responsibility for Sub-Sahara Africa,  Group Marketing and Innovations Director at Diageo East Africa (East African Breweries Limited) and regional marketing in Diageo in the United Kingdom. She holds a business degree from the University of Nairobi and completed an Advanced Management Program from the IESE Business school in Spain and an Executive Program on Fintech Innovation at Said Business School, Oxford University. She takes over from Phillipine Mtikikiti who served as the vice president and  general manager of the East and Central Africa Franchise since June 2019. He has take up a similar role for the South Africa Franchise in Johannesburg.