Nearly 3.7 million Covid-19 cases have been reported in Africa. The death toll from Covid-19 in Africa is estimated at about 98,000. Hence, Africa accounts for 3.4 per cent of the global Covid-19 case burden and four per cent of global Covid-19 mortality. It may seem that Africa has emerged unscathed by the Covid-19 pandemic, relatively speaking. I am mindful that data on reported cases and mortality tell a different story from antibody studies conducted across the continent. For example, after testing 3,000 blood donors between April and June, researchers estimated that 1.6 million Kenyans aged between 15 and 64 had SARS-Cov-2 antibodies. Other antibody studies in Africa have yielded similar results. While the reported Covid-19 cases in countries such as Kenya, Nigeria, Ethiopia and Ghana will continue to elicit debate and incredulity, there is no doubt Covid-19 has not wrought the catastrophe WHO had predicted; tens of millions of infections in the first year, deaths in hundreds of thousands and a total annihilation of the public health system. The economic effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on Africa might be more serious and with more long-term consequences. According to the World Bank, economic output in sub-Saharan Africa contracted by about 3.7 per cent due to Covid-19. This contraction is equivalent to a per capita income decline of 6.1 per cent. In South Africa and Nigeria, the two largest economies, economic output declined steeper, at 4.1 and 7.8 per cent respectively. Moreover, countries whose economies depend on large travel and tourism sectors suffered from near-total shutdown of tourism activity. These countries include South Africa, Egypt, Seychelles, Kenya, Ethiopia and Rwanda. According to the World Tourism Organization, international tourism arrivals declined by 47 per cent between January and May 2020. In Kenya, arrivals dropped by a whopping 72 per cent between January and October 2020. The decline put about 9.3 million people at risk of loss of income and livelihood. The impact of Covid-19 on education will most certainly have intergenerational impact through its effect on the education sector. School closures have eroded gains in learning that are likely to exacerbate school dropout rates among marginalised populations and girls. The World Bank estimates that Covid-19 could result in a loss of up to 0.9 years of learning-adjusted schooling, with negative impacts on learning outcomes and catastrophic decline in lifetime earnings. Hence, Covid-19 could irredeemably undermine Africa’s real promise for the future—its abundant and youthful human capital. Economic slowdown and dismal growth prospects in key sectors such as tourism and aviation could set back living standards for hundreds of millions who are likely to slide into poverty. Moreover, the tepid vaccine rollout could undermine global confidence in Africa, further slowing down the resumption of trade, travel and overall economic recovery. The IMF predicts that Africa’s recovery might be the most sluggish. New waves of more virulent variants of the coronavirus could further complicate Africa’s recovery path. What is disconcerting is that Africa is literally years from vaccinating a critical mass to achieve general immunity.