The Ministry of Agriculture has warned that more swarms of desert locusts are on their way into the country even as it outlines efforts to contain the spread of the destructive insects . PS Hamadi Boga and CAS Anne Nyaga on Monday told a Senate committee that the locusts are breeding fast in neighbouring counties and it is just a matter of time before more swarms fly into the country. “We know more swarms are on the way,” Boga told the senate Agriculture committee. The PS gave the status of the locust invasion and the measures the Ministry is undertaking to contain the spread of the insects. The PS said that Yemen, Ethiopia and Somalia have become suitable breeding grounds for the locusts because little efforts are being made to fight the menace there. “Insecurity in Yemen, Ethiopia and Somalia…. there are no control measures rolled out to control the insects as they are supposed to,” Boga told the committee chaired by Embu senator Njeru Ndwiga. Boga added that the situation has been worsened by the cyclones – wind blowing towards Kenya thus making it easy for the insects to fly to the country. The PS however exuded confidence that the measures the government and other partners are undertaking will contain the insects that have so far reported in 19 counties. The insect flew into the country in mid-November last year when large swarms flocked from Ethiopia and Somalia. This was the second wave after the government successfully managed to contain the first one last year. They have been spotted in Marsabit, Wajir, Garissa, Laikipia, Tana River, Lamu, Kilifi, Taita Taveta, Mandera, Machakos, Kitui, Isiolo, Samburu, Meru, Nakuru, Tharaka Nithi, Makueni, Kajiado and Nyandarua. In a report presented by CAS Nyaga on behalf of CS Peter Munya, at 203 swarms have been reported in the country with about 121 of them have been contained. The insects have ravaged 34,270 hectares of land since November last year. Munya said in the report that the Ministry has established eight control bases in Isiolo, Marsabit, Masinga, Garissa, Turkana, Mandera and Lamu. “The bases are regional thus managed from the national government in collaboration with Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) and county governments for ease of coordination across affected counties within their respective regions,” Nyaga said. The Ministry in collaboration with the partners, have deployed nine aircrafts – three are on standby. Some 21 vehicles mounted with sprayers for ground operations have been deployed. There is sufficient control pesticides for three months, the Ministry said. “About 1555 personnel trained targeting youth, extension officers, driver, lead farmers and local administration,” says the report. In addition, the Ministry has trained 500 NYS personnel who have been deployed in all the field bases in the country. Another 500 personnel are set to be trained and deployed in the next two months. Regular meetings for planning and sensitization campaigns are been held by various stakeholders. The Ministry has also partnered with local and international organisations to provide essential ingredients such as financial resources, expertise, capacity building, security and restoration of livelihoods. However, Munya decried insecurity in certain areas such as on the boarder between Kenya and Somalia that has hindered effective containment of the insects. Some areas are inaccessible because of terrain or lack of access roads while in some areas there are no adequate storage facilities at the bases for chemicals and equipment. Poor network coverage, invasion of protected areas such as parks and limited funds for facilitating some activities have also slowed down the work. The Ministry now plans to engage the Kenya Defence Forces for control and surveillance in highly insecure areas. “The Ministry will continue with surveillance and control especially aerial spray in insecure and inaccessible areas, carry out refresher training for surveillance scours and continue monitoring protected areas for control when they move to safer areas,” the CS said.