ODM leader Raila Odinga’s home county has become the first assembly to approve the BBI referendum Bill as DP William Ruto’s backyard trashed the initiative and vowed to shoot it down. The ODM-controlled Siaya county assembly unanimously approved the Bill in a special sitting on Wednesday, in a ringing endorsement of their party boss. Raila alongside President Uhuru Kenyatta are the architects of the  constitutional changes and have recently rallied their turfs to approve the BBI Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Bill has also been tabled in Busia county—another regional legislature controlled by the Orange Party—and could be approved as early as next week. But Ruto’s political bastions have pledged to thwart the referendum. On Wednesday, Baringo county assembly Majority leader Lawi Kipchumba told the Star that unlike Siaya, they will rush to reject the Bill. He said MCAs will not take the bait of promises such as ward development funds and car grants “just to please some people and burden Kenyans with more taxes. “Just as our counterparts in Siaya have rushed to pass the bill, the Baringo assembly will be the first one to reject it. We cannot be blackmailed and sweet-talked. The majority of Kenyans have said 'no' to BBI and we have no choice but to reject it,” Kipchumba said. Bomet assembly Majority Whip Davis Langat told the Star he belongs to a forum of whips from all 47 counties "and the feeling across most of the counties is that people are not for BBI. “We received this Bill on Monday this week and we have been discussing it in our forum. Apart from assemblies in Nyanza region and Kakamega that are reporting a positive reception, the rest are said to be very hostile," he said. Langat claimed the constitutional changes have concealed a political agenda only known to Uhuru and Raila. “When you read the amendments being proposed, they are so absurd and will destroy that good Constitution that we have now. Why are they pushing these changes as if there is no tomorrow? Uhuru and Raila have their own selfish interests and we must guard our Constitution jealously,” he said. Kericho assembly Speaker Dominic Rono also said the bill was likely to fail since residents have warned MCAs against passing it. “Although we have 90 days to debate the bill, the politics around BBI and the sentiments we are getting from interaction from our people is that this thing is not popular. "As we speak, we are waiting for an advisory opinion from the Supreme Court on how to handle the Bill,” he said. The Star, however. interviewed senior officials from 17 county assemblies, mostly allied to Uhuru and Raila. They predicted easy passage, because of what they called BBI's numerous benefits to counties. The Constitution requires the Bill gets approval of at least half of the 47 counties for it to proceed to the next stage in Parliament. Some of the counties where officials say the Bill is likely to pass are Nairobi, Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River, Kakamega, Vihiga, Busia, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Taita Taveta, Kisii, Nyamira, Makueni, Kitui and Machakos. President Kenyatta over the weekend secured the support of 10 Mt Kenya counties when he met 550 MCAs from Central Kenya at the Sagana State Lodge. They were Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Embu, Kirinyaga, Nyeri, Murang'a, Nyandarua, Kiambu, Laikipia and Nakuru. Most MCAs who talked to the Star cited the numerous benefits that assemblies will be receiving as the main reason for supporting BBI. BBI is promising, among others, the creation of a Ward Development Fund to be managed by the MCAs. The fund will enable them to initiate  development activities within their jurisdiction just like the NG-CDF. The constitutional amendment initiative is also making it possible for MCAs to be appointed by the governors to serve in the Executive. In Nairobi, Majority leader Abdi Guyo said the Bill is good for Kenyans and will have smooth sailing in City Hall. “We will definitely pass the Bill we have seen a lot of good things in it.  By devolving 35 per cent to the grassroots, that is the most important thing to us,” Guyo said. “It will also ease tension of people fighting after every election, everyone will feel he or she has been accommodated,” he added. MCA Carolyne Mogere from Nyamira county said the Bill will face little resistance when it is tabled for debate. She said that with good civic education to explain the people-centered proposals in the document, BBI will get overwhelming endorsement in the assembly and the referendum. “We fully support BBI, our only challenge is that women are not so  enlightened on the contents of the document,” Mogere said. Marani MCA Erick Changanya from Kisii county said the assembly will be among the first to pass the document and send their verdict to the speakers of the two houses. Narok assembly Minority leader Moses Olaimerri expressed confidence their members will pass the document. “In one week or two we shall pass the document,” the ODM lawmaker said. Mohamed Ali Sheikh, who is the Garissa Minority leader, said, "Our assurance as Garissa assembly is that we shall pass that Bill." Peter Kilonzo, the Majority leader in Kitui county, said while they have a primary role to determine the next stage of the Bill, “we will not fall for intimidation or influence from any quarter to support or reject it.” Kilonzo said their vote will be informed by what the electorate tells them during public participation. “We have seen some met in Nyeri and others met in Nairobi, for us in Kitui, the voice of our people is critical. We are not robots to be commanded on how we should vote. No,” he said. “We are still on recess and when we resume sittings next week, we will have 90 days to subject the Bill to due process and stages that must a bill must go through. We will listen to the people of Kitui and make informed choices,” he added. Kamu Murango  from Kirinyaga county said it is time to separate 2022 succession politics from BBI, saying there are good things in the proposed changes. He said, however, the ultimate decision lies with Kenyans. “If Mwea will get a new constituency, that means more money to the people in terms of NG-CDF. We should look at what we are gaining and support it on that basis. If the gains are more, then we should go for it,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)