I want to go on record as one of the MCAs in Nyeri county assembly who voted against the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The passing of the Bill in the counties, more so those in Rift Valley and Mt Kenya, does not mean that the Deputy President has lost support. The people of Mt Kenya have no issues with the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. All they are saying is that we also had a handshake between Uhuru and DP William Ruto. The people of Mt Kenya want that as much as the handshake between the President and Raila is supported, the unity pact between Uhuru and Ruto is also upheld. However, the Uhuru-Raila handshake has been turned into burning bridges by Raila's allies. Mt Kenya people are categorical that Ruto should be respected and involved in all that is going on. But now, the BBI team from Raila's side, wherever they go for rallies, attack the DP. This is what the people of Mt Kenya detest and they are very apprehensive. I respect the President's initiative but it has been hijacked by the wrong people. The Jubilee secretary-general directed MCAs to support the Bill but I opposed the party position on the basis that the Constitution guarantees freedom of opinion and conscience. MCAs have been under a lot of pressure. The good thing is that we have Wanjiku on the ground. You can intimidate and influence some MCAs but Wanjiku will be the last point of call. Ruto has worked hard to help Wanjiku, who will have the final say on who becomes the next President. And many of us will stand with Ruto no matter the circumstances. I voted against the Bill because a majority of the people I represent were against it. They are not objecting to more money being devolved, such as ward fund. However, we do not need a referendum to devolve more resources. Where will the money come from if we are struggling to meet the current 15 per cent threshold? Also, we had suggested a multiple-question referendum but the promoters of BBI say people will be confused by several questions. The Chinga ward rep in Nyeri county spoke to the Star