For the first time in decades, the Kenyan vibrant streets will be silent during the much touted Mashemeji Derby. It has been a tradition for both Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards fans to storm the streets and inject some pomp and colour as they paint the roads green and blue anytime the football giants lock horns in the derby. The situation might drastically change on Sunday, thanks to the novel coronavirus pandemic which informs the decision to play all the matches this season behind closed doors. Obviously, a few selected devoted fans -about 80 - are likely to make their way into the stands but the ecstasy that has accompanied such events in the past won't be as much. Could this new set up compromise the quality of play and redefine the zest of players who mostly rely on the hype of their fanatical followers to fire up their performances on the pitch? Kakamega Homeboyz assistant coach Patrick Odhiambo who left Gor only recently after guiding them in some of the recent derbies doesn't think so. "With fans or no fans, the pressure is still there," says Odhiambo. "This is a very important for both the coach and the players of both teams because they are all grappling for bragging rights," he adds. Odhiambo says that the two weeks prior to the derby are usually the most tense for the teams. "The whole focus is usually on the derby and any matches that happen to fall along the way are not given that kind of attention." Ulinzi's Benjamin Nyangweso agrees that the importance attached to the derby has the capacity to bring the country to a complete standstill. "Undoubtedly, the derby isn't just any other match. It excites in its own special way," says Nyangweso. "These are Kenya's two biggest and most respected community clubs with the largest support base. Their encounter reflects the best Kenyan talent," he adds. So much importance is attached to the derby that when the two sides meet, tacticians from other clubs are carried away with the wave of excitement. "Like the rest of the country, coaches guiding other teams in the top tier usually feel a strong urge to attend the derby," says Nyangweso. The immediate former Posta Rangers head coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo who turned out for Gor between 1992 and 1994, says that the derby is usually treated differently. "This is a different match. As a player you don't wait to be motivated. You just motivate yourself. "In other matches, players usually prepare themselves mentally a day or two before the match day. However, in a derby, one must start focusing at least a week before," says Omollo. Omollo further points out that players are usually very keen on avoiding unnecessary howlers that are bound to erode all their previous achievements. "You can't afford to entertain any errors during the match. If you make any errors the fans are likely to crucify you on the spot and forget about all the other good things you've done before," he observes. Omollo further observes the absence of fans from the stands might not necessarily take away the punch from the duel. "Due to Covid-19 containment measures, only a few fans might be allowed into the venue but I doubt if this will make the game less exciting. "In South Africa, the derby still had its mojo despite the absence of fans. The empty stands cannot deny the derby its usual sweetness," concludes Omollo.