The government on Monday officially launched a national boda boda training for over 1.7 million riders across the country. The launch was simultaneously conducted in three counties of Kiambu, Machakos and Kajiado and were presided over by Cabinet secretaries Joe Mucheru (Youth and ICT), Margaret Kobia (Gender and Public Service), and their Forestry counterpart Keriako Tobiko. Kobia who was accompanied by the National Youth Service director-general Matilda Sakwa and hosted by Governor Alfred Mutua at the Machakos Peoples' Park, said the idea of training riders came from President Uhuru Kenyatta, who sent her to Machakos with a goodwill message and greetings to residents. “While launching the investment saving scheme in Pumwani, the President directed us to put a programme through NYS for the training of riders to be able to address the many challenges experienced by both boda boda and other road users,” Kobia said during the launch. She said the training is important because it gives competencies and entrepreneurial skills for the smooth running of boda boda business. The CS said the government is committed to ensuring that riders make profits for improved living standards. She said the training will also ensure order and discipline in the boda boda industry. Sakwa said boda boda business has socio-economic potential of contributing to millions of decent jobs for Kenyan youth and turning the country’s youth bulge from a possible time bomb to a democratic dividend. She said NYS in collaboration with NTSA had delivered a training manual. “NYS driving school has a long history of producing the best drivers in the country. I am convinced that it is because of this reason that NYS was chosen to train boda boda riders in collaboration with the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA). We will not disappoint,” she said. She said NYS exists to empower Kenyan youth through character formation and training. “The service boasts of a wide range of resources including 22 units and 17 technical training institutions across the country.” Riders with driving licenses will undergo a five-day refresher course under the programme, three hours a day at a cost of Sh750 each while those who don’t have driving licenses will be trained for 21 days, three hours a day at a cost of Sh4,500 each. “The training will give already trained riders opportunities to refresh their driving skills, protect self from possible communicable diseases, take care of selves and customers in terms of first aid, belong to organised saccos and be able to access additional services such as insurance, business financing and investment opportunities," said the NYS boss. She said successful trainees will be issued with certificates at the end of training and personal SMART driving licenses for those without driving licenses. “You must show certificate of competency, I encourage all boda boda riders to register for the training so as to benefit,” Sakwa said. Mutua said his government will pay for riders who undergo refresher training. He said for those without driving licenses, he will hold a meeting with his cabinet to agree on how much contribution his government can pay for the riders to ease the monetary burden. Edited by Sarah Kanyara 