Students at Kabsabet Boys High School have produced a national video appeal to other students not to burn schools. It has gone viral. Fires, mostly arson, have broken out in more than 30 schools since they reopened in January. The YouTube video is titled "Tunawaomba wanafunzi wenzetu, tusichome shule…tusome” ("We are appealing to our student colleagues, let’s not burn our schools, instead let’s read). It has been viewed more than 11,000 times in two weeks. The video is a response to a wave of indiscipline in secondary schools. There have been riots, attacks on teachers and fires in dormitories. The video was made after a digital motivational speech by Wambugu wa Kamau. Kapsabet is one of the leading national schools in the country with students drawn from across all the 47 counties. “We want to provide other students an opportunity to realise schools are co-owned by their parents and the government only for the purpose of learning,” Kapsabet boys chief principal Kipchumba Maiyo told the Star on Wednesday. The video is now being used by many secondary schools that urge students to recite, "Tunawaomba wanafunzi wenzetu, tusichome shule…tusome." Wambugu has been appearing at high schools under The Digital Principal platform, with the burner “Stop burning schools." He aims to help students overcome pressure. The video was made by four Form 4 candidates who said they were focused on tackling the KCSE exams - nothing else. “Since reporting back to school in January, we have ensured they do not interact with anyone apart from teachers since we adhered to the Covid-19 protocols. Thus, we brought in Wambugu," Maiyo said. Wambugu is a well-known motivational speaker and team-building coach. He is highly regarded by the Ministry of Education. Burning schools, especially dormitories, is almost a culture in Kenyan public schools whenever examinations near. They are blamed on fear of exams, frustration and stress on returning to school after nine months, general indiscipline and use of drugs and alcohol. Maiyo regretted the destruction caused by students who want to be sent home, or set fires for fun. “But they fail to realise that they are wasting their own time and their own parents will meet the costs of repair," Maiyo said over the phone. Parents are being asked to pay for damages. Maiyo said his teachers have adopted a new style of management in which each class has its own 'principal' to handle issues at the class level. “We communicate directly to their parents if we have an issue with their child. We get an immediate solution, whether it’s fees, personal child issues, we solve them ... no leaving the school," he said. (Edited by V. Graham)