A team of experts has arrived in Nakuru county to assess the social and environmental impact of the Sh160 billion Rironi-Mau Summit dual carriageway. Works on the toll highway set to pass through Maai Mahiu, Naivasha, Gilgil and Nakuru towns, is expected to begin in October. It will take three and half years to complete. ESIA representative Christine Abdel-Malek said they will hold several public participation forums to brief stakeholders and government institutions on the project. Abdel-Malek said the public forums would also help implementers collect local views on the project for ease of implementation. “The project would conform to the social and environmental requirements to avoid conflicts with the people and different authorities,” Abdel-Malek said. Kenya National Highway Authority project manager Kefa Seda said the project is a public-private partnership. Private sector investors will raise finance, design, construct, maintain and operate the road to agreed standards and specifications. Kenha is partnering with Vinci Highways SAS, Meridian Infrastructure Africa Fund, and Vinci Concessions SAS for the 30-year concession for the road. The project manager said that Nakuru was going to be the biggest beneficiary of the multi-billion project meant to ease traffic along the Great North Road. He spoke during a meeting with Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui. Kinyanjui asked the project managers to ensure that the highway was accessible to motorists joining it along the way. “The constructors should also ensure enhanced safety measures for all road users and neighbouring communities,” he said. Kinyanjui asked contractors to employ local communities to offer labour and expertise throughout the project period. He asked the engineers to redesign the Kamandura – Maai Mahiu escarpment road to end the occasional gridlocks whenever accidents occur. The Maai Mahiu road will get busier due to the construction of Inland Container Depot, Standard Gauge Railway termini and Industrial Park, he added. Late last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta witnessed the signing of the project financing deal with French VINCI Consortium. The upgrade of the 175-kilometre road network is expected to ease congestion along the transport corridor. The corridor serves several East and Central African countries but has been dogged with traffic snarl-ups that last up to 12 hours or more. Kinyanjui called for speedy implementation of the project expected to include parking yards for long-distance trucks, markets and other amenities such as toilets at Mai Mahiu, Kikopey, Salgaa and Mai Mahiu centres along the highway. “I am optimistic that the mega multi-billion project is also expected to open other urban centres along the way,” he said. He asked the team to consider constructing a bypass from Stem Hotel area to connect with the Njoro Interchange as opposed to the construction of an elevated highway through the central business district. The governor said a bypass would help in the expansion of Nakuru town as compared to a viaduct.  (edited by o. owino)