Residents of Nairobi’s Buruburu Phase I over the weekend woke up to a barbed-wire fence blocking and narrowing a bus stop and a public road to the estate. The fencing is inconveniencing the residents who have been locked out of their access roads. The worst affected are young school children who have to meander through the fenced section or jump over the wire. More so, the residents say the people behind the fencing own houses that are said to be sitting on a grabbed road reserve. They have appealed to NMS director general Mohammed Badi (pictured) to order for a complete reopening of the area including demolition of houses on the public road. *** An acting managing director in a state parastatal is a man on the radar over his latest moves to have his board confirm him as the substantive MD. A bird in the know has whispered to Corridors that the man has already coerced his accuser to withdraw a case challenging the recruitment process. The acting boss of the not-so-popular parastatal is also said to be on a mission to influence the board to give him the appointment letter. Despite the clear procedure for the need to re-advertise the vacancy, all signs show he might buy his way. Can the concerned Cabinet secretary step in and stop the illegality that is about to happen? *** Is the Ministry of Interior and National Government Coordination aware of a case where one of its officers—a chief in a Nyanza—was assaulted by a Member of Parliament in his home? Months later, the lawmaker and his thugs are bragging that they are above the law since he is a personal friend to a Cabinet secretary who can come to his rescue at any time? This is not the first assault case involving the MP. Two years ago, the MP assaulted a female Teachers Service Commission staffer and nothing has ever been done. Who is next? *** Are there plans by Tangatanga brigades to disrupt and scuttle the 2020-21 budget? Well, word has it that lawmakers could be plotting to teach a lesson to some of the government institutions notorious for frustrating the hustler movement by denying them any extra allocation in the budget. According to Corridor moles aware of the plan, the lawmakers have allocated themselves different roles within and outside Parliament to block any extra allocations to the identified institutions which they accuse of being used to further deep state politics against the hustler movement. 