Calls for justice dominated the burial of a man allegedly killed by the drivers of vehicles belonging to a government official that was rushing to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s meeting with Mt Kenya leaders in Sagana last week. This came even as Deputy President William Ruto's allies condemned the incident and threatened mass demonstrations over the killing of Christopher Ndiritu. Nderitu, 45, was allegedly ran over by two vehicles said to be part of the convoy of government vehicles that were headed to the President’s meeting. Speaking during the burial at Karundas Village in Nyeri County on Saturday, the DP’s men led by Mathira MP Rigathi Gachagua, viciously condemned the killing of the man and gave the authorities a 14-day ultimatum to arrest the killer. “This man we are burying today, was killed like an animal. He was knocked by a vehicle. The vehicle did not stop. Another one ran over him and did not stop,” Gachagua said. However, former Embu senator Lenny Kivuti, who admitted his car was one of three high-end vehicles that were involved in the accident, denied claims they did not stop. “We stopped and the area OCPD and his officers, who were in the convoy, did everything that is required in such a situation. In fact, the drivers of the three vehicles were left at the scene and the vehicles towed to Naro Moru Police Station. The question of hit-and-run does not arise,” Kivuti was quoted by Nation Newspaper as saying. He added that the vehicles which rammed each other were part of about 50 vehicles in the convoy of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi, which was headed to Sagana. Gachagua said they will ensure Ndiritu’s widow and his children get justice. “Blood of a human being is not of a goat or chicken.  These leaders are here to assure this family of justice. Someone cannot just die like that,” he said. Nominated MP David Sankok, while appealing to the emotions of the mourners, gave the President and the police IG Hillary Mutyambai 14 days to nab the official whose car knocked and killed Ndiritu. “Since this man was killed… killed from a wheelchair, on a tarmac road, he was run over by two GK vehicles, then we are told that we should not talk here and ask for justice,” he said. “I am telling police IG and even our President, I am telling him, I have given 14-day ultimatum for justice to be served on my brother Christopher,” Sankok, who was nominated to represent the interests of PWDs, said. “Failure, all people with disability in Kenya shall demonstrate to State House, or anywhere else where we will get justice for our brother. Even if we will be killed, we are ready,” he added. Last Thursday, police spokesperson Charles Owino said he was not aware of the driver or government vehicle that killed Ndiritu but promised the family that justice would be served. “Unfortunately I had not found out as at the time I came here whether the vehicle has been identified. But I hope when I go back I will find out,” said the police spokesperson. "The family should rest assured that we shall follow procedures strictly no matter which vehicle was involved in crushing the person,” he added. Nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura said, “We are pained to hear that three vehicles belonging to senior people came and killed a disabled man.” Ndiritu is said to have left his home on Saturday morning to accompany one of his relatives to the local shopping centre, but a few paces from their home, at a road bump, the speeding vehicles knocked him down before two others ran over him.