Kisumu acting City Manager Abala Wanga has told off leaders blaming the county government over the demolition at Kibos which displaced 3,000 families. Wanga said the demolition which affected the Nubian community was done by the Kenya Railways Corporation and not the county government as being propagated. "There are some people who have been peddling lies that the county government carried out the demolition. That is not factual. Let us stop such lies and focus on helping the families," he said. Wanga called on leaders and well-wishers to unite and continue supporting the displaced families. A minor died during the demolition which also did not spare 100 years old mosque. He took issues with two Kisumu based lawyers for inciting the families and spreading lies against the county government. He was speaking during food donations by Jamia Mosque Nairobi and Muslim organisations consortium at the camp where the families were resettled. Wanga said the Kenya Railways carried out demolition without engaging Governor Anyang Nyong'o and other locals to agree on a resettlement action plan. He revealed that he was detained by CID officers on his stand on demolition. " I was detained and released on a cash bail of Sh30,000 over my statement criticizing Kenya Railways on the demolition," he said. He added," there is no way the governor can sanction such inhuman demolition then again sent me to help resettle the victims. Let us stop cheap propaganda." Wanga on Monday gave an ultimatum to Kenya Railways to stop demolitions in Kisumu until governor Nyong'o is consulted. This is after Kenya Railways brought down the construction site of Otonglo market almost 500 metres from the line and on the other side of the road. The corporation has been reclaiming their lands along the railway line to pave way for the ongoing rehabilitation of the Nakuru-Kisumu metre-gauge railway line. KRC have in the past given out notice to those living along the line to vacate before forceful eviction. Wanga further dismissed claims that the 18-acre piece of land where the families are resettled is individually owned terming it a false and cheap politics. The land belongs to the government, he said. "Those spreading such lies should stop taking advantage of the vulnerable to promote their selfish gains," he said. The city manager said the county is in the process to ensure the families are issued with title deeds. He said surveyors from the county will on Tuesday visit the land to speed up the process of making the title deeds. The land, Wanga said, will be given permanent to the families under the Kisumu Muslim Association. Currently, the families are staying in camps set up the Kenya Red Cross. The county government has also set up medical camp. The construction of a new mosque and dormitory for women and children in ongoing. The Kisumu Water and Sanitation Company has so far set up water points.