Resolutions made during a meeting by Mandera leaders and CS Fred Matiang’i will go a long way in improving security in the county, Governor Ali Roba has said. Speaking in Mandera town, Roba said the government should continue working closely with the residents to kick out al Shabaab fighters from the region. “In our meeting with the CS, his team and local leaders we discussed the general security situation in the county and particularly Mandera town. We reached well-thought-out actionable points which will be made public in due course,” Roba said. Roba described last weeks discussions as ‘fruitful and candid’ and said that all local leaders want is a peaceful Mandera that is thriving in all aspects of life. “We also discussed the current education crisis in the county. We are hopeful the solutions discussed and agreed upon will go along way in finding lasting solutions to the concerns raised by public,” Roba said. In January, Roba expressed his disappointment at how the state was handling security in the county. He cited various instances where Shabaab militants staged attacks in the county as evidence of insecurity in the region. He claimed that all the main roads in the county were being controlled by al Shabaab who target public service vehicles, kill innocent people and often destroy communication masts. “Whenever I speak about the insecurity challenges we are facing as a region, the security chiefs among them regional commissioner Nicodemus Ndalana and the county commissioner Onesmus Kyatha are busy denying that there is a problem. How can I keep quiet when it is obvious that there is a problem,” Roba said at the time. On Monday, Roba said his previous statements should never be taken as meant for populism but a cry to address an issue that has bedevilled the border county for a long time. Lafey MP Abdi Mude who attended the meeting said peace and security is an essential factor of human life and one which must be provided by the state. “A peaceful and secure environment is critical to every society since it affects all aspects of economic and social development in a country and is almost necessary to the realisation of human rights. We hope our meeting with the security organs will bear fruit,” Mude said on phone. Others who accompanied the governor to the meeting were Senator Mohamud Mohamed, MPs Omar Maalim, Bashir Abdullahi and  Kullow Maalim Hassan.