A section of MPs on Tuesday called for the passage of the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020 in honour of the late Garissa senator Yusuf Haji who chaired both the BBI task force and Steering Committee. Speaking when paying tribute to both Haji and late Bonchari MP John Oroo Oyioko, the lawmakers said passing of the BBI would be the best gift to the late Senator. So far the Billl has been passed by Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Trans Nzoia,West Pokot and Busia Counties. The initiative has however flopped in Baringo County Assembly. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi led lawmakers in observing a minute of silence in honour of the two lawmakers who died hours apart on Monday. MPs spent the better part of the afternoon session paying tributes to the late legislators describing them as distinguished leaders who served the country with dedication. Haji died on Monday morning while the Bonchari lawmaker passed on the night of the same day. Muturi described the late Oyioka as devoted legislator who passionately articulated issues affecting his constituents. “The Late Hon. Oyioka was a devoted legislator who passionately articulated issues of concern to his electorate through Parliamentary Questions and relentlessly served the interests of his people,” Muturi said. Kathiani MP Robert Mbui said Kenyans should in huge numbers pass the BBI when it comes for referendum to show respect to the Garissa senator who was in the driving seat for the law change. “Maybe in his remembrance we should have Kenyans pass BBI in good numbers,” Mbui who is the deputy minority leader said. Kipkelion East MP Joseph Limo said the only way to honour Haji is approving BBI which was one of his pet projects in the last months of his life. “Success of BBI will be the biggest gift for Haji,” added nominated MP Wilson Sossion. Former Majority Leader Aden Duale and Wajir Women MP Fatuma Gedi noted Haji will be more honoured if the populous Ijara Constituency is split as has been demanded by leaders from the region. Muturi also named a nine-member ad-hoc committee to oversee the burial plans of Oyioka. The Committee will be chaired by Borabu MP Ben Momanyi and will have Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Samuel Arama (Nakuru Town West), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Richard Tong’I (Nyaribari Chache), Jerusha Momanyi (Nyamira MP), Geoffrey Odanga (Matayos), Innocent Momanyi (Bobasi) and Janet Ong’era (Kisii MP). 