More than a month ago, Phoebe Nzambi Sammy, 7,  died when her house was torched in Kvou village, Mwingi Central - it was the second attack in 10 days since December 28 last year. Both times the door had been locked from the outside. The second time, on January 7, the girl died of burns. She was buried on Saturday when grief and anger ran high. Her mother remains in critical condition. Security officers in Mwingi town have been accused of laxity in investigating and arresting the culprit or culprits who torched Sammy Kilonzo's house twice. Kilonzo recorded a police statement after the first fire. Police told him to go home and rest assured the would-be murderers would be brought to book, he told the Star. Then they stayed at a neighbour's house for fear of returning with would-be killers at large. “I hired a watchman and my family and I went home,” Kilonzo said. A week after they had returned home, on January 7, a fire broke out at midnight while they were sleeping. “The door was locked from outside again and this time they seemed to have poured more petrol. Before neighbours rushed to the rescue, my wife and daughter had sustained severe burns," Kilonzo said. All were admitted to hospital. “The seven-year-old daughter died at a private hospital in Kitui,"Mwingi Central police commander Peter Mutuma said. During the burial on Saturday, residents accused police of laxity, not arresting anyone in the two arson attacks, one 10 days after the first. The delay proved deadly. Mwingi Central police commander Peter Mutuma said the community has not come out to record statements, so little can be done without the help of the public. "We also lack evidence and links to this act," he said. Speaking during the emotional burial, Sammy said he had forgiven the assailants and left everything to God to take revenge on his behalf. “It is a very painful moment burying an innocent young soul, but we leave all to God,” he said in tears. Sammy was accompanied by his 10-year-old daughter who had not fully recovered from burns. She said the hospital bill was more than 300,000 shillings. Miriam Nzung’u of the Knut Mwingi branch urged parents to be more vigilant and discipline children, saying they are burning schools. “Right now, schools are being burnt. Once these students complete school, they torch houses. Parents must discipline them at an early stage to avoid these tragedies," she said. Mwingi Knut executive Michael Munyithya said the culprits have not been apprehended and demanded reports from police. “We demand justice for the family of Sammy,” Michael said. Sammy Musili, a, a local leader, said the act was horrific and more worrying as no arrests had been made. He urged residents to raise the matter with authorities and keep doing so until they get an answer. “We do not want our people to run from their homes in fear of such attacks yet the security officers should provide security to our people,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)