Twenty-six patients were admitted in the Intensive Care Unit on Wednesday due to Covid-19 complications. From the number, 11 were on ventilator support, 15 were on supplemental oxygen, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed in a statement. “Another 16 patients are separately on supplemental oxygen with 12 of them in the general wards and four in the high dependency unit,” Kagwe said. The CS confirmed that 150 more people had tested positive for the virus from a sample size of 3,117 tests conducted in 24 hours. This represents a positivity rate of 4.8 per cent. The new cases comprised of 138 Kenyans and 12 foreign nationals aged between two months and 74 years old. Meanwhile the death toll continued to rise after three more patients succumbed to the virus. The total Kenyans lost due to the disease now stands at 1,769. “There are 459 patients currently admitted in various health facilities countrywide, while 1,451 are on home based isolation and care,” Kagwe said. He added: “Seventy patients have recovered from the disease. Forty three from the home based isolation and care, while 27 are from various facilities. The total recoveries now stand at 84,060.” In terms of distribution of cases per county, Nairobi recorded 101 cases distributed in the following subcounties; Starehe 49, Lang’ata 18, Dagoretti North nine, Embakasi East, Kibra and Makadara three cases each. Embakasi Central, Embakasi West, Kamukunji, Mathare and Westlands had two cases each while Dagoretti South, Embakasi North, Embakasi South, Kasarani, Roysambu and Ruarak each had one case. Uasin Gishu came second with nine cases. Five of the cases were from Turbo, three from Anabkoi and one from Kesses. Garissa had six cases all from Garissa Town while Mombasa recorded five cases from Nyali, that had three cases and Jomvu and Mvita with one case each. Kajiado had foru cases, two from Kajiado North and one each from Kajiado Cenrtal and Kajiado East. Machakos had three cases from Athi River, Kangundo and Machakos Town while Meru had three cases all from Igembe South. Other counties that recorded new cases include Siaya with three cases from Rarieda, Kisumu with two cases from Kisumu Central, Migori two from Suna East, Taita Taveta two from Voi, Kilifi two from Kaloleni and Kilifi North, Kiambu two from Kiambaa and Ruiru and Nakuru two cases from Nakuru Easta dn Nakuru West. Kitui recorded two cases from Kitui Central while Kisii and Trans Nzoai each had one case from Kitutu Chache and Kiminini respectively.