A group of Non-Governmental Organisations working under the Police Reforms Working Group (PRWG-K) has protested a move by the Office of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions to withdraw proposed charges against 15 police officers and six Busia county askaris. The group said Tuesday it was disappointed in the manner in which ODPP had treated the case. “As PRWG-K, we opine that police officers who abuse their authority must be investigated and prosecuted. Kenyan will only move towards the rule of law when all those who are suspected to have violated it, including police officers, are prosecuted, and given an opportunity to defend themselves in a court of law,” the group said in a statement. The case was scheduled for formal plea on February 1 in Bungoma but the ODPP made an oral application to withdraw the case. The group said they will continue to stand with the families of the victims of police excesses even during the enforcement of Covid-19 rules and emphasise that the use of force should strictly be guided by the law. “The use of force should only be used when legal, necessary, proportionate, accountable. We call upon the ODPP to reconsider their stance on this case to ensure justice for the victims and equality before the law,” the group said. The same group had lauded the move to charge the officials. This would have been the largest single number of police officers to be charged at once over an incident. The earlier directive by the ODPP followed an investigation by IPOA into an incident that happened in Nambale town on March 30, 2020. IPOA chairperson Anne Makori said last month they learned of the incident where police allegedly lobbed teargas into a private home and seriously assaulted the owner, Mr Benard Orenga, his wife, children and neighbours afterwards. “IPOA immediately launched investigations into the matter. On finalizing of the investigations and upon independent review and concurrence with IPOA’s recommendations, the DPP has directed that 15 Police Officers and six County enforcement officers attached to Nambale subcounty who were assigned police duties be charged in court,” she said. Their charges were to include assault causing actual bodily harm, malicious damage to property and attempting to injure by an explosive substance. Additionally, the Ward Commander who led the operation was to be charged with the additional offence of negligence in the discharge of official duty. The NGOs called for the efficient and timely dispensation of this and many other cases resulting from police misconduct and reiterate that justice delayed is indeed justice denied. PRWG is an alliance of national and grassroots organisations committed to professional and rule of law policing. IPOA is still investigating incidents that happened during the curfew and has since charged some of them. They include the incident that happened in Huruma area, Nairobi where a young boy Yassin Moyo, 13 was shot dead as he was on their balcony by police who were enforcing the curfew. The case is still pending in court.