A combined team of security personnel repulsed an attempt by al-Shabaab militants to attack a police camp in Khorof-Harar area of Wajir county. The militants had on Monday night shot several times towards the local Quick Response Unit camp prompting a response. Locals said there was a heavy fire exchange that lasted almost ten minutes before the gang retreated. Security agents said they were conducting an assessment in the area to establish if there was any casualty. Northeastern regional police boss Rono Bunei said no local security agents or residents were injured. This is the latest such incident to happen in the area in a series of others that target security agencies by ambush or setting bombs on the roads. Because of the proximity of the region to the Somalia border, the militants have been crossing and setting bombs on the road to target security agents. They also roam in the area lecturing locals against embracing non-locals. On January 29, two hyenas were killed after an Improvised Explosive Devise (IED) that had been set up by al-Shabaab terrorists exploded on the animals in Konton area, also in Wajir county. The animals were scavenging for food when they noticed a freshly dug place on the road, police and locals said. The area is near the Kenya-Somalia border where the terror group and their sympathisers roam freely targeting security agents and government officials. On January 26, a security officer was killed and three others injured when their vehicle was hit by an IED along the Omarjillo-Arabia Road in Mandera county. The explosive had been set on the road to target the security personnel who patrol the area. “We continue to urge for cooperation from the locals to help us tame this madness. No one can explain how these bombs are set on the roads without the knowledge of locals,” Bunei said. Northern Kenya has borne the brunt of the vice due to its strategic location with Somalia, a situation complicated by a porous border. The militants have been targeting communication masts and government installations. Also on the receiving end are civil servants and non-locals working in the expansive region. This has crippled the education sector especially after the Teachers Service Commission recalled most of the non-local teachers working in the region. Somalia has not had a stable government after the fall of Siad Barre in 1991. Al Shabaab terrorists have been attacking places in the region especially in Mandera and Garissa counties after breaching security zones, which left dozens of civilians and security officials either dead or wounded. More personnel have since been sent to the area and operations by the Border Patrol Unit heightened to tame the surge. Kenyan troops are in Somalia to pursue and suppress the activities of the terror group.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris