If you spend more than 24 hours in a location other than where you reside, you are by design a tourist in that station. This is how counties are angling themselves as they seek to market themselves as the best travel destinations. As the sector grapples with losses as the coronavirus pandemic rages, counties have turned to marketing the natural resources available in their regions, which have for a long time been ignored as insignificant. This is in conjunction with the Kenyan Tourism Board and the private sector. While each of the counties offers a wide range of unique products for tourists, such has long remained unexploited. The pandemic has given counties an opportunity to rebrand themselves and curve their own niches. Bomet is standing up to be counted by tapping into sports tourism through its athletics camp, and into tea tourism as a major producer and exporter, as well as showcasing the wonders of its landscape. KTB is working with Bomet and other counties to help explore and market the existing eco- and agri-tourism products in those regions locally and even internationally under the Magical Kenya trademark. Board CEO Betty Radier says they are positioning Kenya to offer diversity in its tourism attractions. “KTB is collaborating with county governments and the private sector to identify what is unique in their respective regions for packaging and promotion to local and international tourists,” she says. The CEO says there are unexplored tourism gems across the country and KTB is on a mission to create awareness about them. TEA AND ATHLETICS For the lovers of sports, the county has put up a high altitude training camp at Tegat in Bomet East, where athletes can be hosted as they do hikes in the hills surrounding the centre. The newly completed camp, the second in the country after Iten’s, can host up to 96 athletes both male and female, including coaches. Joseph Ketuturi, the camp’s trainer, says the area has been assessed and confirmed to offer the best training conditions for athletes. County principal tourism officer Charles Korir adds that, apart from marketing other products, they are also seeking to promote sports tourism, which can be achieved through such initiatives. “The area boasts of more than 15 hills, which can never be found anywhere across the country. This makes an ideal place for local and foreign athletes visiting our county to train as they prepare for international events,” he says. A 30-minute drive west of Bomet town takes you deep into the valleys and highlands of lush green and well-manicured vegetation. From a distance as you approach the ‘home of tea’, you can see some black spots on expansive, undulating tea plantations. Those spots are human beings plucking tea. These plantations are also surrounded by thick forests of indigenous trees, where a walk inside will get you a chance to see the bush babies and rarest and almost extinct bongo. Here, you can enjoy breathtaking scenes as you cool yourself in the ambience around the ‘streets’ of the well-trimmed tea blocks. Kenya is the third-largest tea producer in the world after India and Sri Lanka and also a leading exporter, as this particular tea is also taken in large quantities in Europe and US. With the unveiling of the tea tourism product now, local and international visitors will be taken through a journey of tea husbandry, popularly known as ‘from the bush to the tea cup’, simply meaning from the farm to the factory. MARA RIVER CONFLUENCE From the striking highlands of Konoin to the slopes and valleys of Bomet Central, where river Mara cuts through, to the savannahs of Chepalungu on the neighbourhood of Masai Mara in Narok, there is plenty to enjoy in the county. While in Chepalungu, one can view the confluence of the famous inter-country Mara River, where River Nyangores and Amalo, tracing their source in the water tower Mau forest, join together. It is a spectacular sight, making it a major attraction for visitors as they throng to view the waters from the two flowing bodies of water meet together to make river Mara. For nature lovers, the view is fascinating since they get to see the two different-coloured rivers mix together to form one stream. One of the streams is muddy and brown, while the other is colourless. Even as they flow gently before giving a roaring noise as they mix, their colours remain distinct, giving a divine feeling. The county has also laid out an ambitious programme to conserve and transform the once thick Chepalungu forest into a nature reserve. Tourism officials say before the end of the year, they will have brought back wild animals, friendly ones that used to inhabit the forest before they fled due to destruction. Korir said they want to expand the range of animals found in the forest. Currently there are rabbits, dik-diks, hyenas and several species of birds, including cranes. They plan to bring in antelopes, giraffes, zebras and gazelles in a bid to market the county as a tourism attraction site. “By 2022, we shall be opening the first sanctuary courtesy of devolution. We are in talks with various institutions and partners on this process because we want to meet the ultimate development strategy of conserving the environment and wildlife,” Korir says. He says with the partnership of Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF), Kenya Forest Service and other banking institutions, they are now planning to fence all the three blocks ahead of the sanctuary's opening. Bomet is also a transit route to the game reserve, where with the current good network in the region, one can easily cross over. ANCIENT CAVES Once you are embark on a trip back to town, you can pass through the Iria Maina waterfalls, where apart from relaxing and enjoying the breeze you can take a walk inside the 100m-long ancient cave at the site. The picnic site, which has continued to attract thousands of visitors every year due to the rare marvel it offers, is a 20-minute drive off the Mogogosiek-Litein road. Iria Maina, from a Kipsigis word, according to the elders we spoke to, simply means a shield or shelter and has been in existence for more than 60 years. Elders at the area said they used to take their cows there to drink water and saline stones. Inside the dark caves are pools of water and different species of bats that keep flying around, producing different flapping and scratching tones of clicks as you approach them. The trip will not be complete until you stroll in the sloppy and hilly walkways that are well designed to offer you the necessary recreation in the serene environment. The place is ideal for family day outs, team building activities and even meetings. The county has even put up restaurants and resting gazebos for guests. And as you prepare to leave the site, just at the entrance are huts where traditional artefacts used several years ago are preserved. Here, there are prehistoric agricultural tools, ornaments and attires and weapons that were used during the wars. Rates for one to enter are discounted. In the hospitality sector, one is spoilt for choice of hotel and wonderful cuisines. The hotels include Fairhills, Brevan, Twiggs, Sahara, Famous Gates and the newly opened Willis’. They all have great meals and guest rooms. With Bomet being the transit route to the Maasai Mara, visitors can spend their nights here as they prepare to travel to the site. Edited by T Jalio