The Director of Public Prosecutions intends to use businessman Stuart Gerald as a witness on tax evasion charges facing tycoon Humphrey Kariuki. The DPP Wednesday asked chief magistrate Martha Mutuku to adopt a letter filed in court citing reasons for withdrawing charges against Stuart. In the letter, addressed to Mutuku, prosecution counsel Carol Sigei says the reason for withdrawing the charges against Stuart is that he will be a suitable prosecution witness on account of the material evidence availed to the DPP. The last time the matter was heard, the prosecution was directed to give reasons why the DPP had made a decision to withdraw the charges against Stuart. The DPP, however, said the magistrate did not specify the manner in which withdrawal should be made as the decision to prosecute or not to prosecute is a discretionary given to the DPP. “We reiterate there will be no ambush in the matter in supplying evidence to accused persons as the same is yet to be done through pre-trial. I would like the court to adopt the letter we filed today citing the reasons why the DPP has withdrawn charges against Stuart,” the DPP said. Lawyer Odero Osiemo, representing Stuart, urged the court to find there is no justifiable reason to continue having his client take part in the proceedings. “We urge you to uphold the application by the DPP and allow them to withdraw the charges against my client.” Lawyer Cecil Miller, representing Kariuki, was opposed to the DPP’s plea on grounds that they had not complied with earlier orders issued by the court. Miller said “all we require from the DPP is the evidence they reviewed in order for them to change the decision to remove Stuart’s name from the charge sheet,” The court will deliver its ruling on March 19. When Kariuki and his co-accused were charged in 2019, the DPP opened three different files on forgery, money laundering and tax evasion charges. Kariuki and his co-accused were accused of being in possession of 80 drums of 250 litres each with ethanol valued at Sh7.4 million without payment of duty at African Spirits and Wow Beverages in Thika town. In one of the files, Kariuki and the team were let off the hook by magistrate Kennedy Cheruiyot. Cheruiyot in acquitting them said the prosecution was not ready to present any evidence in court. The DPP has since appealed that decision. 