Harambee Stars and Al Duhail striker Michael Olunga is relishing the possibility of facing Champions League holders Bayern Munich during the semifinals of the Fifa Club World Cup which gets underway on Thursday. Duhail are set to face African champions and Egyt’s Al Alhy in the quarter-finals with the winner of the clash setting a date with the German giants—an experience Olunga is looking forward to, as he seeks to add more accolades to his fast-growing profile. Olunga, while speaking to BeIN Sports yesterday, said confronting an opponent of Bayern’s calibre is a dream harboured by every player and his case was not different. He, however, dispelled suggestions that he was under pressure to extend his rich scoring form at the global stage. The Upper Hill School alumnus, who was headhunted from Japan’s Kashiwa Reysol last month, revealed that his teammates were equally gearing up for the tournament, specifically battling Bayern, should they go past the Al Ahly hurdle. Al Ahly won the rights to represent Africa in the tournament after claiming the Caf Champions League last year in November, where they beat their sworn enemies Zamalek 2-1 in the final. “It is the dream of every player to play in the Fifa Club World Cup and I am looking forward to it. Coming up against Bayern in the semis is a moment every player in the Duhail’s dressing room dreams of but we have to get the job done over Al Ahly first. We respect the Al Ahly but we don’t fear them,” he said. He added: “It is a big moment for us as a team but individually, I am not under pressure to score goals. Football is a game we play week in week out,” he said. In the meantime, the former Gor Mahia man who disclosed that retired Arsenal and Manchester United forward Robin Van Persie was his role model while growing up, said his hat-trick against Al Ahly Doha last week relieved pressure off his shoulders. Prior to the match which was his third since switching his allegiance, Olunga had not hit the target but regained his scoring instincts against Doha. “It was a fantastic moment to score hat-trick in Qatar after failing to find the back of the net in my first two games at the club. I was hungry to show people what I am capable of doing and when the right time came, I am happy I scored three goals although I reckon I would have scored more in that match,” he said.