After netting the winner against Posta Rangers in a Football Kenya Federation Premier League match against Posta Rangers yesterday at the Kasarani Annex, Bidco United striker Eric Gichimu has revealed the inspiration behind his fast-growing goal returns. Gichimu found the back of the net in the first half to hand the league debutants their second win of the season, a goal which took his tally to four, six shy of his target in the campaign. The father of one disclosed that he draws inspiration from the handful of his childhood friends raised together in Mwiki, Nairobi who have been consistently attending Bidco matches to back him. Despite the matches being played behind closed doors, the league body allows either teams to tag along with 40 fans. Gichimu, who joined Bidco a season ago from Mwiki United, said the presence of the fans in the stands has proved to be a rich source of inspiration to score goals,  which have seen him shoulder the scoring responsibilities at the club. The Nyeri-born player had scored 11 goals in the National Super League last season before it was cut short by Covid-19 pandemic. “We had lost our last two matches and I am happy my goal has delivered the three points. I always work hard in training but it is the presence of my friends in the stands which drives me to double my efforts. We have grown together in Mwiki and when I score, I not only do it for the team but for the area which seldom produces football players,” said the 25-year-old. Gichimu’s lone goal in the meantime relieved relegation pressure off coach Anthony Akhulia’s shoulders. The youthful coach admitted that fears of languishing deep into the red zone were giving him sleepless nights but vowed to build on the win going forward. “I am happy with the work-rate of the entire team which has procured the three points. We were almost sinking into the relegation zone but the goal has brought the difference and we will build on the win to register more,” said the former player. While Akhulia was elated with the win, his Rangers’ counterpart Pascal Ochieng who held brief for his boss Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo rued tough luck in front of the goal. “We played well but we were unlucky to burry the chances we created. We will inject fresh blood in our striking department in this transfer window in a bid to ensure there is competition and the chances we create in every match do not go down to waste,” said the former Harambee Stars defender. The hard fought win catapulted Bidco to the 11th spot with similar number of points while the mailmen dropped to 13th with ten points. Today, the 2008 league champions Mathare United will host struggling Western Stima at the same venue.