Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko is set to know on Wednesday if he will be released on bail or remain behind bars. Kiambu chief magistrate Stella Atambo on Tuesday directed that Sonko remain in remand pending a ruling set for Wednesday. Sonko is being detained at Gigiri police station. He was arrested on Monday shortly after he presented himself to the DCI headquarters along Kiambu Road where he had been summoned to record a statement. This followed his allegations that Interior Principal Secretary Karanja Kibicho had a hand in organising violence that rocked some parts of Nairobi after the 2017 General Election. But Sonko declined to record a statement saying he had been gagged by a court. He provided them with an already written statement which he said was final. It was then that the police told him he would not be set free as there were other serious charges he would face. On Tuesday, Sonko was arraigned in Kiambu and charged with 10 counts of forcible entry into a property in Buruburu Phase 4, Nairobi. Sonko denied the charges of forcible entry and nine counts of assault that caused bodily harm, but the prosecution argued that he be denied bail. The former county chief is being represented by Senior Counsel John Khaminwa, Assa Nyakundi, Evans Ondieki and Danstan Omari. According to chief inspector Geoffrey Ndatho's affidavit on why Sonko should be denied bail, the offence occurred on May 25, 2019, at LR NRB block 78/863 in Kamukunji, Nairobi. The court heard that Sonko left his office at City Hall and proceeded to Buruburu Phase 4 while accompanied by youths who, based on his utterances, committed the offences. Ndatho said Sonko is being investigated for other criminal offences. The investigating officer said Sonko has contact with Nairobi residents and can interfere with witnesses if set free. The court heard that Sonko has been charged with a serious offence and if found guilty shall serve custodial sentence, hence there is a high probability and incentive that he would skip court hearings. The court also heard that there is a high likelihood that Sonko will interfere with and intimidate key prosecution witnesses if released on bail because other perpetrators are still at large and they are believed to be his followers. Sonko is said to have immense influence in Nairobi and there is a possibility of interfering with ongoing investigations either directly or through his followers if released on bail. Key witnesses reside within Nairobi county where Sonko was governor and therefore chances of interference are very high. The key witnesses are known to Sonko whose statements need to be protected and deducted for their safety before they testify. The court heard that Sonko was charged in a Mombasa chief magistrate's court criminal case No. 275 of 2001. He obtained anticipatory bail in a Nairobi high court application No. 244 of 2001 but failed to attend the subordinate court. Sonko is said to be a flight risk and has no respect for the law going by his records where he skipped court after having been released on bond. But Khaminwa said his client should be treated as a whistle-blower and not a criminal. Leading the defence team, he urged the magistrate not to give her ruling based on annexures on the affidavit. "I urge you not to use the annexures because it will bring the court into disrepute and history will judge you harshly," he said. The annexures had documents from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations indicating that Sonko has 10 previous convictions. The defence questioned why the prosecution had introduced foreign and strange cases and yet the same office had in January this year cleared the accused by giving him a certificate of good conduct. Khaminwa said the case was tailored towards the achievement a political objective with intent to malign the former governor. "This honourable court should not give the offices of the DCI and the DPP the leeway to tarnish the moral integrity of the governor," he said. Omari decried the fanfare surrounding the whisking of the politician to court. He said Sonko was guarded like a terror suspect. He was escorted by more than 20 officers from the Special Crimes Prevention Unit and those from the DCI. Omari said Sonko was issued with a good conduct certificate 29 days ago when he applied and his fingerprints taken, meaning his record is clean and should not be denied bail. He said the state is harassing Sonko because of his popularity, yet it is not a crime to be popular. Sonko had in the morning refused to eat at the police cells and the DCI headquarters. MP George Theuri had to bring him breakfast to the Kiambu law courts where he asked security to allow him to take it. Security was tight as he was being moved from one place to the other, with armed officers in balaclava all the time in tow.