Just why are some members of a parliamentary committee pushing for the installation of a man considered an enemy of the government to chair the panel? Well, a mole has whispered that a majority of the members want the vocal legislator to assume the mantle. Interestingly, the man was among the those who were kicked out in a radical purge last year. Those advocating his election are said to be planning to tap into the man’s abrasiveness, especially with witnesses appearing before the panel, "to make some money". They say the current chair is ‘soft’ and does not take care of ‘our interests.’ Some allies of DP William Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga have triggered talk within corridors of Parliament about their sudden camaraderie. The two lawmakers, who once did not to see eye to eye, have become the best of buddies and have been seen hanging out together in  corridors of the 'august' house. Last week, they were spotted in a jovial mood drinking tea in a restaurant in Parliament. Some members were overheard asking themselves what could have brought together two erstwhile enemies. A member said, “Maybe their bosses are also planning to work together.” A first-term Jubilee MP from Central Kenya is an unhappy man. Why? A second-term MCA said to be close to the powers that be has been seen hanging around with President Uhuru Kenyatta whenever he visits the area. The man is said to have the President’s ear and has been at the centre of coordinating his activities. Recently, the head of state publicly lauded him for his commitment to duty to the dismay of the MP. Those in the know say the legislator has panicked that the President could be grooming the MCA to replace him in 2022. A businessman-turned-politician eyeing a top political seat in a county in Western Kenya is said to be undergoing hell on earth. The man is facing the wrath of local politicians who have poisoned the ground and branded him an outsider. Insiders on the ground say the man’s entry into the race has united local politicians who were initially the worst of enemies. They have vowed to dim his chances despite his deep pockets. The man is an influential trader and has previously managed several blue-chip companies. Local politicians now say he is an outsider and have vowed to do all they can to block him from winning the seat. 