Delays in container clearance from the Inland Container Depot have caused a setback in the opening of three new fire stations in Nairobi. The container is said to have equipment that are part of phase one of the Official Aid Funded Project that is meant to be installed in fire stations which were completed over a year ago. Devolution executive Vesca Kangogo on Tuesday called upon the Treasury and Kenya Revenue Authority to fast track clearance of containers at ICD. “Having fire stations and support in terms of work force will not be complete until the county gets the equipment. We cannot proceed to phase two until we get the equipment for phase one. Until then, we cannot officially open the completed fire stations,” Kangogo said. Kangundo Road and Waithaka fire stations are county projects funded by the World Bank, while the Ruaraka station is funded by the Belgian government . Gigiri fire station has not yet been constructed. Last year the county repossessed the land from a private developer who had converted it into a large business complex. The fire station project is a plus to the county government as it will be the first built since the country gained Independence in 1963. Nairobi currently has only two functioning fire stations, one at Koja on Tom Mboya Street built in 1907, and another at Industrial Area built in 1957. City Hall has until May 21 to complete phase one of the project as the Belgian government has already committed to fund phase two, donating firefighting equipment worth Sh1.1 billion. Phase one commenced on April 20, 2016 after City Hall signed the agreement with Somati Vehicles in the implementation of the Official Aid Funded Project in collaboration with the National Treasury. A year later, City Hall received 29 assorted vehicles inclusive of fire engines, ambulances and small vehicles with tankers that can access remote areas. At the same time City Hall has recruited some 300 fire fighters who will be deployed at the fire stations once completed. “The county had a depleted workforce and as it stands we have completed the recruitment of 300 personnel and we intend to add another 200 under fire and disaster management," Kangogo said. The fire personnel will undergo special training on different disaster situations. In September 2019, a report from City Hall revealed that Nairobi had only 120 trained firefighters, with 11 set to retire at the end of that year and 13 in 2020. Under phase two of the project, City Hall seeks to add at least 30 fire fighting equipment to boost the disaster management response. Equipment to be added include four ambulances, fire trucks and ladders. Belgian ambassador to Kenya Nicolas Nihon on Monday said the donation will be channelled through the KBC Bank NV – M/s Somati Vehicles who were also behind phase one of the project. The phase will also see the construction and equipping of Gigiri fire station whereas the Ruaraka station will be made the central command centre. “Our objective as a county is to zone the city in order to have functional fire stations,” Kangogo noted In 2018, only 103 out of the 4044 hydrants were said to be functional. The county's Disaster Management and Coordination chief officer Ann Mwenda said most of the hydrants were damaged when the Thika Superhighway was being constructed. The functioning hydrants are located at Globe roundabout, Runda, Kijabe Street, Safari Park, one at James Gichuru and three at Industrial Area. World Bank is constructing boreholes along Enterprise Road, Kangundo Road, Tom Mboya street, Waithaka and Dagoretti to assist in places where the hydrants have dried up. Edited by Henry Makori