Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola said he is surprised with his side’s stellar form while other Premier League teams are dropping points but believes their unbeaten streak will be broken one day. “The record will be broken one day, we will lose games,” Guardiola said after the win at the Emirates Stadium. “I’m surprised and impressed and so when everyone is suffering in this world, all the teams in the league are dropping points, we were consistent over the past two months. “People talk and talk about the record and the victories but to do this you have to win these types of games many, many times.” Guardiola said City’s record goalscorer Sergio Aguero, who has not played since Jan. 3 due to a combination of injuries and COVID-19, was edging closer to a return. “I’m looking forward to putting him in the side,” the Spaniard said. “We cannot forget that he was a long time injured and you only get rhythm when you play minutes. “As soon as I can, he will play because he deserves it and I want it. I want to say for him to keep working hard because his time is coming.” Meanwhile, City maintained their stranglehold of the Premier League title race but pursuers Manchester United and Leicester City both secured important wins to enhance their top-four bids on Sunday. Raheem Sterling’s header after 75 seconds was enough for City to win 1-0 at Arsenal— a result much more comfortable than the narrow scoreline suggests. It was their 13th Premier League win in a row, and 18th in all competitions, equalled a club-record 11 successive away wins and kept them 10 points ahead of the pack at the top. “There are 39 points to play for and we need the victories to be champions and we will try in the next games,” said City boss Pep Guardiola, bidding for his third title in four seasons. “We only think of the next game, this is the only secret.” United and Leicester are both on 49 points with United in second place on goal difference after they secured a 3-1 home victory over struggling Newcastle United in Sunday’s late game. Marcus Rashford fired a lacklustre United ahead out of the blue in the 30th minute but Allan Saint-Maximin’s volley got Newcastle back on level terms. Daniel James put United back into the lead after the break before Bruno Fernandes sealed the points with a penalty. “It’s always difficult after an away game in Europe,” manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said of United’s flat start against Newcastle. “It took us until halftime to get going.” Leicester had earlier gone second by beating Aston Villa 2-1 thanks to first-half goals by James Maddison and Harvey Barnes. Villa suffered a blow with playmaker and captain Jack Grealish ruled out with a leg injury but pushed Leicester hard after the break with Bertrand Traore halving the deficit. Leicester did enough though to please manager Brendan Rodgers. “I thought some of our football and the speed of our game was really, really good. We didn’t have too many concerns defensively,” Rodgers said.   