I told my guy the other day, “Guy, si men have audacity! If I had half as much, I would be very far in life yawa.” Mostly because I would use my audacity for good. Let me say this, there is nothing wrong with having audacity when channelled in the right direction. Studies show that men will apply for a job that has been advertised even if they do not meet any of the requirements. Women on the other hand will shy away even if they meet most of the requirements. So in this case, audacity works for men. Some men however have taken it too far. Many a woman who was minding her own business has received an 'I know you are single, I can change that' type of text. Or 'I want to pay for you a ticket to such and such, what do you think?' Well, I think that you do not think. I know you are children of God, and whoever he/she may be to you, God loves you. I just do not think he loves you enough to put women on ice for you. You just cannot meet a mature woman and think you are the only one who has seen her. Just because she does not splash her man/ woman all over the place does not mean she is single. Please, dial down the audacity just a tad bit. Then there are those men that take it to a whole new level. The ones who lie with audacity, or have the audacity to lie. I do not know what kind of faith these men operate on, but they ought to start a sect. This faith is the stuff some of these charismatic churches are made of. Calling what is not as if it is doctrine. I often wonder why more men are not found in these churches. Anyway, true story. A man approaches a woman via a social platform. They exchange numbers and agree to have a drink. Drink day arrives. Man gets there and meets woman. Man says he only drinks whiskey. Ok. no problem. Man asks waiter for Viceroy. Problem. He does not know what is a whiskey and what is a brandy. Red flag. He is too lazy to find out the difference in this good day of Google. He does not skip a beat despite an awkward silence and amused stares from the barman. “I have a ranch with many cattle, I have a big black car and I have houses here and there,” he bellows. You know, when you announce money, you invite yourself to scrutiny. We now want to see this money you are threatening us with. We will look at your watch, the quality of your shoes, the car you drive, your drink of choice. Then we will try and value them and see if they tally with your big mouth. Most often it does not. Because money does not need to announce itself. Now you will hear men shouting women are materialistic. Meanwhile, you were the one announcing things that are not there, when challenged, women are golddiggers. The thing that gets me though is that you have the audacity to stand and just make up crazy stories. To what end? At some point, the woman might need a ride in the big black car or might want to move into one of your houses. What are you going to say? That you were joking or that your village people have bewitched you because you were so successful? I mean, what? Even if you are just after the kitty cat, those lies are such a turnoff. You would be surprised at the number of women who would not mind your company or even a romp with you if you were just authentic. The last show of audacity that just flabbergasts me is men in relationships, mostly marriage, and society that supports them. Someone said to me how speechless she was at how men can be in a relationship, traumatise a woman and expect her to be loving and kind towards him. Now that is audacity turned all the way up. I blame women for their 'God will punish him, believe me, he is suffering!' No wonder men can do what they want to a woman and expect saving grace, women are out here issuing baseless threats! I have been labelled an inciter. Today let me wear my label. Duck that rubbish. At some point you need to stop turning the other cheek and go for the eye. fellyoyuga@gmail.com