 A high school teacher has been jailed for 10 years after he was found guilty of defiling a 15-year-old girl who approached him to get advice when she was almost giving up on life. The teacher, P. M, was convicted by senior principal magistrate Charles Mwaniki who said the prosecution proved its case beyond doubt. The teacher committed the offence between July 15, 2013 and October 19, 2013 at Subira in Lang’ata, Nairobi county. He was also found guilty of committing an indecent act with a minor. Four witnesses testified in court before the judgement was made but the accused person insisted he never committed the offence. His lawyers said they will appeal. They were given 14 days to do so. “I order that the proceedings be granted to the defense at their won cost,” ruled Mwaniki. While testifying in court, the minor said the teacher told her the dates when the exams will be administered. “He told me the dates when the exams will be and I started calling and texting my friends telling them about it. I texted the teacher and told him that I was giving up on life. After 30 minutes, I saw a text message from the teacher which said I should not give up on life as I had many years to live,” she said. The minor said she replied the text informing the teacher that the message was not his but he replied and asked if she was ready to do examinations. On the same day at about 10pm, the teacher sent her a text message inquiring from her if she was asleep and asked her is she had a boyfriend. “I informed him I had none. He again texted me and asked if I minded being his girlfriend,” she told the court. “I agreed, we met on the road and when I reached his place, I got his twin brother had left and locked the door. He asked if we could have sex and I refused. At about 5pm I told him that I wanted to go home and I went home,” she said. She again visited the teacher’s place in October, this time for counselling. It was during the counselling visit that the teacher defiled her. The investigating officer also testified. Mwaniki on Thursday sentenced the teacher to 10 years in jail. “I convict the suspect to 10 years in jail after considering his mitigations. I allow him 14 days to appeal ,” Mwaniki ruled.