Public shaming of politicians who show no remorse for their acts of violence and incitement is counterproductive, the Political Parties Liaison Committee has said. Members of the committee asked the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission to step and punish politicians who breach electoral laws. They said the National Cohesion and Integration Commission's list of shame does not work because the politicians do feel the pinch. Committee chairman Evans Misati said they will not allow Kenyans’ blood to be shed because of politicians' actions. “Very soon some candidates will not get to the ballot. We must ensure sanity. Political Parties Liason Committee, IEBC and Registrar of Political Parties must all crack the whip to ensure that 2007-08 post-election violence doesn’t recur in 2022,” he said. Ford Asili vice-chairperson Jane Njiru said the EACC should act firmly. “So, the EACC should bite, it has teeth. It has powers to prosecute, exposing such politicians in the list of shame will not work for the country. And they should take it very seriously, what happened in Rwanda started just like these small things we see across the country that led to the genocide.” The committee members spoke to journalists in Athi River, Machakos county on Saturday. They said all their members — 73 political parties — must comply with the electoral act. Njiru asked politicians to stop fomenting ethnic politics. “Stop dividing Kenyans either along ethnic or socio-economic lines. When we see politicians fighting in public in broad daylight like that we recently witnessed in Kisii county, we wonder what message such politicians pass to Kenyans,” she added. She said Kenyans were staring at volatile 2022 elections. Njiru said potential violence was a matter of national security concern and state agencies tasked with the mandate of securing the country must act. “Let us not have those conversations at this time. Kenya is a young nation, we don’t want to see the destruction of property, bloodshed hence IEBC, and Registrar of Political Parties should also crack the whip.” Registrar of Political Parties Anne Nderitu said political parties code of conduct must be adhered to. Nderitu said parties should take responsibility and look at rein in their members. 