Security agencies should charge eight Wajir East residents arrested six months ago or release them, MP Rashid Kassim has said. Jimale Elmi Salat, Salah Mohamed Hassan, Abdi Bishar Omar, Bashir Noor Mohumed, Abdullahi Hussein Elmi, Abdi Jelle Salat, Daud Ahmed Muhumed and Abdi Muhumed Kahin have been missing since they were allegedly picked up from their homes by police officers. The youths come from the border towns of Konton, Khorof Harar, Gumarey, Kharsa and Wajir. Attacks by militants in the area have targeted and killed security officers and administrators. A chief was beheaded in the area in December last year. On Sunday, Kassim said in Konton that the state was illegally detaining residents, causing anguish, pain and suffering to their families. He said the government has remained mum on the whereabouts of the eight individuals despite calls that they be released. On Friday last week, Kassim asked Parliament's Committee on Administration and National Security to issue a statement on Thursday's beating up of residents of Konton by security officers. During the incident, security officers allegedly rounded up residents, clobbered them, torched houses and killed animals. The government has remained silent on the matter and top security chiefs refused to comment on it. “I have requested for comprehensive answers from the committee on wrongful arrest and holding a person without legal justification in my constituency as this is against the Constitution of Kenya,” Kassim said. “Every person has the right to freedom and security of the person, which includes the right not to be deprived of freedom arbitrarily or without just cause and be detained without trial,” Kassim said. The lawmaker said it was unfortunate that those bestowed with the responsibility of protecting lives and property of Kenyans have been killing and destroying them in the pretext of fighting terror. Kassim asked the government to compensate nearly 50 families who lost their homes and cattle. “Their only source of income which is livestock has been burnt. Surely it cannot get worse than this from a government that should be protecting its own citizens,” he said. Abdishukri Jelle said cases of police brutality and enforced disappearance in Northeastern are rampant. Jelle is the Garissa coordinator for Muslim for Human Rights. “We have repeatedly said that the fight against terror cannot be won using the tactics employed by the security agents. That of picking up people whenever there's an incident or worse picking up individuals and disappearing with them,” he said. This is a human right violation which rights organisations will continue to fight, he said. 