Kenya is likely to benefit from the wet weather predicted over most of Tanzania and Uganda from February until April. Although only a little rain is expected, the wetter conditions in these two countries spill over to southern Kenya’s border with Tanzania and over much of Western Kenya. Consequently, the two Kenyan regions will be wetter compared to the rest of Kenya in the next two months, the Dagoretti Corner-based Igad Climate Prediction & Applications Centre said in a forecast. “Wetter than usual conditions are expected over much of Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda; western, south-western and part of north-eastern Kenya,” Icpac said in a statement. Icpac also predicted the usual hot weather would prevail over Kenya's coast, while central and north-western Kenya will be hotter than usual until April. In a monthly forecast for February, the Kenya Meteorological Department separately said southern Kenya near Tanzania border and the Lake Victoria basin might have some rains this month. "Occasional rainfall is likely to occur over a few places in the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley and Southern Rift Valley," said Met director Stella Aura. She said La Nina, which brings dry weather over Kenya, is still present and the entire country will be drier than usual. She did not give a forecast for March. The weather is likely to have a varied impact across the country. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the country is expecting 42 million bags of maize from harvest this month. The food and nutrition report from the Ministry of Agriculture revealed a projected surplus of 5.8 million bags of beans by the end of February. “This is based on 200,000 bags estimated imports by the private sector and relief agencies and 3.4 million bags estimated harvests from the short rains by the end of February,” the report reads. The wheat balance sheet showed a surplus of 6.5 million bags as a result of local production supplemented by imports. Separately, the UN-Food and Agriculture Organization also explained how any rains might affect the locust infestation. FAO last week said, if it rains in the coming weeks, swarms will mature and lay eggs. These will hatch and give rise to hopper bands during February and March. “In the southeast, fledging is in progress near Taita Taveta county, causing small immature swarms to form while a few late instar hopper bands are present along the coast,” FAO locust watch update shows. The update also shows that several immature swarms continue to arrive in Kenya from Ethiopia and Somalia. "The swarms are mainly appearing in the northeast and east, from where they are spreading west into northern and central counties,” the locust watch stated. FAO said swarms have so far been reported in 11 counties. They are Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit, Turkana, Samburu, Laikipia, Isiolo, Meru North, Meru Central, and Tharaka. This compares to seven two weeks ago.