Dear Mr President, Over the last couple of days, we have seen various leaders from the Mt Kenya region write letters to you over the issues affecting residents. I, therefore, think it is good that I also join in and share a few thoughts with you. The truth is that these letters would not be flying all over if you were not a key figure in the region today and into the future. We take pride in the fact that you are a son of Mt Kenya and the country’s president. There are those who have chosen to lecture you through their letters even as you prepared for the four-day working tour of Mt Kenya region last weekend. Some MPs were keen to take attention away from the agenda. It is ironic that almost all the leaders purporting to advise you rode on your robe to win their elective seats, with most even putting your image on their campaign posters. Granted, as elected leaders, they have a right to lay out their suggestions and speak to you on what they believe is best for the region. Unfortunately, the medium they took and have taken in the past is wrong. It is clear that they have resorted to publicity stunts to seek sympathy, with the hope of re-election and getting higher seats in 2022. Their open defiance is unfortunate as they seek to scatter the vote-rich region, as they seek personal fiefdoms. My letter is different. Different because having worked with TNA to get you the first term and having subsequently worked with Jubilee for the 2017 elections, I can say that the region has faith in you just like the rest of the country. And this is because you have worked hard since 2013 to ensure that Kenya is not only united but there is development that guarantees shared prosperity among all Kenyans. Even with the ongoing opposition to the BBI from a section of Mt Kenya leaders, we know that you are actually focused on leaving a better country in these sunset days of your presidency. While we all agree that the country has faced various challenges over the last eight years of your presidency, what you have done is more than any other president has done in the country’s history. And it would be an honest observation to note that some of the challenges you have faced are because of things such as the ongoing pandemic, which has slowed down all economic activities. But overall, yours is the first presidency that has kept the country’s economic status on the same trajectory. It is during your time in office that we have seen more Kenyans connected to the national grid as well as more roads getting tarmacked. Kenyans will also not forget that during your tenure, more hospitals have been equipped and more health workers employed. Your government has worked hard to ensure that devolution takes root with the adequate funding as prescribed in law. It is during the Jubilee administration’s tenure that we have also witnessed more reforms aimed at helping businesses as well as agriculture. If you look specifically at Mt Kenya, we have more milk processing facilities, better roads and we have even seen the revival of the Nairobi-Nanyuki railway. We have seen reforms aimed at ensuring that tea, coffee and miraa farmers get better income from their produce. As a son of the Mt Kenya region, I am happy with what you have done so far and willing to support you in your last days to do even more. I would urge all leaders and residents of the region to get behind you and ensure that you finish your second term strongly. Lastly, we must support you on BBI as it is the solution to electoral violence. During that violence it is our people who have suffered the most, losing businesses to arsonists and rioters. Mr President, Mt Kenya is fully behind you.