Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has begun his presidential campaign. Joho, who is also  one of the two ODM deputy party leaders and a host of MPs from the Coast arrived in Lamu for the first rally on Saturday afternoon. The governor held a meeting of local leaders and declared that his presidential ambition is real and serious as it was time for other regions that have been receiving support from Coast to payback. Joho said he would first ensure the region is united and then embark on a national tour. ''Those who think that my presidential ambition is a joke should know that the journey has just begun. It's time for us to be in the top seat,'' he said. Joho was the only governor from teh Coast region who attended the rally. Those missing were Lamu's Famim Twaha, Kilifi's Amason Kingi, Granton Samboja of Taita Taveta , Tana River county boss Dhadho Godhana and Kwale's Salim Mvurya. Last week Joho, Kingi, Samboja, and Godhana met in Taita Taveta in what was seen as the beginning of the unity quest They were also expected in Lamu but its still not clear why they did not attend. The meeting was organized by former Lamu Governor Issa Timammy and Woman Rep Ruweida Mohamed . Timammy spent the whole of Friday doing civic education from Witu, Mpeketoni, Mkunubi Mokowe before he was given a heroic welcome in Lamu Island by hundreds of residents. Joho was accompanied by Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo, Issa Boy Kwale, Mohamed Fakii, together with Kilifi Woman Rep Gertrude Mbeyu, nominated Senator Christine Zawadi, Mombasa Woman Rep Asha Hussein. Also present were Likoni MP Mishi Mboko, Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire , Kilifi South legislator Ken Chonga, Rabai's William Kamoti, Mvita MP Abdulswamad Sharif Nassir, Wundanyi MP Dan Mwashako , Lamu West MP Stanley Muthama , Zulekha Hassan, Kassim Tandaza and Hassan Mwinyi, among others. Joho told residents to avoid being divided on ethnic grounds as the Coast has a representation of people from all communities in the country who were born there. He said they are supporting the BBI because it will bring more funds to the counties, which will help boost development. He asked Kenyans to reject the hustler narrative that is seeking to give wheelbarrows to the people. Joho said on Tuesday about five coast counties will pass the BBI bill. Timammy said Lamu county has resolved to support BBI  because it annot afford to lose a constituency once the boundary review begins. He said the government has also invested more than Sh10 billion for the roads and over Sh32 billion for the ongoing LAPSSET project which will help in developing the county. The Lamu woman rep on her part said it was a big day for Lamu to host such a huge rally and for BBI. She said Lamu will be the first to pass the bill because it will have a lot of benefits to the people.