Kisumu acting city manager Abala Wanga has made changes at City Hall in his clean-up push. He has restructured the city Health department, now headed by Joshua Adongo. Wanga takes over as the chief public health officer from his predecessor Osborn Odero, who has been referred back to the county government. County director of Trade, Markets and Enterprise development Bovince Ochieng has joined city hall as director of markets and entrepreneurship, while Marialla Awuor will handle legal affairs as the new city attorney. City head of Finance Emmanuel Opetu, city engineer Kevin Ajul, city head of inspectorate Samwel Orimba and city head of human resources Beatrice Omollo will still head their respective departments. City head of Environment Bernard Ojwang' and city head of Planning Stephen Sule also retained their positions. Wanga, however, said most of their staff will be referred back to the county government. “This is just the beginning of the clean-up process as the reorganisation will extend to finance, procurement, inspectorate, physical planning and housing department,” he said. Wanga said the move was necessitated by various factors, including the need to realign the organisation structure to be better equipped to deal with the public in terms of efficiency. The restructuring process comes as a result of the transformation that is ongoing in the city and the need to have new ideas to implement the changes, he said. Seven other county government employees have also been transferred to city hall. In a letter dated February 3, 2021, by county secretary Godfrey Kigochi to Wanga, the employees are directed to report to city hall for deployment. They include Allan Okiri- assistant chief public health officer, Alex Opana- public health assistant I and Teddy Odongo- assistant chief public health officer II. Others are assistant chief public health officer II Starmily Akinyi, public health I Paul Owiti and clerical officer-accounting officer services Christine Akinyi. “The following transfers were agreed upon following the resolution by county human resources committee - ad hoc committee,” reads the letter. “The employees are requested to give their handover notes to their respective supervisors and report to the city manager for further deployment within seven days from the date of this letter.” 