The vicious power struggle at the Law Society of Kenya continued on Monday after eight council members voted to remove president Nelson Havi. Members Bernhard Ng'etich, Ndinda Kinyili, Faith Odhiambo, Riziki Emukule, Aluso Ingati, Beth Michoma, Carolyne Mutheu and George Omwansa were last month suspended from office during the society's special general meeting on January 18. The High Court, however, quashed their suspension. But on Monday, it was their turn to suspend Havi, preparing a motion to have him removed during the society's AGM slated for next month. Contacted by the Star, Havi denied knowing of the existence of any council meeting, saying he had not called one. A source, however, said the majority of the council had sent a formal invitation to all members, but Havi, Esther Ang'awa, Carolyne Kamende and Herine Kabita did not attend. He declined to comment on further details. Among the grounds cited for Havi's removal are that his style is unilateral in managing society by countermanding the decision of the majority council members and imposing his own. They cite last year's stand-off surrounding the tenure of CEO Mercy Wambua in which the majority voted to retain her, but Havi and the three members allied to him voted for her removal. Since then, Havi insisted that Wambua was removed and would be considered a stranger in the society. The eight also cited Havi's 'mishandling' of the SGM where the motion about their removal was hurriedly passed. They also list "failing to act honestly and in the best interest of the society and causing financial loss to the society when suppressing the over 3,000 members from voting online resulting in a disastrous special general meeting that cost millions to hold after illegal resolutions were stayed by the court". They accused Havi of abusing lawyers on social media. In addition, they claim that Havi does not possess basic law and seems incompetent in discharging his mandate. His conduct is so inappropriate and embarrassing that he suggests he is mentally infirm, they said. "... we hold that the president could only do all this due to mental infirmity. Sadly, there are many other uncivilised and uncouth actions that the president has done during his tenure, which actions have brought disrepute to the profession...." the resolution said.