A senior legislator from Mt Kenya region has become the talk of the town. Why? For two consecutive days now, the controversial lawmaker has called off press conferences in which he was expected to announce shifting political camps. Journalists were forced to wait for hours only for his handlers to announce the cancellation of the briefing. Irked scribes asked why the man was not being brave enough to address them and declare his political stand. Talk has been rife of his looming change in political allegiance. President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday moved to calm the restive Mt Kenya region but only time will tell whether he succeeded. Division has rocked the campaign team of an influential politician who has launched a bid for an epic political comeback. The man, known for his deep pockets, has made his intentions known and has already hit the ground running. However, sharp divisions have rocked his team after it emerged that he intends to use the same individuals who managed his campaigns in the last general elections, which he narrowly lost. Some of his allies have outrightly opposed his decision and have launched a push to persuade him to replace them. According to some insiders, some of those angling for a place in the team feel 'it is our time to eat' after some members of the current team bragged how they made a killing in the last elections. An executive committee member of a county in western Kenya is said to be using funds from a donor-funded project to advance his political ambitions. The man, who is eying a parliamentary (pictured) seat in the 2022 elections, is a familiar figure at local entertainment spots where he treats a chain of women involved in his campaigns. A bird whispers to Corridors that his chief officer, fed up with blatant draining of funds, has written to the donor agency advising that an audit needs to be conducted before any additional funds could be released for the project. The CEC on the other hand is said to have vowed to teach the chief officer a lesson should the taps run dry. A legal department manager in a state corporation in the agriculture sector is in trouble with detectives. Sources whisper to Corridors that the official demanded a Sh3.5 million kickback from a farmer to offer some assistance. However, anti-corruption officers staged a sting operation leading to the arrest of the suspect. It is said that a report was prepared and forwarded to DPP Noordin Haji recommending the officers be charged with three counts of receiving a bribe.