South Africa retailer Shoprite wants an order barring it from exiting the country on account of a pending case filed by a shopper lifted. It has offered to deposit Sh3 million as security in the case brought by Patrick Maina who is claiming Sh 190million for injuries and loss of income following an accident at the supermarket's Garden City Branch. The supermarket says its business empire in the country is worth Sh3 billion and the order if not vacated will lead to wastage of its assets and expose it to unprecedented law suits by the landlords and incoming tenants. “It has also opened up the respondent (supermarket) to potential law suits from the landlords whom it had signed with agreements of surrender of lease and asset transfer as it was exiting its leases before time. Also in jeopardy is the landlord’s agreement with the incoming tenants.” The order complained of was issued on January 26 by high court judge Anthony Mrima following an application by Patrick Maina. Maina says a stack of plastic lids fell on him causing him soft tissue injuries. Judge Mrima had said that in the event that Shoprite is allowed to leave Kenya as they intend to then it will be hard to enforce any order of the court. “In order to strike a balance between the rival positions, and prior to determining whether this Court has the jurisdiction to deal with this Petition, it is only fair that an interim relief be granted,” the court ruled. Maina had claimed that the supermarket had plans of closing down its shops in Kenya later this month. Maina has accused Shoprite of negligence. The father of two who was shopping with his family says he suffered several injuries swollen lips, lacerations on the lips and bleeding inside the mouth. But yesterday Shoprite said that the continued compliance of the court order is causing it massive financial loses. “It has also opened up the respondent to potential law suits from the landlords whom it had signed with agreements of surrender of lease and asset transfer as it was exiting its leases before time. Also in jeopardy is the landlord’s agreement with the incoming tenants.” And if the orders of justice Mrima are not set aside Shoprite’s assets will go to waste and be exposed to unprecedented law suits by the landlords and the incoming tenants. The court was told that even if Maina’s claim is successful it will only be a minute fraction of the massive losses Shoprite, its employees and landlord will suffer as its business in Kenya is worth Sh3 billion. The supermarket indicated that it is willing to deposit in court Sh3 million as security. “It is worth noting  that in as much as the respondent fundamentally disagrees with the petitioners, in a bid to save its business from the massive losses and lawsuits as a result of this orders, it has upped its offer from Sh500,000 to Sh2 million and now Sh3 million,” court was told. The supermarket described Maina as an irrational litigious character who not only failed to quantify his soft tissue injury claim or present any medical report.   