Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya has directed county officers to ensure ongoing projects are completed before starting new ones. He said projects that are being implemented should be completed before the end of his tenure. Oparanya spoke on Wednesday during the signing of performance contracts by senior county staff. He said he will monitor implementation progress. “Resources allocated to the county should be used for the completion of projects before starting new ones,” he said. Oparanya said there has been a challenge in the absorption of funds and documentation of projects. "The government is not a business entity, the responsibility of the government is to make sure you provide service to wananchi, not saving the money," he said. He said allocated funds when carried forward create an accounting problem year in, year out. “I have also noted that we are still having a challenge with documentation. I urge everybody to ensure proper documentation is done in their respective departments," the governor said. He said there was a need to establish a policy on how to deal with the resolution of public complaints, saying this has not been properly carried out by his officers. “It’s unfortunate to have some of the public complaints go unattended, something that should be corrected because some of these complaints do not reach me, yet these are the people we serve and their issues should be listened to.” Oparanya also lauded some departments that have performed exemplary. “Today, we have released results for Cycle 4 of the performance contract and I would like to congratulate the Public Service Board for being the best performing department,” he said. Deputy Governor Prof Philip Kutima acknowledged that some departments have improved performance over the years and urged them to focus on excelling further. “I wish to applaud those departments and entities that have excelled and urge them to better these results further,” he said. Public Service and County Administration executive Rodah Masaviru thanked individuals who worked round the clock to prepare, vet and evaluate performance contracts. In the released report, the Public Service Board was followed by Public Service and Administration. The department of Education was number three.