Veteran athletics coach Charles Mogaka, aka High Voltage, was on Friday afternoon buried in a solemn ceremony at his Nyamusi home in Nyamira County. Mourners who spoke at the funeral mainly teachers, athletes, and sports administrators paid glowing tribute to Mogaka. Mogaka died at 50. He was until his death three weeks ago a teacher at Kiendege primary school and coach at Nyamira County Talent Center at Kiendege. He died after a short illness. Athletics Kenya Nyanza South chairman Peter Angwenyi and Gusii Sports Legends director Alfred Momanyi mourned Mogaka. They regretted the dwindling athletics standards in the region. “Mogaka was a dedicated coach who has produced several young athletes including his two daughters who have represented primary and secondary schools at national level,” said Angwenyi. Momanyi who addressed mourners on phone from his base in the US asked the county government of Nyamira to support the talent center. “Pioneer athletes in Kenya are from Kisii and Nyamira counties. It’s disheartening that the two counties are not allocating funds for sports development. I want to petition the county of Nyamira to complete Manga Stadium as the governor promised,” said Momanyi. Africa under 20 race walking champion Samson Ndigiti moved mourners to tears as he eulogized Mogaka. Ndigiti spoke on behalf of athletes. “He was a primary school teacher but he used to come to the secondary section to coach us. He spent his money to ensure our success. He mentored and motivated us,” said Ndigiti who is is a world under 18 race walking bronze medalist. Kenya Primary Schools Sports Association officials led by the chairman Richard Nyachieo, secretary David Ogechi, and treasurer George Getangwa also praised the late Mogaka as a great coach. “He was the Nyamira County primary schools coach who helped us dominate athletics in the Nyanza region,” said Ogechi. Isaiah Moturi who was Mogaka’s counterpart at Kiendege regretted that they have never received any support from the county government of Nyamira since they were posted to the talent center. “We are owed a lot of allowances since we moved from our stations to Kiabonyoru and later Kiendege. We have been coaching these young athletes because of passion,” said Moturi. He said the county owes him and the late Mogaka thousands in allowances. Peter Oenga a director of the academy admitted that the staffs including teachers were last paid in the year 2016 when they had a residential camp. “Payments have been erratic because of a high turnover of ministers at the county,” Oenga told the Star on phone.