The forest cover in arid and semi-arid areas is set to significantly improve following the acquisition of specialised equipment and more vehicles by the Kenya Forest Service. The equipment comes at a time the state is pushing to increase the tree cover from 7.2 per cent to 10 per cent by 2022. To enhance the cover, Sh48 billion is needed to grow two billion trees. KFS on Monday flagged off a 165-horsepower tractor, which was procured for tree planting in the arid and semi-arid lands. The tractor was procured in the 2019-20 financial year through the Exchequer. "This technology will support the dry land forestry activities while combating desertification and climate change. It will also increase biodiversity, combat hunger and poverty through agroforestry interventions," KFS chief conservator Julius Kamau said. ASAL areas cover about 80 per cent of the total land surface in Kenya and hold 25 per cent of the human population. Such areas are unique in nature and require special attention to strengthen not only the economic base of the inhabitants but also the national economy. ASALs offer the greatest potential for intensified afforestation towards achieving the national objective of 10 per cent tree cover. Marsabit has 1.70 per cent, Wajir 1.94, Taita Taveta 3.63, Kwale 5.44, Mandera 3.04, Garissa 7.09, Isiolo 5.34, Kajiado 7.14, Kilifi 7.67 and Turkana 4.06 per cent. The tractor is fitted with a specialised plough known as the Vallerani system, which is composed of single reversible mould board plough and ripper. It constructs micro basins 3.5 meters to 5 meters long, 40 to 50 meters wide, and 40 to 50 centimetres deep, creating an ongoing underground split furrow to collect water from adjoining micro basins. Kamau said a tractor has been procured to support seedlings production and forest rehabilitation through the support of FAO-GEF 7. He said the equipment demonstrates the use of technology in the rehabilitation efforts in ASAL areas. He added that the new equipment will revitalise and restore degraded soil through the construction of water harvesting and retention structures, supporting tree growing. KFS and Kenya Forest Research Institute have partnered to demonstrate land preparation using the equipment in Kibwezi and Kathonzweni in Makueni county and Imbirikani in Kajiado. Some 80 acres have been prepared and water harvesting structures constructed for tree planting. Dryland forests have the potential to supply marketable commodities on a sustainable basis such as gums and resins, aloe, charcoal, essential oils, silk, edible oil, commercial juices, frankincense, indigenous fruits, honey, thatching materials and timber, which can improve livelihoods. The conservator said the Green Zone Development Support Project II funded by Africa Development Bank and the government has also helped KFS to acquire vehicles. The goal of the project is to improve forest conservation and community livelihood for sustainable forest management. The six-year project which is being implemented in 15 counties around Mt Kenya, Aberdares and the Mau ecosystems runs from 2019-25. The project promotes new and efficient ways of increasing forest cover. "It will significantly contribute to the government's Big Four agenda on food and nutrition security, affordable housing, universal health coverage, and enhancing manufacturing," Kamau said.