Defeat of the BBI Bill by the Baringo assembly is a loss for Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, the Kanu boss who supports the Building Bridges Initiative. Baringo was the first county to reject the Constitutional (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The vote was taken last Thursday in a tumultuous session. Gideon has represented Baringo since a landslide win in 2013. Speaker David Kiplagat has written to the National Assembly and the Senate to communicate the rejection of the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Kiplagat dismissed reports he had not declared the results of the vote at the time tear gas was tossed into the chambers. It was not clear whether riot police, who had been called to quell chaos or unidentified individuals threw the tear gas. Reports had indicated tear gas was thrown into the chamber just before the speaker declared 30 MCAs had rejected the Bill while 11 had voted in favour. “I issued a certificate of rejection and I have written to the National Assembly and the Senate to communicate the decision," Kiplagat said. The speaker said he had declared the results at the time all hell broke loose inside the chambers. “I declared the results but there was a lot of noise and people may not have heard me. It was however captured in the Hansard," he said. “I confirm the vote was taken. We have 45 MCAs, four were absent, 30 voted No and 11 voted Yes. At the point of announcing the result, a tear gas canister was lobbed into the chambers,” Kiplagat told Citizen TV on Monday. He said there was an effort to stop him from declaring the results of the vote. “Chaos was precipitated by the heavy presence of the police. I have also written to the police over the issue,” he added. Following the decision of the assembly, Rongai MP Raymond Moi urged Baringo residents to vote out MCAs who rejected the Bill. He said the county is so poor that the proposed BBI constitutional amendments giving more money to counties could be its saviour. Kanu secretary general Nick Salat said MCAs were working on instructions from "certain quarters". Salat said Baringo residents would be the biggest losers should the Bill fail. Kiplagat said, however, the MCAs who voted against the Bill were acting on instructions of the people they represent. “The outcome of the vote is what the majority of the public wanted. It was not something that the MCAs decided on their own,” he added. The speaker said the divide witnessed during the debate could be linked to the differences between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. “What happened in the assembly during the BBI debate can be traced back to the rift between Uhuru and Ruto. Their issues are best thrashed out in the boardroom,” he said. Kiplagat defended himself against accusations that he rushed the debate on the Bill. “We do not have a system of law that says once you receive a Bill, you have to wait for a certain minimum or maximum number of days. It is unfortunate that tempers were high in Baringo but we tried what we could,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 