The government is keen to speed up the setting up of regional enterprise hubs in major towns across the country, Industrialisation PS Francis Owino has said. This, together with the Credit Guarantee Scheme rolled-out in December will play a crucial role in supporting SMEs recover from the impact of Covid-19, and drive their growth going forward. Dubbed 'Biashara Centres', the hubs have a set up similar to huduma centres, where they will be one-stop-shops for entrepreneurs, for ease of doing business. “The first Biashara Centre is already operational at Kariobangi, Nairobi” Owino noted during this week's launch of the Manufacturing Priority Agenda 2021, by the Kenya Association of Manufacturers. Other major towns targeted, in the short term, includes Mombasa, Eldoret and Kisumu, before going to other counties, the PS said. Government agencies involved in the Biashara Centres module include the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and Kenya Bureau of Standards (Kebs). Government services, including permits and licensing will be offered at the facilities. The government is also counting on the Credit Guarantee Scheme to cushion SMEs. Under the initiative, the state will insure part of risks undertaken by commercial banks in advancing loans to SMEs. The government has set aside Sh3 billion as seed capital for the creation of the scheme with additional financing coming from partner financial institutions and development partners. The European Union has already committed €100 million (Sh11.7 billion) in support of the scheme. Banks involved in the programme are Absa Kenya, Co-operative Bank, Credit Bank, DTB, KCB, NCBA and Stanbic, extending credit to MSMEs that meet the requirements, including compliance with tax obligations and business permits and having a good credit standing. The finance will be utilised for working capital, acquisition of assets and recovery from Covid-19 impacts. “The operationalisation of the Credit Guarantee Scheme for the vulnerable Micro Small and Medium sized Enterprises (MSMEs), will de-risk lending by commercial banks, and is critical to increasing credit to this sector,” CBK governor Patrick Njoroge said. He spoke during the recent Monetary Policy Committee meeting, on January 27, where the committee  retained the base lending rate at seven per cent for the sixth consecutive time. Manufacturers have challenged the government to ensure allocation of funds towards the SME credit guarantee scheme. The Kenya Association of Manucturers (KAM) further called on the Capital Market Authority to reduce the costs associated with the implementation of corporate governance framework for SME’s. “There is also need to encourage SMEs to formalize their business through training and awareness creation,” KAM chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga said. Private incubators and research and development organizations should also be incentivized to nurture startups and SME’s, Wakiaga said. According to National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani, disruption caused by the virus has  deeply affected small businesses that would unlikely attract affordable and quality credit under the traditional arrangements. The operation of the scheme is guided by the Public Finance (Amendment) (No.2) Act, 2020 which hands the power to the Cabinet Secretary of the National Treasury to oversight the fund’s day-to-day operations. Only enterprises that fall under the SME definition as given under the Act stand to qualify for the guarantees. Firms accessing the guarantees are capped under the definition of medium enterprises which refers to businesses employing between 50 and 250 persons and a turnover not exceeding Sh150 million. MSMEs remain critical in the country's post-Covid recovery and economic development, as they form more than 90 per cent of all businesses in Kenya, creating around 75 per cent of the jobs. Major challenges have been limited access to credit, access to skills and technology, poor access to markets and market information and limited access to infrastructure. Unpredictable policy, legal and regulatory environments have also continued to affect the entities.