The over-ambitious, debt-ridden China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) is deepening divisions within Pakistan’s different regions and its people and creating a sandstorm of anger and disenchantment from Gilgit to Gwadar. The corridor project has already left Pakistan in a debt crisis of great magnitude, the only way out left is to mortgage its sovereignty and prestige to China and international financial institutions like the World Bank and IMF. Besides the economic disaster, the project has landed Pakistan in, what should worry its leaders the most is the rising anger among people in regions occupied by the Chinese-run project who feel cheated by their own government. Gilgit Baltistan, touted as the 'Gateway to CPEC', is an apt illustration of how Pakistan government has abandoned the wishes and welfare of its people for the Chinese yen. The area has seen no project under the CPEC to date. Even the newly-elected government run by Prime Minister Imran Khan’s PTI admits that projects have been on paper and there has been no sight of any project on the ground in Gilgit Baltistan which has a population of 1.3 million. While main political parties, from Punjab and Sindh, have ensured that large chunks of the project go to their political strongholds, areas like Gilgit Baltistan, with no political clout, have been left out. Neither was the people consulted on the project nor were there any attempt to include their leaders in the government committees involved in the planning and implementation of CPEC projects. The people of Gilgit Baltistan are beginning to realise how they have been cheated of their rightful share in the project and development. They were told that since the main route for the CPEC projects would go through Gilgit, there would be all-round development along the highway connecting Gwadar to Kashgar. They were told that there would be greater opportunities for education, employment and welfare. There was a promise of 1.8 million jobs for instance. Instead what happened was China sending 400,000 construction workers to Gilgit-Baltistan at the expense of local labour. China has benefited more from the project than the people of the region. For instance, at the behest of Chinese mining companies, Pakistan cancelled licences of local miners. The Chinese developers have reportedly displaced thousands of residents without offering any rehabilitation package. The people now realise that the highway, laid out at a heavy cost to the environment in the fragile Himalayan region, would be used for transporting men and material to far-flung areas where major CPEC projects were coming up and there would be nothing for the local communities, except the dust and debris of the highway. There would be no new schools, no hospitals, no welfare centres, and as locals put it, 'not even a water tank' under the project. The region remains mostly dark during the nights because of power shortages despite having the highest power generating capacity in the entire Pakistan. There is only one road that connects the region to the outside world, causing immense hardships to the local people. The Gilgit-Chitral route had been part of the CPEC project but the plan was dropped last year. Instead, the government approved a four-lane 80-km-long motorway between Chakdara to Fatehpur in Swat. Angry residents had come out on to the streets in protest against this deceitful act. Likewise, the Ghizer Road project, too, remains in the books. There is a talk among the local population to rise up in protest against the federal government. All the local leaders have come out openly against such step-motherly policies of the Imran Khan government. It is feared that if such protests were to gather steam, the entire CPEC project could be stalled or made unviable.