Deputy President William Ruto and his Tangatanga brigade are now calling for a boycott of some news alert services terming them as propaganda tools against the 'hustler' nation. Via Twitter on Saturday evening, Ruto who led his troops to boycott the services posted a screenshot that showcased that he had already unsubscribed from the news alerts. "Dear Subscriber, you have successfully unsubscribed from 21411_News_Breaking_News/5sms.  Tuonane kule mbele. KaziNiKazi," the tweet read. This was followed by similar tweets from Elgeyo Marakwet senator Kipchumba Murkomen ,  Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika and Belgut MP Nelson Koech. Via his handle, Murkomen said there was no difference between SMS news alert 411 and Joseph Goebbels’ notepad. "It is the state’s most vicious propaganda tool against hustler’s and their quest for inclusion. UNSUBSCRIBE is the only option left," he said. Ruto on Saturday said he will not resign despite President Uhuru Kenyatta asking him to quit if he felt the government was not doing enough to deliver services. He said he will instead continue supporting the President to roll out Jubilee administration's programmes. Speaking in Isiolo county, Ruto said he will respect the President despite having been stripped of his duties. The DP denied claims of undermining the President, saying Uhuru is the final decision maker in the Jubilee administration. “You all know I am a very respectful person. The President and I campaigned as a team and we formed the Jubilee government. I respect the President and he is the one who makes the final decision in this government,” Ruto said. “I have never contradicted the President because of respect I have for him. Even though the work I was supposed to be doing as the Deputy President is being done by others, I have respected the President on that decision because I want the unity of the country." On Friday, Uhuru challenged the DP to quit. Uhuru said it does not make sense for Ruto to take credit for development projects his government has done since 2013 when they took over and at the same time campaign against some.