Boresha Sacco formerly Baringo Teachers cooperative society CEO Moses Chebor has retired after serving for 35 years. Guests, sacco members, family and friends are expected to attend his farewell party on Saturday in Nakuru. “I will retire but will always remain a member of the sacco and market it because I am a firm believer of Cooperatives,” he said He took over from the pioneer  CEO Reuben Kangogo who managed the society since its establishment back in 1976. During his tenure, Chebor, among other achievements managed to see the growth of the sacco membership from 1,800 to the current 107,139. The assets base also shot from sh15 million to sh7billion. He also engaged qualified technical experts to install water-tight software to run monetary transactions and free the members from fraudsters. His deputy Jacob Mengich whom he has mentored for several years has however taken over his position after an agreement by the board members. Mengich, therefore, promised to emulate his seniors, protect the sacco’s integrity and propel it to the greater heights. Back in 2012, Chebor managed to rebrand the society’s name from then ‘Baringo Teachers Sacco’ to currently ‘Boresha’ to accommodate non-teaching members to the financial institution. Presently the Sacco boasts 17 fully-fledged branches across the region Eldama-Ravine being the main headquarters. Its branches are spread in Kabarnet, Marigat, Mogotio, Kabartonjo, , Chemolingot, Tenges, Mumberes, Kipsaraman, Kisanana, , Mochongoi, Barwessa, Rumuruti-Laipikia, Eldoret, Kapsabet-Nandi, Nakuru town and Iten Elgeyo-Marakwet. “All our community members can now access financial services even closer in the remote areas,” Chebor said. Born in remote Kapkiamo village in Baringo North in 1960, Chebor attended Kapkiamo primary school before joining Rift Valley Technical High School in Eldoret where he scored division two in KCE in 1980. He then proceeded to the Cooperative College of Kenya (CCK) where he pursued and graduated in Certificate in Cooperative Business Administration (CBA). Although he did not manage to study beyond the certificate level to either Diploma or Degree, the veteran leader termed learning as a continuous process which is not confined only to classrooms. Upon completing college, Chebor secured employment as a clerk and accounting officer for the rural Tugen Hills Cooperative society where he diligently served before he was poached to work in then Baringo teachers Sacco. “In Boresha Sacco I rose through the ranks from the position of a branch manager, general manager to a CEO,” he said. He attributed his personal success to constant prayers, high integrity, hard work, honesty, accountability and respecting other people’s potentials. Two years ago, Chebor was awarded an Honorary Degree by the American University (AU) for his experience and service to humanity. Chebor, however, believes that leaders should not just be qualified but they should also be with foresight and integrity. He attributes the steady growth of Boresha sacco over time due to strong patronage by members, good corporate governance practices and a dedicated team of staff. Upon his retirement, he urges members to continue patronizing the sacco and to remain loyal.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris