Kenya has flattened the Covid-19 curve but the fight against the disease is not yet over, the Health Ministry said on Thursday. It said the virus positivity rate has been relatively low since January, with a rate of 4.8 per cent having been recorded on Wednesday and Thursday. The country on Wednesday recorded 180 new cases from a sample size of 4,580 tested in 24 hours. Four patients died. The virus caseload stands at 101,339 with 1,773 fatalities. The ministry said 59 deaths involved people who had cancer as a pre-existing condition. “When you look at our positivity rate since the beginning of the year, the highest positivity rate has been 6.8 per cent which was on January 7 and the lowest was 2.1 per cent,” acting health director general Patrick Amoth said. He added, “Strictly speaking you could say that we have flattened the curve but flattening the curve is an event so it is not very important because for sure we still have these surges and spikes going on until everybody are vaccinated and everybody is offered protection.” Amoth also noted the low numbers being recorded is due to change in testing strategy late last year. The ministry has been focusing on testing only the symptomatic cases, truckers due to their movement and Kenyans that fall under the vulnerable groups. “So it is not that the numbers have gone down, it is only that we are now trying to focus on the people with the highest risk. The curve looks low but remember also our low mortality rate is because of our youthful population and other inherent biological factors that we have not yet proven.” Amoth said the ministry has heightened the surveillance system especially at the ports of entry to be able to pick any new variants that have been reported in the UK, South Africa and Brazil. So far two cases of the UK variant and one of the South African variant have been picked by the Kemri Kilifi researchers. Amoth said it was not the time to drop the ball adding that there is need to continue maintaining the mitigation and containment measures put in place until the critical number of people are vaccinated and herd immunity achieved, a process he said was going to take a long time. “When you look at the numbers of the cases in hospitals, those who are in ICU, those in home-based care, the numbers are remarkably down so we can say that for now we are in a good space but that’s not an indication that we lower our guard.” On Thursday, 460 people remained admitted in various health facilities countrywide, while 1,432 were under the home-based care. Twenty six were in ICU out of whom 11 were on ventilator support and 15 on supplemental oxygen. Another 16 patients were separately on supplemental oxygen with 12 being in the general wards and 4 in the high dependency unit. The ministry said 83 patients recovered from the disease on Thursday, 53 from the home-based isolation and 30 were discharged from various hospitals across the country, pushing the number of recoveries to 84,143. 