A senior Human Resource Manager at the Rural Electrification Authority was on Friday charged with forgery. Irene Chesang' who is facing 10 counts of forgery made a brief appearance before Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti but did not plead to the charges. Magistrate Ogoti postponed the plea session to Tuesday next week to enable her to compose herself. She is accused of forging her KCSE certificate and United States International University (USIU) degree certificate that she used in the interviews that would lead to her landing the job. The prosecution claim that with intent to deceive, Chesang' made a fake Bachelor of Science in International Business Administration degree certificate purporting it to be a genuine document issued by USIU on June 2000. She is also accused of providing false information to Rural Electrification Authority, a public entity, on January 31, 2018. Chesang' gave out false information in her application letter for the position of Principal Human Resource officer by claiming she had studied and qualified for the degree of BSc in International Business Administration. Further, she faces two counts of acquiring public property from Kenya Wildlife Service and Rural Electrification Authority. “On diverse dates between July 1, 2001, and May 16, 2005, in Nairobi, while being a public officer employed at KWS fraudulently acquired public property amounting to Sh934,504,” reads the charge sheet. It is also alleged that between September 2011 and September 2018 being a public officer employed at Rural Electrification Authority she fraudulently acquired Sh10,090,249. The state also claims that she forged academic transcripts from USIU for the year 1997 to 2000 purporting them to be genuine. She is also accused of forging her KCSE certificate from Solian Girls' High School issued by the KNEC for the 1996 exams purporting to have scored a mean grade of B minus. Chesang' is also alleged to have forged an exemption letter dated June 29, 2008,  issued to her by the Kenya Accountants and Secretaries National Examination Board.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris