Northwestern Pritzker School of Law’s Center for International Human Rights will award its sixth Global Jurist of the Year Award to Justice Mumbi Ngugi. Justice Ngugi, who serves in the Anti-corruption and Economic Crimes Division of the High Court, will receive the award during a webinar on February 16 at noon. According to Northwestern Pritzker, she will be interviewed by her friend the Honorable Ann Williams, retired U.S. Circuit Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, about the justice’s life-long commitment to human rights, marginalized populations, and diversity, equity and inclusion. The Global Jurist of the Year Award is designed to honor a sitting judge, whether in an international or national court, who has demonstrated in his or her career courage in the face of adversity to uphold and defend fundamental human rights or the principles of international criminal justice. Jurists from all nations and tribunals are eligible for consideration. On why Justice Ngugi was chosen to receive the award, interim director of CIHR, Thomas F. Geraghty said, "It is important that we bring to our University community distinguished practitioners and scholars who not only speak and write, but those who courageously work to implement human rights on the front lines." Adding, “Without them, little progress would be made in implementing human rights protections. She is a role model for our faculty and for students who aspire to be future Justice Ngugis.” Prior to her present posting, Justice Ngugi served as the Presiding Judge, High Court of Kenya, at Kericho and in the Constitutional and Human Rights Division in Nairobi. In the last nine years, she has been involved in the emerging human rights jurisprudence in Kenya, particularly in relation to the social economic rights guaranteed in the Constitution of Kenya, 2010. Justice Ngugi is a long-time advocate of human rights in Kenya. She has been involved in advocacy work for the rights of women and children, as well as the housing rights of the urban poor. She has also been a prominent activist for the rights of persons with albinism in Kenya.