Leading gaming company Mozzart on Wednesday 10 February donated medical equipment worth Ksh 1.5 Million to the Waithaka Health Center in Nairobi. The donated equipment included hospital beds, bed side lockers, maternity delivery beds, patient stretchers, patient monitors, oxygen concentrators, oxygen flow meter, nebulizers, blood pressure monitors and maternity MVA kits. Cecilia Mbachu - Facility in charge of the Waithaka Health Centre thanked Mozzart for the kind gesture. “We are the only Government facility in Waithaka sub county and we serve approximately more than 60,000 people in this region. We are very grateful to Mozzart for their donation and they are welcome again to support us more.” She said. Winnie Kamae, the Maternity in charge of the facility revealed the facility was really in dire need of the crucial equipment and also thanked Mozzart for the donation. “We are very privileged to receive this equipment. We have been in dire need as there has been shortage of such crucial equipment but with the donation from Mozzart we are now covered.” She said. Mozzart’s CSR representative June Jemutai reiterated the company’s commitment to supporting Kenyan communities. “We are very delighted to be here to support this public health center. We have spent slightly over Ksh 50 Million so far on CSR programs and healthcare is an important sector that we are committed to improve,” she said, “We are a listening organization and the common man is at the center of our operations. We are eager to help the communities in their projects aimed at improving the quality of life of the ordinary people in the society,” she added. Between November 2020 and now, seventeen different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center, Dandora 2 Health Center, Kakamega Referral Hospital and now the Waithaka Health Center. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.