County assemblies resume sittings this week and atop their agendas is the BBI Bill. Rift Valley is Deputy President William Ruto's backyard and the Bill has divided opinions. Ruto has called BBI a waste of time and resources and raised numerous issues but declines to lead the 'No' campaign. At least 24 of 47 counties must approve the Bill, then it goes to Parliament for debate, then a referendum.  It has already been received at the assemblies after a long break for holidays lengthened by the Covid-19 pandemic. The break has been as long as three months in some counties. Most of the assemblies have been carrying out operations virtually, but it's expected physical meetings will increase with strict adherence to  Covid-19 protocols, especially social distancing. The Nandi county assembly will reconvene on Tuesday and Majority leader David Koech is to table the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. “We are ready to deal with the Bill and it will go through the required process," Koech said. Assembly speaker Joshua Kiptoo said MCAs will reconvene to discuss the Bill and other issues. A month ago, DP Ruto visited the area and told leaders, "Don't be bothered" by the BBI Bill. They have said the focus should be on Covid-19 and jobs. The position taken by the DP has left most MCAs in a tricky situation as President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga ardently support the Bill as a virtual panacea for what ails Kenya. Ruto allies in the region, led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, have said they will not bother to lobby MCAs on the Bill. “Kenyans have been very clear and they will soon make a decision on the BBI. It's not about we leaders lobbying MCAs to decide how to handle the Bill," Sudi said. But Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono cautioned MCAs to vote on the Bill as their constituents wish. “How the MCAs handle it will also determine their political future because they have to stand with the electorate or go against it at their peril," he said. Uasin Gishu assembly Majority leader Josphat Lowoi confirmed the Bill and other important matters are pending. “The Bill will go through the usual procedures and MCAs will decide its fate," Lowoi said. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, who is chairman of the BBI process in Rift Valley, urged MCAs to be mindful of the benefits of the Bill. “We urge MCAs not to be driven by political interests. They should decide based on the benefits the country will derive from BBI, including stronger devolution," Tolgos said. (Edited by V. Graham)