Kenyan political party nominations and campaigns are synonymous with chaos characterised by name callings and unprinted insults. However, one mass movement in the volatile country is a surprise departure from these primitive events. Few Kenyans, except members, are aware that campaigns for posts in the Central Organisation of Trade Unions affiliates are ongoing in the country where premature presidential campaigns are acrimonious and promise to persist beyond the forthcoming referendum. The union campaigns are chaos-free and devoid of cacophony. Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli is at the helm of an island of peace in a sea of political turbulence and betrayal. The umbrella body leader, a life member of the former ruling party, Kanu silently struck an accord with a cocktail of  affiliates and swore not to infuse party ideologies into the workers movement. Cotu leadership is diverse to say the least. It stands firm against political influence and distances itself from the toxic national and party politics that contaminated the labour movement of the yesteryears until the change of leadership in 1996. The enviable and unmatched home grown solutions to local problems in the unions dwarfs nicely worded post-election brokered reports on the restoration of elusive peace incorporated in the Building Bridges Initiative and 2008 Accord on National Dialogue on Peace and Reconciliation respectively. Notwithstanding the tranquility of a quarter century, the trade union movement is not enjoying the hard earned peace envied by the high and mighty that had used the organisation as a political mouthpiece. It has endured some of the worst frustrations and manipulations and the trend continues with unparalleled impunity. The government of the day cannot fathom and tolerate a strong labour organisation that plays the role of a whistle blower. Employers and proxies services have been enlisted to use every trick in the book to cripple or tame the trade unions, one such was attempt was the registration of an alternative labour centre to weaken Cotu. Unhappy with the watchdog played by Cotu in the workers’ pension and health insurance schemes, the government tried to unseat the labour centre from boards of the scandal-riddled  National Social Security Fund and its sister, the National Health Insurance Fund. The Teachers' Service Commission in particular has undertaken the task to frustrate a Cotu affiliate, the giant Kenya National Union of Teachers and its members. TSC has, in the meantime, discontinued the check off system to the union and dangled promotions to members who quit Knut for friendly teachers organisations. Knut secretary-general Wilson Sossion, a nominated MP is paying a costly price for not conforming to the dictates of the employer. He and other trade union colleagues sitting in the legislature were threatened with deregistration on account that they are state officers banned from earning more than one salary. The government is forgetful and thankless. Were it not for the clandestine support of the freedom struggle  by the labour organisation, the independence of the   country could have been easy and was going to take long to achieve. Instead of reciprocating the gesture of   the one time ally, the post-independence government frustrates the movement operations. Is there a lesson the political parties and the government can learn from Cotu on peaceful  elections and reconciliation? Not now may be after imminent electoral violence. The writer is a freelance Journalist. Email: paminao@yahoo.com