ODM leader Raila Odinga on Monday ejected Siaya governor Cornel Rasanga and Migori governor Okoth Obado from a podium in Kisumu. Raila was holding a consultative meeting that brought on board Governors, MPs, Professionals, delegates and Members of the County Assemblies of the Lower Nyanza Counties. In the video seen by the Star, Raila was seen addressing the delegates in Ciala resort when Obado and Rasanga arrived. The two were seen passing in front of Raila as he was addressing the delegates. Dressed in Kaunda like suits and hats, the two passed and went to sit in the main podium before Raila asked them to leave. "Governor governor... Go and sit down there! Raila said in Luo language as he pointed the direction where other delegates were seated. The two had to leave the podium as giggles and claps rented the air. Leaving the podium a dejected lot, the two walked faster as they went to look for other seats. The two came late when Raila was giving his speech and went straight to the main dias where Governors Anyang Nyong'o(Kisumu) and Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay) and Siaya Senator James Orengo who were part of the panelists were sitting at Ciala Resort in Kisumu West. Raila, in an attempt to control the heckling delegates from Migori, explained that the seat Obado headed for was reserved for the Luo council of Elders Opiyo Otondi. The meeting which is currently underway is expected to rally political leaders to support and pass BBI Bill. He noted that there was nothing wrong with the governors sitting together with the public. Migori County Assembly Speaker Boaz Okoth also received a cold reception as he was heckled by a section of the delegates. The meeting was called by Raila to consolidate support for BBI by ODM camp as he seeks to cement support for the Building Bridges Initiative. The meeting at Ciala resort has attracted hundreds of ODM leaders and delegates across the country. Raila rallied residents from Nyanza to support the quest to change the constitution. This comes as he also consolidate his political backyard ahead of the 2022 general election. Leaders said they are fully behind BBI and Raila in his mission to unite the country together with President Uhuru Kenyatta. Orengo said BBI will benefit all Kenyans across the region.