Senators are mulling changing the law to introduce tough penalties for national and county governments and other employers that fail or inordinately delay remitting their employees’ statutory deductions. The lawmakers said that many employees have been subjected to untold pain and suffering owing to the unbecoming conduct of their employers to withhold the deductions. In some instances, they said, employees have been blacklisted by banks and can no longer access loans while others have been denied crucial services including coverage by NHIF because of their employers’ actions. “The worst part of it is failure to remit the statutory deductions that they have already deducted from their workers. Sometimes it is reflected on their pay slips that they have been deducted but this has not been remitted to the various respective institutions,” Bomet senator Christopher Langat said. Langat narrated that during his tenure as the chairman of the Senate Education committee, employees from several state bodies, including seven universities complained that they had been blacklisted by various financial institutions. “This is punishing the employees of various counties and it should be taken very seriously,” he reiterated. Embu Senator Njeru Ndwiga reckoned that some employees can no longer access school fees, loans from their Saccos because their employers have not remitted dues already deducted from them. “It is so painful when an employee has, for example, been deducted NHIF, which covers them and their dependents and the moment they try get into a medical facility, they find that they cannot access it, just because the deductions have not been transmitted,” he said. "Perhaps, we should find a way of enforcing all deductions. In fact, it is already criminal not to remit, but these things happen every day, and Kenyans have nowhere to go. I think it is time that this House finds a way to properly criminalize that behaviour," he added. The senators were reacting to a statement sought by their Wajir Abdullahi Ali seeking to know if there exists a policy or regulatory framework that guides county governments on no remittance of employee statutory deductions. The senator also demanded to know the measures has the Government has put in place to protect county employees against non-remittance of employees’ deductions and work injury benefits and as well as pension deductions. “Wajir County has not sent remittances for NSSF for seven months. It has not sent deductions for pensions for 10 months. On NHIF, they had agreed at the beginning and later did not pay the balance. Now they are being told that it will be stopped,” he said. “This is happening all over the country. It is not only Wajir County. We have had several from other counties,” he added. The law mandates employers to deduct and remit certain percentage of the employee’s salary and remit the same to KRA Pay As You Earn (PAYE), National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF), National Social Security Fund (NSSF), pensions and other statutory deductions. National Hospital Insurance Fund (NSSF) Act, the National Social Security Fund (NSFF) Act and the Employment Act treat non-remittance as criminal. “An employer who fails to comply with the provisions of subsection (4) commits an offence and shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both,” the Employment Act reads in part. However, the many institutions continue to either make late remittances or fail altogether to do so, attracting penalties and denial of services to their employees. “NSFF and NHIF have prosecutors who do not operate through the DPP. What is happening in counties is that the prosecutors for those particular statutory bodies have been compromised so that they do not launch complaints,” Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr said.