Sport Cabinet Secretary Amina Muhammed on Thursday made her fourth inspection of Kinoru Stadium in the wake of an outcry by stakeholders that the facility falls short of the requisite international standards. Amina has in the past set deadlines, which contractors have failed to meet, much to the chagrin of disgruntled football fans who expected the stadium to be complete by now. At least Sh900 million was set aside for the construction of the facility two years ago but the contractor's promise to complete it within a year remains unfulfilled. Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi said the stadium would be a major boost to local and international athletes, adding the construction was currently 99% done. He thanked both President Uhuru Kenyatta and CS Amina for their commitment towards the facility. Football fans in Meru County have, however, expressed their disappointment at the slow pace of construction. The upgrading of the pitch to international standards was initiated by the county government in 2014. During the tour of the facility, Amina said the VVIP, VIP, the generator, changing rooms and water plant could only be compared with those at Nyayo Stadium. She said the remaining challenges including grass and floodlights would be effectively addressed. On January 19, Football Kenya Federation officials visited the stadium and declared it unsuitable to host lower tier matches. The officials led by Michael Ouma, who is the chairperson for International Matches Organising Committee, noted that the stadium cannot be used in its current state, and urged the contractor to spruce up the playing surface. Sports PS Kirimi Kaberia, Sports Kenya chairman Fred Muteti and Meru governor Kiraitu Murungi signed a memorandum of understanding to construct the stadium to international stadium. "We know you (CS Amina) are very busy but this is your fourth time to inspect Kinoru stadium. Now, Gor Mahia and Tusker will play their games here and athletics will also be conducted here. It is 99% and we are ready to welcome President Uhuru to commission it in a bigger way," Kiraitu said. Kenyan Premier League side, Tusker FC, who adopted the stadium as their home ground and played half of their 2014/2015 matches there, have expressed dissatisfaction with the slow pace of construction. They have now shifted their base to Kenyatta Stadium in Machakos for their 2016 Premier League matches. The stadium was to achieve international standards pitch, construction of more terraces, installation of floodlights, security and PA system, terrace seats, two boreholes, screens and VIP lounge.