University education stakeholders and MPs have come up with proposals that they hope will solve problems facing higher education in the country. Among the proposals include increased funding of research science and technology and innovation and implementation of the National Research Priorities Framework. The National Assembly Committee on Education and Research on Friday said they have received concerns over the funding of public universities. Speaking in Mombasa, the committee chair  Busia woman representative  Florence Mutua, said the university sector needs sustainable financing, proper policy on placement of government-sponsored students in private universities, proper accreditation and supervision of academic programmes in universities. The MPs said allocation to the HELB should be increased to support more students in universities instead of increasing university fees. “Any fees review must take into consideration the performance of the economy at that time given the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy,” Mutua said. Public and private universities are sinking in money problems and considered raising university fees, much to the distress of Kenyans. The government owes universities at least Sh1.6 billion in funding to the students, which is in arrears from as far back as the 2018/2019 fiscal year. Mutua said there is a proposal for the Education ministry and National Treasury to prepare a memo to waive statutory payments to KRA owned by universities. “The National Treasury, National Assembly and Ministry of Education should immediately explore ways to provide conditional grants to support universities to clear outstanding debts such as a pension, sacco deductions and any future NHIF deductions,”  Mutua said. The MPs proposed that individual universities explore outsourcing of non-core functions like hostels, security and catering services. The meeting also proposed that the National Treasury provide funds in the 2021/2022 fiscal year for the Collective Bargaining Agreement 2013-2017 of Sh2.2 billion. “The Ministry of Education should introduce a five-year moratorium on the establishment of new universities, colleges, campuses as well as explore the possibility of merging non-viable campuses, rationalization of programmes and institutions to create centres of excellence,” Mutua said. University Education PS Simon Nabukwesi said the higher education sector in the country needs stability to be competitive in the global market. “We are happy that the political leaders are thinking of find solutions to the problems that affect the standards in our universities,” Nabukwesi said. The meeting was the fifth and last between the university stakeholders and MPs. He said the decision by MPs to bolster research in universities to guide policy decision that will assist the economic development of the country is noble and encouraging. “It is my wish that we get the goodwill and support so that the reforms which are proposed are implemented in full,”  the PS said. Kenya Association of Private Universities chair Mumo Kisau said they are in support of the proposed measures to aid the ailing university education. “We look forward to the implementation,” he said. The Vice-Chancellor of Scott Christian University in Machakos Mumo Kisau said placing students in private universities by the government has been a welcome move. “Our only plea and this has been taken into consideration, is that they need to be supported adequately,” he said. “We are looking forward to having the balance that has accrued of Sh4.2 billion to be given at least this year,”  Kisau said. Public Universities Vice-Chancellors Committee chair Geoffrey Muluvi endorsed the recommendations by the stakeholders and urged the government to consider them to make Kenyan universities competitive again in the global market.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris