ODM party leader Raila Odinga has said the people of Nyanza will work with other Kenyans in 2022 to elect a leader who will fully implement the BBI after it is passed into law. Raila, drumming up support for BBI in Kisumu on Monday, said the document has three parts, namely administrative, legal and constitutional reforms. He said the Luo community is part and parcel of the country. “Nobody is in this country by invitation by another person. Our people are rightly in this country, part of society and they must work with the other 43 tribes in the country," he said. Raila said he united with President Uhuru Kenyatta to have a Kenya that is devoid of ethnic and religious discrimination—where every child has an equal opportunity  to realise their God-given potential. “This is the society we want to build and I have a dream that one day each and every child born in this country shall be judged not by his ethnic background but by the content of his character,” Raila said, paraphrasing the famous quote by the late US civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. He spoke at a consultative meeting that brought together political leaders, business community, professionals and elders from Kisumu, Homa Bay, Siaya and Migori counties at Ciala Resort, Kisumu. Governors Anyang' Nyong’o (Kisumu), Cyprian Awiti (Homa Bay), Cornel Rasanga (Siaya) and Okoth Obado (Migori) and senators James Orengo (Siaya) Moses Kajwang' (Homa Bay), Fred Outa (Kisumu) and Ochilo Ayacko (Migori) attended. Many MPs and MCAs were also present. Raila rallied his troops to vigorously market and pass the BBI bill first, saying 2022 will come for Kenyans to decide whom they want to elect as President. He told off BBI opponents whom he accused of peddling an empty narrative to prepare for a referendum battle. “Those opposing BBI are the same anti-devolution team,” he said. The meeting comes as Raila is aggressively consolidating his political backyard in preparation for a fifth attempt at the presidency. Raila said the BBI will boost development in the counties through increased funds allocation from at least 15 to 35 per cent. In Nigeria, he said, 55 per cent of resources are devolved, noting that there is a need for the Kenyan government to devolve more resources to counties. “If I were there, I would devolve functions of health, agriculture and roads and only remain with funds to build national highways,” he said. He said the document also contains the Youth Development Fund which will enable youths to borrow money to start income generating activities to empower themselves economically. They will access the funds without paying any interest for seven years, Raila said. Instead of being employees they will be employers, he added. "This is how to deal with the poverty and unemployment crisis amongst our youths in the country and not giving them wheelbarrows which are used in construction sites," Raila said. “Nobody wants to sell vegetables or push a wheelbarrow for the rest of his or her life. Therefore, the narrative of haves and have-nots cannot solve the problems the country is facing.” Raila termed the hustlers and dynasty narrative as empty sloganeering that has no meaning to the people of Kenya. The former prime minister said the BBI is serious and will liberate the people. “It is a transformative agenda for Kenyans. It forms part of the agenda for the third and final liberation of our people,” he said. In what he termed the Kisumu declaration of the BBI, Raila implored Kenyans not to be deceived by selfish politicians. He accused DP William Ruto of forgetting the promise Jubilee Party made to Kenyans such as one million jobs per year for youths, laptops for children and state-of-the-art stadia in the 47 counties. “Those children are now in Class Eight. Where are those laptops, jobs and stadia?” Raila said. He said there was a need for the position of the prime minister as is the case in countries such as Uganda, Tanzania, Ethiopia, France, Germany and India. “So it is not something invented here in Kenya in the name of jobs for the boys,” Raila added. In the Grand Coalition government in which he was PM, the position functioned very effectively and the government was much efficient in service delivery, he said. He said parliamentary systems are more effective and efficient than presidential systems, with the US being an exception. He cited Canada, France, Italy, Britain, Germany, Israel, Japan, India, Scandinavia, Australia and New Zealand that have a parliamentary system. “We want to have ministers in Parliament to answer questions from Members of Parliament and get answers,” Raila said. Raila had earlier told off critics of his bromance with Uhuru and assured delegates that his pact with the Head of State is intact. He said Uhuru will not change his mind and renege on sealing and implementing the Building Bridges Initiative to the very end. Raila laughed off the multiple-choice referendum proposed by the Ruto-led wing, saying the document should be voted as a whole. He also claimed that BBI critics had overstated its projected cost, saying it would only cost a fraction of the said budget. In the past, Raila rubbished talk that the referendum would cost at least Sh14 billion. He termed the estimate by the IEBC outrageous, adding that a poll budget should not be more than Sh2 billion for 20 million voters. “The Sh14 billion the IEBC is talking about is not only outrageous but also a manifestation of the institution’s insensitivity to the changes Kenyans are crying for in the management of public affairs,” Raila said. Governor Nyong'o said the BBI is unstoppable as leaders from Nyanza unanimously agreed to rally support for it at the referendum. Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch called on leaders to unite and rally residents from the region to fully support BBI. Embakasi East MP Babu Owino called for unity among the Luo community ahead of the referendum. "We need to be more united and rally support behind Raila than before as we are going to war," he said. Rarienda MP Otiende Amolo dismissed propaganda by BBI critics, saying they are not being honest with Kenyans. Seme MP James Nyikal said BBI is not for the Luo community only but for all Kenyans. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi said the BBI will pass by more than 70 per cent. ODM chairman John Mbadi said the increase of county allocation from at least 15 per cent to 35 as envisaged in the BBI will improve development in the counties.