Five students from St Paul Kiambugi secondary school in Murang’a will spend five days in police custody after they were arrested on Wednesday evening for allegedly torching a dormitory. The five were on Thursday arraigned in a Murang’a court where the police requested Principal Magistrate Atiang Mitullar to allow them to hold the students longer to complete their investigations. Speaking to the Star, Kiharu sub-county director of education Richard Ng’ang’a, CCTV cameras installed in the school caught one of the students engaging in suspicious activities and he later identified two other students who were involved in the arson. Ng'ang’a said the three then gave out a list of nine other students who masterminded the fire before they were handed over to the police for investigations. He said the students gave out details of how they contributed amongst themselves to buy one litre of petrol that was purchased in Gakurwe shopping centre. “They told us that one of the students went for the petrol and that they just wanted to go back home,” he said. The students are in form three and members of the same class. Ng’ang’a, however, said through the co-operation of the school fraternity and the fire fighting department, the fire was put out before it could burn down the roofing and that only mattresses and other personal items were burnt. Form three students were sent home until further notice while any of the other students who felt traumatized by the incident would be given a leave-out sheet to go home until Monday. This transpired even as stakeholders in the education sector continue to call for the abolishment of boarding schools. Both Knut and Kuppet have said doing away with boarding schools is the only way to restore order and curb cases of arson. Gregory Mwaura, a psychologist, supported the proposal saying parents need to take responsibility for the kind of children they bring up. Mwaura who spoke during an interview in a local TV station said having children go to day schools would split the responsibility of moulding them between parents and teachers. “Let teachers and parents both have an eight to five job of taking care of children,” he said. Mwaura underscored the need for every school to have a professional counsellor, a role that is currently undertaken by teachers. “Parents should facilitate the employment of professional counsellor the same way they contribute to motivational exercises‚” Mwaura said. The society should come up with homegrown solutions to the menace because the government comes up with good policies that are never fully implemented. On his part, Highway Secondary School principal Irungu Nduati said some students feel insufficiently prepared for the national examinations after staying at home for months. The unavailability of sports activities due to the Covid-19 pandemic has also served to heighten tension among students, he said. “Students need to socialize and mingle and the lack of that opportunity is not helping things,” he said. He, however, took a swipe at parents who he said will at times go to great lengths to cover up for their children. “Sometimes during drug tests, a parent will give a urine sample so that their children are not exposed and punished,” he said. Davies Okombo, a Children’s rights activists on his part said children are being exposed to violence at a young age which affects their upbringing. He said many children are left in the hands of housegirls who are often mistreated by their employers and take out their frustrations at the children. “Neuro-biological research shows that the first 1,000 days have a major impact on the future of a child and that psychological health care is not well accessible to the general population,” Okombo said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris