Uncertainty surrounds the fate of textbooks to be used in the new curriculum pioneer class as it moves to Grade 5 in July. Nine publishers are set to produce Grade 5 books but the government’s silence worries them as they are yet to be awarded contracts to start printing eight months after they were awarded the tenders. With only four months remaining before the rollout to Grade 5, the publishers have warned of a possible rush against time to meet the deadline. In June last year, Kenya Institute of Curriculum Development awarded nine companies, including Kenya Literature Bureau — a government agency  — tenders to supply textbooks to Grade 5 pupils under the Competency-Based Curriculum. The firms are expected to publish 12 textbooks to be supplied to schools starting July in preparation for the rollout of the new curriculum to Grade 5. The new curriculum rendered the textbooks used in the 8-4-4 system useless due to content and instructional changes. Kenya Publishers Association chairman Lawrence Njagi on Tuesday told the Star that the publishers will need at least two months to print and distribute the books. With the KCPE and KCSE exams set to take place in March and April, Njagi said that the distribution of books to schools will not be possible during that period. "If you look at it, we are only left with May and June as the only time span to distribute the textbooks. This does not factor in printing time," he said. KICD, the state agency overseeing the process, did not respond to queries around plans on printing and distribution of the textbooks. Other variants forecasted to pose challenges to the exercise include the need for publishers to acquire raw materials for printing. Njagi says the printing papers are acquired abroad thus need time for importation. Logistics to schools also could be affected by anticipated bad weather in April and May, months traditionally known for short rains. Also at play is insecurity in some parts of the country, Njagi said. “We get police escort while taking the textbooks to places like Lamu and Mandera, because of insecurity. Places like Baringo are also expected to pose a challenge with the rise in water levels in Lake Baringo and Bogoria,” he said. Njagi also revealed that delivery of the textbooks has now changed and publishers are required to take them to schools unlike before when they delivered to the subcounty headquarters from where headteachers would pick them. KLB will supply Islamic Religious Education (IRE) and Kiswahili books; Moran Publishers will print English books, while Mountain Top will deliver Home Science and Agriculture books. Mathematics course books go to Mentor Publishers, Art and Craft (Book Mark Africa), Science and Technology and Social Studies (East African Educational Publishers), Christian Religious Education (Longhorn), Music (JKF) and Physical and Health Education (Spotlight). Distribution of books in French, Arabic, Mandarin and Indigenous Languages was put on hold because they are optional subjects and there is a need to wait for schools to resume to establish the number of learners interested in the subjects.