Skyward Express has launched flights to Malindi, from Nairobi, in an expansion plan that cements its position in the local budget carriers market. This brings the carrier's routes to six , having already operations  to Eldoret, Lamu, Lodwar, Mombasa, and Ukunda. The flight which commenced on Wednesday(February 10) will be departing  every day from Skyward’s Wilson airport hub in Nairobi at 14:10, arriving at Malindi Airport at 15:20. From Malindi, it will depart at 17:10 landing at Wilson Airport at 18:20. The flight’s duration will be one hour 10 minutes. "The opening of the Malindi route completes an important piece for Skyward Express’s network, cementing its position as one of the leading local carriers," management said. The move Skyward Express has made is also likely to be well-received by the tourism sector, which has been pushing domestic tourism as a recovery measure following the decline in foreign guest arrivals linked to the Covid-19 pandemic. Skyward Express fares from Nairobi, Wilson Airport to Malindi, Malindi Airport will start from Sh3,950 (including taxes). The airline will also operate short flights connecting Malindi and Lamu at Sh2,950. “This is an exciting and pivotal moment for us. It fits within our strategy to enhance the local tourism network and to open up Malindi further to local traffic," said Skyward Express Chairman and CEO Captain Mohamed Abdi. "We are honoured to contribute to the growth of the tourism sector in Malindi and the neighbouring towns such as Watamu and Mambrui,” he added, terming the decision to fly to the new destination as "strategic." “Malindi is a leading tourism destination, globally acclaimed for its pristine beaches and unique cultural sites. By flying to Malindi, Skyward will be hoping to tap the anticipated increase in traffic to Malindi and Watamu that local tourists have been frequenting in the last few months,” said Mohamed. The airline will operate a Dash8 q100 with a seating capacity of 37 passengers on the route.