The government of Bomet is feuding with Bomet University College of land in Bomet town where the county administration is constructing a stadium The dispute became evident a week ago when National Super League teams,  Silibwet Leons and Bomet APS, which have been  using the land, were banned. Varsity students using the grounds for games and workouts also were banned. The county has closed the facility and locked a gate. The university has erected a signboard claiming ownership of the land – bringing the feud into public focus. The county has spent more than Sh300 million since 2014 to put up the stadium, it is incomplete and millions more are needed to finish the work started by former Governor Isaac Rutto. The university claims ownership of the land and wants it back. It is also putting up a multimillion-shilling research centre just outside the stadium. There are no negotiations. Following complaints from the public, reporters went to the university but were denied access by guards at the gate. They said reporters needed written permission for an appointment to see the principal. Several efforts to reach the principal were unsuccessful. Some residents are accusing the county of relinquishing the stadium to the university yet millions of public funds  have been spent on construction. County executive for social services Alice Kirui denied the allegations. She said the stadium was owned by the county and closure was necessary  to allow construction to continue. “It is true the land belongs to the university but you know all lands here are owned by the county government, the general good of the public supersedes the interests of the college,” she said. Kirui said all the public utilities in the county belong to the county government and are supposed to be used by all the residents of the county, including the universities and colleges. The CEC said there was no disputed. She said the stadium was still under construction but due to Covid-19 the county decided to close the site to minimise the spread of infection. When asked about timelines to complete the stadium, the CEC said the contractor was on site. When the Star visited, construction works were not going on but the gates were closed. County officials led by the CEC were heading to site on another issue -  neighbouring St Mary’s Secondary School has said it is draining water into its field. (Edited by V, Graham)