Mathare United head coach Salim Ali believes their slim 1-0 win over visiting Nzoia Sugar at Moi Stadium, Kasarani Annex on Monday has put his charges back where they belong. The Slum Boys lost to Western Stima last week through a last-minute strike and Salim is convinced that their victory over Nzoia is vital as they prepare to face a resurgent Bidco next. "I'm happy with the win. It will boost the morale of the boys as we prepare for our next game against Bidco," said Ali. Nzoia Sugar assistant coach James Mwaura blamed their loss on a blunt attacking force and concentration lapse in the initial minutes of the game. "We failed to utilise our chances. Our strikers were not keen enough in front of goal and we also suffered from concentration lapse. We hope to rectify all this in our next match against KCB," said Mwaura. Mathare, thirsty for a win, won a set-piece in the first minute after Klinsman Omulunga was brought down on the edge of the box. Tyson Otieno's resultant attempt, however, came off the sugar millers' wall. Nzoia could have broken the deadlock in the 10th minute when Felician Okanda and Leonard Kasembeli interchanged short and crisp passes before picking out Gaetan Masha, who lacked composure in front of goal. Minutes later, Okanda made a fine run down the left channel and pulled off some cheeky stunts on Martin Ongori only for his cross into the area to fly out of the reach of his advancing teammates. In the 20th minute, Daniel Otieno should have put the Slum Boys ahead after he pounced on a rebound in a strategic position only for him to send the ball right into the palms of Humphrey Katasi. Mathare broke the deadlock through James Kinyanjui in the 55th minute, latching on to a lush through-pass from Tyson Otieno after an entertaining display of tiki taka football involving Chrispine Ochieng and Daniel Otieno. Five minutes later, Nzoia's Kevin Juma picked a yellow card after a reckless tackle on Tyson. Coach Salim, eager for more goals withdrew Dan Kago for Joseph Mwangi and Cercidy Okeyo for Tyson. In the 68th minute, Kasembeli made way for Joseph Mwangi as Nzoia went for a tactical change. However, Kinyanjui almost hit the last nail on Nzoia's casket but his attempt to lob the ball over an advancing Katasi ended up on the outer roof of the net. In another tie of the day, Ulinzi Stars and Western Stima played out to a two-all draw at Kericho Green Stadium.