Kenya Railways on Wednesday demolished shops, a mall, a hospital and other property built on its land in Bungoma as it prepares to renovate the metre-gauge line. Traders said they lost property worth millions of shillings. Dawameds Hospital opposite the Bungoma county assembly, the Railways Park shopping mall and hotel were all flattened. Some traders who had got wind of the demolition evacuated their belongings before graders arrived in the evening. “We had invested heavily in the Dawameds Hospital after getting a legal lease from the Kenya Railways. We are surprised without a notice our hospital was brought down,” the proprietor said. Patients who were being treated at the facility were forced to seek services at the Bungoma Referral Hospital. The proprietor said they were not given eviction notices but saw a mark condemning the building before it was brought down. Traders at the Sharrifs Centre mall were forced to remove property after the building was condemned. Those who hurriedly moved included the giant Khetias Supermarket. The mall's owner, Naz Sharrifs, said the Sh400 million property had a 99-year legal lease granted by the Ministry of Lands. “We don’t really understand what is this. Without notice, they want to bring our property down yet we have a proper agreement and documents,” Shariffs said. After long negotiations with Kenya Railways officials, the mall was spared although it was also earmarked for demolition. Another building near Posta grounds was also demolished. The rehabilitation of the metre gauge railway line has commenced. The section between Longonot to Malaba and Nakuru to Kisumu will be upgraded. Speaking during consultative meetings with regional commissioners from Nakuru, Kisumu and Kakamega and the Presidential Delivery Unit, the Kenya Railways said works are expected to be completed in eight months. “We are revitalising the metre gauge railway line to enhance its accessibility and functionality, a process which will upscale the lines’ contribution to national growth,” said chairman Pastor Awitta. Ongoing work entails clearing of the bushes along the corridor, construction of bridges and culverts, laying of the line and ballasting. Other aspects include eviction of encroachers who have illegally settled on the railway corridor and securing of the corridor. “By revamping the section of the metre gauge railway line leading to the western region, we are looking to link it with the standard gauge to provide a seamless connection between the Port of Mombasa and Lake Victoria in Kisumu and also main border point with neighbouring Uganda at Malaba,” Awitta said. 