The Firearms Licensing Board has started the process of renewing gun licenses to civilians. The exercise began on February 2, 2021, after more than a year of suspension of the same due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Board chairman Charles Mukinda said they are now scheduling those appearing before the board daily to undergo the necessary checks before they have their permits renewed. Licensed firearm holders who have been vetted and had their licenses renewed said they were called and asked to appear before the board for the process. “They have put mechanisms in place to enhance the process for those going for the exercise. It may take time to finish the process but it is good for the safety of all,” said a civilian firearm holder. The board had suspended the exercise last year over the pandemic. This saw many dealers and the civilian holders operate with what they termed illegal weapons. And to avoid any action from authorities, the board then told police commanders not to take any action against the Licensed Firearms Holders (LFH) whose licenses have expired. The law requires that there be annual renewal of the licenses held by the civilian firearms holders. The failure to renew the documents has also affected gun dealers who sell the weapons hence denying the government a huge amount of revenue. Former National Gun Owners Association (NGAO)-Kenya chairman Anthony Wahome suggested that the process of renewing the documents be digitized and uploaded on the e-citizen platform. He said his earlier statement on the issue did not reflect the stand of the association. “I ceased being the chairman of the association but we will continue to support the board where we can to offer better services,” he said. The board issues vetted gun owners with new smart licenses and concurrently working towards establishing a centralized electronic register of all private citizens holding firearms in the country. The board has so far created a register for all holders and is dealing with the police reservists. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i had in December 2018 announced the vetting of the civilian firearms holders following increased cases of fake certificates that were in circulation. Some of the holders were misusing the weapons. The vetting process involves psychiatric assessment by a Government psychologist, criminal record checks, and ballistic testing of the weapons and ammunition by the DCI.