The levels of defilement and teenage pregnancy in Kenya were grim, but the situation worsened last year. In 2019, some 20,363 children below 14 years gave birth in public hospitals after being defiled. The National Aids Control Council chair Angeline Siparo, who released these figures on December 2, said thousands of the children were also infected with HIV. Siparo said the situation is worse for those aged 15 to 19 years. "The same data showed us that for the girls aged 15-19, a total of 378,665 had been attended to in our health facilities as pregnant mothers," she said. Save the Children’s 2019 Global Childhood Report concluded that Kenya has the world’s third-highest teen pregnancy rates. The situation worsened during the April-June lockdown last year. It is likely national secondary and primary examinations this year will register some of the highest absenteeism by girls who left school after being defiled. In the lockdown due to Covid-19 about 152,000 Kenyan teenage girls became pregnant — a 40 per cent increase in Kenya’s monthly average, according to Borgen Project, a development lobby which curated various reports. The figures are estimates, which have not yet been validated by the Kenya Health Information Management System (KHIS). Dr Hellen Kiarie, head of Monitoring and Evaluation at the Ministry of Health, says although there is consensus cases of teen pregnancies increased, the official KHIS data for 2020 does not show a major spike. “Any increase in adolescent pregnancy will likely be realised later as most pregnant women begin attending antenatal care at around five months of pregnancy, while adolescents delay further by about one or two more months,” she said. This can also be explained by the sharp drop in the number of Kenyans visiting health facilities last year. Jane Wanjeri (name changed), a 17-year-old Form 2 girl from an informal secondary school in Kibra slums in Nairobi, is one of those defiled during the lockdown. “I was just bored at home and he would invite me to his house to watch movies, sometimes he would give me some money,” she says, referring to her 27-year-old boyfriend. He worked as a security guard in the nearby Lang’ata estate and was on night duties in April last year. “When I told him I’m pregnant in June, he stopped picking my calls. When I went to his house after one week I found it empty. Neighbours told me he had moved to a different part of the slum,” Wanjeri says. She began visiting a nearby clinic in Kibra for antenatal care in the last trimester. Wanjeri’s case has no happy ending. She was diagnosed with HIV in November during the second visit and put on ARVs, which she still takes. “I gave birth at the hospital in January,” she says. “I didn’t think my life would end up like this. My parents have said I cannot go back to school. At least my baby is negative, I thank God for that.” Drawing on the Ebola experience from West Africa, the Unesco had already warned this would happen. “While many girls will continue with their education once the school gates reopen, others will never return to school. Education responses must prioritise the needs of adolescent girls at the risk of reversing 20 years of gains made for girls’ education,” Unesco says in a policy brief released on March 31, 2020. Unesco’s warning was informed by several studies that show closure of schools increases girls' vulnerability to physical and sexual abuse both by their peers and by older men, as girls are often at home alone and unsupervised. According to the Ministry of Education, in a normal year about 13,000 pregnant girls drop out of schools in Kenya. Aid agencies also reported a spike in pregnant teenage girls in other parts of Kenya last year. In August, the International Rescue Committee told development agency Devex that in Turkana county, 558 adolescent pregnancies were reported between March and June — almost a threefold increase from the same period in 2019. At the Kakuma refugee camp, 62 teenage pregnancies were reported in June 2020 among IRC clients, compared with eight cases in the same month in 2019. In November, Unicef also released a study on Homa Bay county showing high cases of teenage pregnancy. The report, "Unintended Pregnancies and HIV Amongst Adolescents and Young People: A Situation Analysis of Homa Bay, Kenya", showed that one third (33 per cent) of adolescent girls aged 15 to 19 were mothers or pregnant with their first child, almost twice the national average of 18 per cent. It also showed that youth aged 15-24 contribute 13 per cent of the total number of HIV infections amongst 15-49-year olds in the county. There are similar trends in other Western Kenyan counties. Unicef says there must be a solution to all this. The UN agency calls for improved and budgeted programming – addressing harmful gender norms, as well as better dissemination in schools of information on sexual reproductive health, HIV and services to tackle violence. “We must take urgent steps to make sure children and young people receive the information and support they need to protect themselves from unintended pregnancy and HIV,” said Maniza Zaman, Unicef Representative to Kenya. “This is particularly relevant during the Covid-19 pandemic, when safety nets like families and schools have been affected.” Anthony Ajayi, a postdoctoral research scientist with the Nairobi-based African Population and Health Research Centre, notes that the Kenya government committed to ending teenage pregnancy by 2030 at the ICPD 25 in Nairobi. He calls for age-appropriate sexuality education that must cover cover topics such as sexual consent, safe sex negotiation, healthy relationships, sexual and gender-based violence. Wanjeri, who hopes to return to school one day, says: “I wish I knew what I know today.” 