The Nairobi County government is set to disburse Sh457 million worth of bursaries to 62,500 bright and needy students on Tuesday. These, according to Executive Member for Education Janet Ouko, are bursaries meant for the Financial Year 2019-20 which were not disbursed due to wrangles at City Hall. “It is unfortunate that we are now disbursing bursaries for the financial year that ended on June 30, 2020. I understand the funds had been used for other vote heads as well as interference arising from the wrangles within the county government caused the delay,” she said. Last year in September, the Nairobi County Assembly raised queries over Sh297.5 million bursary funds that were allegedly used to pay garbage collection contractors and lawyers. Deputy Minority Whip Moses Ogeto via a statement threw the ball in the court of the Sectoral Committee on Children, Early Childhood Education and Vocational Training regarding the usage of bursary funds for the Financial Year 2019-2020. “It has been alleged that Sh297.5 million was requested by the County Secretary from the Controller of Budget and they have been given this money which is meant for bursaries but has been channeled to pay contractors for garbage collection, lawyers and others,” he said. The Nairobi county government has two levels of bursaries; Executive or Governor’s bursary funds and ward bursary funds. For the ward bursary funds, Sh297.5 million has been set aside for 59,500 students across the 85 wards . Each MCA gets Sh 3.5 million to disburse to 700 needy students. CEC Ouko explained that it was upto MCAs and their bursary committees back in the wards to identify the needy  students. “ Each student will get Sh5,000. The bursary is also given to those in tertiary education like hairdressing and driving schools and many more," she added. City Hall has enrolled 3,000 students under the Governor’s bursary funds who are assured of support for the four years they will be in school. The Governor’s bursary is where 1,000 needy bright students from public primary schools where the county government takes the top three students and might consider the next three in case the first three are not needy. According to the Ministry of Education fees guidelines, each student gets between Sh45,000 and Sh53,000. "Since its been three years since former Governor Mike Sonko's regime took over, the county government is starring at 3,000 students from form one to form three. However at times the numbers might be more when we get special cases,” Ouko explained. In addition, City Hall is also considering bringing back 1,000 bursaries that had been dropped by Sonko when he took over from former Governor Evans Kidero Ouko noted that most of the beneficiaries are now in form three and might be considered since the budget can accommodate them. “There are discussions for those specific beneficiaries to be reconsidered. It is very unfortunate that a child has to drop out of school because they are victimised on the basis of their name,” she added.