The first 120 students to join the Kenya Medical College -Teso campus in Busia will get full sponsorship amounting to Sh15 million when studies begin in March. The campus, the second in Busia after the one built at the county’s teaching and referral hospital, was launched on Monday. The ceremony was officiated by KMTC board of directors chairman Philip Kaloki. Study expenses of pioneer learners will be paid by the Teso North National Government Constituency Development Fund. Each student will receive approximately Sh125,000 to cater for their studies. Kaloki said the sponsorship was a good gesture from MP Oku Kaunya, who he said was keen to ensure improvements in education standards in the area. “The Kenya Medical Training School board of directors is very pleased with the project, and we have agreed that we are going to accept this campus to be one of our campuses,” he said. The institution is located in Kocholya, Malaba South ward, next to the Kocholya Level 4 Hospital. Its strategic location will ensure the Kocholya hospital will have adequate staff as students at the KMTC will be expected to undertake practicals at the health facility. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong said the launch of the campus was timely. “We shall continue working very closely with our MPs to foster development in our county,” he said. Ojaamong lauded Teso North National Government Constituency Development Fund for financing phase one of the project. “We shall inject over Sh60 million for upgrading Kocholya hospital to level 5 status to enable students from the campus to undertake their practical lessons and attachment,” he said. Kaunya said phase one of the investment had cost Sh45 million. He said the second phase will cost Sh30 million. Construction work for the second phase is expected to take two months, the MP said. “The institution has been under construction for the last six months. Empowering the community starts with empowering the youth and empowering the youth means we have to give them skills and education,” the legislator said. “This is a mega project in terms of CDF projects. This institution will have an impact of empowering the community here and empowering our students since there is a shortage of staff in the medical area.” Malaba Town Business Owners Association chairman Fred Papa called on the business community to take advantage of the institution to grow business in the area. Residents, he said, will also benefit economically by supplying products such as food to the institution. Among those present were Deputy Governor Moses Mulomi, and MCAs Benard Papa (Malaba Central), Grace Olita (Angurai South), Gaddy Jakaa (Bukhayo North) and John Oteba (Angurai East). Others were county commissioners John Korir and deputy county commissioner Peter Karanja.