In the past one week, there have been reported disturbing incidents of political violence. The most recent was between MPs Sylvanus Osoro and Simba Arati at a funeral in Kisii. In their attempts to please their masters, young politicians who also serve as foot soldiers of political kingpins are passing across a very dangerous narrative that must not only be challenged but also be investigated by the authorities. It is often argued that youths get involved in violence because of unemployment, drug abuse or idleness. But what happened at Githurai, Burma market, Matungu and Kisii amounts to a growing trend of political intolerance as we approach the general election next year. Some politicians have gone as far as ferrying supporters to such functions to cheer them as they speak and to heckle their imagined or real opponents. They are desperate for political supremacy and relevance. While we look forward to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission cracking the whip and sending a strong message to other politicians, there are possible mitigation measures that can be employed to contain such behaviour. It can also monitor social media posts and profile perpetrators for prosecution. Bereaved families, the media and the Church can help end this behaviour. A bereaved family can strictly insist that no political speeches are allowed at a funeral. Whether the politician participated in the funeral arrangements or not, they should never be allowed to speak on the material day. The media could also give a total blackout to immature political acts at such functions. If it is a live coverage, streaming can be stopped at the moment politicians misbehave. Also, any relevant subsequent news feature can be ignored. The Church can help the bereaved family run the programme effectively by giving no room for political outbursts. Since a funeral is an emotional tribute, don’t you think running a programme full of songs of praise thanking God for the life of the deceased, scripture reading and prayers for the bereaved family is enough? The ball is in the court of the Church leadership. Village administrators can also help to bring order by firmly rebuking any misbehaviour in their locality. Finally, in cases where political party leaders are in attendance like we saw in Kisii, and if politicians must speak, then it is prudent for only the party leader to speak and acknowledge their juniors. This may sound unpopular but can help to end political intolerance in funerals. Communications and PR expert. Kericho