Buyers of Mercedes Benz passenger cars can now enjoy up to 100 per cent financing from Prime Bank following a deal with  DT Dobie. The two have entered into a “Valentines” financing deal for the month of February, which also involves  zero processing fees with up to 48 months repayment period, at an interest rate of 12.5 per cent per annum on Kenya Shilling and seven percent on Euro financing. Under the deal, customers will get a 30 days repayment holiday while DT Dobie will give five years of free service. “The month of February is associated with love and giving so this deal is intended to reward existing and new customers with the best value for money. The extended repayment period at competitive interest rates will enable them purchase these top of range luxury vehicles,” said Prime Bank’s Senior Manager Credit, Kamal Singh. Maliha Sheikh, the General Manager for Mercedes at DT Dobie said: “We have special prices specifically for February so it is a great opportunity for anyone to purchase any model from our array of Mercedes Benz sedans and SUVs.” The vehicles range from smaller sedans that are well within reach of many motorists to the bigger luxury SUVs that pack a lot of refinement, technology, and performance, Sheikh added. Big spenders have traditionally splashed million to treat their loved ones during occasions such as Valentine's , birthdays, weddings, Christmas and other special occasions. Last year, sales of top of the range new luxury cars rose seven per cent, defying the tough economic times in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the Kenya Motor Industry Association (KMI) data, top dealers of new cars , including DT Dobie, sold 152 units in the year to December. This was up from 142 units sold in 2019. Overall sales of new vehicles however dropped 16 per cent to 13,199 units, attributed to the pandemic which has hit households and companies. Most new luxury cars fall in a price tag of between Sh5 million and Sh20 million. Some passenger car models however fetch higher prices. Last year, DT Dobie sold 59 new Mercedes units of these, up from from 47 the previous year. DT Dobie was started in 1949 by World War II veteran, Colonel David Dobie. The company started out with the Mercedes-Benz franchise for East Africa which included both passenger and heavy commercial vehicles. In 2014 the company was appointed the franchise dealers for Volkswagen passenger cars and light commercial vehicles. Since 2016 the Volkswagen Polo Vivo has been assembled locally by KVM (Kenya Vehicle Manufacturers) at Thika and more recently the Tiguan make. Hyundai light trucks are also sold and serviced by DT Dobie and have been assembled locally for eight years. DT Dobie has invested in after sales service facilities in Nairobi and at their branches in Mombasa, Nakuru and Kisumu, with dealers and service centers countrywide.