All car manufactures are required to equip their cars with at least one oxygen sensor and a catalytic converter to monitor the exhaust gasses, analyse them and correct them from harmful to less harmful gasses before emitting them into the atmosphere. In today's topic, we shall learn the following: A catalytic converter is found in the exhaust system of an internal combustion engine just right after the exhaust manifold. Comprising of two honeycomb-shaped ceramic blocks housed in the main body one ahead and the second one towards the exit. The first ceramic block mainly consists of Platinum and Rhodium metals. The second block consists of platinum and palladium metals An oxygen sensor ( bank 1) is placed just before the catalytic converter so that it can read the amount of oxygen (unburned fuel) in the system and give the feedback to the engine's computer for precise calculations and adjustments for any needed corrections for a smooth running of an engine.  The second oxygen sensor (bank 2)  may be fitted after the catalytic to monitor the health of the catalytic converter. Bank 2 oxygen sensor will trigger the check engine light whenever the catalytic converter is out of the thresholds, this does not mean that the catalytic converter should be removed or replaced. This can be curable as we shall see below. HOW IT WORKS Whenever an engine is running the byproduct of combustion is the exhaust gasses, these exhausts comprise of All these above gasses are dangerous to the ozone and the human in general. As the gasses go through the first block of Platinum and Rhodium, The metals in the first block react with nitrogen oxides (we have used red to depict harmful gasses) to reform into nitrogen and oxygen gases ( harmless). Then the rest of the gasses move into the second block as shown in the diagram. Here carbon monoxide reacts with oxygen to form carbon dioxide. The unburned Hydrocarbons also reacts with oxygen to form water and carbon dioxide. This is why water is usually seen running out of the exhaust in the morning and evaporates once the exhaust pipe gets hot. So before and after the catalytic converter the gasses will change from red to blue as follows Carbon monoxide >>>changes to  carbondioxide Nitrogen oxide >>>>>> changes to nitrogen  and oxygen Hydrocarbons >>>>>> changes to water & carbon dioxide This means the presence of the ceramic blocks, all the red harmful glasses have been reduced to more friendly gasses. WHY IS THE CATALYTIC CONVERTER ENDANGERED SPECIES Due to the existence of precious metal inside the first block and second block, the black market is ready to do anything to get your catalytic converter out of your car whether it's still working or not...these would be illegally sold overseas for crushing and extracting the precious metals for recycling. In Kenya, one kilo of the honeycomb pellets would cost between Sh30,000 to Sh45,000 to the black market. Car owners would be convinced by technicians to remove the catalytic converters for them to milk cash out of it from the black market especially if the check engine comes on with the trouble code P0420. This could be a faulty oxygen sensor or just a clogged catalytic that can be cleaned and you are good to go. Due to the high costs of manufacturing, it has proven to be difficult to get catalytic converters being sold locally CAUSES OF CLOGGING There are various causes of catalytic converter clogging but we shall only talk of the most common ones In this delay period there is too much production of harmful gasses that will eventually soak up the catalytic converter with impurities. Always get gentle on the throttle unless it is an emergency. This will make the chemical composition of the reacting materials to be thrown out of proportion hence weakening their ability to work perfectly. CAN A CLOGGED CATALYTIC BE REPAIRED? In our discussion above we have mentioned that the catalytic converter works within certain limits. Lower limits of the threshold being catalytic have just started to clog and the higher limits being it is fully clogged. This means that the catalytic does not just clog once and get to the higher limits. In the very first stages of code P0420a catalytic converter can be removed soaked in detergent for overnight, rinsed and fitted back to the car. if it wasn't on the higher limit threshold it should work perfectly. This is something we have tried out at Boosted Auto and the results are okay especially if the honeycomb is not broken.  The writer is the owner of Boosted Auto automotive repair shop Facebook: Boosted Auto