The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission has said the military must be subjected to audit to enhance accountability. Chairperson Eliud Wabukala on Tuesday said failure to audit annual budgetary allocations leads to massive misuse of the funds. Wabukhala said though military spending is protected under national security, there should be strong and preventive measures to protect the funds. He spoke at the Lake Naivasha Resort during the week-long Integrity Assurance Officers training for the staff of the Ministry of Defence. "As you may be aware, Kenyan Defence Forces on an annual basis receives substantial resources to ensure our national security, to keep us safe from external aggression and to undertake various international mission across the world. As such, there is a need to strengthen corruption preventive measures to ensure such resources are applied in an efficient and effective manner," Wabukhala said. He said EACC was well aware that the KDF is also affected by corruption and unethical conduct in its operations. "Some of the common forms of corruption risks in Defence sector may include bribery, kickbacks during recruitment, collusion in promotions, bid-rigging, influence peddling, theft of fund, embezzlement and fraud," he said. "It is, therefore, imperative that armed forces are prepared to prevent or mitigate the extent, severity and impact of corrupt practices in their operational theatres. This is critical as we seek to keep away external aggression from affecting the peace of our country". He said he was confident that the one-week workshop will sharpen KDF's senior management's understanding of the intricacies of corruption and equip them with hands-on skills on how to prevent corruption and unethical conduct. “Military resources are managed behind a veil of secrecy, justified on grounds of national security and such resources can easily be wasted or stolen if strong preventive measures are not put in place,” he said. He said while the commission does not have the mandate to investigate the use of the funds at the state department, the commission will continue to build the ethical competency of public institutions in order to entrench a culture of integrity. "It is imperative that the armed forces are prepared to prevent or mitigate the extent, severity and impact of corrupt practices in their operational theatres," he said. During the workshop, Wabukala admitted that graft remains a challenge in the Country adding that concerted efforts are needed to win the fight. He said a survey conducted by the commission indicated that corruption still tops the list of major challenges facing the country at 49.4 per cent, while the others are unemployment at 36.8 per cent and poverty at 27.2 per cent. “Our experience is that a number of public institutions entrusted to offer services continue to perpetuate embezzlement of public resources, even after being trained on matters of ethics and integrity,” he said. He said some institutions are seeking such training on integrity merely to fulfil their Performance Contract Target while leaving behind what they are taught. It is even disheartening because 67 per cent of Kenyans do nothing in the fight against corruption and unethical conduct with only 5.8 per cent reporting graft incidences,” he said. Despite the challenge, Wabukala noted that the commission had in the last five years concluded investigations into 824 corruption and related cases. He said due to close collaboration with the office of the Director of Public Prosecution, the commission had secured convictions in 153 cases out of the 244 corruption cases in various courts. "The Commission recovered corruptly acquired assets worth approximately Sh19.9 billion and disrupted possible loss of public funds worth approximately Sh96 billion in the last 10 years," he said. He said in essence, the average annual loss averted is approximately Sh9.6 billion since the promulgation of the Constitution in 2010. He said the commission on its part will continue to build the ethical competency of the public institutions in order to entrench a culture of integrity.