ODM leader Raila Odinga on Friday termed DP William Ruto as a very forgetful man who had run out of excuses for not fulfilling election pledges. Addressing Turkana residents, during a BBI rally, Raila compared Ruto to a warthog that is so forgetful that when chased by a predator it can stop midway, after forgetting why it was running in the first place. “You have such a short memory. You promised people a lot of things which you are yet to fulfil and now you are going back to them with more pledges,” he said. Raila said Turkana residents are yet to have a modern stadium, jobs and a technology-based economy. “If you insist that the handshake derailed your development agenda, then tell Kenyans what you had delivered before March 2018,” he said. The ODM leader further said that it is ridiculous for a senior government official to oppose the BBI yet it proposes more funds to the grassroots. “A county like Turkana gets about Sh10 billion. If the BBI passes, you will get almost Sh20 billion. Why would you want to listen to a person who is against that,” he stated. He added “The BBI proposes a Youth Development Fund to empower young people economically but you go to them with wheelbarrows” Accompanying Raila in the campaign were Petroleum CS John Munyes and legislators Gladys Wanga, Babu Owino, Godfrey Osotsi, Maina Kamanda, Junet Mohammed, Teddy Mwambire, Mishi Mboko and area MCAs. Munyes said President Uhuru Kenyatta will soon join Raila in campaigns to popularise BBI across the country. “What you are seeing now is only the beginning. It is going to be overwhelming,” he said. He told locals to plead with their ward representatives to pass the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020 when it goes before them for approval. Mohammed said marginalised regions stand to benefit a great deal from the BBI. “The BBI will take more resources to marginalised areas. Why would anyone want to oppose it,” he posed. Mwambire censured Ruto for opposing the BBI yet his boss, President Kenyatta, is fully behind it. “He was on the no side during the 2010 referendum and said many negative things about the 2010 Constitution. He is now opposing the BBI,” he said. Raila will on Saturday continue with his rallies in the county, visiting Kakuma and Katulu in Turkana North constituency. On Sunday, he will attend church service at the Catholic Cathedral in Lodwar town.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris