Family Bank has expanded its branch network to 92 across 37 counties with the opening of a new branch in Eastleigh, Nairobi. The latest branch takes its services closer to one of the country’s fastest-growing business hubs. According to the lender, Eastleigh has been a key strategic focus for its business as it hosts various micro, small and medium-sized businesses that are a key driver to the Country’s economic recovery during the pandemic. “As a Bank, we continue to offer value beyond banking services and cushion MSMEs as we seek to build sustainable businesses and fuel the growth of the economy,” Family Bank CEO Rebecca Mbithi said in a statement on Friday. Speaking during the launch, Chairman Wilfred Kiboro assured the business community of Family Bank’s support as the country and businesses strive to recover from the Covid-19 pandemic. “We are a bank that listens to the needs of our diverse customers and as the business community here in Eastleigh recovers from the broken supply chain as a result of Covid-19 pandemic, we assure you of our support through our differentiated customer experience, “said Dr. Kiboro. Family Bank Eastleigh seeks to serve a diverse customer segment of micro, small and medium-sized businesses operating in Eastleigh which is said to have the highest density of traders, second to the Nairobi Central Business District. “One of our sources of growth as a constituency come from investors like Family Bank. This is a true testament of the private sector empowerment needed by providing local jobs and creating wealth,” area MP(Kamukunji Constituency)Yusuf Hassan Abdi said. He pledged his support for the business community in his constituency at an event also attended by opinion leader Mzee Hussein Roba, Chairman and Vice Chairman of Eastleigh Business Community Ibrahim Hussein and Mzee Yasin Jama, respectively. Family Bank recently opened its 91st branch in Wangige. In addition to its branch network, the SME focused lender has about 4,000 bank agents and over 10,000 merchants countrywide. It prides itself of being the first bank in Kenya to introduce paperless banking through smart card technology that enabled customers to transact without having to fill in deposit or withdrawal slips. In 2010, Family Bank was the first bank to introduce mobile banking in Kenya and in 2016 the first to launch mVisa service in Africa.