Supporters of Senator Gideon Moi on Saturday escaped lynching during Deputy President William Ruto’s visit to Kabarnet town, Baringo. Ruto was addressing the crowd when Gideon's supporters stormed the meeting carrying placards containing his photographs. The placards were written ‘Gideon Tosha'. 'Kill them' some people were heard shouting as they rained blows and kicks on Gideon's supporters as they chased them away and tore off the placards. It took the intervention of anti-riot police officers armed with tear-gas to rescue Gideon's supporters from being lynched. “Gideon has never bothered to stand with us during hard times of hunger, banditry attacks, floods and Covid-19, so we don’t recognize him at all,” Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol said. He was backed by his Tenges counterpart Silas Tochim, who termed Gideon as ‘an absentee’ senator. Ruto officiated the dedication of St Joseph Kituro Catholic Church Parish, launched Kabarnet market stalls and met residents in the town. He was hosted by Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis, MPs Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central), William Cheptumo (Baringo North), Charles Kamuren (Baringo South), Daniel Tuitoek (Mogotio), Moses Lesonet (Eldama Ravine) and county assembly speaker David Kiplagat. Also present were Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, MPs Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Caleb Kosotany (Soy), Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Nixon Korir (Lang'ata), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Cornelius Serem (Aldai), Vincent Tuwei (Mosop), Kimani Ichung'wa (Kikuyu), Gideon Koske (Chepalungu), Julius Meli (Tinderet), William Kogo (Chesumei), Johana Ng'eno (Emurua Dikirr) and Florence Jematia (EALA). Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet), Aron Cheruiyot (Kericho County, Christopher Langat (Bomet) and Mithika Linturi (Meru) also attended. Ruto asked civil servants to serve all Kenyans equally, saying state machinery should not be used to intimidate certain leaders. "We should stop using the police to influence politics. Kenya is beyond the politics of threats and intimidation," Ruto said. The DP told those selling fear instead of using outdated political practices.