The right to industrial action is one of the fundamental constitutional rights provided for under Article 41 of the Constitution. The Labour Relations Act, 2007 gives effect to the right to strike but it is subjected to several limitations. These include prohibition of strikes for employees in essential services and not bypassing the Ministry of Labour in dealing with the matter through conciliation as a first resort. Although the limitations may be justified, balancing the constitutional right to strike and provision of essential services remains a challenge in Kenya today. Notably, the health sector is designated as an essential service under Schedule 4 of the Labour Act. These are services by “whomsoever rendered and whether rendered to the government or to any other person, the interruption of which would endanger the life, health or personal safety of the whole or part of the population.” However, this sector has continuously experienced unrest causing the public to suffer greatly, since the health system is already struggling to cope with the Covid-19 pandemic. It, therefore, behoves all stakeholders involved to find a middle ground, and avert further suffering. In this crisis, the approach taken to resolve labour disputes normally adopts the tripartite structure that involves the government, employers and workers. Under this tripartite arrangement, the Federation of Kenya Employers has sent representatives to work with other social partners and assist in unlocking the stalemate. The mandate in this tripartite team is advisory in nature. In this case, the national and county governments need to rebuild relationships with the healthcare workers’ unions and include them in the development and implementation of policies that affect health workers. Careful consideration of the compensation packages of health workers is necessary to ensure fairness within and across cadres, and the creation of a environment conducive for working aimed at offering quality services. This approach would prioritise resolving disputes through conciliation, arbitration and negotiations so that the court process is a last resort.  The workers’ unions on the other hand should consider the dire situation facing ordinary Kenyans and the prevailing socioeconomic and political circumstances we all face because of Covid-19.  To minimize the negative effects of such industrial unrest, careful monitoring and advanced planning is important. There should be advanced planning to ensure emergency and other essential services are maintained, threats from health sector workers’ unions are minimised and their demands reasonable. Additionally, that court orders are respected and governments at all levels respect and honour Collective Bargaining Agreements. These CBAs foster harmony between employers and employees by stipulating negotiated and agreed terms and conditions of service for employees.  The unrest in the health sector also rekindles debates and questions whether our legal framework is adequate and effective in regulating employee relations in essential services. For example, the Labour Act does not provide mechanisms in terms of how essential service employees can lawfully participate in a protected strike without causing loss of lives. Moreover, litigation as the first option in solving industrial disputes between employers and labour unions has proved to be ineffective. Countries such as Australia and South Africa have put in place a robust legislative framework that ensures the continuation of essential services even as disputes are being resolved. We need to study what pertains in such jurisdiction and learn from them. To ensure meaningful and mutually respectful social dialogue between parties, discussions may require formal independent mediation. This is also an opportune moment for establishing an independent institution that must be given exclusive jurisdiction over conciliation and arbitrating disputes in essential services. Currently, the law allows parties in disputes to subject themselves to arbitration or a mediator and gives a chance to the Labour and Social Protection Cabinet Secretary to appoint a conciliator or set up a conciliation panel to resolve disputes before they escalate. This approach does safeguard fairness and consistency in dispute resolution in diverse scenarios. Given the widespread suffering we have witnessed during the recurrent and prolonged strikes, going forward we need to rethink our approaches and regulatory framework around essential services. We all have an opportunity to hold deliberate discussions and explore new ways of addressing the gaps found under the Labour Act to improve the Dispute Resolution arrangements for improved labour relations and better services to Kenyans. Jacqueline Mugo is executive director and CEO of the Federation of Kenya Employers