Two suspects accused of the brutal murder of a flower farm worker in Naivasha will be held for an extra 14 days to allow police finish their investigations. The two who allegedly cut into pieces the body of Sarah Nafula before disposing it in different locations will be held at the Gilgil police station. Naivasha principal magistrate Joseph Karanaja agreed that the investigating officers needed more time to hold the two before they are charged. In an affidavit sworn by sergeant Muriuki Koro, John Waweru and John Gitau have crucial information about the death of the flower farm worker. He noted that they had since recovered some body parts which needed pathology tests and record more statements from witnesses before charging the duo. “I believe that the two have vital information and knowledge over the disappearance of the missing lady and have connections with the recovered body parts,” he said. It all started in early December when 34-year-old Nafula who had been staying with the main suspect went missing in unclear circumstances. Gilgil OCPD John Onditi said that investigations revealed that the boyfriend murdered Nafula before locking her body in the house for a day. Later, and with the help of his friend, they would cut the body into pieces before wrapping them in polythene bags and dumping them in different locations. “The suspects have confessed that some of the body parts were dumped in a latrine in the residential plot where the couple lived,” Onditi said. “The other parts were dumped in different parts of the town, including an abandoned structure, and we have so far recovered the head and arms.” Meanwhile in the same court, five students arrested in connection with burning a dormitory and personal effects at Naivasha High School will now be charged on Thursday. This is after an age assessment ordered by the court last week confirmed that they were all minors aged 17 years. The five are charged that on January 28, they jointly set on fire a dormitory and assorted personal effects worth Sh2.4 million. The magistrate directed the probation office to supply the court with a social report of the students and ordered that they be represented by an advocate.  Edited by Henry Makori