MPs and elders have roundly condemned the fistfight between South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro and his Dagoretti North counterpart Simba Arati during a funeral in Kisii County on Monday. The MPs engaged in a fight during the burial of Abel Gongera, the father of Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi at Tendere grounds. It took the intervention of Kisii Governor James Ongwae to restore order after the funeral degenerated into a shouting match between supporters of Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga. Ruto and Raila separately received rousing welcomes when they arrived at the funeral. Raila spoke and left immediately with his supporters in tow. He later addressed impromptu rallies at Capital roundabout in Kisii town and Daraja Mbili Market. The two leaders watched pensively as their supporters fought, jeered and cheered. Ongwae described the incident as a new low for the Kisii community. MPs Richard Onyonka (Kitutu Chache South), Janet Ong’era (Kisii Woman Representative), Joash Nyamoko (North Mugirango), Alfah Miruka (Bomachoge Chache) and Gusii Council of Elders chairman James Matundura termed the incident as tragic and unfortunate. “What happened at Tendere is unfortunate. I really wish my colleagues would understand that we are role models. We failed our community big time. It’s sad,” said Onyonka. Gusii Council of elders chairman James Matundura also denounced the behaviour of the MPs saying it was uncouth. He added that henceforth, politicians should not be allowed to politic at funerals. “They should look for other platforms to do their politics and not at funerals,” said Matundura. “A funeral is a cultural event where you are supposed to console and pray for the bereaved family,” he told journalists in Kisii town on Tuesday. Ong’era asked leaders to behave in a civil manner. “In civilized societies, if someone speaks something you are unhappy about, you wait for an opportunity to reply not fighting. It’s unpalatable for elected leaders to fight in public, we should be tolerant. As leaders we are setting a bad precedent,” she said in a phone interview. Nyamoko termed the fight between the two leaders as primitive and shameful saying leaders should have listened to the passionate appeal by Maangi to leaders to conduct themselves with decorum. “Maangi spoke earlier asking us to conduct ourselves well. It’s against the culture of Omogusii to do such things at a funeral and it should be condemned in the strongest terms possible,” said Nyamoko who is an ally of Ruto. Miruka who is the area MP said Arati and Osoro should be condemned for the dishonourable incident. “As elected leaders, we should have mutual respect. Kenya is a democratic country and if you feel that what one person has said is not good, you have a right of reply. Going forward, as leaders we should tone down on our speeches. We don’t want the country to burn again,” said Miruka who is also an ally of DP Ruto.