President Uhuru Kenyatta is said to be throwing his weight behind Amani Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi in a move that has jolted the opposition. ODM leader Raila Odinga allies are particularly irked by the reports as they expected Uhuru to back the opposition chief as part of the handshake. Uhuru who before 2017 had promised to back his deputy William Ruto appears to have settled on Mudavadi with some of his key lieutenants said to be working with the former vice-president. Since the 2018 handshake with Raila, Uhuru has fallen out with Ruto politically and has been seen to be angling to support a different candidate besides his three-time running mate. The Star on Friday has the inside story of the Mudavadi candidature backed by Uhuru and what it means for the opposition. Kenya will pay Sh1.37 billion for the AstraZeneca/ Oxford vaccine doses that will be delivered at the end of this month. The country will receive 4,176,000 doses at the end of this month, according to a schedule shared by Unicef, Gavi and the World Health Organization. Unicef confirmed each of the doses will be sold at Sh330, having already been subsidised. The vaccines are mainly manufactured by India’s Serum Institute of India. They will be bought for about 92 poor countries through the Covax facility, but Unicef will be tasked with transportation because it already has experience in that. Unicef said it has been stockpiling 500 million syringes, for the injections. President Uhuru Kenyatta's lengthy BBI campaign blitz in his Central Kenya turf could turn the tables on Deputy William Ruto's earlier gains in the vote-rich region. The President was forced to make the visit to salvage and resurrect BBI's fortunes in his home region where support was said to be lukewarm to hostile. Now the President's men say the ground is already shifting in their favour and away from DP Ruto. Ruto's allies denounced the trip as a flop, saying it failed to meet the expectations of the region because some critics of the President were locked out. Ruto has or had made major inroads in the region. However, the President's key allies argue the head of state's tour of his backyard has whipped wayward elements in Mt Kenya back into his fold and set back the DP's hopes of capturing the electorate. A scheme by Mt Kenya governors tilted the scales in favour of Embu Governor Martin Wambora in the dying days of campaigning for the Council of Governors' boss. President Uhuru Kenyatta wanted a chairman from Mt Kenya who would drive BBI. He also wanted someone who would help him, even taking late-night calls in Kikuyu about everything from BBI to county finances. The polls last Friday were preceded by heightened lobbying in which the President's hand loomed large in successful efforts to take control of the strategic forum. The Star has established that governors from Uhuru's backyard had clear instructions from 'above' to instal one of 'their own' at the helm of CoG to succeed Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. The CoG's strategic role in the Building Bridges Initiative campaigns appears to have been the primary reason for Mt Kenya's push to occupy the crucial chairman's post The Nairobi Metropolitan Services has embarked on constructing a 28km road in Nairobi’s biggest informal settlement Kibera which will connect with the area to Langata, Southern Bypass and other roads. The construction is part of the Sh5.8 billion project aimed at upgrading 444km of access roads across informal settlements in Nairobi county. Last year, NMS declared Kibera, Korogocho and Mathare as special planning areas ahead of their upgrade. This will be in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s March 18, 2020, directive to the DG Badi to undertake slum-upgrading initiatives in the capital. Speaking during the launch of the construction works in Sarang'ombe and Kibera, NMS Director-General Mohammed Badi called on the residents to cooperate with the constructors.