Departed Kisii politician Simeon Nyachae will be laid to rest at his Nyosia home in Kisii on February 15. An official programme released by the family said the last rites of the political titan who died on Monday morning aged 88 will be private. The remains shall be interred after a funeral service in Nyanturago Stadium, Nyaribari Chache. There shall, however, be a church service at Nairobi Central Seventh Day Adventist (Maxwell) on February 11. The programme signed by Charles Nyachae, son of the former Ford People party leader, was released Wednesday morning. Kisii University has announced plans to name a landmark within its campuses after the late politician. Vice chancellor John Akama said although they had already conferred him with an honorary degree in the past, Nyachae was a larger-than-life figure, hence deserves more. He said the kingpin's contributions to society need to be significantly appreciated by Kenyans. "As a positive gesture, we are soon going to sit down with members of the senate and make a decision on how best we are going to immortalise him," said Akama. He said the state can also work on some project which they can name after him. He said one of the new roads coming up can be named to commemorate the politician. "As a scholar who had variously interacted with mzee, I can attest to the many  contributions he made to the community. As he leaves the stage let all of us, including our county governments in the region, find ways of immortalising him," said Akama. Similar sentiments were shared by Kitutu Chache South politician Justus Mochoge. He urged Kisii county to consider renaming the stadium in his honour. Former Kisii mayor Samuel Nyangeso credited Nyachae with pushing the government to gazette Saturday as a weekend off to allow Sabbatarians to observe their day of worship. "At first civil servants were working up to Saturday afternoon and this disadvantaged the SDAs a great deal. It was through Nyachae who held talks with Moi before the decision to have the day gazetted was arrived at," said Nyangeso. Former South Kenya executive Julius Bichang'a said Nyachae could not rest from fighting for what he believed was right. "Being an Adventist, himself, he identified  with the struggles the church members were going through then in the delicate balancing act of building the nation and finding time to worship. The decision to get the late President Moi was arrived at and at a meeting the case was quickly presented and the President assented to our request," said Bichang'a. Tributes continued to pour in for the deceased politician. Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati said Gusii had lost a legend in the person of Nyachae. "He was one who always wished the community good, a person who wanted to unite the community," said Arati outside Nyachae's Nyosia home in Nyaribari Chache. He will be remembered for uplifting the lives of the Kisii people, he said. "He is a person most people wanted to associate himself with, a person who was successful in many ways." Nyaribari Masaba MP Ezekiel Machogu said the community had lost a torchbearer. "He was an honest politician, a trailblazer whom I learnt a lot from. He has gone but has left green patches of his memory in the country's political scene," said Machogu. Others who sent their condolences are MPs Alfa Miruka (Bomachoge Chache), Zadok Ogutu (Bomachoge Borabu), Innocent Obiri (Bobasi) and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. At Nyosia in Nyaribari Chache, the gate to the Nyachae's residence remained  locked as most family members were away in Nairobi. A solitary guard turned away mourners who were pouring into the home to pay tribute to the deceased. Steve Arika, a relative, said they are awaiting communication from Nairobi regarding funeral preparations.