The Nairobi Metropolitan Service has kicked off the process of identifying 66,000 families  set to  be enrolled  under the National Hospital Insurance Fund (NHIF) medical cover. In collaboration with the Department of Social Services and Ministry of Health , NMS will identify the vulnerable households for enlisting to the Universal  Healthcare (UHC) insurance scheme. Officially launching the two-day public participation exercise on Wednesday at Kibera, NMS Director General Mohammed Badi said that the new development is aimed at allowing the vulnerable families in Nairobi sustain their health financing by having the NHIF cover. "I know the process will be tedious but at the end it will be a relief to have households get access to health services from the NHIF cover," he said. Each household  will get Sh6,000 per year for the insurance cover. The process of enlisting will be conducted at Ward level by the Community Health Volunteers assisted by the National Government Administration officers inclusive of Chief and assistant chiefs. The public participation will be a five-hour exercise, starting at 9am to 1pm, with the exercise ending on Thursday. Dr Ouma Oluga, who is in charge of NMS Directorate of Health, revealed that 290,000 families had fit the criteria to benefit from the programme but due to  budget constraints, 66,000 will benefit first. The families as from March 1, 2021 will start to access the health cover after getting the cards. The target of the programme is to cover 20 per cent of Nairobi’s poor households in the first phase using a tool developed by Ministry of Health to identify those to be covered. According to the 2019 census, Nairobi County has 1.5 million households making up the 4.3 million population although the exact number of poor households is not available. Oluga revealed that NMS was using two criteria to identify the vulnerable  households; type of household and accessibility of the area. “Some of the other factors  that we consider as we do identification include the type of house structure, number of children, occupation of the breadwinner among others,” he said.