Senators have reacted angrily to the government’s ban on maize farming in Njoro, Nakuru county, ostensibly to secure the area and curb recurrent ethnic clashes. A public notice issued by Rift Valley regional coordinator George Natembeya, banned planting of maize in Nessuit, Ndoswa and Marioshoni villages in Eastern Mau. Natembeya said the move was a preventive measure to curb recurrent ethnic clashes in the three villages. He reportedly said the decision was arrived at after a security meeting established that maize fields are a perfect cover for assailants. However, the order has sparked an uproar from the public, with a legislator escalating the matter to the Senate. Nominated Senator Victor Prengei, who hails from area, sought an urgent intervention of the House to revert the order, which he termed detrimental to residents. Prengei wants the Ministry of Interior, through the House Security Committee, to state the legal provision it relied on in prohibiting residents from planting maize. “The committee should explain whether the ban complies with Articles 43 (1) (c), 46 (1) (c) , 47 (1) and 197 (1) of the Constitution, as well as the national government function of providing defence and police services as contained in the Schedule Four of the Constitution,” he said. Prengei further wants the ministry, led by CS Fred Matiang'i, to spell out measures the state has put in place to compensate residents who are largely farmers from the effect of the ban, which he said has hurt livelihoods. He also demanded to know concrete measures the ministry was undertaking to flush out criminals who use maize plantations as hideouts from where they also launch attacks on innocent civilians. “It is an urgent matter and already, it is a planting season in the area. I wanted the matter to be prosecuted as soon as possible,” the senator said, as his colleagues also condemned the ban. Nominated Senator Gertrude Musuruve said stopping Njoro residents from growing maize, their main source of livelihood, was counterproductive and may worsen security situation in the area. "I am just wondering about the fate of farmers in this region. What will become of them if they do not plant maize at all?” she posed. She said the security apparatus should come up with better ways such as deployment of more security officers and increasing patrols to address insecurity in the areas. “Let the Interior ministry look for other ways. If these people are not helped, and their families are not supported, they are likely to get into ways that are not desirable,” she said. Mwangi Githiomi (Nyandarua) said the government’s action was ridiculous and would not resolve the problem. “We do not expect the government to say people of the North Rift should not plant maize because of insecurity. Criminals will even cause crime in open areas. “If there is no food, that would cause insecurity. When people get hungry, they will start breaking into people’s houses. Let security officers pull up their socks,” he said. Christopher Langat (Bomet), for his part, said it was shocking that the government would block Njoro residents from planting maize on account of insecurity. “This is not the solution to security matters in this country. These people are coming up with very ridiculous ways of containing insecurity,” he said. Nominated Senator Naomi Shiyonga shared in her colleagues’ sentiments. “It is very ridiculous and even amusing that security officers in our republic are reducing production of food to a security threat,” she said. “We have forests and we value them, should we clear then because they are security threats?"