Public participation on the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020 started in Nakuru County on Thursday with the majority of residents promising to support the proposed changes once it is taken to the ballot. Hundreds of residents who turned up for the exercise endorsed the document  and asked Members of County Assembly to pass the Bill. The exercise took place in six sub-counties as residents from the remaining five are slated to air their views on Friday. Governor Lee Kinyanjui who has been drumming up support for the document presided over the public participation in Kuresoi South in the morning before heading to Kuresoi North in the afternoon. Nakuru County Assembly Speaker moderated the activity at Soil Agricultural Training College where Nakuru Town East and Nakuru Town West had a joint event. Speaker Kairu said MCAs will pass the BBI Bill once the public participation exercise comes to an end because they had seen and heard the will of the people. “The purpose of this event was to inform the people on what is contained in the document and collect their views before the assembly can vote,” he said. Kairu commended the residents - who were a representation of all interest groups including people living with disability, boda boda riders, professionals, youth and women - for coming out in large numbers and airing their views with decorum. Nakuru County Building Bridges Initiative Coordinator, former MP Njenga Mungai said the Bill will sail through because the public embraced it. “MCAs cannot vote down the Bill because they have seen what the people want, all the people who came to the public participation have supported the amendment,” he said. Njenga said the Bill would ensure peace and security in the larger Molo area which had been an epicenter of ethnic conflict since 1992. He commended the county assembly for subjecting the document to public participation before voting for it in the House. He added that BBI will ensure equitable sharing of prosperity and an end to suspicion among communities which have been warring for decades.