The recent spate of indiscipline in schools has revived debate on corporal punishment. Corporal punishment is believed by many to be a biblically approved mode of raising children and is seen as a deterrent to bad behaviour. The Children’s Act (2001) outlaws corporal punishment in schools and protects children from all forms of abuse and violence. Kenya is also a signatory to the Convention on the Rights of the Child (1990), which states that discipline involving violence is unacceptable. The Education ministry has over the years moved to scale down the use of corporal punishment in school; limiting its usage to the disciplinary master who administers it only in certain highly restricted circumstances. Proponents of corporal punishment argue that ‘spare the rod and spoil the child’. They view corporal punishment as a quick, simple and easily understood method of reinforcing social norms and passing the message that the offending behaviour is unacceptable.  But others aver that caning is an archaic way of raising children and with the world changing rapidly, society needs to find new solutions to new problems instead of regressing to past methods of raising children. Diversification of education and training needs to be critically thought out and implemented to help children who are struggling to fit in the current heavily theoretical education administered in Kenya. So the recent mayhem is a perfect opportunity for evaluation to determine what is lacking in the school system and what can be done about it. A comparative study of countries that banned corporal punishment many years back and do not experience such outbursts would be a starting point. In Sweden for instance, corporal punishment in schools was banned more than 50 years ago, yet the students don’t riot. Why? A Swedish child has been given a voice in discussions on how to improve their education system. Involving them in decision-making teaches them to be part of problem-solving. The number of boarding schools in Europe, in general, is very minimal as a child below the age of 18 is the parents’ sole responsibility. Parents, as such, have to be part of the education system and raise their own children as much as possible. Sex education and family planning have greatly reduced the number of children per family, which translates to a manageable number of students per class. The teacher to student ratio is as low as 1:12. Manageable classrooms help teachers to be effective as well as administer discipline. Instead of corporal punishment, deviants are given time out from something important to them, given extra workload such as cleaning, extra homework, may be made to skip a meal or other privileges and, in the worst-case scenario, sent home. It is time the Education ministry invested more money in schools. It is evident that to curb indiscipline, the government should strive to employ more teachers to reduce the teacher-student ratio, currently at 1:100. Investments in proper education infrastructure and implements, as had been proposed in the current regime’s manifesto, would have helped meet the needs of today’s child. Intentional investment in counselling programmes in schools and parents outreach programmes to educate them on how best to be involved in the lives and education of their children, will also bear fruit in the long run. The decision to set up public day secondary schools alongside primary schools should be welcomed. The reintroduction of caning may be a temporary but not the ultimate solution. The root cause of indiscipline is never dug out and addressed. Listening to students’ grievances and coming to a favourable agreement would go a long way in putting to rest the issues causing mayhem in schools. The ministry should encourage interactive sessions with students in an open environment. The use of positive reinforcement and motivation will inspire students to remain disciplined. Appreciating disciplined students by rewarding them or recognising them will also help achieve the desired result.