Local fans are set to witness top of the bill cricket as local rivals Kanbis and Swamibapa face off this weekend at Eastleigh High School. The two most successful teams in the country come up against each other as the Nairobi Invitational Cricket T20 tournament concludes the preliminary matches. With 10 months of no action, the local cricket league action resumed last Sunday in Nairobi with the resumption of NICL T20 tournament, where Kanbis surprisingly lost by 51 runs to leaders Sir Ali Muslim Club. Swamibapa beat Ngara Sports Club by 31 runs. With the loss to Sir Ali, Kanbis are expected to be at their best in the match against Swamis. With both sides boosting some of the most explosive batsmen and fastest bowlers, the match is expected to go either way. “This will serve as  a preview for the knockout round matches that will follow,” Swamibapa batsman Maurice Ouma said. “The Kanbis-Swamibapa rivalry is always huge regardless where you are playing.” Ouma was unbeaten as Swamibapa made a return to Jamhuri High and was delighted with how his lads played. He said he expects them to rise to the occasion at Eastleigh. “The way the players have hit the ground running has been really exciting,” said Ouma, adding, “we are all happy to be playing cricket again. After running over Ngara, we are all ready for the next challenge.” Swamibapa turned up against Ngara without their key players— Alex Obanda and Nehemiah Odhiambo and it’s not clear whether they will be available for the Kanbis duel. “Kanbis has a tried-and-tested line-up that has lifted the team atop the local scene and a loss to Ngara was just a bad day in office,” said skipper Rajesh Bhudia. "It was one of those days that things don’t seem to go your way. But those are bygones and we are all ready for the next game. Our opponents have always been giving us a good challenge and we expect the same to happen this Sunday,” Bhudia said. In other matches of the day, Kongonis host Ruaraka at the Nairobi Club with Cutchi Leva playing Sikh Union away.