Three leaders have accused the National Cohesion and Integration Commission of failing in its job after it shamed two lawmakers who were engaged in a scuffle on Monday. MPs Simba Arati (Dagoretti North) and Sylvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) were briefly engaged in a fistfight at the funeral of the father of Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. On Wednesday, NCIC put them in a list of shame alongside former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko and Emurua Dikirr MP Johanna Ng’eno. No further action was taken against the two leaders. On Thursday, legislators Otiendo Amollo (Rarieda MP), Samson Cheragei (Nandi senator) and Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua told a local TV station the shaming was insufficient. Amollo said the NCIC has been shy of prosecutions, especially of the political class. “NCIC should move with speed [to stem rising tensions]. Up to now, NCIC has not commented on what Senator Isaac Mwaura said in Githurai. Naming and shaming is not sufficient but it’s a good foundation,” he said. While announcing the list of shame, NCIC chair Samuel Kobia petitioned MPs to amend the NCIC Act 2008 to give them more powers to punish leaders undermining peace. “If we get more powers, we will be seen as if we are not only biting but biting hard,” he said. Mutua wondered how the list of shame would help NCIC achieve its goals. “We have had some leaders like former Machakos Senator Johnstone Muthama issue derogatory terms, but all they received is a slap on the hand,” Mutua said. The Machakos governor added: “NCIC are just people sleeping on their job. This list of shame is a big joke. We’ve known many senior politicians who have incited people and are not on the list. This is a band-aid solution”. Cherargei said NCIC is turning a blind eye to politically correct people. “Politicians taken to court by NCIC have an affiliation to Deputy President William Ruto,” he said. Also on the list of the shame are goons who disrupted rallies held by ODM leader Raila Odinga and Ruto in Githurai and Burma market in Nairobi respectively. Kobia warned that politicians who will appear in the list three times will not be eligible for reelection. He said the agency will henceforth be publishing the names of persons, or institutions whose words or conduct undermine peace in the country. “We are working with other agencies to make sure that this person will not be eligible to be elected to a position whether it is MCA, MP, governor or whichever,” he added.  (edited by o. owino)