Migori and Nyamira county assemblies in Nyanza are expected to debate and pass the BBI Bill on Tuesday. The two are the only assemblies yet to endorse the Bill in the ODM party leader Raila Odinga's backyard. Siaya was the first in Nyanza, followed by Kisumu, Kisii and Homa Bay to pass the Bill. Migori county completed public participation last week. “BBI will be passed on Tuesday. We just had to ensure the process is followed,” assembly Speaker Boaz Okoth said. Nyamira county assembly held public participation on Monday in the five constituencies — Borabu, Nyamira South, Nyamira North, Masaba North and Manga. Majority leader Duke Masira said the report on the Bill from the public participation will be tabled on Tuesday. “After we are done with the public participation, we are going to burn the midnight oil to compile the report so it can be tabled," Masira said. Other counties that have passed the Bill are Nairobi, Laikipia, Vihiga, Busia, West Pokot, Kajiado and Trans Nzoia. So far, 11 counties have endorsed the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Only Baringo rejected the proposed constitutional changes. Thirteen more counties are needed to hit 24 to propel the constitutional amendment process to the next stage, which is Parliament, then a referendum. Muranga, Nyeri, Embu, Tharaka Nithi, Nakuru, Bungoma, Kakamega, Taita Taveta, Lamu and Kitui counties are also to debate and vote before Friday. “Get ready with your vote because Super Tuesday is coming where we’re going to get 24 counties approving the Bill and help us move to the next level," Raila said over the weekend in Homa Bay. Raila says BBI critics should not to make an about-turn now that more counties are approving the Bill. “We’re telling doubting Thomases who have been fighting BBI to continue doing so. They should not change their mind until we meet at the ballot,” he said. Siaya Governor Cornel Rasanga said BBI promises a better future, peace and tranquillity. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga said on a TV show all politicians opposing the BBI referendum should be sent packing in the 2022 General Elections. Wanga said it would not be fair for such politicians to be allowed to implement the BBI Bill if it passes at the referendum. Senator Moses Kajwang' said the Bill will enable residents to get more development funds through the proposed Ward Development Fund. The BBI has proposed increased funding to the counties from 15 to at least 35 per cent of national revenue. “The Bill will promote economic development. We’ll no longer talk about marginalisation across Kenya,” Kajwang' said. After 24 counties approve the Bill, the votes in the Senate and National Assembly will not prevent a referendum. Last week BBI secretariat co-chair Dennis Waweru expressed confidence at least 30 counties will have approved the Bill by the end of the week. “Once we clock the 24 counties, we shall move to Parliament...without necessarily waiting for all the 47 assemblies to consider it," the former Dagoretti South MP said. Waweru said the secretariat is clear they will be able to deliver a referendum by June. Edited by Kiilu Damaris