The National Cereals and Produce Board has denied cutting maize prices from Sh2,700 to Sh2,550 in a move that sparked protests from farmers in the Rift Valley. CEO of the board Joseph Kimote said although there had been an influx of maize from outside the country leading to reduced prices in the market, the NCPB would still buy the produce from farmers at Sh2,700 per 90kg bag. “There must have been some miscommunication but the truth is we have not reduced maize prices and the farmers should not be worried,” Kimote told the Star on phone. Due to influx of maize from Uganda and Tanzania the market prices in the North Rift region have dropped drastically by about 40 per cent to about Sh 2,100 per 90kg bag. Kimote said the NCPB was targeting to buy about 1 million bags on commercial basis just like any trading organisation because the board no longer acts as an agent which purchases maize for the government Strategic Grains Reserves as before. “There is an extensive policy shift and although we are a government parastatal, we no longer buy maize for the state and we operate on commercial basis,” Kimote said. He said due to financial limitations the NCPB would on Monday meet to deliberate on the maize purchase and other reform issues. The board has so far bought about 230,000 bags of 90kg from farmers in the last two months. Kimote said the board would continue to consult widely including on price matters among other issues. Farmers representatives had met in Eldoret with Moiben MP Sila Tiren and director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo where they urged President Kenyatta to intervene and ensure the prices are increased to not less than Sh3,000. “Its wrong for the government to reduce prices at NCPB without consulting the farmers who were just informed while delivering their produce at NCPB depots,” said farmer Yussuff Keittany. Tiren had accused the NCPB of working for interests of cartels in the sector by making unilateral decisions without consulting the farmers as agreed at a meeting between all stakeholders. “The NCPB has to consult with the Ministry of Agriculture, farmers and other stakeholders before making such decisions. We have asked the President to intervene because this is unfair to farmers”, said Tiren. He talked to CEO Kimote who explained that they had taken the decision to reduce the maize prices following increased supply of the commodity, including imports from Tanzania. “We are demanding that the CEO should explain to us where he gets powers to make such unilateral decisions without proper consultations. We will not allow him to mess up with the progress achieved in resolving problems affecting farmers,” said Tiren. The angry MP said they would this week seek audience with the CS for Agriculture Peter Munya to discuss stability in the sector, including the issue of maize prices. Tiren is the chairman of the parliamentary committee on Agriculture. Edited by Henry Makori