Ziwani residents have called for further consultation on the planned upgrade of 10 estates marked for phase two of the Nairobi Affordable Housing Programme. They have also demanded adequate compensation before the project can start. This comes as the Nairobi Metropolitan Services and the county government continue with week one of public participation. The upgrade is part of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan. Targeted estates in phase two are Bahati, Maringo, Jericho, Lumumba, Bondeni, Ziwani, Embakasi, California, Kariobangi North and Woodley. On Tuesday, Ziwani residents gathered at Kariokor Social Hall for public participation. They said the money that had been given to Jevanjee residents was not enough to resettle them, hence they wouldn't want the same. Eighty tenants who were displaced by the Jevanjee Housing project were given Sh600,000 each. "We want to be engaged fully, especially when it comes to compensation matters... many things have to be looked at ,” Rachel Mumo said. The tenants have also urged the NMS to continuously engage them in the whole process to make sure every one is brought on board before the project starts. "This being the first public participation, we expect that NMS and the county government will continue engaging us in every step concerning this project so that nobody is caught off-guard when the houses are demolished,” Jackson Kiplagat said. Woodley residents have sued to stop the intended redevelopment of the estate by the NMS. They claimed city agency illegally invited developers to submit redevelopment designs and costs in January without their input. The residents, through lawyer Simon Ndege, also claimed that both the NMS and City Hall failed to conduct an environmental and social impact assessment of the estate as required by law. Phase two of public participation will continue on other estates until next week. Phase one of the programme is on course, with the first block of 160 units at Pangani scheduled to be handed over next month, nine months after the groundbreaking ceremony. Other estates are Uhuru, Suna Road, Old Ngara, New Ngara, Jevanjee and Ngong Road I and II. Pangani, being a pilot project, is estimated to cost Sh25 billion and sits on 5.2 acres valued at Sh4 billion. In May 2019, each of the 48 tenants in Pangani received Sh600,000 to facilitate their resettlement rent for the next two years as construction works progress. The Jevanjee Housing project is expected to take two years and will fully be developed by Jabavu Limited, with the county providing land. A total of 1,800 new affordable units will be developed on the estate.  Edited by F'Orieny