President of Comedy Africa Eric Omondi says Churchill has never paid him. Speaking to Massawe Japanni on Radio Jambo, the funny man said he gets his money from adverts and other deals. Churchill has on several occasions found himself on the receiving end, with netizens alleging that artistes endure mistreatment from Laugh Industry Management, resulting in depression that leads to their death. Eric termed that nonsense of the highest order. "Churchill has never called anyone to join the show. He always gives us a house to sell your craft," he said. "Churchill has never paid me any coin. For three seasons and I did not want the money, but by the time I was finishing the first season, I was already making millions. I got adverts and earned from that." Eric said after he bought his first car, some comedians said he was favoured by the show's boss. "Churchill was the number-one show watched in Kenya, and so I used that platform to create my name." He added that he is the one supposed to pay Churchill. "I could not be known if he did not give me the platform to sell my name. He sold my name and it is very unfair when I see comedians saying they are being used by Churchill. You are not being used, they are using Churchill." In the past, some comedians alleged comedians were paid only if their art appeared on TV. They claimed some comedians performed for months but their shows never aired, throwing them into a pool of depression. Responding to the allegations during comedian Othuol's burial, Churchill said he started the show to realise opportunities among the youth and not to oppress them. "I'm not the government. I'm not funded by the government. I'm just a person who had a small dream and whose ambition was to change the lives of as many Kenyans as I could and make them realise their dreams," he said. The comedian said the government had shown minimal efforts to nurture and support young talents. "Let me ask you, most of you have performed at high school drama festival, primary schools to the national level, and it ends up in State House. Have you asked yourself what happens to those talents? That is how most of the dreams die." Edited by T Jalio