City Stars head coach Sanjin Alagic has commended his attacking midfielder Oliver Maloba for earning his maiden call up to the national team, Harambee Stars. Alagic, who guided the side to promotion after a perfect run in the concluded season, exuded confidence in Maloba's ability to impress in national colours. “I am so proud that he is finally enjoying the fruits of his hard work as the national team scouts have now spotted him. We wish him all the best.” Speaking immediately after receiving the good news, Maloba said he was elated to have been handed his first senior national team call up by head coach Jacob 'Ghost' Mulee ahead of the 2021 African Cup of Nations qualifiers against Egypt and Togo towards the close of March 2021. "This is the best news I have received so far," exclaimed Maloba. The pacy midfielder is among the first batch of players to have received letters from Football Kenya Federation inviting them to join the provisional squad that is expected to train for four weeks beginning the second week of February. He was part of the squad that propelled the city lads to their grand return to top flight football after two seasons in the cold. City Stars topped the 2019/2020 National Super League season to secure a direct berth in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. His exhilarating ball mastery in the matches he has featured in so far for the side has left local fans yearning for more from him. “The Kenya National Senior Men’s Team (Harambee Stars) is scheduled to play Egypt and Togo in the African Cup of Nations qualifiers on March 25, 2021 and March 28, 2021 respectively. “The above-mentioned player (Maloba) who is a member of your club has been invited in the provisional squad by the technical team in preparation for the aforementioned matches.” read the letter in part. The pacy ball player led City Stars to promotion with a personal contribution of five goals, six assists and six MVP awards. So far, he has clocked all ten games into the 2020/21 Premier League season. Maloba caused a stir in February last year when he suddenly went missing from the City Stars camp only to return a month later. He has a wealth of experience in the top tier, having previously turned out for  Tusker and Gor Mahia.