The Competition Authority of Kenya is seeking to lax on some of its exemption guidelines for various sectors to cushion and promote economic recovery post the pandemic. The authority has however maintained that competition will still maintained during the period. To aid this CAK prepared guidelines for certain economic priority sectors known as the Post Covid-19 Economic Recovery Block Exemptions Guidelines (PCBEG) under section 30(2) of the Competition Act No. 12 of 2010. The objective of the block exemption guidelines is to issue clear guidance to support the economic recovery of specific sectors which were heavily impacted by Covid-19. To further inform the guidelines, CAK is inviting comments from stakeholders on the draft guidelines before they are formalised. These PCBEG will only be valid from the date of gazettement and for a period of two years. "The guidelines are  meant to allow, for a certain period of time, joint and collaborative markets penetration and sustenance initiatives by business that would otherwise be a contravention of the Act," said Competition Authority of Kenya Director-General, Wang'ombe Kariuki. As part of the guidelines, the Authority may allow for collaborative competition in circumstances where there is severe imbalance between demand and supply, logistical challenges and development of new products which will be considered beneficial to consumers. The set guidelines will exempt the application of the prohibitions of section 21 and 22 of the Competition Act which are restrictive trade practices  and application to practices of trade associations respectively. In the manufacturing sector, the exemption will allow for  collaboration between undertakings in horizontal relationships to allow for manufacture and distribution of furniture, stationary, beverages, medical equipment for public institutions whose joint market shares does not exceed 15 per cent of the relevant market. Collaboration between pharmaceutical industries manufacturers will also be allowed but shall be limited to the manufacturing and distribution of Covid-19 vaccines and Covid-19 related pharmaceutical products As for horticulture farming and export sector  the authority grants exemptions in relation to collaboration by horticultural farmers dealing in fruits, vegetables and flowers meant for the export relating joint marketing in export markets, joint consolidation and inland freight and also lobbying shippers for favorable shipping terms. CAK noted that the global lockdown hit both large and small commercial horticultural farmers hard as they suffered losses with nowhere to take their fresh flowers, fruits and vegetables. Another hard hit sector by the pandemic was the aviation, travel and tourism industry with the containment measures of lock down and social distancing pu in palce. For the sector CAK will grant exemption in collaboration in relation to planning of schedules and marketing among airline operators with a view of facilitating connections for passengers from one airline to the other provided that effective competition is guaranteed. Collaboration between travel agents relating to the acquisition of customers, filling of vans and airlines to allow efficient use of resources will also be exempted. The exemptions will also allow coordination in relation to transportation or shipping of procurement of various consumables, masks hands sanitizers, water sanitation, disinfectants and anti-viral products Once approved , businesses in the various sectors will be expected to present exemption applications. The key considerations when making a determination shall include public  participation and to what the extent the envisaged cooperation will ensure availability and accessibility of goods and services available to the public, especially the vulnerable members of our society. Further, the Authority will consider if the presented collaboration is indispensable in achieving the said efficiency gains. The Authority however shall undertake review of the market periodically to establish if there are major changes in the market that may warrant a review of the guidelines and/ or exit/expiry of the guidelines. The PCBEG are not a substitute for the Act and the Competition (General) Rules made under the Act and must therefore, be read in conjunction with the Act, Rules and other guidelines.