President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto, are expected to join other leaders in Kisii tomorrow during the burial of late Gusii politician Simeon Nyachae. The former Ford People Party leader died early this month after battling a long term ailment. The plane carrying his body landed at Kisii School playground on Sunday midday as the military takes charge of the security. More than 30,000 people are expected to attend. There was a last-minute change of venue from Nyanturago playground following the revelation that the president and his deputy would attend. Speaking to the Star, family spokesperson Charles Nyachae said the change of venue to Gusii stadium was due to limited space at Nyanturago. The choice of Nyanturago at first was due to the deceased politician’s attachment to the region. The playground had for a long time played host to cultural fetes which he used to preside over when he was the MP Charle Nyachae said his father had a special connection to the place and that is why they had initially settled for it to host his last funeral rites. “That is where he often joined his people in celebrating culture, he was a man who truly loved his people,” he said. He, however, said the change of venue came after the state came in. The state will bear the burial expenses. “As a family we had no reservations having Mzee’s last rite witnessed at the playground but since the State leaders are coming to mourn with us we had to cave in, with the primary purpose being to allow Mzee rest in peace,” Nyachae said. Leaders attending the funeral may, however, have limited time for politics with organisers and the immediate family saying they would not want a repeat of what happened during the burial of Kisii Deputy governor’s father a fortnight ago in Tendere, Bomachoge Chache. South Mugirango MP Sylvanus Osoro and Dagoreti North MP Simba Arati had exchanged blows during the said burial. Osoro, however, said there shall be no repeat of fights going forward. Arati who also gave similar assurance said the incident was unfortunate. “We have all decided to respect each other’s opinions in the spirit of democracy,” he said. Nyaribari Chache MP Richard Tongi said they will entertain little politics at the function to stem heated political exchanges. “We may not definitely want to see a repeat of what occurred in Tendere. We want Mzee to go away with the full dignity he had while he lived,” he said. It is not clear if the President will tame his tongue as he comes face to face with his deputy who they have had a bad political week. The two had been exchanging words ever since Ruto took a different view of the BBI report. The President has since dared his deputy to leave the government if he is tired of working with it. Kisii Governor James Ongwae said they want Mzee’s transition rites to be as peaceful as possible. “None is looking forward to the kind of hooliganism we witnessed last time. We have consulted with the family and I can assure you it will be a different funeral,” he said. His sentiment was echoed by his Deputy Joash Maangi. Edited by Kiilu Damaris