Homeboyz radio presenter Kerry Martin, 31, left a comfortable job as a flight attendant at KQ for the sake of his love for radio. Speaking to Word Is, he said growing up, he used to be that kid who watched a lot of TV and wanted to do media. But his parents wanted him to be a pilot or lawyer. “After school my dad was convinced I was going to be a pilot, but my mum was willing to listen. Then there was this argument, whether I should go to Wilson or Australia for law,” he said. “I got accepted to go to university in Australia, and while I was doing my visa application, it took too long and I wanted money,” he said. The Light Academy alumnus first wanted to be a TV presenter. He reminisces the good time he had when travelling the world after being given a job as a flight attendant at just 19. “I enjoyed myself and travelled across the world. My best destination was Accra, Ghana. One time in one of the destinations, I was serving breakfast and [US rapper] Ludacris was right in front of me.” Martin left KQ for a radio presenting job in Kisumu, where he hosted breakfast and drive shows. “I was the one who did flight briefings. So this guy heard my voice, gave me his card and we linked up. And through that I started making money from voiceovers,” he said. “That's when I knew where all these radio stations are at. This was my opportunity and I grabbed it.” He was later absorbed by Homeboyz Radio after and is the host of the drive show 'The Boyz Cub'. Martin, who is an Arsenal fan, hosts the show alongside Lotan, whom he described as a brother. “We share a lot, especially what goes on in our lives: Money, love life, football, hustles and I like the goals,” he said, adding that their show offers a lot of gentleman's gossip. “If you'd like to know how a man thinks, listen to the Boyz Club. If you want to figure men out, listen to us. We talk about sex and football with music,” he said. He and Mike Wachira crack jokes on their social media project titled, 'You got Jokes'. “I've learned that you need to be willing to be vulnerable and put yourself out there. People have opinions and if you take their opinion seriously, it is when social media becomes depressing. But if you are willing to put yourself out there and be yourself, whoever loves you will love you.” What did 2020 teach him​? “That the easiest way to get somebody is through their phone. That you can get to work wherever you are you don't have to come to the office. You can have meetings online as well,” he said. His 2021 plans are to go big and better. “I want to be the host of the best drive show in Nairobi. If you like urban music, music that makes you just want to dance and one that is in touch with whatever that is hot right now, you have to listen to the Boyz Club, you won't get that anywhere else." Martin plans to also get on the YouTube space.