Increase in peace school enrollment along West Pokot's borders has helped to promote peaceful coexistence among communities and reduce cattle rustling. West Pokot county has heavily invested in education by setting up peace border schools to help unite children from warring communities. The county is currently constructing six border peace schools to ensure children from the communities learn about each other, respect each other, interact and learn they are much the same. Governor John Lonyangapuo said sustainable peace at the borders calls for a multi-faceted approach. “The schools seek to bring long lasting peace through education. They inculcate the virtues of peaceful coexistence among pupils from  communities that were hostile to each other in the past," he said. Katikomor, Akulo and Kanyerus peace schools are under construction. Classrooms, dormitories and administration blocks at the three schools are almost complete,” the governor said. Other border schools will be built at Sabulmoi, Nasal and Chuwuwai and Kamelei Lonyangapuo said the government is committed to ensure peace along  borders and children get quality education. “It’s only through education that we shall transform marginalised counties and the government should fully support counties to ensure many children are enrolled," the governor said.  resident Joseph Ruto thanked the governor for initiating the schools, saying they have helped unite children whose parents have fought. “This place where the school has been set up was a battlefield for cattle rustlers. We have already begun realizing the importance of the school since communities have already began to integrate,” he said. The county has also provided bursary for all students in secondary schools, colleges and universities. The funds have led to a major increase in enrollment, retention and transition rates. The county is also setting up housing units for teachers in the peace schools. The county received Sh31 million from donors to set up the teachers'units. (Edited by V. Graham)