Right-back Kevin ‘Chumsy’ Okumu, 22, is excited to be back at Nairobi City Stars. He returned to City Stars last week on loan from Wazito for the remainder of the season and clocked 90 minutes during the round of 64 Betway Cup tie which City Stars won to qualify to the round of 32. “I’m glad to have started over the weekend in the Betway Cup which we won 4-1 and I got an assist in the match. I’m excited. It’s another new chapter in my life,” he said on his return to City Stars. He added: “Nothing is guaranteed but I’ve come here to work hard and help the team by bringing my experience. That’s the main aim. I just want to enjoy my football and get back playing again and get my feet back on the pitch.” Chumsy further noted that having worked under coach Sanjin Alagic before and his four-year stint at Simba wa Nairobi will help him settle quickly. “It’s important that a player and manager maintain a good relationship. He’s got really good morals and gets his team working hard. I’ve had a chat with him already and there are no guarantees- It’s down to me to put the work in and put the shift in, to get into the team and play well week-in, week out,” Chumsy told the club’s official website. Chumsy joined City Stars in mid 2016 but left at the expiry of his contract last year to seek a new adventure at money bags Wazito. At the same time, Gambian Ebrima Sanneh is back from injury. “I am so happy to come back from injury and  score my first goals this season. It’s a great achievement and I am really grateful,” Sanneh told the club’s website. “I thank my teammates and coach because without them, I couldn’t have done it. I hope to score more goals to help my team finish in  good position in the league,” added Sanneh. City Stars' head Coach Sanjin Alagic said: “I’m really happy Sanneh has returned back to the  team as we have definitely missed his goals this season. He is back from injury and as I said before, he needed time to come back to the right shape. He is working very hard and he has already started to score goals and that’s very important for us.” Sanneh is now expected to shift his goal-scoring touch to the Premier League that resumes this weekend with City Stars taking on Zoo FC, Kericho on Saturday at Kasarani.