 A company has filed a case in court seeking orders to suspend the award of a tender to assist passengers at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. Willis Protocol and Concierge Services Limited says Kenya Airports Authority's decision to award the 'meet and assist service' tender to Safaris Limited and Capital International Concierge Limited was against the law. Documents filed in court indicate that the ‘meet and assist service’ entails assisting passengers through airport procedures from disembarking from a plane to their transport vehicle to their destination. The service is offered depending on the different travel systems which include travel by commercial planes and others as chartered planes or using private jets. Willis claims they have been offering the service at JKIA since 2013 and that they stand to suffer irreversible loss. “We have invested and built a strong clientele over the years with subsisting contracts and our gate passes into JKIA are likely to be withdrawn any minute,” it says. The firm wants the court to suspend implementation of the tender award or maintain status quo of any proceedings in the matter until their case is determined. KAA had invited tenders from eligible bidders in relation to the tender for provision of meet and assist service at JKIA. Willis submitted the application but were notified in December last year that the bid was unsuccessful. The reasons were that valid tax compliance, copy of registration certificate among other things were not provided. Willis now says KAA's decision to award the tender to Safaris Limited and Capital International Concierge Limited was against the agency's own tender requirements of not giving a tender to a company that lacked the mandatory five-year experience in offering the services required. “The two awarded firms have never offered the meet and assist service for reasons that only us, Kenya Airways, Trade Winds, Swiss Port and Stac International have offered the service at JKIA in the last five years,” Willis says. It said the ‘meet and assist service’ is currently being offered by unlicensed firms who do not pay concession fees to the Kenya Airports Authority. 