Members of a county service board in Nyanza are staring at graft prosecutions in the face following alleged irregular recruitment of an assembly clerk. Investigations have revealed that after interviews, the clerk was not among the top three candidates recommended for the post. The board nevertheless forwarded his name to the assembly for approval. Detectives say the board abused their office by recommending the office holder contrary to the recommendations of the interviewing panel. To make matters worse, it’s also said the clerk has been using the assembly's vehicle while at the same time drawing commuter allowance. Well, EACC boss Twalib Mbarak has often emphasised everyone has to do the right thing for the war on corruption to be won. Still on matters graft, a senior engineer working for a parastatal is gnashing his teeth in anger. The man, who is currently overseeing lucrative tenders, is said to have lost Sh7 million cash he had stashed in his city house. A source in the know says the money was carted away by a houseboy to a neighbouring country and was a kickback from a multimillion-shilling contract. The man is, however, said to be unable to record a statement with the police fearing that he will have to state the source of such a huge sum, yet his salary is not so fat. Keep it here for more. A junior ministry official is running everyone roughshod with unfettered bravado that he has the number of the President on speed dial. The official has been issuing reckless and outrageous statements much to the bewilderment of senior technical officers. Besides meddling in the politics of the day, the official keeps pushing for secretariat at the ministry to perform some tasks not under their ambit without following due process. Staff at the ministry scamper into their hideouts wherever the officer is in the building to avoid public scold and ridicule. A section of bloggers associated with a major political party have turned their guns on senior party officials they accuse of running down the political machine. It is not clear what has triggered the latest wars. However, those in the know say the use of resources could be at the centre of the falling-out. There is a feeling some officials are too self-centred, keen to pocket every penny set aside for certain political activities. In fact, it’s alleged the few resources devoted for some assignments are always 'pinched' by the officials. The bloggers have vowed to table their grievances with their party leader.