A court has suspended resolutions passed during a chaotic special general meeting of the Law Society of Kenya last month pending a case before it. Justice Weldon Korir also halted the implementation of the resolutions and all activities arising from them. Lawyer Adrian Kamotho sought the orders against LSK's decisions. Justice Korir ruled that it is in the public interest that statutory bodies like the LSK operate within the law and the Constitution. Some of the resolutions passed at the meeting included carrying out a forensic audit of the society's accounts and suspension of eight members. The suspended council members include Aluso Ingati, Carolyne Mutheu, Faith Odhiambo, Linda Emukule, Benard Ngetich, Beth Nichola, Ndinda Kinyili and George Omwanza. Council member and signatory Roselyne Odede resigned from her position earlier on the day of the SGM. The judge noted that a resolution to appoint forensic auditor may have been for transparency in the financial affairs of the society but it should be done lawfully. The court ruled that LSK President Nelson Havi, vice-chair Carolyne Kamende, Herine Kibati and Esther Ang’awa did not prove they will suffer prejudice if the resolutions are suspended. “Kamotho and other members of the LSK will suffer prejudice if they are expected to comply with resolutions that are said to have been passed illegally,” the court ruled. Kamotho had complained that the authority of the general meeting was not exercised in accordance with the LSK Act and the regulations. Havi had argued that Kamotho had not shown the rights that were allegedly violated or breached and he was only acting as a proxy for the suspended council members. On why Kamotho did not exhaust all internal channels before moving to court, the judge ruled that it was impossible because the council is dysfunctional by virtue of the matter before him. “It is, therefore, unjust to ask the petitioner to submit his dispute to arbitrators when the council is dysfunctional and incapable of making any decision, including the decision to participate in any arbitral proceedings,” the court ruled. This development comes barely a day after Justice Alfred Mabea allowed the LSK to withdraw Sh19.6 million from its accounts with two signatories instead of the required three. This is because, according to Havi, two of the council members were no longer signatories. Havi had told Mabea that the operations at the LSK had stalled because of lack of funds as they could not access money without the two signatories. The signatories were Kamende, CEO Mercy Wambua and council members Odede and Ngetich. Mabea directed Standard Chartered Bank to pay LSK Sh14 million for salaries, Sh1.2 million for a forensic audit, Sh980,0000 for external auditor and Sh3.5 million for their upcoming elections.