President Uhuru Kenyatta has congratulated Makhtar Diop on his appointment as the new CEO of the International Finance Corporation (IFC), a member institution of the World Bank Group. Diop, who is a former World Bank Country Representative for Kenya, is a career economist who previously served his nation of Senegal as Minister of Economy and Finance. He also served the community of nations in various roles. Prior to his new role at IFC, Diop was World Bank's Vice President for Infrastructure. Uhuru on Thursday expressed his confidence in Diop’s leadership, noting that under the highly accomplished Senegalese economist, the future of Africa's private sector, as a key driver of growth and sustainable development, is bright. He added that as a member of the World Bank Group, Kenya benefits from its partnership with the IFC and assured the new CEO that the country will continue strengthening its ties with the Bretton Woods institution. World Bank Group President David Malpass announced Diop's appointment on Thursday. Malpass added that; “Makhtar’s skills at IFC will help the World Bank Group continue our rapid response to the global crisis and help build a green, resilient, inclusive recovery. We need business climates and thriving businesses that attract investment, create jobs, and foster the scaling up of low carbon electricity and transportation, clean water, infrastructure, digital services, and the wide range of development success that are key to our mission of poverty reduction and shared prosperity.” Diop’s key responsibilities will be to deepen and energize IFC's 3.0 strategy of proactively creating markets and mobilizing private capital at a significant scale; deliver on the IFC capital package policy commitments including increased climate and gender investments and support for FCV countries facing fragility, conflict, and violence. While accepting the appointment, Diop said that it is time to boost inclusive growth and promote sustainable investments for the benefit of all. Diop, born in June 1960 in Dakar, is a Senegalese economist and politician. He served as Minister of Finance and Economy in the second government of Moustapha Niasse, under President Abdoulaye Wade. Diop holds degrees in economics from the Universities of Warwick and Nottingham in England.