The Kenya Meteorological Department has issued a weather forecast for the month of February 2021 and a weather review for the month of January 2021. The weather outlook for February indicates that most parts of the country will have generally sunny and dry conditions throughout the month. Occasional rainfall is however likely to occur over a few places in the Lake Victoria Basin, Highlands West of the Rift Valley, and Southern Rift Valley are, however, likely to experience occasional rainfall. Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Laikipia, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia are areas likely to experience generally dry conditions for most of the month. The Director of Meteorological Services Stella Aura said occasional light rainfall is expected during the month especially in the Lake Victoria basin and Southern Rift Valley. The rainfall amount in these areas is likely to be lower than their respective long-term average. Turkana, West Pokot, and Samburu counties will experience sunny and dry conditions with high temperatures (30°C - 40°C) expected to prevail in most places. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu, and Tharaka-Nithi are likely to experience generally sunny and dry conditions for most of the month. However, a few high ground areas might experience occasional light rainfall. The rainfall amounts are likely to be lower than the long-term average for the respective areas. Wajir, Garissa and Isiolo, Mandera, and Marsabit counties are likely to experience sunny and dry conditions with high temperatures (30°C - 40°C). The South-eastern Lowlands (Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, and Taita Taveta) areas are likely to experience generally dry conditions for most of the month. However, occasional rainfall is expected to occur over a few places in the southern areas bordering northern Tanzania. The Coastal Strip (Mombasa, Tana River, Kilifi, Lamu and Kwale areas are likely to experience generally dry conditions throughout the month. Being a dry month, the weatherman has advised that it may be suitable for harvesting, drying, and storage of grains in agricultural areas. This is the right time for land preparation in readiness for the planting season in the agricultural areas. Review of January rainfall performance The month of January marked the onset of the dry season. An analysis of rainfall up to January 28, 2021, indicates that the rainfall performance was depressed. Kericho Meteorological station recorded the highest monthly rainfall of 187.7mm followed by Tuthu rainfall station in Muranga County (174.3mm), Nyamira rainfall station (114.9mm) and Butere rainfall station (104.8mm). Kakamega, Kisumu, Kieni Forest Station, Kisii, Kibabii University station, Suba, Nyeri, Ngong, Busia, Narok, and Wilson stations recorded between 50 – 100mm. All the other meteorological stations recorded below 50mm.