Rumukia Farmers Cooperative Society will elect new interim officials on Tuesday after the government dissolved its management over escalating debts. The coffee farmers’ cooperative owed Taifa Sacco Sh167 million as of last year. Those who were in office when the cooperative loan portfolio escalated are barred from running for any office. According to the law, once a management committee is dissolved an interim office of five members is appointed for a period not exceeding 90 days after which a fully fledged management is elected. Assistant Commissioner for Cooperatives Peter Wanjohi called on the county government of Nyeri, through the county director of cooperatives, to supervise Rumukia FCS closely. “The county government should give this particular society priority and walk along with the management that will be elected in office after 90 days,” he said. Wanjohi said on Friday that the new team will decide whether to have a forensic audit done on the society. It will also decide whether to renegotiate with Taifa Sacco for further concession as it is in their interest to have their money paid back. They should also ensure that the payment does not burden farmers, he said. The new management will be required to build confidence among members many of whom turned into coffee hawking or delivering their produce elsewhere. Wanjohi spoke at Rumukia FCS in Mukurwe-ini when he presented an inquiry report. The inquiry was instituted following a resolution by the county government of Nyeri and the State Department for Cooperatives. This was after Taifa Sacco gave notice to auction the society’s assets to recover the Sh167 million debt. The inquiry was done in October and November last year. “Our finding was that there was carelessness on the part of the management and we cannot attribute it to just the current management,” he said. The successive management from 2012 started borrowing loans and the portfolio has been building every year, he said. There was financial indiscipline where shortfalls were financed carelessly through borrowing to sustain bloated expenditure and subsidising payments to members, Wanjohi added. The report stated that Rumukia’s problems started in 2011-12 when the society sold coffee at good prices. “The good prices motivated farmers who worked hard and doubled their production. But, unfortunately, the market was bad and their rates were low,” he said. Farmers demonstrated to the district commissioner's office claiming that their money had been stolen. Fearing the farmers’ action, the management borrowed money from millers and gave farmers a top-up. The society continued borrowing to top up farmers’ earnings and servicing the high cost of operations but the loan was not being serviced. Last year, Rumukia escaped the auctioneer’s hammer following the intervention of both the national and county governments. The society whose catchment area is Mukurwe-ini, Nyeri county, has eight coffee factories, a membership of over 8,500 farmers and produced an average of four million kilogrammes of coffee cherry per year. Edited by Henry Makori