Jambojet has introduced a flexible payment plan for passengers flying on the regional low-cost carrier. Passengers can now book and pay for their flights in a flexible payment plan for bookings made at least 60 days in advance. This follows the introduction of a ticketing product dubbed Jaza pole pole where passengers will be required to make a down payment of as low as Sh2,670 per person and the balance paid in three instalments. The passengers using this platform will have up to two hours to make any changes to their booking after the initial deposit has been made. Jamabojet Acting Managing Director Karanja Ndegwa said that passengers are required to complete paying for their tickets within 21 days prior to the date of travel to any of Jambojet’s destinations. “We are continuously innovating to provide our customers products and services that are tailor-made to offer flexible, convenient and affordable travel,” Ndegwa said, adding that,” We understand the tough economic times and would want to ensure we cushion our customers so that they are still able to travel when they want to.” The Jambojet fare rules and booking terms and conditions will apply in case of cancellation or changes to the original booking. For 60 days prior to travel, passengers will pay 50 per cent of the price of a ticket, while 30 days prior to travel, passengers will pay 90 per cent of the price of a ticket and for 21 days prior to travel, passengers will be required to pay 100 per cent of the price of a ticket. Customers can book their tickets through all existing distribution channels including the website (www.jambojet.com), Progressive Web App, sales offices and travel agents. Jambojet has flown over 3.5 million passengers since its inception in 2014, 30 per cent of whom are first-time flyers to its destinations in Eldoret, Mombasa, Kisumu, Malindi, Ukunda, Entebbe and Kigali from its hub in Nairobi. The airline recently launched direct flights from Mombasa to Kisumu via Eldoret, as well as charter services in line with its strategic growth plan.