Machakos senatorial candidate Mutua Katuku has told Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka to respect the independence of the electoral agency ahead of the March 18 poll. Katuku, the Maendeleo Chap Chap Party ticketholder, said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission does not need any tutorials on how to conduct an election. He termed Kalonzo's demands that teachers and other civil servants not be hired to conduct polls on grounds they will be partisan as unfounded. "As the candidate of Maendeleo Chap Chap party, I understand my party doesn't get involved in matters of conducting elections. Likewise, Wiper should keep off," he said. The candidate said Kalonzo had sensed that Wiper candidate Agnes Kavindu will lose the by-election hence the interference with IEBC. Last week, Kalonzo claimed the Maendeleo Chap Chap Party was working in cahoots with IEBC to rig the poll in favour of Katuku. Katuku said it was not for Kalonzo to lecture IEBC on how to do its job. “IEBC is an independent entity. Wiper party is just a participant in the by-election like many other political parties. It is not for the party leader to tell IEBC who to hire as polling clerks,” Katuku said. He addressed the press after attending the funeral of Mary Kioko who was Yatta MP Charles Kilonzo's sister-in-law in Ndalani village on Saturday. Kioko who worked with the Communications Authority for 20 years died on February 18. She last served the authority as stakeholder relations and corporate social responsibility officer at the consumer and public affairs department. Machakos Deputy Governor Francis Maliti termed Kalonzo's comments on IEBC as irresponsible. "They (Wiper) carried out an opinion survey recently and found that their candidate was faring poorly, which is why they have come up with theories about election rigging," Maliti said. Maliti said Maendeleo Chap Chap party has persuaded the majority of Machakos voters to elect Katuku by educating residents about the basic qualifications of a senator. "We know our candidate is the best and residents know that too. We are confident of a win and we challenge our opponents to accept the will of the people," Maliti said.  