Kirinyaga Governor Ann Waiguru says her administration is on track and committed to transforming the county. Waiguru said they are already improving lives and livelihoods. She highlighted a number of areas where progress has been realised, top among  them health, agriculture and infrastructure. She took stock of her development projects during the state of the county address at the county assembly. The county chief cited her administration’s commitment to prioritising health through the establishment and completion of health facilities, which include Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital currently under construction. Upon completion, the 250-bed capacity high-end facility will offer specialised healthcare services. It will be fully furnished with key healthcare departments, among them an ICU, HDU, modern theatre, emergency and casualty wings. “We project that the facility will be completed by June this year. I will also be seeking the assembly‘s support in equipping it,” Waiguru said. She said other health facilities have also undergone immense improvement in terms of maternity wards, male wards, installation of generators and renal unit machines, among other equipment and units. On the Covid-19 war, Waiguru reported that her administration is committed to putting to place structures for the containment and spread of the virus. She said they have sensitised residents and healthcare workers to the dangers of the disease and prevention measures. So far, the county has registered seven deaths and about 488 cases. "From the onset of the pandemic, we put several containment measures, which include distribution of water tanks, soap, sanitiser and masks to various institutions. We decongested our markets to put social distance and carried out routine fumigation. We have also carried out public education.” On agriculture, Waiguru hailed the Wezesha Kirinyaga Empowerment Programme, noting that it has uplifted many lives. Besides the chicken project that is on an upward trajectory, she said her administration is at the final stage of approving the designs of the tomato processing plant to be established in Kangai. She said that in the course of the year, avocado farmers will benefit from 50,000 seedlings on top of the 300,000 her administration has distributed. Rice farming that has put Kirinyaga county on the national map was also conspicuous on her list of priority areas. She, however, expressed concern about Quelea birds that have continually destroyed farms. She assured that the county government will not tire of tackling the problem. “We look forward to the completion of Thiba Dam, which will go a long way in increasing rice production from the current 80,000 tonnes to at least double the amount." Waiguru hailed the partnership between the county and the national government, noting that it will give forth a ready market for rice farmers who will retail their produce at Sh85 a kilogramme. The county has over the four years undertaken road construction and rehabilitation project. Some 456km have been murramed and 2,163km graded. She said 240km will be improved this financial year Waiguru said the national government has also accepted her request to build 30km roads and a stadium in Wang’uru. She said the county has undertaken life-changing projects in the water sector and 80 per cent of residents will get clean piped water by next year. And to boost trade, her administration has upgraded 11 markets and will be constructing additional ones in Nguka and Karie. Waiguru also disclosed that the last financial year ,the county government collected Sh374 million against a revenue target of Sh480 million. To hit the target, she expressed the need to diversify revenue streams and adopt different approaches to boosting efficiency. “On such matter is the engagement of Strathmore University in automation of our revenue collection system with the aim of improving efficiency.” Waiguru also thanked the assembly for the harmonious relationship that now exists between the assembly ad the executive, noting that it has made room for progress.  Edited by F'Orieny