Kenya Airways is cutting dependance on passengers for more cargo in a bid to stay afloat . This follows a big drop in the number of international travellers due to the the effect of the Covid-19 pandemic. Kenya Airways (KQ) net loss for the six months ended June 2020  widened by 67.3 per cent to Sh14.33 billion ($132 million) on account of Covid-19 disruptions that led to the grounding of flights. The crisis has hit the global aviation industry hard, with African carriers alone expected to lose $6 billion this year in revenue. KQ has estimated the virus will cut its revenue by almost Sh100 billion. On Tuesday, the loss-making national airline said it had agreed with Avianor to collectively repurpose its aircraft cabins into cargo transportation on the Boeing 787. This is the first-ever cargo repurpose of this type to be performed on the Boeing 787 globally. The repurposed cabin has been certified to carry up to 16 tonnes of cargo, potentially enabling the aircraft to reach its maximum payload while in cargo operation of 46 tonnes. The repurposing began in December 2020 and was completed in January 2021. This joint effort is in response to the growing demand and need for increased cargo capacity. KQ chief executive Allan Kilavuka said the airline is prepared to respond to the ongoing demand for essential and medical goods and support future commercial opportunities of the local and regional economies. “We are excited to be part of the first-ever certified cargo conversion of this type on the Boeing 787 aircraft,'' Kilavuka said.  KQ currently has nine Dreamliners in its fleet, which are primarily used for passenger flights. In 2020, Kenya Airways used some of its Boeing 787 aircraft for cargo transportation, aircraft seats remained, limiting the space for an increased freight capacity. Kenya Airways plans to enhance its cargo operations to 20 per cent of its business to bolster the recovery process in the wake of diminishing demand for passenger travel. At the moment, cargo contributes a paltry 10 per cent of the airline’s income with passengers contributing the remaining 90 percent. The new strategy is likely to see it cut its competition gap with rivas Ethiopian Airlines, EgyptAir, Royal Air Maroc, Air Algerie and South Africa's Comair Limited listed as the top five cargo movers in the continent in that order.  Kenya Airways has received airworthiness approval from the Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCCA) and Federal Aviation Authority (FAA) for the repurposed aircrafts. ''This represents a unique design and certification challenge, and we are thrilled to demonstrate, once again, our ability to find unprecedented solutions to customer needs,” Avianor President Matthieu Duhaime said. The  Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) director-general commended Kenya Airways for taking a bold innovative step to address the need for additional capacity for cargo and facilitating trade even as the aviation industry recovers through a difficult period. “As passenger numbers are at an all-time low, airlines have had to look for alternative means of revenue to stay afloat,'' Kibe said. He termed the project as economically significant, saying that it will retain and create new jobs as well as support KQ  in its recovery efforts to diversify revenues.