A legislator has urged Central residents to ignore propaganda by some politicians that President Uhuru Kenyatta has neglected the region. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi on Wednesday said there are a lot of ongoing projects, courtesy of the national government. He cited school infrastructure, roads, markets and hospitals that are being implemented the region and elsewhere. He said Uhuru has stood with the region and come up with laws that protect the interests of all Kenyans. He, therefore, urged them to rally behind the Building Bridges Initiative and support constitutional reforms, regardless of their attitudes towards those championing them. The lawmaker, a member of the Mt Kenya BBI secretariat, said the BBI is founded on the spirit of "one man, one  vote, one shilling" to ensure revenue is allocated equitably. "When revenue is allocated equitably, it will not matter who will become President. This is because we will have removed the politics of threats, flower girls and neglect, and people will be well represented," Mwathi said. He praised the President for meeting  with them at Sagana last week, saying the impact of their deliberations is already being felt at the grassroots, with some leaders changing their stand on the BBI. The legislator warned DP William Ruto's Tangatanga team that the time for lying to the people of Mt Kenya regarding the BBI is gone. "You cannot be telling people propaganda so that they may leave an avenue where they can benefit to be kept on handouts in future," he said. "The BBI has a lot of benefits, especially on revenue allocation and representation. In Central, we have many regions with a bigger population, and the document is guided by the one man, one vote, one shilling formula." He urged Ruto's and his team to change their tune and back the document, saying residents are realising it has benefits that will improve their lives going into the future. Mwathi also accused Tangatanga of focusing on 2022 general election, way before the appropriate time and muddying the BBI debate. He, however, urged residents against heckling or dismissing leaders opposed to the proposed changes. He said they have started distributing BBI documents and hope to get and release at least a quarter million copies every week, so people can read, discuss and decipher the content for informed decisions.