Garre and Morule communities signed a peace deal on Monday and set a fine of 350 camels for aggressors who breach the unity pact. The communities have for years fought over boundaries, pasture, water and other resources culminating in arsons in the Lafey border in Mandera South last year. On Monday, an arbitration committee to bring peace formed by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission and chaired by Sheikh Umal presented resolutions of the two communities. The communities have accused each other of rapes in rivals territories and a fine of Sh60,000 was set for any community found culpable for the offence. “The two communities are at liberty to agree whether the compensation will be by camels or the price of the camels,” committee secretary Abdirahman Ali said while reading the resolutions. The compensation is to be paid over three years commencing from the date of the resolution. The team issued an ultimatum of two weeks for property that may have been stolen by community members from either side be returned to their owners. The move would strengthen the peace and stability between the two communities. The committee also gave the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission six months to demarcate boundaries to prevent further conflicts. No new settlements will be allowed nor development projects undertaken until the boundary demarcation is done. NCIC chairman Samuel Kobia, elected leaders led by Mandera Governor Ali Roba, security chiefs and elders from the two communities were present. Kobia welcomed the resolution and the peace pact, saying it will go along way in finding a lasting solution to the long-standing conflicts. “As NCIC we want to commend the committee that we tasked with coming up with resolutions that will help in finding a permanent solution. Indeed, they have done a great job. We will walk with you throughout the process until we make sure that peace and security that is sustainable is achieved,” Kobia said. Governor Ali Roba Roba said the two communities had differences that have led to conflict but have now decided to bury the hatchet and live like brothers and sisters. “It is easy to start a fight but difficult to end it. I have seen many killings of women, men, children and youth. However, we managed to bring sanity and calm,” Roba said. “Going forward let us not witness any ugly scenes. At the end of the day, we are all brother and sisters who belong to the same God.” Lafey MP Abdi Mude also expressed optimism that the pact will last, noting that peace and security should be jealously guarded by the two communities. “We must all advocate for peaceful coexistence in our communities and observe the true spirit of neighbourliness. A peaceful and secure environment is critical to every society since it affects all aspects of economic and social development in a country,” Mude said.  (edited by o. owino)