Historic Lamu Island has been plagued for years by noisy boda bodas and  reckless drivers that are displacing the traditional donkey transport. Residents have complained the ambiance of the Swahili Old Town is being spoiled by motorbikes and immodest western clothing worn by tourists. More than 300 bikes and 10 tuk-tuks operate on the island. To reduce the boda boda problem in the Unesco World Heritage site, riders are now obliged to follow new rules or get out of town. The rule are effective on Wednesday. They do not limit the number of boda bodas in Old Town. “This is a Unesco World Heritage site that needs to be protected but we also respect the fact that the boda boda business is a lifesaver for many,” Atwa Salim, Lamu chief officer for trade, tourism and culture said. He said the regulations are meant to strike a balance between the boda boda trade and tourism. "We expect all rules to be followed to the letter," he said. Riders must follow directives or leave. Only men aged 18 and above will be allowed to ride the motorbikes on the island. They must observe the speed limit of 10 to 20mph in town or face arrest. They are banned from hooting unless necessary and may not blare music from their bikes. The move is aimed at curbing noise pollution and disorder. They are only allowed to carry one passenger at a time except in emergencies. The regulations were agreed to on Tuesday during a meeting among county and national representatives and those of boda boda operators. Boda boda riders will operate from two pick-up and drop-off points at the Milano area in Langoni and the Donkey Sanctuary area in Mkomani. Salim said riders must provide proof of age and license and also  produce their original ID cards whenever they are requested to do so. The meeting drafted 10 policies and regulations guiding boda boda operations on Lamu Island's Old Town. An interim committee will be formed to oversee operations. Lamu's Old Town was listed in 2011 as a Unesco World heritage site due to its well-preserved culture and heritage spanning decades. The town’s heritage has been under threat from westernisation. Unesco World Heritage sites are required to maintain their originality and resist any form of western influence, especially in architecture, culture and heritage. Riders must also form a Sacco in five months or they will not be allowed to operate. Riders must at all times wear badges bearing their full names, photos and ID numbers. Automobiles have been banned from the island except for county ambulances, fire engines, garbage collection trucks, the county commissioner's official vehicle and motorbikes belonging to the departments of public heath, water and KPLC. Edited by Kiilu Damaris 