President Uhuru Kenyatta on Wednesday said he is content with the rosy relationship between the Nairobi Metropolitan Services and City Hall. Uhuru said their collaboration is fast-tracking development, especially in informal settlements. “Since these two people started working together, we've seen a lot of improvement. Roads are now better and my only hope is that the two (NMS, county government) will transform this county and make it even better,” he said. For almost 10 months since the inception of the director general Mohammed Badi-led NMS last March, it was at war with Mike Sonko-helmed City Hall. Refusal to hand over the payroll of seconded staff to NMS, budget constraints, contract disputes and sending of contradicting public messages rocked the relations between the two. The former governor had vowed not to release funds to the NMS, terming it an illegal entity. "I will not, I shall not and I'm not going to append my signature to give funds to an illegal entity,” Sonko said. As a result, the NMS faced a difficult time delivering on its mandate as directed by the President. However, following Sonko’s ouster in December, things took a turn for the better, leading to improved working relations as the NMS and City Hall agreed to deliver services together. Meanwhile, the former county boss has been publicly taking on the President and blaming him for his downfall. It had been earlier alleged that the greenlight to impeach him was given by the head state and ODM party leader Raila Odinga. The President has confessed that he had a hand in it, saying Sonko had failed in his work. On Wednesday, once again, Uhuru said Sonko was unable to deliver to residents. “Their work was only to insult me, which I don’t care at all. The good thing is that we have a fresh team that is committed to making Nairobi county better,” he said. When he assumed his role as acting governor on December 21, 2020, county assembly speaker Benson Mutura's first duty was to sign the governor’s warrant enabling the release of the Sh37.5 billion budget. This meant that City Hall staff could now be paid their salaries, which they had been starved of for three months. The NMS could now access the Sh27. 1 billion allocated to it by the county. Last month, another bridge was crossed when Nairobi finally got a deputy governor after almost three years. Anne Mwenda Kananu, who had served under Sonko as chief officer for Disaster Management, was vetted and sworn in as deputy governor. On January 15, she vowed to unconditionally work hand in hand with the NMS to serve residents. “Together with NMS, we will work round the clock to ensure expectations of the Nairobi people are not only met but exceeded in a bid to accelerate the social and economic sector, bringing development to our beautiful city," Kananu said. As a result of the new relationship, contracts have been handed over to the NMS, pending bills cleared and meetings held, with officials from both sides in attendance. Since last March, all the County Executive Committee members, especially those whose functions had been transferred to the NMS, had never had a round table with the Badi team to deliberate on development matters. However, last month, NMS officials and county officers had at least three meetings in Mombasa where the main agenda was working as a team to jointly deliver on their mandates. Uhuru once again hailed the efforts by Badi to restore services in informal settlements. He said the NMS has attempted to transform slums, especially in terms of infrastructure, water and health. The NMS, together with Kenya Urban Roads Authority, has embarked on constructing 408km of access roads in informal settlements. Last week, Badi launched the project in Kibera where 28km of roads will be built and tarmacked. The city agency is also in the process of finishing 24 hospitals in informal settlements. President Kenyatta said during Jamhuri Day celebrations that the project costing  Sh2 billion was part of his plan to deliver health services to the poorest in the county. “I note with satisfaction that the NMS is on course to deliver the facilities by the end of January 2021. The idea is to take health services as close to the people as is possible,” he said. Last week, Badi said completed hospitals will be commissioned by the President as from next week. The health facilities are in Viwandani, Majengo, Mathare, Kayole Soweto, Korogocho, Kawangware, Gitare Marigu, Mukuru kwa Njenga, Mukuru kwa Rueben, Kibra and Githurai 44. Nineteen out of the 24 health facilities were built from scratch, while the rest were rehabilitated. On April 14 last year, Uhuru directed the NMS to expand the provision of free water to Mukuru, Mathare, Kibera, Southlands Kijiji and Korogocho. The NMS, in collaboration with Athi Water, has drilled 193 boreholes and erected 500 water tanks in high-density areas. The boreholes will supply 22.6 million litres to 1.2 million residents to complement the existing supply. “People in our informal settlements used to pay almost Sh40 daily to buy two jerrycans of water. That is a huge amount. But look at what is happening now, with the boreholes they get water regularly and free,” Uhuru said. More is expected from the NMS. It will mark one year of existence on March 18, 2021.