Deputy President William Ruto has asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to stop criticising the government from within. "You cannot claim to be with us (government) while at the same time claim this government has not done anything," Ruto said. The DP who was speaking in Nyandarua on Sunday said Jubilee will continue implementing projects that it promised Kenyans. He said this was the only way to ensure Jubilee administration lived up to its promises. The Deputy President cited infrastructure, electricity and education programmes as some of the development initiatives the government has improved since 2013. “The government led by President Uhuru Kenyatta has done a lot. Kenyans are smart, no one can lie to them.” Ruto said he was focused on ensuring development projects initiated by the Jubilee administration were fully implemented even after President Kenyatta's retirement in 2022. He asked Kenyans not to panic over incomplete programmes saying they will be completed. "I assure you that the programmes that we began with President Kenyatta will not stall," he said. Meanwhile, leaders from Mt Kenya region promised to supporting Ruto's quest to succeed President Kenyatta. At least 12 lawmakers who accompanied him said they will ensure the promise made by President Kenyatta to back his deputy becomes a reality. The MPs included Rigathi Gachagua (Mathira), Alice Wahome (Kandara), Kimani Ichung’wa (Kikuyu), Faith Gitau (Nyandarua), Moses Kuria (Gatundu South), Ndindi Nyoro (Kiharu), Thuku Kwenya (Kinangop), Wangui Ngirichi (Kirinyaga), Jane Kihara (Naivasha), Michael Mucheru (Ol Joro Orok), Benjamin Gathiru (Embakasi Central), Nixon Korir (Lang'ata) and Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata. The Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri was also present. Ruto said his priority was to ensure ordinary Kenyans earn a decent living. "What we want now is a bottom-up approach of our economic model." He reiterated that the second phase of Jubilee administration's focus which was the Big Four agenda had been affected by the BBI process. Kiunjuri said all indications were that the BBI will be passed irrespective of the wish of the majority of Kenyans. He thus asked Ruto to focus on the 2022 elections. He said he was privy to training and mobilisation of agents who were pro-BBI to oversee the entire process. Kiunjuri said it was insincere of the President to go against his earlier promise of supporting the Deputy President once his term expires. Kuria said Mt Kenya region will not be in a vacuum once President Kenyatta’s term ends. He accused Raila of destabilising the Jubilee administration. Kuria criticise Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, saying he was misleading the Mt Kenya region on developmental issues. Kimemia is the chair of Mt Kenya Governors caucus. Gachagua said the region had promised to remain steadfast on the deal to back Ruto when Uhuru's term ends. "Our first priority today should be the revival of our economy so that the economy gets back on track," Ichung’wa said. "You do not need to use any gate to reach these people," MP Wahome said.