The onset of March-May long rains in the country will start in the second to third week of March. This is according to the 2021 long rains weather outlook released on Friday by the Kenya Meteorological Department. “The peak of the rains is expected to be in the month of April for most regions except over the coastal strip where the peak is expected during the month of May,” Kenya Meteorological Department director Stella Aura said. The onset of rainfall in Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Nandi, Laikipia, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties is expected in the second to third week of March. Rainfall will continue into June. Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Embu, Meru, Kiambu, Nyandarua and Nairobi counties will start experiencing rains from the end week of March, and will end in May. Rainfall in Nakuru and Laikipia counties will continue into June. Narok, Bomet, Kericho, Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Machakos, Taita Taveta, parts of Tana River counties will start getting rain in the second to fourth week of March to end in May. Rainfall in the coastal region of Lamu, Mombasa, Kwale, parts of Tana River and Kilifi will start late March to first week of April and will continue into June. In Turkana, Samburu, Wajir, Isiolo, Garissa, Mandera and Marsabit counties, it is expected in the last week of March to first week of April and will end by May. Aura said the forecast for March-May 2021 long-rains season is based on the prevailing and the expected evolution of sea surface temperature anomalies over the Pacific, Indian and Atlantic oceans. The forecast indicated that the Lake Victoria Basin, parts of the Highlands East of the Rift Valley including Nairobi county, the Highlands West of the Rift Valley, parts of the Northwest, the Southern Rift Valley and Central Rift Valley are likely to experience enhanced rainfall. However, near average rainfall is expected over the Southeastern Lowlands, parts of Northeastern and the Coastal region. The extreme Northeastern region is likely to experience below average rainfall. The temporal rainfall distribution is expected to be poor, especially over the Eastern and coastal regions.