The Kenya Scouts Association has embarked on training scouts in peer mediation to help curb unrest in schools. There has been restlessness among learners, particularly boarding secondary schools, since they reopened in January. Chief commissioner of scouts Victor Radido on Saturday blamed the antisocial behaviour on the long closure of learning institutions due to Covid and communication breakdown in schools. “We've heard of students burning dormitories, others are assaulting their teachers, while others are demonstrating over high-handedness or agitating for special treatment,” he said. Radido spoke during the 164th anniversary of the scouts movement Founders’ Day in Nyeri town. He urged school administrations to adopt alternative dispute resolution mechanisms and use the scouts as peer mediators. The association will also put in place mechanisms to ensure all adult scouts are well selected and prepared to safely handle children. “As a board and as an association, we have categorically stated that we are starting an exercise of weeding out rogue scouts leaders within the system,” he said. The exercise to be initiated next month will ensure the association has adults who are able to support young people. He expressed concern that some people have been trying to get into the movement through the backdoor, put on scout uniforms without permission and end up bringing the organisation into disrepute. He called on scout county commissioners to ensure uniforms in the hands of the wrong people are returned. Only a small number of scouts were involved in this year's celebrations because of Covid-19 restrictions. The theme was 'Scouting Promoting Innovation and Technology'. Nyeri governor Mutahi Kahiga, who was the chief guest, said boys are in a crisis and the scout movement offers a practical remedy for them and girls. “This is achieved when we build confidence, character, curiosity, resilience, and servant leadership in our children and adolescents,” he said. The county chief said Scouts and Guides have entrenched themselves into a programme associated with grit, discipline, diligence, service and patriotism. The virtues have coached boys and girls to be courageous and ready to face emerging challenges with confidence, he added. He said his administration is committed to strengthening collaboration with the Kenya Scouts Association to harness the untapped potential of the children and the youth in building a more cohesive and habitable society. Also present were Youth PS for youth Julius Korir and Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu, among other leaders.  Edited by F'Orieny