The raging debate for or against the Building Bridges Initiative is a healthy discourse in the country. Being a people-driven and a political process in nature, discussions around it ought not to be muted. Instead, constructive input on its pros and cons has to be encouraged. This can only be achieved through a robust countrywide civic education to create a sense of ownership and belonging of the document right from the grassroots level. To start with, BBI is timely and presents a ripe moment to not only redefine the country’s constitutional journey but also open a rare window to devolve resources right to mwananchi. In effect, the socioeconomic development of the country will be tied to prevailing economic realities of the mwananchi since there cannot be growth without development. Though the BBI debate cannot be divorced from politics, the support or rejection of the document should not be reduced to a political mobilisation tool for the 2022 succession politics. Unfortunately, some politicians have not shied away from taking this route and personalising the process as bait for political mobilisation for selfish political interests. As President Uhuru Kenyatta has repeatedly rallied the country, the BBI process is aimed at addressing the deep-rooted challenges such as inclusivity, political representation and the cyclic post-election violence every five years and strengthening devolution. Therefore, the rationale of all these important and transformational proposals must be divorced from short-term partisan political interests and ego posturing. Instead, they serve as a clarion call to chart a more lit path for the country’s economic prosperity, social equity, all-inclusive political representation to solidify a sense of belonging as one united Kenyan people. For example, the proposal for the establishment of a county ward development fund will create greater inclusivity, fairness, equity and accountability in the distribution of resources. Additionally, increasing resources to counties from 15 per cent to at least 35 per cent would ensure more development at the local level, attraction of investment opportunities and money in people’s pockets. The proposed remodeling of the parliamentary system by bringing government back to Parliament and having a leader of opposition as the runner-up in the presidential election provides platform for robust oversight, checks and balances. Similarly, having Cabinet ministers appointed from within and outside the National Assembly will ensure an enhanced level of accountability to the citizenry through the elected leaders as constituents’ representatives in the House. Effectively, the rigid government bureaucratic structures and red tapeism that are key hindrances to efficient, timely and proactive service delivery would be a thing of the past. However, the growing contestations on the best approach to popularise the initiative by emerging factions within the proponents of the amendment particularly in the Mt Kenya region risk having detrimental effect. This includes the possibility of veiled move to cast aspersions to the document as a sabotage move or otherwise. Continued friction in the popularisation strategy stands to create more confusion and pave way for distortion as opposed to harnessing understanding and cultivating a sense of ownership of the proposals amongst the electorate. Unity of purpose is key to deliver the beneficial changes the country requires to be anchored on a path of progressive economic trajectory for decades to come. Nonetheless, the apparent disconnect and lack of an all-supportive approach bringing together political and religious leaders, opinion shapers and elders to champion ground mobilisation is a shortsighted deliberate move that must be urgently be addressed. BBI presents a rare opportunity for Kenyans to cultivate a culture of nationalism and sense of belonging to chart a path of politics of ideology and inclusivity as opposed to ethnic-based of personalities and hatred. It is clear that the March 2018 political truce between President Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga salvaged the country further balkanisation, hatred and provided an opportunity for national healing and dialogue following the divisive 2017 polls. Undoubtedly, this is the new path the country should chat for the betterment of future generations. The author is a diplomacy and communication consultant kinyurumkinyuru@gmail.com