After donations at Imbo, Kothidha in Homabay County and St. Basil Lurambi Primary School in Kakamega, leading gaming company Mozzart has now commissioned a water point worth sh2.4 million in Chebunyo Dispensary, Bomet County. The water point will serve the Chebunyo Health Centre, Chebunyo Market, which is the largest in Bomet County and a neighbouring Primary School. "We really appreciate what you have done for us. The project that Mozzart has undertaken is important for us and the entire community. We will ensure that everyone in the community benefits," Area Chief, Chebunyo Location, Mrs. Mercy Langat said. In the midst of corona virus pandemic, being in solidarity with people together with offering humanitarian assistance by successful companies such as Mozzart is now more important than previously envisioned. "As a county government we are very happy with this gesture from Mozzart. We are very happy as Chebunyo Ward and Bomet County and we will support Mozzart as they do more projects in the community," Area Member of County Assembly (MCA), Hon Joseah Chepkwony added. Mozzart has spent over Ksh 50 million in CSR activities from last year and this shows their commitment to improving the lives of communities around the country. "Our commitment is in improving the lives of ordinary people in the society. This is the third water project we have undertaken as Mozzart and our target is to do 97 more. The community is always at the center of whatever we do and we are always eager to assist. We are happy to play our part in helping the people of Bomet to access clean water and improve the quality of life," Frank Ochieng, Marketing Manager Mozzart Kenya concluded. No clean water since independence Anna Tesot, an elderly resident from Chebunyo village expressed gratitude on behalf of the people of Bomet County."We have not had no clean water since independence and from the bottom of my heart I want to thank Mozzart on behalf of the community and I urge the company to continue supporting the underprivileged in the society."