Fresh from winning the Indoor event in Karlshure Germany last weekend, world 3000m steeplechase champion and record holder Beatrice Chepkoech will be chasing her second win in Liévin, France on Tuesday. Chepkoech was in fine form in the German city in her first race this  year,  clocking 8:41.98. Chepkoech will be up against Ethiopia’s Lemlem Hailu, who set a world U-20 indoor record in Lievin last year. World indoor 1,500m record-holder Samuel Tefera, who set a world indoor record of 3:31.04 in 2019, will contest his specialist event. The 21-year-old Ethiopian will take on double European champion Jakob Ingebrigtsen, 2017 world bronze medallist Filip Ingebrigtsen, world bronze medallist Marcin Lewandowski and five-time European U-23 champion Jimmy Gressier. The men’s pole vault, featuring five members of the event’s six-metre club, looks set to be one of the meet highlights. World record-holder Mondo Duplantis will take on 2012 Olympic champion and former world record-holder Renaud Lavillenie as well as two-time world champion Sam Kendricks, Olympic champion Thiago Braz and world bronze medallist Piotr Lisek. Hugues Fabrice Zango, who broke the world indoor triple jump record earlier this year with 18.07m, will also be in action. The world bronze medallist has won in Lievin for the past two years and will be looking for his third consecutive victory. World champion Grant Holloway, who opened his 2021 campaign by equalling his own North American indoor record of 7.35, will star in the 60m hurdles. The US sprint hurdler takes on world indoor champion Andre Pozzi, Olympic silver medallist Orlando Ortega, world indoor bronze medallist Aurel Manga, Olympic bronze medallist Dimitri Bascou and recent Karlsruhe winner Wilhem Belocian. The women’s 60m hurdles will feature world indoor silver medallist Christina Clemons of the USA, European indoor champion Nadine Visser and two-time European indoor champion Alina Talay. The men’s 800m will bring together world indoor champion Adam Kszczot, 2017 world champion Pierre-Ambroise Bosse, world silver medallist Amel Tuka and European indoor champion Alvaro de Arriba.