Mathare United chairman Bob Munro has strongly condemned an incident in which he was confronted by three fans who felt bitter with their 1-0 loss to Tusker at Moi, Kasarani last Saturday. Munro said the occurrence had prompted him to schedule a meeting with fans where they plan to put the code of conduct in black and white. "Of course, the fans have a right to demand an explanation when they feel the team isn't doing well, but the approach they took was entirely wrong. There are better channels that can be used to air such grievances," said Munro. The three fans approached Munro demanding an explanation for the team's poor run in the season so far . The slum boys have struggled to put up a decent performance this season and are currently at the tail end of the table on four points, only two more than bottom placed Zoo Kericho. They kicked off the new season late after being caught up in a heated broadcast rights row with Football Kenya Federation that kept them out in the cold for a while. Coach Salim Ali has, however, sprang to the defence of his squad, pointing out that they were pressed for time to conduct their preseason training, a fact that explains their slow start to the season. "You are aware that we began our preparations a little bit late given we were never sure about our fate in the top tier. Actually, we are conducting our preseason concurrently with our league matches and I'm satisfied with how things have gone so far,' said Salim. Salim played down the incident in which Munro was accosted by irked supporters, saying they only sought to find out what the management was doing to get the squad on the right track. "It is true that some fans came to the chairman expressing their concerns about the team's performance so far. They, however, need to be patient because we haven't found enough time to train," he added. Meanwhile, Mathare United media officer Peter Wainaina has dismissed claims suggesting that the players' poor show boils down to lack of pay. "While we agree that the team had encountered some difficulties in the past in over player salaries, the situation has improved since our sponsors Triple5bet came on board," said Wainaina.