Residents of Kitibei village in Baringo North are without water after criminals cut and vandalised pipes. The crime - the second in which pipes were vandalised - is blamed on an unresolved clan dispute also involving land Village water supply attendant Eric Kemboi said he was shocked to find the dry taps and he later found the damage. “Six metal pipes were cut off, disconnecting the running water from the main source, the borehole at Kitibei Primary School” Kemboi said on Thursday. He said jealous people armed with hacksaws must have sneaked into the village on Wednesday night to ruin the pipes. Kemboi said it is the second case of vandalism since December 26 last year when four water pipes were cut. Residents raised Sh20,000 for repairs. He said the situation was dangerous and said people feared that if the culprits were not arrested, they might poison the water next time. Village elder James Chelekwel said the criminals didn't just cut the pipes. "They disconnected the main water junctions, vandalised and threw the pieces down the cliff." Empty bottles of illicit liquor were found in the bushes where some pipes were cut. “We earlier raised money to repair the pipes but this time we are not ready to contribute anything, we want the culprits sought and arrested,” Chelekwel said. He said one suspect was arrested in January but released by police under unclear circumstances. Janet Some said they now must trek 10km to fetch water downstream. “Our children are now forced to skip evening classes to assist us get water for domestic use” Some said. The residents accused Kapteberewo location chief Isaac Chemjor of failing to cooperate and arrest the culprits. When asked for comment by journalists, the chief who was on his way home said nothing but tried to break a journalist's camera and ran away. On Wednesday the villagers were forced to trek more than 15km to report the incident to Kipsaraman police station, hoping for immediate action. Baringo North OCPD Fred Odinga urged Kitibei residents to produce witnesses to record statements with police to help them arrest the culprits. The residents threaten to take the law in their hands if the government does not take urgently resolve the serial disputes. Kap’nyekwel villagers are accusing the Saimo-Kipsaraman MCA John Aengwo, who hails from the same village for favouring 'his own people' with piped water, leaving them out. "We cannot watch them enjoy piped water while we have none," one villager said. Aengwo, contacted for comment, said he did use the ward fund to connnect some residents and was looking for more funds to ensure the rest of the community was connected to water. He condemned the vandalism and called for the arrest and prosecution of the vandals. "I serve all my electorates equally without favouritism," he told the Star. "I don't even consider whether they are my relatives or not ... It's unfortunate that as we aspire to take development to our people some jealous individuals are destroying what we have done." The vandalism is blamed on historical disputes between the feuding  Kap’nyekwel and Kabarsitiei clans, both living near Kitibei village. Kap’nyekwel villagers say a leader who comes from the area connected 'his people' with water, leaving them out. "We cannot watch them enjoy piped water while we have none," one villager said. This is the same village where a land dispute forced hungry villagers to move heavy blocks, wires and poles to barricade the main road connecting Kitibei and Bartolimo Centre last year. (Edited by V. Graham)