 Construction work on the Dagoretti Corner to Karen roundabout section of Ngong Road will be completed in four months. The Kenya Urban Roads Authority director-general Silas Kinoti on Friday said the Sh2.3 billion project is 83 per cent complete. “In the remaining four months the contractor is expected to complete installation of footbridges, drainage, finalise remaining layers of tarmac, complete the drainage, walkways and install road furniture and marking,” he said. China Qinjian is the contractor of the eight-kilometre project. Kinoti said that the project has experienced unforeseen delays due to relocation of services and cash flow challenges on part of the contractor Last year the subcontractors had been downsized due to Covid-19 pandemic and there were limited sources of materials, a condition also blamed on the outbreak. Once complete, the road will have five footbridges and five lanes, with walkways and cycle tracks on both sides. The project is part of the larger dualling of Ngong Road project starting from Kenya National Library. It is financed by the National Treasury to ease traffic flow along Ngong Road. Kinoti said work has commenced on the section from Kenya National Library joining Haile Selassie. Other works include upgrading of Community area roads, Valley Road, a section of Kenyatta Avenue from All Saints Cathedral, State House Road and Nyerere Road. “It will have overpasses and a viaduct from Integrity Centre to Serena Hotel and will cost the National Treasury Sh2.9 billion,” Kinoti said. President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned the first phase in 2016. This phase starts at the Kenya National Library to Prestige Plaza and was completed on December 17, 2017. It was built by World Kaihatsu Kogyo, a Japanese company for Sh1.3 billion. It covers three kilometres. Phase 2 is a four-kilometre stretch from Prestige Plaza to Dagoretti Corner and was completed on April 30, last year, by the same Japanese contractor for Sh2 billion. Three pedestrian footbridges are to be built at the Kenyatta National Hospital gate, Coptic Church, and the Kenya Science Technical College in the next 18 months. Kura had earlier said that the dualling of Ngong Road would provide a median to be developed later for Bus Rapid Transport or a light railway.  