The high cost of living tops the list of concerns among Kenyans with a majority saying they cannot meet basic needs, a new national survey shows. Most people are dissatisfied with President Uhuru Kenyatta's economic performance record with a majority asking him to end the curfew to enable a 24-hour economy. According to the survey, almost 60 per cent are either moderately dissatisfied or very dissatisfied with economic performance, with a paltry 2.2 per cent very satisfied. The National Political Opinion Poll conducted by Radio Africa Group between January 28 and February 5 shows 78 per cent of the respondents cannot afford basic needs, pointing to tough times. Last month, the government reinstated tax packages it had eased in March last year to cushion households from the impact of Covid-19. The survey findings reflect government data on inflation, with the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics (KNBS) indicating that the cost of living rose in January to 5.69 per cent up from 5.62 per cent in December. The Consumer Price Index (CPI), which measures the percentage change in the price of a basket of goods and services consumed by households, increased by 0.63 per cent from 111.86 in December to 112.57. The government statistician attributed the increase to the monthly food and non-alcoholic drinks index, which increased by 1.26 per cent between December and January. The year-on-year-food inflation rose by 7.36 per cent, 14 basis points shy to 7.5 and above considered by the government as high inflation. The survey shows that elderly people are highly concerned about the cost of living than young ones aged below 25 years, posting 82  and 78 concern rate respectively. Even so, both men and women are equally concerned by the expensive life at 78 per cent. The cost of living seems to be pressing more households in North Eastern and Upper Eastern, with the two demographics posting 83 and 82 concern rate. Food supply in South Rift and lower fuel prices at the Coast saw the region post lower concern about the cost of living. Unemployment is the second most problem facing Kenyans at 58 per cent, with more men than women feeling the pinch. According to the quarter two Labour Force Report by the KNBS, at least two million people were rendered jobless by the Covid-19 pandemic, doubling the country's unemployment rate to 10.4 per cent from 5.2 per cent. Other most pressing issues in Kenya include corruption 45 per cent, poor health care 28 per cent, rich -poverty gap 16 per cent and poor quality of education at 13 per cent in that order. Those who want Uhuru to lift the curfew believe it is not effective at 29 per cent with 17 per cent yearning for reopening of a 24-hour economy. At least 14.4 per cent believe the curfew has negatively affected business. Furthermore, the Covid-19 economic pressure has made it tough for the public to access basic amenities, with 85 per cent unable to access financial services. This is likely as a result of high loan default reported by lenders, with the latest data by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) showing that non-performing loan rate is at an all-time high of 14.1 per cent. Other amenities out of reach for many people include agricultural produce, social halls, clean water, sports facilities and well-maintained roads.