The government has set up a Covid-19 vaccines safety mentoring system to ensure any adverse effects are investigated and corrective measures taken immediately. This is expected to be done in consultation with the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. Similarly, the Health ministry has announced plans to expand and enhance storage space by the end of the year to ensure enough capacity to handle the vaccines. With the first consignment expected in the country later this month, the government plans to use central storage facilities in Nairobi for vaccines requiring cold chain of up to -20 degrees Celsius and some limited capacity for -70 degrees Celsius in the major urban areas. The facilities developed primarily for immunisation of children below the age of five will now have to come in handy at this time of the pandemic to help the situation. “Nonetheless, the infrastructure will be deployed for the needs of Covid-19 vaccines, which, for the first time, place a requirement on the deployment of vaccines to the adult population on a large scale,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The expansion of the already available resources is to ensure lifesaving childhood vaccination programmes are not interrupted. The country is expected to receive 24 million doses of the vaccine under the Covax facility, enough to cover 20 per cent of the country’s population with plans to procure an additional 11 million doses from other mechanisms. The doses will cost Kenya Sh10 billion, the ministry confirmed. The government has planned to reach at least 1.25 million Kenyans with Covid-19 jabs between this month and June. During this period, frontline healthcare workers and all staff working in health facilities and workers offering essential services are to be inoculated with priority sectors such as security coming first on the priority list. The ministry has, however, said all vaccines coming into the country will be passed through testing and sampling for efficacy to ensure they are the same as those being used elsewhere. Individuals in the private sector who wish to import vaccines will also be allowed to do so subject to approval by the ministry. “There will be no mandatory vaccination. Nobody will be forced to take a vaccine because different people have different attitude about the whole thing and in a free country you don’t do that,” Kagwe said. “We have to test the efficacy of every vaccine that is coming to Kenya because Kenyans owe us a responsibility of telling them the truth and leaving it to them to then make a decision on whether they want to be vaccinated or not.” Kagwe has maintained that an effective vaccine should present a good opportunity to reduce the number of hospitalisations and deaths due to the virus, hence contribute to the quick return to normalcy. “The Oxford University Astrazeneca candidate will be ideal for Kenya because it fits within our cold chain supply system. It can be stored in 2-8 degrees and we have refrigerators for that,” acting director general of health Patrick Amoth said. "It is also being tested in the country in Kilifi." Already, the ministry has established a taskforce led by Dr Willis Akhwale to ensure an expedited introduction and deployment of vaccines. “The taskforce has identified key issues that need to be addressed, to ensure an efficient deployment of these vaccines,” the CS reiterated. Plans are underway to build the capacity of more than 23,000 healthcare workers, including 8,000 health volunteers, in areas of vaccine administration, logistics management, data capture and monitoring.