Members of the National Assembly on Tuesday suspended normal sessions to pay tribute to late Juja MP Francis Waititu. The late lawmaker popularly known as ‘Wakapee’ died on Monday at MP Shah Hospital while undergoing treatment. The lawmakers lauded the bold manner the late Waititu battled cancer and called for serious intervention to curb the disease in the country. Speaker Justin Mutruri described the late MP as an illustrious and devoted member who represented the interest of his constituents. “He was unequivocally vocal on matters pertaining to coffee as exemplified by his efforts that contributed to the declaration of the Coffee Cherry Advance Revolving Fund by the President during the 124th Session of the International Coffee Council in Nairobi in March 2019,” Muturi said He added: “You will agree with me that, this nation has lost a progressive, trusted and devoted community leader whose actions reflected the interest of his constituents.” Majority leader Amos Kimunya and his minority counterpart John Mbadi described the late MP as a devoted lawmaker who was a friend to many. “It is a sad time for this nation and Parliament, we do hope we will be given break to work without condoling,” Kimunya said. Mbadi called for a relook into the manner the country is handling cancer saying the disease is widespread across the country and needs a national intervention. “We need to look at health sector to address the issue of cancer. It is no longer a rich man’s disease, the rate at which poor Kenyans are suffering and dying cannot be ignored, ” Mbadi said. Gilgil MP Martha Wangari called for greater investment in the health sector to alleviate the suffering of Kenyans. “He was not shy on talking about what was ailing him, he was even encouraging people to go for a test. County governments can honour the Abuja declaration and let us bring India to Kenya,” she said. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo called for special prayers for Parliament saying the rate at which cancer is ravaging Kenyans is alarming. Muturi also named a six-member Ad-Hoc committee chaired by Kiambu Town MP Jude Njomo to help with the funeral arrangements. Other members are Wanjiku Kibe (Gatundu North), Julius Melly (Tinderet), Gabriel Kago (Githunguri), Fabian Kyule (Kangundo) and Kimaqni Ichung’wa (Kikuyu).