President Uhuru Kenyatta has warned Nairobi politicians against inciting traders to illegally occupy the five new city markets built for Sh2.2 billion. The Sh389 million Mwariro market in Starehe, Sh214 Westlands, Sh493 Gikomba, Sh294 Karandini in Dagoretti and the Sh800 million New Wakulima markets are at different levels of completion. Uhuru said last week that traders who had previously occupied the markets will be given first priority once he commissions them. “Soon I will come here and open Mwariro market but I don’t want to see any incitement on who will occupy these markets. We want to have a fair process to ensure that everyone will have equal opportunity to occupy the stores,” he said. Uhuru said once the original traders have occupied their market stores, the rest will be distributed through an open ballot supervised by government officials. Last year in August, the government began balloting for four out of the five modern markets. The six-storey Mwariro market has 360 stalls. Some 318 will be allocated to the original traders and the remaining 41 stalls balloted. Karandini market, which is a two-storey building, has 204 stalls. The World Bank, through the Nairobi Metropolitan Services Improvement Project funded both Karandini and Mwariro markets. The State Department of Housing and Urban Development oversaw construction. The Westlands market will accommodate about 3,000 traders. The project was started in 2008 but stalled for nine years. It was revived in 2017-18 financial year. Phase One of the Sh493 million six-storey Gikomba market was completed in October last year. It is ready for occupation. Construction works started in October 2018 after a series of fires at the city's largest market. The first floor of the building will be occupied by fish traders and the second floor by 81 traders. The third floor will go to sub-tenants. Hawkers and Mpesa operators will be on the fourth floor while the fifth and sixth floors will be allocated to traders on a temporary basis before they and hawkers are given stalls in Phase Two. Phase Two of the Gikomba market is expected to be two times the size of the first phase. The New Wakulima market along Kangundo Road will accommodate about 4,000 traders. The Sh800 million project is located in Mowlem, Embakasi West, and is funded by the African Development Bank. The bank has a social corporate responsibility to compensate small scale traders who had been displaced during the construction of the Outering-Kangundo road that was being undertaken by the Kenya Urban Roads Authority. The construction of the two-storey market commenced in July 2017. According to a 2019 report by City Hall, Nairobi has 20 open-air and 23 large markets, which are not sufficient for the huge population. The new markets will help decongest the current city markets and increase access to quality, affordable and sustainable food. All the markets have facilities meant to boost public health, security and trade. 