Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o has appealed to residents to support him for a second term to fully implement his development agenda. Nyong’o said he needs to complete the projects he had lined up for the people of Kisumu and urged them to reelect him in 2022. He spoke during the launch of Sh15 million beautification of Oginga Odinga Street in Kisumu by Toyota Kenya on Wednesday. Governors Wycliffe Oparanaya (Kakamega) and James Ongwae (Kisii), Deputy Governor Susan Kikwai (Kericho) and Deputy Governor Philip Kutima (Kakamega) were present. Nyong’o said being a first-term governor he has benefited a great deal from the support and leadership of Oparanaya and Ongwae. “I assure them that I will not let them down in my second term and in order to implement the lessons that have learnt from them, therefore residents you know what your responsibility is,” he said. “I would like to plead with residents to support me to continue with my developments and provide services to them without fear or favour.” His appeal comes barely four days after Auditor General Nancy Gathungu questioned the financial management in Kisumu county,  flagging suspicious expenditures and procurements in excess of Sh2 billion. In her 2018-19 audit report, she has indicted the county for constantly engaging in irregular procurement where the officers mutilate laws and dish out contracts to specific contractors – some not pre-qualified. Gathungu faults the county administration for making payments running into millions of shillings for items not delivered and projects not done. The auditor questioned the purchase of a four-wheel driver heavy-duty vehicle for Governor Nyong'o at a cost of Sh19.54 million. The county hand-picked a local company and awarded it a Sh20 million tender for advertising and media branding. Kisumu is also on the spot for dishing out a Sh2.65 million contract for insurance services to a firm that was not pre-qualified. The county executive also did not make disclosures of Sh684.80 million transferred to the county assembly. Residents, the auditor revealed, are at risk of losing Sh783.34 million due to the county officers’ reluctance to recover imprest advanced to county staff. The audit established discrimination, where only 2,572 of 3,320 employees are benefiting from the Sh40 million remitted to NHIF for comprehensive coverage. “The medical scheme is therefore discriminatory and contrary to Section 46(2) (h) of the County Governments Act, 2012," the report says. Kisumu also spent Sh32.57 million on emergencies but has never operationalised the Emergency Fund. In the report, the county is also on an employment spree with Sh3.43 billion out of Sh8.92 billion budget, or 38.5 per cent, going to payment of salaries and wages. The law limits expenditures at 35 per cent. But Nyong’o through a press statement said there has been no money lost or misappropriated as alleged. Director of the governor's press unit Aloice Ager said the county runs one County Revenue Fund Account to which all the disbursements are sent - both for the executive and the assembly. “A report of the Auditor General for Kisumu county for the financial year 2018-19 was sensationally aired in the media insinuating that there have been gaps in the county financial reporting,” reads the statement. The media report was a total misinterpretation of the audit report and nothing could be further from the truth, Nyong'o said. The statement stated that the transfers to the county assembly amounting to Sh684 million in 2018-19 were spent and reported. “There is no illegality in these transfers.” The county government will await the report of the Ethics and Anti-corruption Commission on any matters in the 2018-19 financial year that may be before the commission. The county further clarified that what is contained in the report were queries which would be further responded to substantively at the Senate’s Public Accounts and Investments Committee. Nyong’o thanked residents for supporting the projects being implemented by his administration. “You have supported the county government. The support to city board and assembly is very exceptional,” Nyong’o added. He also lauded the county assembly for the supporting the executive and keeping them on check through oversight for better service delivery. Nyong’o reminded county staff that they should focus on better service delivery to residents. “Our responsibility is to efficiently and effectively serve citizens. That is why we’re in government. There’s nothing else we can do but serve them honestly, sincerely and responsibly,” he added. He also praised the private sector players for working together with the county government in matters development and better services to the people. Nyong’o cited the ongoing beautification of the roundabouts which have been adopted by business community. Edited by Henry Makori