Eleven counties in arid and semi-arid areas are to benefit from Sh3.4 billion Green Climate Funds for drought mitigation. The five-year 'Towards Ending Drought Emergencies' programme will help reduce the cost of climate change-induced drought on the national economy. "The TWENDE project will increase the resilience of the livestock and other land-use sectors in restored and effectively governed rangeland ecosystems, as identified in Kenya's Nationally Determined Contributions," Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani said in a speech read on his behalf by CAS Nelson Gaichuhie. The project will be implemented in Garissa, Tana River, Isiolo, Marsabit, Samburu, Kajiado, Kitui, Makueni, Tharaka-Nithi, Meru, and Taita Taveta. It will benefit 620,000 people in 104,000 households while protecting or restoring 1.2 million acres of rangelands in a landscape of 6.2 million acres. ASALs occupy 89 per cent of Kenya’s landscape and are home to about 36 per cent of the total human population. Seventy per cent of the national livestock herd is also found in ASAL areas. Livestock contributions account for 80 per cent of household incomes in arid lands and 65 per cent in semi-arid lands. Drought has been shown to reduce economic growth in Kenya by 2.8 per cent per year, with 72 per cent of the losses concentrated in the livestock sector. The project will be executed in three components by the National Drought Management Authority, the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Irrigation and Conservation International respectively. The International Union for Conservation of Nature will coordinate and manage the project. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, PSs Micah Powon (ASAL), Julius Muia (Planning) and Harry Kimutai (Livestock) took part in the virtual meeting. IUCN regional director for Eastern and Southern Africa Luther Bois Anukur and Conservation International senior vice president Michael O'Brien-Onyeka took part in the high-level launch. The first component of the project involves climate change adapted planning for drought resilience component to be followed by restoration of rangeland landscapes for ecosystem-based adaptation. The third component involves climate change resilient ecosystem management for investments. Yatani reiterated the government’s commitment to green climate finance, through the Green Climate Fund. “The government of Kenya believes that the innovative mechanism presented by the GCF will enable the country to access climate finance and facilitate the implementation of the Big Four Agenda and Vision 2030, with a climate lens, that will, in turn, ensure effective climate mitigation and adaptation of the economy," he said. The CS said the Green Climate Fund will help Kenya fulfil her obligations under the Paris Agreement by availing resources to implement Kenya’s priorities as set out in the Nationally Determined Contributions. On December 24 last year, Kenya committed to abating Green House Gases by 32 per cent by 2030 in her revised Nationally Determined Contributions. Tobiko said the TWENDE project must be implemented without delay. "The implementation of the project should be on the ground," Tobiko said. Tobiko said nature-based solutions from locals are also very important. Anukur emphasised the impact of drought due to climate change while reaffirming the IUCN’s commitment to supporting the government work and those of its partners. He said Africa is facing more frequent droughts and floods. "We are extremely pleased to see this project begin and IUCN is committed to working together with various government, private sector and NGO partners for its successful implementation”. Anukur said climate change contributes to drought in a number of ways. "Today, drought is a major contributor to chronic food insecurity and poor nutrition in Kenya. It affects about 10 million people. Nearly 30 per cent of Kenya’s children are classified as undernourished and micro-nutrients deficiencies are widespread," he said. He said the situation has recently been exacerbated by other factors such as attacks by locusts and Covid-19. Anukur said women and men living in ASALs are vulnerable to climate change. He said women suffer the most because of their dependence on natural resources for their livelihood and support to run the household economies. Anukur said droughts are becoming more frequent, more intense, and more cyclical in nature. Onyeka said: “By leveraging local knowledge, science, favourable policy, and private sector engagement, people and nature can thrive in these dry land ecosystems despite a changing climate”. 