The increase in the number of squatters in the Coast region despite efforts by the Ministry of Lands towards land adjudication, registration and titling has puzzled lawmakers. The legislators have however said it could be because of professional squatters, who invade people’s land, build structures on it, and sometimes dig shallow graves so they can claim they have been living on the land for ages. The professional squatters then demand compensation if they are to be evicted and are becoming a threat to peace and security. Speaking on Friday in Mombasa during a meeting with Lands CS Farida Karoney at English Point Marina, National Assembly Lands Committee chair Rachael Nyamai said the problem is serious and needs intervention from all stakeholders. “We have tasked the ministry to ensure that those who have benefited from settlement schemes do not present themselves as squatters,” Nyamai said. As a way of tackling the problem, the MPs called on the ministry to hasten the construction of registries across the country so the land processes can be devolved. Nyamai applauded the ministry in its efforts to ensure that people do not travel long distances in search of the Land Search document. The unavailability of the document locally forces people to travel to Nairobi for the same, a matter that becomes difficult for the poor, who would rather use the money to buy food than travel to the capital. It is then that rogue officials collude with private developers to forge documents then present them when they go to evict people from their land. Nyamai said the ministry has recently been working hard to build registries to tackle that problem. She said digitisation of the land records, will be the best solution to the problem. “At the click of a button, one would be able to search their land. We believe that this will be good for citizens and investors in the future,” Nyamai said. However, the ministry is hampered by a lack of funds in some cases. The ministry gets around Sh6 billion annually despite it generating about Sh12 billion to the exchequer. “This seems to be too low when you compare it with the kind of projects that the ministry does,” the MP said. Digitisation will ensure more funds are generated because the revenue lost in the manual collection system will significantly reduce. Nyamai said the conversion of title deeds to conform to the 2012 Land Act is currently a big debate but the light will be seen at the end of the tunnel. “It is also new to us and we have to engage more with the ministry to understand the whole idea and process,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris