After 11 months break, the Kenya Cup starts tomorrow various venues across the country. Eight teams will take part in the 12 -week competition away from the traditional 12 sides after Mwamba, Impala, Homeboyz, withdrew citing a lack of preparedeness for the start of the  season. Champions KCB open their campaign against newly-promoted Strathmore Leos at the Lions Den in Ruaraka KCB assistant coach Dennis 'Ironman' Mwanja expects competitive fixture against the varsity side who thrashed Northern Suburbs 23-6 in the play-off semi a fortnight ago. "They  are a good side. They have a  game under their belt and will pose a threat but we are relishing  the challenge,” added Mwanja. The bankers started  their training three weeks ago and Mwanja admitted that it will be a  tough season for all competing teams due to the short turnaround time. “No team has had enough time to prepare so we must adapt and improvise as we go along . It's only the teams that adapt well that will win the league," added Mwanja. The bankers will rely on their tried and tested internationals including Curtis Lilako, Oliver Mangeni, Francis Mwita and Davies Chenge in the forwards. Darwin Mukidza, Shaban Ahmed, Brian Omondi and Samuel Asati will take care of the back. Fresh from winning the Charity Cup last weekend against Quins, Enterprise Cup champions Kabras will be hoping to start their league campaign with a win against newly promoted Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology  at the Kakamega Showground. Despite looking rusty in the 29-10  win against Quins last weekend, head coach Mzingaye Nyathi said there is room for improvement from his charges. "Yes, we are happy with the win but some aspects of our performance were not good . However, we hope to get better as the season goes along,” noted Nyathi Menengai Oilers, who finished sixth last season face Quins at the ASK show ground in what promises to be an entertaining contest. Across town at the Nakuru Athletic club  hosts Nakuru will be hoping for an improved season when they host Blak Blad.    