Kikuyu and Luo leaders have continued to hold strategy meetings to drum up support for the Building Bridges Initiative. Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Wachira Kiago said they hope the county assemblies will pass the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020 so the proposed changes can be put to a referendum. Kiago spoke on Saturday during a meeting at Kikuyu elders' headquarters near Two Rivers Mall in Kiambaa constituency. Also present were Luo leaders led by East African Legislative Assembly member Oburu Oginga and Seme MP James Nyikal. “The President has said the BBI is not his or opposition leader Raila Odinga's but Kenyans'. It is meant to bring peace in the country. The BBI is the medicine for this country; we should support it and Kenyans should not be lied to,” Kiago said. He said they will be holding meetings with community leaders to ensure wide consultation over the BBI and promotion of cohesion and integration. “It hurts when we see leaders oppose the BBI, yet they were the ones asking for it. They are now mobilising youths to throw away the document. We, as community leaders, know the meaning of the BBI and that's why we are asking our leaders not to mislead Kenyans,” Kiago said. He said the Mt Kenya region has not rejected the BBI but called for civic education for the people to understand it fully. "It is just that the document has not fully reached them and that is why we are holding meetings to make sure our communities get BBI copies and have civic education conducted at the grassroots. "Opposers should not say that Mt Kenya has refused to support the BBI. This will be manifested through the passing of the BBI in all Mt Kenya assemblies,” Kiago said. Oburu said several meetings have been held between the two groups and they will continue holding more. "We've held meetings in Bondo and the Kikuyu elders opened the doors to us in Central. We're going ahead to meet with other community leaders and elders with the agenda of BBI and bringing unity in the country. "The Luo and Kikuyu communities have been the most antagonistic and it is better the unity process comes from them,” Oburu said. He said the BBI is being opposed by the same people who opposed the current Constitution. “The Constitution is a dynamic document that will be reviewed from time to time. The people have a right to review it and the provisions are provided for in the same Constitution.” Oburu said the BBI provides a perfect opportunity to revolutionise the country through increased grassroots development. Jeremiah Kioni MP Ndaragwa said meetings between communities are welcome as long as they promote unity and peace. He said the BBI is of great benefit to Kenyans as it will devolve more resources to the grassroots and bring the government closer to the people. "The government is nearer to the people when a member of Parliament you voted for is appointed as a Cabinet minister,” Kioni said. He said 27 constituencies that did not meet the population threshold and were to be eliminated will now survive. He further said the proposed increase in the number of constituencies under the BBI from 290 to 360 will benefit the people. "I would want any right thinking leader, especially those who aspire to the top offices in the republic, to tell me who is this in Kenya who would wants to lose that opportunity of being represented in Parliament and especially when one has been enjoying it," he said. Dr Nyikal cautioned against muddying the BBI debate by 2022 politics. "People should look into the advantages that the BBI has brought (and will bring) to the country. Some people have equated it to the presidential campaign, which is coming in 2022; if we mix both, then we would have lost a lot,” he said. Former Maragua MP Elias Mbau said the BBI is rooting for an increment of money in the counties and will protect devolution. He urged Kenyans not to allow politicians to mislead them on what the BBI entails.