Manchester United boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer said he was pleased with his players’ mentality in their FA Cup fifth-round win over West Ham United after “feeling low” following the draw with Everton. Scott McTominay scored in extra time to send the Red Devils into the quarter-finals. An otherwise flat match did contain the first use of a concussion substitution — when Issa Diop was replaced at half-time by Ryan Fredericks after a clash of heads with Anthony Martial. And Solskjaer felt his players provided the perfect response to conceding a late equaliser in the 3-3 draw with the Toffees on Saturday. “We needed to have a good result and a good feeling today because we were low after the Everton game,” he said. “That was hard to take but they were really focused and did the job.” Manchester United captain Harry Maguire said he felt the players showed their strength of character to bounce back from the Everton result. “Last Saturday was tough - especially in the second half,” he said. “We showed great spirit and a good mentality to come back and perform. We know it’s a long season and tonight was perfect. It’s important to get through.” On a bitterly cold night at Old Trafford, the hosts came closest to breaking the deadlock inside 90 minutes when Lukasz Fabianski reacted quickly to turn the ball on to a post after Victor Lindelof’s header had taken a huge deflection off Craig Dawson. But McTominay had the final word. Following a break that took them from one penalty area to the other, Marcus Rashford — on his 250th United appearance — flicked a delicate pass into McTominay’s path with the outside of his foot and the Scotland midfielder’s first-time finish flew low into the net. It means Manchester United have reached the last eight for a seventh consecutive year as they bid to lift the trophy for the first time since 2016. It was another disappointing Old Trafford night for former Manchester United manager David Moyes. Other than during his own ill-fated eight months in charge, it is a ground he has never won at, either with Everton, Sunderland or West Ham. Before kick-off, the Scot had a good chat with current boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer and doubtless wished he had been granted the same time afforded to the Norwegian, who is attempting to win a trophy after losing four successive semi-finals. Moyes’ hopes of stopping the hosts in their tracks were badly affected by injuries that now threaten to derail what so far has been an excellent season. The sight of Angelo Ogbonna hobbling down the tunnel with his left boot removed, after being stood on by Martial, did not look great, and the manner of Diop’s exit suggests Moyes will be without two central defenders for Monday’s encounter with Sheffield United. With their only orthodox striker, Michail Antonio, also missing, West Ham never really gained any momentum and were not helped by yet another injury - this time to Antonio’s replacement Andriy Yarmolenko - early in the second half. Said Benrahma had the Hammers’ only effort on target, but even if he had beaten Dean Henderson with a close-range header at the end of extra time, it would almost certainly have been disallowed for offside. A £13.6m summer deadline-day signing from Porto, Alex Telles has been a bit of a conundrum during his time at Old Trafford so far. The Brazilian evidently has ability — and a vicious left foot — but consistency has eluded him and, with Luke Shaw in the best form of his career, Telles has been unable to force his way into Solskjaer’s team on a regular basis. This was one of his better all-round performances. It was a Telles corner that created the chance Fabianski kept out and it was his surging run and cutback that Donny van de Beek badly miscued, drawing a frustrated slap at an advertising hoarding from the defender. Telles also had a fierce shot blocked and then, with the game entering its final 10 minutes, he curled over a superb cross that Martial headed wide. He was also decent doing the defensive work he is employed for, most notably showing an excellent turn of speed to prevent a threat on the home goal as he got back to rob Jarrod Bowen after Yarmolenko had sent his team-mate through. Telles did not reappear for extra time as Solskjaer changed both his full-backs, but Telles could still be pleased with his contribution. This game will have a place in football history after Diop became the sport’s first concussion substitute in England. The French defender was introduced as a replacement himself after Ogbonna was forced off with an ankle injury when he was caught on the follow through by Martial. Diop clashed heads with his compatriot as the pair rose to compete for a header at a West Ham corner. Both players received treatment and continued to half-time. But after a further examination in the dressing room, in line with the adopted protocols, Diop was replaced by Fredericks, with the visitors reverting to a three-man defence. “He was fine and I think he is fine,” said Moyes. “But he had a bump on the head and we didn’t want to take any chances. I hope there are no problems. I don’t think there is.”