According to The Kenya HIV Estimates Report of 2018 by the National Aids Control Council, there were approximately 52,800 new infections across all ages. Condoms fall in the Barrier Methods of Contraception. But access to consistent supply of a wide range of condoms, both male and female, has been a challenge countrywide, with stock-outs reported in some health facilities. Condoms act as dual protection, protecting against pregnancy and STIs, including HIV. Unsafe sex is risky, especially with people who have more than one sexual partner, or are in non-committed relationships or marriage. It is proven that condoms provide utmost protection from any type of sexually transmitted infections. Access to correct and consistent information and supply of affordable products remain a challenge, especially in rural areas. Engaging in safe sex increases confidence and courage in both partners. There has been an increased alleged perception of an increase in sexual encounters and behaviours, especially in Nairobi, where everyone is “doing it” with everyone. The government, through the National Aids Control Council, has been supplying condoms through hospitals and even through community outreaches, and this has encouraged the practice of safe sex among young people. Amidst the Covid-19 pandemic, the government has slightly shifted focus to the virus and reduced other priorities such as condom distribution, which in turn has resulted in an Increase in unintended pregnancies and STIs. In some of the hard to reach areas, young people still lack access and information on correct and consistent condom use. We marked International Condom Day on February 13, a day before Valentine’s Day—a day of love. The government should ensure consistent supply of a free range, diverse and affordable male and female condoms as well as lubricant products across the country to encourage young people to practice safe sex. This should encourage young people to emulate ‘No Rubber No Ride’ and also reduce the rate of increasing HIV infections and unintended pregnancies. Sexual Reproductive Health and Rights Advocate