Ministry of Health officials and their counterparts from the Department of Public Works have begun assessing the Wajir Referral Hospital as plans to upgrade it to a level 5 facility starts. The delegation arrived in the county on Monday on a mission. The hospital is to be upgraded through a loan from the Kuwait Fund for Arabic Economic Development. KFAED is seeking to support the social development of the Northeastern and Eastern regions by improving healthcare infrastructure and quality to meet the growing demand. Speaking in his office on Thursday when he hosted the delegation, Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi appealed to the government to fast-track the project so residents can start enjoying better health services. "I want to thank the Kuwait Fund and the Ministry of Health for the intention to expand our referral hospital. The expansion will, more importantly, augment the President's Big Four agenda of rolling out universal health coverage programme once complete," Abdi said. The project includes the construction of new buildings and the extension of the existing infrastructure to include a maternity unit, paediatrics unit, surgical unit, and administration block. It also includes procurement and installation of medical and auxiliary equipment for the new and existing facilities, consulting services for the preparation of detailed design and tender documents and supervision of construction and procurement services. The project was expected to start at the beginning of 2009 and was to be completed by the end of 2011. A prequalification notice was put out on August 24, 2015 before the project stalled again. "They have moved in and undertaken some improvements in the health sector so as to upscale service delivery and realise the strategic objectives of UHC," Abdi said of the delegation. "Before the advent of devolution, we had 65 operating facilities and currently we have 120 which have improved access to healthcare services. We had barely 230 staff. Today we boast of 1050 staff, translating to over 800 technical and non-technical workers who have been recruited by the county government.” The governor said health indicators have shown improvements in key components since the advent of devolution. “For instance, skilled delivery improved from 29 per cent to 49 per cent whereas immunisation coverage improved from 47 per cent to 69 per cent,” he said.  Edited by P.O