The mandate to run public affairs is given at a general election – free, fair or rigged. The President and Deputy President were ‘elected’ on a shared ticket, and were given a mandate under the 2010 Constitution. The DP can undermine the President without fear of being sacked. Claims of internal sabotage of the Executive have been around since the 2017 presidential election. The conflict has created two factions of Jubilee party – Kieleweke and Tangatanga – one for the President, and another for the DP. The incumbents are in the ninth year of their 10-year mandate. The ‘dynamic duo’, with their hyperbolic promises, were once joined at the hip and were star-named UhuRuto. They had the support of then outgoing President Mwai Kibaki and the Deep State to cruise to state power. They also had the Deep State in 2017. They manipulated public psyche by demonising ODM. This much the public now knows, from the free confessions of former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko. The Jubilee campaign plank, however, remains valid for the evaluation of the regime’s performance. Jubilee promised a double-digit growth economy; international standard stadia in every county. The regime still has 18 more months to fulfil some of these promise. It also pledged to invest in agriproduction to boost food security. Galana-Kulalu irrigation scheme in Tana River county was to showcase the resolve of the self-styled digital government. The model 10,000-acre farm has failed its value timelines. The implementer, the National Irrigation Authority, fell out with Israeli contractor Green Arava over payments, leading to termination of its contract. The September 2014 contact sum was Sh14,545,106,963. The project is five years behind the March 2016 completion date. This was two years before the Handshake, which the DP is blaming for the flop of Jubilee campaign promises. Jubilee promised laptops for Standard 1 to 8 pupils  – a signature plank of the duo that claimed to be digital. Not even lollipops were delivered. The 2013 campaign shout fest still echoes with a claim Jubilee’s rivals were analogue. The laptop promise collapsed five years before the March 9, 2018, Handshake. This was seven years before the Building Bridges Initiative, which the DP blames for derailed UhuRuto promises. The digital goalpost has changed, from 21st century technologies back to wheelbarrows. The shift begs interrogation. Once bitten citizens should be twice shy. The regime promised industrial parks in Naivasha and other places. Each park would employ 100,000 people. The Naivasha industrial park would specialise in leather and textile. There is no such park in Naivasha. Jubilee also promised 1 million jobs per year, and a double-digit annual growth, in a Sh3 trillion budget economy. The economy is debt-ridden, with a Sh1 trillion budget deficit. Delivery of these promises would spur the economy, especially to the unemployed youth. About 100,000 direct jobs have multiplier gains. One employed Kenyan supports at least five others. An industrial park also comes with multiplier effects to suppliers. Delivery of 1 million jobs a year would have produced about 7 million opportunities over the regime’s eight-year reign. ‘Elected’ President Kenyatta and ‘elected’ DP Ruto know the mandate comes with responsibility. Much was given to UhuRuto. Much is still expected, even on the sunset of their shared reign. During an interview with Mohamed Hussein last year, on Citizen TV’s News Night, Deputy President William Ruto belaboured the mandate: “The fact that I am elected Deputy President means the people of Kenya – if things go wrong in this government, President Uhuru Kenyatta and I would be the ones to be asked.” Things have gone terribly wrong. The responsibility of running public affairs is not awarded through a post-election handshake. The mandate comes with responsibility and accountability. The DP’s scapegoats for failed Jubilee campaign promises of 2013 and 2017 would have been comical if they weren’t a tragedy of great expectations.