Wajir was among the first counties to record cases of Covid-19 infections after livestock traders who cross in and out from Somalia transmitted the virus. Despite the cases, the county government swiftly moved to curb further spread by heightening surveillance after the state ordered a closure of the border. The county has so far recorded 86 cases out of which 83 patients recovered. The rest succumbed to the virus. Nineteen of the cases were healthcare workers who all recovered. Of all the cases, 20 per cent were imported from Somalia. The rest were local transmissions. Governor Mohamud Abdi said the county's success relied on a number of factors. “The closure of the border meant we were able to contain infections from across. With local cases isolated, it means we had cut the thread for the spread," he said. The governor said the county trained medical staff, provided adequate personal protective gear and established surveillance, contact tracing, home-based care teams as well as various committees at the subcounty levels immediately the first cases were reported. “We managed to buy PPEs from our funds and we also had isolation and ICU facilities. We had dedicated ambulances for referrals because when we are unable to attend to a case at the local level because of certain shortages, we often rush our patients to Nairobi,” Abdi said.  Wajir is a vast county with a landmass that accounts for 10 per cent of the country. With health facilities scattered all over in the villages, it is difficult to respond in good time given the poor road network and terrain. “For example, we have 122 health facilities in Wajir and all of them are scattered. Some of them are hundreds of kilometres away from the referral hospital in Wajir town,” Abdi said. He said the county does at least four referrals in a day from subcounties to the Wajir Referral Hospital. He cited a lack of well-equipped ambulances to move patients during emergency cases. The Health Ministry has allocated Wajir more than 70 personnel under the UHC programme but the county still lacks enough qualified staff, a matter the governor said needs urgent intervention. “As a result of this shortage, the need to have ambulances is vital so we can make speedy referrals.” Much of the Covid-19 response was aided by partners including the US and UK governments as well as IGAD. On Monday, the county received one more ambulance and testing kits from IGAD to go towards the Covid-19 response. 