President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM party leader Raila Odinga have sent messages of comfort to the family, acquaintances and residents of Garissa County following the death of their Senator Mohamed Yusuf Haji. Senator Haji, a former long-serving Provincial administrator and Cabinet Minister passed away last night aged 80 years. In his message of condolence, Uhuru eulogised the veteran politician, who until his death was the co-chair of the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI) Taskforce, as a dependable Kenyan leader and patriot. "It is very unfortunate that we have lost such a dependable, solid and highly accomplished Kenyan leader," Uhuru said. "Mzee Haji was a highly respected leader and elder whose wisdom, deep knowledge of the Kenyan society and long experience as a public administrator enabled him to serve the country in various leadership roles with distinction for many years." Uhuru said the death of Senator Haji was a big blow to the country especially in the BBI constitutional reform process where his leadership shall be dearly missed. "Mzee Haji was a steward of the BBI process and a strong pillar of our desire to construct a cohesive, peaceful and more progressive Kenyan nation. His stewardship of the initiative shall be missed," the President said. The Head of State wished the family, friends and relatives of the departed leader God's comfort as they come to terms with his demise. Deputy President William Ruto said the country has lost a devoted and indefatigable administrator who was cause-driven. Ruto described Haji was a gifted politician, modest yet strategic schemer with ground-breaking mediation skills. "He was selfless, progressive, dependable and a committed champion for a more united and inclusive Kenya. We will fondly remember Honourable Haji as a leader who robustly upheld and reinforced the reputation and integrity of public service," Ruto said. Via Twitter on Monday, Raila said in the passing of Haji, Kenya has lost a dedicated patriot and a humble servant. "We can only thank him for the years of his life that he gave in service of our country, his last great public passion being the Building Bridges Initiative," he said. "At this sad moment, we stand in prayers with his family that carries on with his passion for public service." National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi termed Haji as a distinguished political leader and quintessential public servant, who served the nation with great dedication and commitment as a career civil servant. "Senator Haji will be remembered for vouching for investment and development in Kenya’s northern frontier to facilitate education and technical training, which he believed was crucial in redefining the future of the region," he said. "A great peace advocate and negotiator, Haji leaves behind a great legacy as the to-go man in times of political crisis. It is no wonder, he was recently entrusted with steering the constitutional reforms process under the Building Bridges Initiative." Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka has also mourned the senator. "Mzee Yusuf Haji was a great career administrator and Cabinet Minister. As a senator he served the people of Garissa with utmost dedication," he said. "His contribution to the BBI will never be forgotten. My condolences to his family and the people of Garissa. May he rest in eternal peace." Garissa Governor Ali Korane said Haji embodied gentleness and strength, humility and dignity, and servant leadership. "On behalf of my family, the County Government of Garissa and the people of Garissa, I extend my deepest sympathies and heartfelt condolences to the immediate family and friends of our great Garissa Senator Hon. Mohamed Yussuf Haji who passed on this morning. May Allah grant him an eternal abode in Jannah," he said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale described Haji as a father, elder, mentor, community, and political leader who had an exemplary distinguish public service career. "He was a man of faith, integrity, diligence, duty, peacemaker and an enforcer of discipline in public service. He was a prominent Muslim leader and respectable Somali elder and decent politician that both the Muslim umma  and Kenya. We will miss his leadership and guidance," he said.