The ban on slaughtering donkeys will stay in place as the population is being dangerously depleted. That's what Livestock PS Harry Kimtai told reporters on Wednesday in Naivasha after meeting a team of experts working on a sustainable beef and donkey meat strategy. Commercial slaughter was banned in March 2020, since slaughter was depleting the population and it was primarily for export to China. That country uses donkey hides in traditional  medicine and for cosmetics to whiten skin. Increasing slaughter and poor breeding practices have led to increasing theft and decline in the number of animals essential for agriculture and other business. Kimtai said the issue of sustainable breeding of more good-quality donkeys must be addressed and implemented before lifting the ban can even be considered. Several organisations have warned donkeys could be wiped out in two years if the ban is lifted now. Kenya has four donkey slaughterhouses, one in Naivasha. Donkey slaughter was licensed 20 years ago. “After slaughtering of donkey was approved, we saw an increase in  donkey theft and slaughter and this depleted our stock,” Kimtai said. He said sale of donkey meat and hides could be sustainable and profitable if the donkey population increased and breeding issues were addressed. “We have directed our research department to liaise with breeders so we can increase the numbers of the animals; our breeding system is very poor," the PS said. He said Kenya was producing 560,000 tons of beef, which does not meet rising local demand. “We are keen to improve livestock breeding and the government has constructed a processing zone in Taita Taveta that will be used to export our animals,” Kimtai said. He said that the government was keen to support the donkey sector to overcome emerging problems such as disease and ow-quality breeds. The Agriculture ministry has organised a meeting with all counties to plan synchronised livestock vaccinations. “These diseases are easily spread from one county to another and the only way we can contain them is through a synchronised vaccination exercise involving all the counties,” he said. Project manager James Tendwa of the Regional Pastoral Livelihood Programme said that they were supporting 14 counties in ASALs to improve livestock production. He said support includes quality feed, hygiene, dealing with drought and providing markets. “We are keen to make sure pastoral communities get support in accessing better forage, market and making them resilient to emerging challenges,” Tendwa said. (Edited by V. Graham)