It has been three months since positive results of the Pfizer vaccine, one of the first Covid-19 vaccines, were announced. But until now, many low-income countries are just merely hoping to get access to the vaccines while most first world countries are working hard to vaccinate their entire populations. World data reports shows that Israel has vaccinated 30 per cent of its population against Covid-19, Russia expects to vaccinate 14 per cent by the first quarter of the year and the United States, according to CNBC TV, has distributed more than 20 million doses. Kenya and other African countries continue to lag behind, having not received even a single dose of the vaccines. According to the Ministry of Health, the country has made orders for various Covid-19 vaccines such as AstraZeneca, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson, which are expected in Kenya by mid-February. As Kenya and other low-income countries await the arrival of the vaccines, word has spread that most poor nations are likely to get a raw deal. The question is ‘Will the WHO be able to implement its assurance of preventing Vaccine Nationalism?’  WHO director general Tedros Adhanom in a press conference yesterday said that the virus will not be defeated anywhere until its defeated everywhere and he called on the developed countries to only vaccinate the risk population and allow other countries to get access before vaccinating the rest of the population. Promises by the WHO might just be mere words lacking clear modalities on how they will be achieved. This is made clear by the statement by EU that it is working to make sure 70 per cent of its countries’ population is vaccinated by this summer. It has even imposed border restrictions to control the export of the vaccines. Settled economics literature classifies the Covid-19 vaccine as a private good due to its rival and excludable nature. Rival because its consumption by one country can diminish the consumption by another country and excludable because the protection derived from it by one person does not guarantee the safety of yet another person. In a free market economy such as the world’s economy, a private good is not available for everyone unless one can pay for it. African governments must stop thinking that the first world countries will be merciful and allow them to get some of the vaccines. In this situation, the price system holds great sway and vital economic decisions can only be made through the workings of market forces and not humanitarian appeals. Ha-Joon Chang, in his book Bad Samaritans: The myth of free trade and the secret history of capitalism, warns that those who do not take account of historical facts remain at the infancy of knowledge. It took years for antiretroviral drugs to get to Africa and other low-income countries due to high pricing and despite protests by activists across the world. The same might not be the case with the Covid-19 vaccines because of various governments’ direct involvement in their purchase and due to the virus’s transmission, which puts everyone at risk. Nevertheless, governments of poor nations must make Covid-19 vaccine requisition a priority. Economics student