Kisii MCAs have said they will hold discussions on other pending bills first before they look into the BBI issue. The county assembly re-opened Tuesday morning after a three-month break with members saying they will deliberate on the BBI at an appropriate time. Those who spoke to journalists said the document was not a priority as of now. “BBI has not featured anywhere because there are other pending issues we are looking at first,” said immediate former acting Speaker Samuel Onuko. He said deliberations on the document would start in two to three months. “Once we finish with some other two bills then we can bring it into the house, for now it can wait, ”he said. Onuko, however, said he could not be confirmed to continue in acting capacity as speaker because embattled speaker David Kombo had filed a case in court. Bosoti Sengera Ward Representative Ibrahim Ombuya said the BBI document would go for public participation first. “There are so many other issues that require our attention for now,” he said. Acting Speaker Amos Onderi said the representatives have since buried the hatchet following the deliberations held in Mombasa last week. He said the talks on  BBI would start immediately after they finish with the pending bills. “That is not my position but that of the members. There are issues to be discussed first‚”  Onderi said. The house had been initially closed in November 2020 for fumigation but when the members insisted on holding further sittings they were flushed out by machete-wielding goons. Some MCAs sustained injuries as they fled the scene. Three cars belonging to some representatives who had ganged up to oust Speaker David Kombo were also vandalized. Kombo has handed over to a temporary speaker after the a third of the house members denounced him. On Tuesday morning he handed over temporary powers to Amos Onderi to be the Speaker in an acting capacity as he would be away on official duties. “I have not abdicated my role as speaker, what I did today morning was to give the house a break as I travel to Mombasa for speaker's conference,”  Kombo said. The Speaker has variously been accused by the MCAs of causing the standoff. At the Centre of his botched impeachment in September was his failure to pay a premium for the life insurance scheme for the members. Matters came to surface in after Kiamokama ward representative Kennedy Mainya died of Covid-19 forcing the members to fundraise for his burial. As Kombo left the assembly there was momentary jubilation among a section of the Assembly members many of them who had been rooting for his removal. Marani  MCA Denis Ombachi however said Kombo would only be away temporarily because of a busy schedule. “I am happy however we have started off with relative peace and we urge our people to pray for us as we begin to discharge duties,” Ombachi said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris