A senator and a member of the National Assembly (Parliament pictured) do not see eye to eye, to say the least. Some have likened their relationship to that of a cat and a dog yet they belong to the same political faction. The vocal member of the National Assembly is said to have moved in to cohabit with the former girlfriend of the senator. It is even reported that the lady is already pregnant by the youthful MP. The senator is said to be distraught that the MP is enjoying some of the facilities he bought for the lady. Not that the lady is herself broke. She is a woman of means and was at some point whispered to be eying a political seat. The senator comes from Mt Kenya while his rival in the National Assembly comes from Western. An MP from Kiambu is being excoriated by members for organising a group of youth draped in the colours of the newly formed United Democratic Alliance to drum up support for the Building Bridges Initiative. The lawmaker who is against the activities of the party is fingered for duping the youth and the media over a nonexistent programme. The MP is said to have procured the yellow T-shirts emblazoned with the wheelbarrow symbol from a shop along Nairobi’s River Road and instructed the young people to execute the plan. It would appear the MP used his connections to have the propaganda widely shared. A parastatal is in the eye of a storm following the appointment of an officer whose name features prominently in a scandal. A small bird whispers to Corridors of Power that one of the Cabinet Secretaries played a pivotal role in securing a job for her. The small bird says the officer in question has a murky past, having involved herself in several scandals in one of the devolved units. Those in the know now want Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission CEO Twalib Mbarak to use his military intelligence and prowess to unravel how the lady landed the plum job at the agency. A media personality working in an international media house has caused a brouhaha over his philandering ways. The vocal man is said to be luring multiple women every weekend to a favourite spot in Ngong Hills where he engages in all manner of lascivious and perverse acts. The life of the party is said to be patronising and picks the girls from a volatile WhatsApp group where crass and racy topics and individuals are viciously dissected every single hour.