An upturn in form has seen Bandari FC revive their Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League title hopes. After a comfortable 5-0 win over hapless Vihiga United at Mbaraki on Tuesday, Cassa Mbungo’s side have now risen to third on the log with 22 points from 13 games. They are 10 points behind league leaders Tusker FC, who beat Nzoia Sugar 2-1 on Tuesday at Kasarani Stadium. Rwandese tactician Mbungo has attributed the upturn in form to players understanding of his new tactics, especially by his forward line. “Our offensive department is now working, which is a good thing,” said Mbungo in his post-match comments on Tuesday. Dockers have now garnered nine points since their humiliating 3-1 defeat at home to Gor Mahia on January 31. Mbungo attributed the Gor defeat to both his offensive and defensive departments having leaked goals and wasted chances. He, however, noted that he is happy because since the defeat against Gor, they have scored eight goals in three games and conceded only one. Besides, the upturn in form has seen them jump five places to third. “The league leaders are still far away from us and we need to catch up with them,” the Rwandese tactician said after the Vihiga United game. To add firepower, the dockers have acquired the services of Ugandan marksman Umar Kasumba. The former Zesco United striker will compliment fellow countryman William Wadri, who is the coastal side’s top scorer with six goals. “He is already with us. He will add more firepower in our offensive play,” said Mbungo. Next up for Bandari is Ulinzi Stars away in Nakuru before hosting Nzoia Sugar. Meanwhile, Vihiga United coach Sammy Okoth has decried the loss of his two dependable forwards in Alex Imbusia and David Simiyu. The two missed the trip to Mombasa with reports indicating they are both headed out of Vihiga county. Imbusia has been linked to both Sofapaka and KCB while Simiyu has been flirting with the bankers. Next for Okoth’s side is a trip to Mumias, where they face Western Stima in what will be an interesting relegation fight derby. Vihiga United remain 15th on the log with nine points after 13 games, having played four more games than 16th placed Mathare United with eight points This is one more than Western Stima who are on seven points and four more than bottom side Zoo Kericho who only have two points.