Kenyans can now verify the authenticity of Covid-19 laboratory results obtained from Lancet through a free, 24-hour USSD mobile phone service. The partnership with Safaricom aims to protect the public from unscrupulous persons issuing fake Covid-19 certificates on Lancet’s headers, putting lives and health of Kenyans at risk. To authenticate a lab report, dial *727# followed by the reference number on the lab report to be verified then #. If the report is authentic, a message will be received displaying the patient’s name, age, sex, report collection date and test requested which should all match what is on the report. Any mismatch would indicate that the report is not genuine. Lancet CEO Dr Ahmed Kalebi said the medical results will remain private. If the lab reference number is not on the Lancet PLK database, the message will indicate that there is no such record in the results database. “We've been getting letters from the DCI and ODPP on a weekly basis asking us to authenticate reports suspected to be fraudulent and invariably most end up being fake reports whereby the suspects were arrested,” Dr Kalebi said. “The forgery and fraud of fake Covid-19 reports are so brazen that you even find some people presenting fake reports to court asking to be excused from appearing before the court for other hearings.” He said even some lawyers were presenting fake reports. Though currently available only through the Safaricom network, it will soon be extended to Airtel. Kalebi said the USSD service will be useful to the public, learning institutions, corporates and companies employing independent contractors, sports facilities, law enforcement agencies, courts of law and others who often need to quickly confirm the authenticity of Covid-19 lab reports presented to them. The pathologist said the racket is being masterminded by unscrupulous people who hoodwink or lure the public to obtaining fake reports instead of having genuine tests done. Some of the culprits have been arrested and prosecuted by the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions. “The problem has really pervaded society because Kenyans like shortcuts and easy way out. Some people even pay the same amount as for a real test to get fake reports just because they want to avoid the swab or want a quick result,” Kalebi said. The free USSD service is separate from the Trusted Travel System that is available for outbound travellers used by Ministry of Health and Immigration officials to authenticate reports at the airport and borders.  