Five envoys have praised the success of devolution in the North Rift but said more efforts are needed to support programmes on youths, women and improvement of peace and security in the region. The envoys visited the counties to asses the impact of devolution and expressed hope that the counties would be able to quickly recover from effects of Covid-19. Speaking in Eldoret, the envoys said they were keen on involvement of youths in politics and development, noting that the country has a huge population of youth. The envoys paid courtesy calls on Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos, after which they visited several projects supported by their nations. The ambassadors were Elin Bergthe Rognlie (Norway), Caroline Vacini (Sweden), Ole Thonke (Danmark) and Eric Lundeberg (Finland). Indian High Commissioner to Kenya Shri Virander Kumar Paul separately visited the region. “We support the devolution process in Kenya and we are here to see how it works on the ground and to discuss other issues including youths, women, peace and security issues,” said Bergthe. Thonke said Kenya’s young population was a strength that should be empowered and tapped especially as the country looks into ways of recovering from effects of Covid-19.  He said education programmes targeting the youth should be strengthened. Mandago expressed gratitude for the support that the four nordic states have offered to a number of projects not only in the region but across other devolved units in the country. He cited support to farmers in dairy, poultry and passion farming as some of the areas that have seen a positive transformation. “Sweden has supported us for environmental and solid waste management as well as the relationship we have built over time at the Moi University School of Health Sciences,” Mandago said. He said the Danish government has also supported the dairy sector extensively. “I want to assure you of our commitment as a county and the Council of Governors to make sure the programmes you are supporting create a huge impact to the locals and other targeted groups,” he added. At a seperate meeting Mandago hailed the support that India gives to various projects in the region dating back to the 1990s. He named Rift Valley Textile Company  as one of the major areas that have been transformed through  support from the Indian government. Mandago further expressed his intention to seek further partnership in technical training so as to boost the manufacturing in the region. Edited by Henry Makori