The Law Society of Kenya wants police to expedite investigations into the disappearance of Nairobi lawyer Benson Njau Kayai. In a statement on Wednesday, LSK Secretary Mercy Wambua said the police should ensure Kayai's production within the next 72 hours, failure to which the Society will take the necessary legal action. Njau was abducted on February 7, 2021 from the road along Muhoho Avenue in South C, Nairobi. No arrest has been made since then. His car was abandoned on the road after it was blocked by two others cars before he was dragged out and taken away by unknown people. The motive of the incident is yet to be known and police say they are still investigating the incident. Wambua also called upon anyone with any information that can aid the investigations, to forward the same to them or report to the Lang’ata Police Station or their nearest police station. “As the professional body tasked with ensuring the welfare of our members, we note with grave concern the extensive delay in the conclusion of investigation into the disappearance of our member,” she said. The secretary said it has clocked 16 days from the day of reporting, without any valuable progress in investigations by the police. This, she added, has caused great anxiety, while triggering speculation and suspicion, to both the family members and the membership of the LSK, as to the cause of the delay. Police have reviewed CCTV footage that captured the last moments of the lawyer who is missing for three weeks now. Njau's family reported to police he had been missing since February 7 when he was apparently abducted from along Muhoho Avenue in South C, Nairobi. Njau, 54 is a Nairobi based lawyer and practised conveyancing, property law, family law, commercial law and other issues. He was taken away by a car whose number plates are yet to be disclosed. According to witnesses and police, the incident happened at about 5.30 pm as Njau drove in a hired salon car. He had left his house in South C for an unknown destination when he was blocked by two cars and later removed to another one that was waiting. He did not seem to resist the abduction, those who have viewed the footage say. “According to the CCTV footage he was blocked by two cars from the front and rear sides before he was taken out and later frog marched to the waiting one. There was no resistance,” said an officer aware of the probe. The team said they are yet to establish the motive of the incident. The family is yet to be contacted for a ransom or any demand. Among those who witnessed the incident were bodaboda riders who told police they thought he was a suspect who was being arrested. The owner of the car that Njau had leased has been questioned and explained their agreement. Njau had a Mercedes Benz which he did not use that day. It was parked at his house. His house was also intact when the family and police visited there. Lang’ata police boss Benjamin Mwanthi said a case was reported to them of a car that had been abandoned on the road and it was later taken to the local police station. "We are yet to know the motive of the incident but detectives are on it," he said. He said they found bread and milk in the car. The family has since put out a poster on him missing and sought public help to find him. His son Nick told journalists he was on the phone with his father on the day he was abducted and he wanted to know the status of a shop they ran. His phone, however, went unanswered an hour later and has since then gone off. The family says they are still waiting to hear from the police. In 2019, Njau was ordered by a court to return Sh20 million he had apparently stolen from a client. The family said the matter had been settled. In the case, Njau was charged with stealing the money from Stephen Muchina on December 2, 2016, in Nairobi. The charge sheet said Njau, Muchina's lawyer, stole the money entrusted to him to paying Geoffrey Gitau for the sale of a plot in Ruiru municipality. The court issued the order after Njau failed to repay the money after two years. The lawyer had requested the court to grant him more time to settle the matter out of court. Ends