Deputy President William Ruto on Thursday launched a scathing attacked on opponents of his hustler movement, saying only those with a colonial mind  can disagree with the narrative. The DP who is on a three-day tour of the Coast said  “the story of wheelbarrow is a complex economic programme which has rattled the rich people.” “It is not what you think; it is a complex programme. Those opposed to this narrative have colonial minds that make them believe that it is only a few people that should be empowered,” Ruto said. In a one-hour speech at Mwangulu in Lunga Lunga, Kwale county, where he commissioned the Mwereni chief’s office and Mwangulu police station, Rutoo said he will not stop talking about economic empowerment of the downtrodden. The police station was constructed at a cost of Sh8.4 million and the chief’s ffice at Sh5.5 million by the Lunga Lunga CDF. Ruto said the rich are talking about the trickle-down economy, but the hustlers are interested with the bottom-up economics. He said after next year's general election, his government will ensure that the small businessmen get additional Sh100 million annual allocation apart from the Constituency Development Fund. “I’m happy that in all political forums, the narrative has changed. I want to tell you here, be what may be, Kenya will change. I’m not saying it as a joke; we shall change this nation,” he stated. The DP, who is opposed to amending the 2010 Constitution, said ODM leader Raila Odinga is responsible for the chaos and confusion in the Jubilee party. “He (Raila) keeps on saying that he did not come into Jubilee, but we know he came in and disrupted everything. ODM took over key Parliament positions; Finance, Education, which says that they are now deeply in government.” He added, “The Jubilee government’s agenda for this term was the Big Four, but he brought in BBI, and they keep saying that they have not disrupted our programme.” The DP arrived in Lunga Lunga at 4pm. He was expected to arrive at 2pm. He was accompanied by MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Mohammed Ali (Nyali) Benjamin Tayari (Kinango) and area MP Khatib Mwashetani among others. Tayari cautioned residents against politicians who chest-thump and give empty promises. He said the hustler movement was the way forward. Jumwa said Ruto is not like other politicians who have lined up waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s endorsement. “We want someone who will go for it,” Jumwa said. Ali has said the clamour to change the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative is meant to benefit a few people. He warned MCAs against supporting the document. 