The set-up and marking of the KCPE and KCSE exams will factor in the time learners lost during the nine-month Covid-19 shutdown, Education CS George Magoha has said. Speaking at Mwiki Primary School on Monday, the CS did not divulge how the exam will be designed or administered to achieve such equity A section of stakeholders has pushed for a revised marking system in this year's tests so learners are not disadvantaged.. Magoha made the remarks as he distributed masks to learners. “You don’t have to be afraid because we know you were not in school for nine months. "Our job as teachers is to pick what you have in your brain, not what you don't have," Magoha said. Learners are doing very well and they do not have to work under tension because the exam is only one month away, he said "The children should be at peace because the government is aware that they were out of school for nine months. There is absolutely no reason to be afraid. Already, other countries and jurisdictions have adopted ways to ensure their candidates will not be disadvantaged in the transition tests. In the UK, for example, the government announced students taking GCSE and A-level exams will be awarded more generous grades to compensate for disruption to their schooling during the pandemic. This will also involve learners getting advance notice of some topics ahead of tests, as well as exam aids when sitting papers. KNEC ASSESSMENT Magoha's announcement followed release of the Kenya National Examination Council report on learning losses suffered during the pandemic. The report showed half of the candidates could barely make the 50 per cent cut-off mark in the test administered in October. However, the CS rubbished the report as outdated, reflecting the situation 12 weeks ago, which has improved. “I thank primary school teachers who used assessment results to address all the gaps that may have arisen from the learners’ long stay at home. I am confident the candidates will excel in their examinations,” he said. A section of stakeholders have called for standardisation of results to ensure learners sitting tests are not disadvantaged. Nicholas Maiyo, the chairman Kenya Parents Association, last week called on the government to ensure the examinations will not disadvantage those left behind during the shutdown. “If you look at the performance of those in urban areas, it was better compared to those in rural and those in private schools outshone those in public schools. "This is because both those in private schools and urban areas are better equipped with devices, internet, mobile data and other resources to continue learning even when out of school,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)