Busia Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has blamed the influx of Ugandans seeking medical care in the county for poor service delivery in public hospitals. Appearing before the Senate's Health Committee, Ojaamong said two-thirds of the patients in public hospitals in the county are from the neighbouring country. He said the county needs about Sh7 billion annually to sufficiently cater for both Kenyans and Ugandans seeking treatment in its health facilities. “This amount is about what the county gets in total. We allocate about Sh2.5 billion annually for health services, which is very small. The rest comes from the donor community. If they pull out, health services in Busia will collapse,” he said. Ojaamong noted that he has raised the matter with the East African Community but nothing has been forthcoming. “I have raised the matter with the EAC with the hope of having counties that are at the borders getting supported by member states,” he added. Ojaamong had been asked to appear before the committee following a petition by nominated Senator Petronilla Were. He was to explain why there is a shortage of equipment and medicines at the Busia County Referral Hospital, particularly in the maternity wing. He was also asked to explain why mothers are forced to buy delivery instruments and other personal effects that should be provided by the hospital. Senators further wanted to know why patients share beds at the facility, including expectant mothers. They sought to be told the measures the county government had taken to address the shortage of equipment, general supplies and medicines in the devolved unit. Acting Health executive Moses Mulomi said it is their policy to provide all delivery instruments and other personal effects needed by expectant mothers. “Except in rare and extreme emergency situations, the clients are not required to buy any personal requirements for delivery services. This only occurs as a last resort to save life,” Mulomi said. Ojaamong urged the Senate to intervene, saying supplies at the facilities run out as soon as they are received. “You cannot compare Busia with a county like Baringo in terms of service delivery at health facilities,” he said. Mulomi also blamed the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority for the situation in Busia. “Sometimes when you ask for 20 items, they will only send five or so,” he said. Narok Senator Ledama Olekina urged the county government to prioritise healthcare services when it receives money. “Figure out how not to deny Ugandans health services and at the same time take care of your people,” he added. Committee chair Michael Mbito asked Ojaamong to prepare a report explaining how much it costs to provide health services to Ugandans, which will be presented to members during a tour of the county. “We want that report ready before we come to Busia soon. We want to know how much of your money goes to Ugandans so that we can see how to help,” Mbito said. Edited by Henry Makori