Kisii leaders on Wednesday continued to condemn MPs Silvanus Osoro and his Dagoreti North counterpart Simba Arati for causing chaos during the burial Deputy Governor Joash Maangi’s father. Speaking separately to the Star, former Kisii Mayor Samuel Nyangeso and Tabaka MCA Apepo Ombasa said the fistfight between before DP William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga was shameful. Nyangeso said the acts were regrettable and should be castigated by all in the strongest terms possible. “It was shameful for the MPs to engage in a fistfight before mourners and a show of disrespect not only to mzee Abel Gongera but also to the family,” Nyangeso said. It took the intervention of Governor James Ongwae to restore order after the ceremony degenerated into a shouting match between supporters of  Ruto and Raila. Ombasa said the fight did not just anger those in attendance but also the entire Gusii community. He said the MPs should have used a different platform to iron out their differences and not a funeral of a respected mzee like Gongera. The exchange came after Osoro was angered by Arati's remarks when he called on Ruto to keep off the company of leaders he referred to as corrupt and whom he said have been defrauding Kenyans. Nyangeso said such leaders should not be allowed to attend the burial ceremony of former Minister Simeon Nyachae. Abagusii Cultural and Development Council of Elders through chairman James Matundura said they will convene a supreme council meeting to decide on what steps to take against the two leaders. Addressing the press on Tuesday in their office, Matundura said they will invite leaders who matter especially the church to deliberate on the matter. He warned political leaders against using hired goons to interrupt funerals saying that the council will not tolerate such behaviour. “We are telling politicians that as a council we are not going to allow politicking in funerals. They should look for other platforms to do the same,” he said. They also told the politicians to stop hiring young people to heckle speakers in funerals.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris