The Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau has been appointed by the State as an honorary warden for a period of three years. Kamau was appointed through the Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife under the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act, 2013. This was published February 19, 2021, on the Kenya Gazette Vol. CXXIII-NO. 33. The title of an Honorary Warden is a State recognition established under the Wildlife Act acknowledging suitable persons for their notable work that in one way or another supports and promotes core functions stipulated in the Act to the conservation and management of wildlife in Kenya. Kamau, on receiving the appointment, has appreciated the CS Ministry of Tourism and Wildlife Najib Balala for recognizing his role as the Chief Conservator of Forests, Kenya Forest Service. "I'm honoured to have received an honorary award," Kamau said. The CCF is a career conservationist who has been steering the Service since he was appointed to the position in April 2019, in carrying out its mandate in Forest Conservation, Management, and Protection. Kamau noted the centrality of forest resources and ecosystems as key to the role of wildlife conservation, and also to the improvement of livelihood, including the promotion of the tourism sector. The recognition gives an honorary wildlife warden the main duty and responsibility of assisting the State organization responsible for wildlife conservation work, especially concerning the control of poaching and clandestine trade in wild animals and products, detection and prosecution of offenses under the Wildlife (Protection) Act and the Rules. This prevents damage to the habitat of wildlife, identification, and selection of areas suitable to be declared as sanctuaries, national parks, closed areas, etc; as well as measures for their proper protection. The recognition also provides that the holder of the title plays an active role in advising on measures for dealing with the problem of damage by wild animals to life and property, including the assessment and payment of compensation. The honorary warden also promotes the message of conservation to the people and enlisting public support for nature and wildlife conservation. These efforts will be directed towards the communities living in or near the declared wildlife reserves.