The Garissa Water and Sewerage Company is unable to provide quality services because clients don't pay up. County water executive Abdi Omar on Wednesday said customers who don't pay the bills remain the biggest challenge towards the firm's progress and was hampering services. He said there was a huge multiplier effect arising from non-payment. Omar said some residents had put up illegal connections for water supply. He said such connections were negatively affecting the operations of the company. He was speaking at a Garissa hotel when he opened a three-day workshop for stakeholders to engage in the promotion of proper water resource management. The workshop was organised by the Garissa Water and Sewerage Company. “Gawasco an independent agency which is supposed to generate its own income by selling water at a standard rate. So when there is default accumulating to millions of shillings, then we all have a reason to worry,” Omar said. He added, “It is for this reason that we are urging members of the public to take responsibility and pay up water bills effectively to ensure that the company continues providing this very important commodity, because again when the quality is compromised you will be the same people who will be the first to complain.”  He appealed to the public to report corrupt company officials who were engaged in malpractices that compromised the integrity of the firm. The executive said the company will soon install solar as an alternative source of power to reduce electricity charges. He said the water system will be digitised to improve efficiency and curb workforce malpractices. Last year, some parts of Garissa municipality were faced with water shortage, a phenomenon that prompted the drilling of boreholes by the county government to address the crisis. The Wednesday workshop was attended by domestic water users, heads of institutions and religious leaders. The company's cooperate affairs manager Mohamed Dolal, technical manager Chris Kamau and commercial manager James Mugo were present. 