The Kenya Urban Roads Authority has been tasked with heightening the inspection of the ongoing phase 3 of Ngong road. This comes after a team of Principal Secretaries led by Tourism PS Safina Kwekwe inspected the project on Thursday. The 9.8-kilometre road stretches from Dagoretti Corner to Karen Shopping Centre. In October 2020, Kura said the road was 80 per cent complete amid public outcry at how slow the contractor was working on the said road. According to Secretary of the President's Delivery Unit Andrew Wakahiu, the team of the PSs resolved to expedite solutions to challenges around drainage, relocation of power poles and traffic control. Wakahiu said the project which is worth Sh2b, is 83 per cent complete with a full completion target date set for May 2021. "I have implored on Kura to heighten daily inspection of the project so as to meet the targeted date of completion," he said. The construction was due for completion in July 2020, but the contractor had to relocate electricity, water and sewer lines as well as dealing with Covid-19 containment measures. The construction is causing huge traffic snarl-ups during morning and evening rush hours. The Contractor China Qinjian said about 22 per cent of the sub-contractors had been downsized due to the coronavirus and limited sources of materials, a condition also blamed on the pandemic. The road on completion will have five footbridges and five lanes, with walkways and cycle tracks on both sides. The expansion is in line with the Bus Rapid Transport project to be implemented to reduce traffic congestion to and from Nairobi. President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned the first phase in 2016. This phase,  which starts at the Kenya National Library to Prestige Plaza, was completed on December 17, 2017. The three-kilometer stretch was  built by World Kaihatsu Kogyo, a Japanese company, at a cost of Sh1.3 billion. Phase 2 is a four-kilometer stretch from Prestige Plaza to Dagoretti Corner. It was completed on April 30, last year, by the same Japanese contractor at a cost of Sh2 billion. Three pedestrian footbridges are to be built at the Kenyatta National Hospital gate, Coptic Church, and the Kenya Science Technical College in the next 18 months. According to Kura, the government invests over Sh300 billion annually on roads which are among the drivers of Vision 2030 and Agenda 4. The two economic blueprints are intended to propel Kenya into a medium-income level country in the next few years.