Ulinzi Starlets will be banking on team cohesion to bag maximum points in the Kiambu derby when they take on Gaspo on Saturday at Ruiru grounds. Ulinzi, who recovered from their opening day 2-1 defeat to Thika Queens, have won four matches in a row and are second in Zone 'A' with 12 points—three behind Thika who have 15. Gaspo on the other hand, have won twice and lost as many matches to place third with seven points. Ulinzi coach Joseph Mwanza expects a tough match but believes collective responsibility  will be enough to take the three points. The soldiers have some injury concerns which the tactician revealed will be assessed before the clash. "This is a derby and anything is possible. I expect fireworks from both teams but for us, collective effort from all departments will be key if we have to escape with maximum points,"Mwanza said. "Defenders can give you a point if the team doesn't concede while the strikers and midfielders can get the other two if they work efficiently and score. Few of my players are working with the physios having picked minor injuries and will be evaluated to determine their availability," an optimistic Mwanza hinted. A win for Ulinzi will take them top with 15 points should Thika lose. Gaspo will remain third if they win. Kibera Soccer hope to get their second win of the season when they welcome leaders Thika at Ligi Ndogo grounds on Sunday while Mathare United will be gunning for their first points of the season against much-improved Benard Kitolo Zetech coached side. Morale could be low in Mathare's camp after 5-1 drubbing at the hands of second tier side Sunderland Samba in the FKF women's Cup tournament last weekend. Kayole Starlets, who have only picked a draw so far, play Makolanders. In zone A, defending champions Vihiga Queens hope to extend their dominance when they tackle Kisumu Starlets at Mumias Complex. Kisumu trail Vihiga by three points and have lost one match. Queens' dropped their first points of the season in a 2-2 all draw against Nakuru West Queens a fortnight ago. Bottom of the table Oserian have a date with Trans-Nzoia Falcons. A win for Trans-Nzoia will see them leapfrog Vihiga should they lose. Eldoret Show ground host the match pitting Eldoret Falcons and SEP Oyugis as  Mumias-based Wadadia travel to Nakuru.