Prison's coach Josp Barasa has has warned his charges against underrating Nairobi Water and Nairobi Prisons when the second leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation League serves off at the Nyayo Stadium this weekend. Prisons, who are seeking their third straight league title have a fully-fit squad. They put  KCB to the sword by hammering the Ruaraka-based side 3-1 in sets of 26-24, 28-26, 21-25 and 25-16 to get their season to a flying start. The team has played friendly matches against  Highrise Warriors men's team and Barasa said they are in a better shape to deliver. At the same time, he wants the team to play according to instructions. "In this league, no team is a pushover. Nairobi Water have been in the league. They are a good team with experienced players same as Nairobi Prisons. We have to be cautious when handling them but the players are psyched up," Barasa said. "The team has had a good training period at Nairobi West Prisons. We've used the friendly matches against Highrise Warriors to fine-tune our preparations. Our strategy is to attack them from the first whistle and play an expansive game. Title defence is always tricky but that is our target," he said. In other matches, KCB who got a reality check in the loss against Prisons, play Kenya Defence Force KDF and Kenya Pipeline. The bankers are rebuilding after roping in seven new players but beat Directorate Of Criminal Investigation DCI in the first match. KDF failed to turn up for their matches in the first leg. An all-soldiers affair pits KDF against Kenya Army. KCB's Sharon Chepchumba is in line to face her former side Pipeline. Elsewhere, Pipeline entertain Kenya Army, DCI have date with both Nairobi Prisons and Nairobi Water. Men Group One Vihiga-Kidungu Stadium SATURDAY Vihiga County vs Prison Kenya Equity Bank vs KPA Nairobi Prison vs AP Kenya Vihiga County vs Equity Bank Nairobi Prisons vs KPA AP Kenya vs Prison Kenya SUNDAY Vihiga County vs AP Kenya Equity Bank vs Nairobi Prisons Prison Kenya vs KPA Vihiga County vs KPA Equity Bank vs AP Kenya Prison Kenya vs Nairobi Prisons  Men Group Two Nanyuki Stadium SATURDAY Western Prisons vs KDF GSU vs Prison Mombasa KFS vs RV Prisons Kenya Army vs KDF GSU vs KFS Prison Mombasa vs RV Prisons SUNDAY Kenya Army vs KFS Western Prison vs Prison Mombasa KDF vs RV Prisons Western Prison vs KFS Kenya Army vs Prison Mombasa KDF vs GSU