The Covid-19 vaccine may be delayed after the Covax facility insisted Kenya must sign an agreement indemnifying the manufacturer should those vaccinated develop any adverse effects. Such agreements are standard around the world during this pandemic as they help keep the inoculation process moving. The World Health Organization and its partners in the Covax facility said the agreement is critical and must be signed by all countries. The indemnity allows the manufacturer to wash its hands of liability should something go wrong with the recipients, as long as it followed WHO standards while manufacturing the jab. Clinical trials have so far shown all the vaccines under Covax are highly safe. However, in case anything goes wrong, Kenyan government will take responsibility and Astrazeneca, Serum Institute of India or Covax, cannot be blamed. “All facility participants must have signed indemnity agreements with the manufacturers in question in order to receive doses through Covax,” WHO said in a statement. Covax said it is already helping countries navigate this process. “Covax is supporting AMC-eligible participants by negotiating a template indemnity agreement on their behalf, saving time and resources, and establishing a no-fault compensation mechanism and fund,” it said in a statement. According to a schedule published on February 3, Kenya was allocated 4.1 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. Covax said this and other requirements might delay shipments. “Based on this, Covax anticipates the bulk of the first round of deliveries taking place in March, with some early shipments to those that have already fulfilled the above criteria, occurring in late February,” the statement said. Covax is led by the WHO, the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, Gavi, and Unicef. Some experts say it is risky for a country like Kenya to absorb full responsibility for such a highly novel product, developed and licensed at lightning speed, especially when millions of people will need to be injected. The concern is based on a precedence. In 2013, four years after the outbreak of swine flu in the UK, the Pandemrix jab made by GlaxoSmithKline Plc was found to be associated with narcolepsy, an incurable sleep disorder. The UK government has lost court cases and is expected to pay the victims. Head of the Covid-19 vaccine taskforce Willis Akhwale did not immediately respond to the question if Kenya has already signed the indemnity agreement. On Monday, Akhwale said the Ministry of ICT had designed a digital platform to track people who will be vaccinated, and to monitor the side effects. The system will be piloted this week. The WHO said countries must also give a national regulatory authorisation for the vaccine. Kenya’s Poisons and Pharmacy Board is expected to give authorisation next week. “In the last two weeks, manufacturers of various vaccines have submitted their dossier to the board and we expect that in the coming week, we could see based on how the dossiers will be evaluated the registration of the vaccine by the board for use in Kenya,” Akhwale said. The WHO said all eligible economies must also submit national deployment and vaccination plans, which must be reviewed and validated by Covax before any vaccine is sent. Edited by Sarah Kanyara