The BBI Bill has been tabled in North Rift county assemblies where MCAs insist it will be subjected to public participation before they vote to approve or reject it. Most MCAS support DP Ruto – Rift Valley is his backyard – who has called the BBI process a waste of time and money but declined to lead the 'No' campaign. The bill has divided opinions. Public support nationwide is shaky. MCAs in Uasin Gishu and elsewhere resumed sittings this week after a long recess. Uasin Gishu deputy speaker told MCAs they have three months to decide on the Bill and communicate to the speakers of the National Assembly and Senate. Lamai said the BBI bill would be processed according to law, subjected to public participation before a MCAs vote. “The BBI will go through the full process as required by the law including public participation," he said. At least 24 of 47 counties must approve the Bill, then it goes to Parliament for debate, then a referendum. Most of the assemblies have been carrying out operations virtually, but it's expected physical meetings will increase with strict adherence to  Covid-19 protocols, especially social distancing. The Nandi county assembly also reconvened and Majority leader David Koech said, "We are ready to deal with the Bill and it will go through the required process." The position taken by the DP has left most MCAs in a tricky situation as President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga ardently support the Bill as a virtual panacea for what ails Kenya. Ruto allies in the region, led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, have said they will not bother to lobby MCAs on the Bill. “Kenyans have been very clear and they will soon make a decision on the BBI. It's not about we leaders lobbying MCAs to decide how to handle the Bill," Sudi said. But Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono cautioned MCAs to vote on the Bill as their constituents wish. “How the MCAs handle it will also determine their political future because they have to stand with the electorate or go against it at their peril," he said. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, who is chairman of the BBI process in Rift Valley, urged MCAs to be mindful of the benefits of the Bill. “We urge MCAs not to be driven by political interests. They should decide based on the benefits the country will derive from BBI, including stronger devolution," Tolgos said. (Edited by V. Graham)