Stalled projects in Nairobi will be given priority in a supplementary budget to be tabled by the executive on Thursday. Finance executive Allan Igambi said they want to re-align the current Sh37.5 billion budget to complete the projects before new ones are started. "The supplementary budget will ensure the county can re-align its sector priorities and funding so that we ensure we can get the most benefit from the sectors we prioritise," he said. From the Sh37.5 budget, Sh10.79 billion was allocated to development while Sh26.66 billion is for recurrent expenditure. Nairobi Metropolitan Services was allocated Sh27.1 billion, City Hall Sh8.4 billion and the county assembly Sh2 billion. From the Sh27.1 billion for NMS, Sh18.0 billion was for recurrent expenditure and Sh9.1 billion for development. In December last year, then acting governor and assembly speaker Benson Mutura signed warrants authorising the withdrawal of funds. However, the High Court stopped Treasury from releasing funds to NMS after former Governor Mike Sonko sued. But the court allowed the county to enter into consent over the implementation of the budget giving an allowance that some of the funds could be used following the withdrawal of all the court cases surrounding the budget. Igambi explained that there are key projects in the county including the completion of a rehabilitation centre for street children in Ruai, the rehabilitation of social halls across Nairobi as well various market projects that will be considered. He noted that due to the transferred functions, consultative meetings will be held between City Hall and NMS on the supplementary budget. "On our side, we are planning for the remaining functions at the county government as we wait for NMS and merge the budget before presenting the final document to the assembly," Igambi said. Once tabled before the assembly, the committee on Finance, Budget and Appropriations will look into the supplementary budget before bringing it for MCAs to approve or reject. The Annual Development Plan FY 2021-22 is also set to be tabled before the house on Thursday. The chairman of the Committee for Budget, Finance and Appropriations Robert Mbatia said they were finalising the plan. "As a committee, our tray is full as we are dealing with many crucial documents. This week we are finalising the ADP that will be tabled before the house," he said. Mbatia also said the committee was looking at the County Fiscal Strategy Paper which should be tabled before February 28 to kick start the budget-making process for the next financial year. "As a committee, we have been meeting with both the executive and NMS and both entities have submitted their input. The policy document will guide us on how much next year's budget will be," he said. Public participation for the Nairobi County Fiscal Strategy Paper will begin on  Wednesday and conclude on Thursday.  Edited by Henry Makori