Lawyer Assa Nyakundi has suffered a setback after the High Court declined to stop the DPP from charging him with the murder of his son. Justice Daniel Ogembo on Friday refused to rule that the DPP’s decision to charge him with murder was an abuse of the legal process. However, Nyakundi will not be charged just yet until two other cases that are still pending in court are determined. Nyakundi was charged with manslaughter in relation to the killing of his son Joseph Nyakundi on March 17, 2019. He had challenged the decision by the DPP to substitute the manslaughter charge for murder. Justice Ogembo held that even though there are two other cases pending on the same issues, he was not convinced that the filing of the murder charge by the DPP amounts to an abuse of the legal process. The court further noted that in the case a life was lost and the DPP is naturally expected to act in the public interest in ensuring that investigations are done over the incident. “I have not been shown how or in which way the DPP has acted against these constitutional tenets under Article 157(II). On my part I see none,” Judge Ogembo said. Judge Ogembo said he knows there are two other cases that have a direct bearing on the application before him. The first case is the matter where Nyakundi has challenged the constitutionality of the murder charge and the second is at the Kiambu law courts where the manslaughter charge is pending. “These two cases, in my view, automatically make the orders of dismissal sought herein untenable,” the court ruled. Judge Ogembo said if he dismissed the murder charge and the other judge allowed the application by DPP seeking a revision of the ruling by Kiambu magistrate who declined to withdraw the manslaughter charge, then there will be no file in court. “Nyakundi would in effect be discharged following the success of the DPP’s revision while at the same time there would be no pending case before the High Court,” Judge Ogembo said. Judge Ogembo  stayed his proceedings pending the determination of the other two cases. The Kiambu court rejected a bid by the DPP to withdraw the manslaughter charge and ordered the case to proceed to hearing, which then prompted the prosecution to seek a revision of the ruling at the High Court that is still pending. "It is my view that in the interest of justice, it would be fair and just that an order staying this case do issue pending the determination of either HCCR MSC 309/2019 or HCCCR Rev No. 424/2020, whichever decision comes out first and ahead of the other,” Ogembo ruled. Nyakundi wanted the court to strike out the information and charge of murder on the basis that it was an abuse of the court process. He argued that because there was an existing manslaughter case involving the same party and from the incident, the charge of murder was an abuse of the powers of the DPP. The DPP, in his response, dismissed the claims by Nyakundi, telling court that there was no evidence of abuse on the part of the prosecution.