Two death row convicts who killed their neighbour alleging that he had stolen a sheep have lost an appeal. Daniel Nzioka Mbuthi and Simon Maina were convicted and sentenced to death after the court found them guilty of killing Bernard Kimathi Kiara on December 27, 2011, in Mbeere South, Embu county. The two appealed the decision at the High Court. It was dismissed, leading to a second appeal. In the appeal, the two claimed that the judge erred in finding that there was sufficient evidence to support the charge of murder. They submitted that Mbuthi’s sheep had been stolen, and he had made a theft report to the police, who took no action. They said Kimathi was killed by a mob. However, judges Daniel Musinga, Jamilla Mohamed and Sankale ole Kantai dismissed the appeal, saying it lacked merit. The judges said there was no reasonable excuse for the way the appellants acted when they set out with a common intention to go to the deceased’s home and attack him the way they did. They committed murder and there was malice aforethought, the judges said. “Having reviewed the whole record, we are satisfied that the trial judge reached the correct conclusion that the appellants were guilty of the offence of murder. They were properly convicted,” the judges ruled. Prosecution witnesses said the two picked the deceased, dragged him using a rope, beat him and left him for dead at the market centre. The court was told that screams from the deceased did not help as they continued to beat him, saying that he had stolen Mbuthi’s sheep. When the said witnesses tried to intervene, they were threatened with a beating. Witnesses said the deceased was unconscious and was bleeding from the head, mouth and nose. State Counsel Duncan Ondimu said the appellants did not dispute in their defence that they had met the deceased. He said there had been an attempted cover-up and that is why it took so long for the two to be arrested. Ondimu dismissed allegations by the appellants that the prosecution only called relatives and no independent witnesses. He urged the court to dismiss the appeal and uphold the decision to sentence the two to death.