Adolescents and young people represent a growing number of people living with HIV globally. According to Unicef in 2019, 460,000 young people aged 10 – 24 years were newly infected with HIV of whom 170,000, were adolescents aged 10-19 years. “The continued marginalisation of adolescents and young people contribute largely to the rise in HIV infections, with 51% of new infections in Kenya among 15-24 year-olds, and 48% of post-abortion care among adolescents and young women aged 10-24 years, and limited knowledge on SRHR due to inadequate, lack of or in comprehensive sexual education,” Unicef said. Kenya has the third largest HIV epidemic alongside Tanzania, with 69 per cent of adults living with the virus having access to care and treatment. HIV still remains to be a huge threat among groups of men having sex with men, women, sex workers, people who inject drugs, and young people not excluded. The epidemic, which is largely driven by sexual transmission, is generalised to the entire population — children, young people, adults, women, and men. With the growing numbers of teen pregnancies, the focus on HIV shouldn’t shift away, especially among young people who are actively engaging in unsafe sex. Many of these young people have limited or no information on safe sex practices to protect themselves. In 2015, 51per cent of new HIV infections occurred among adolescents and young people aged 15-24 years. Most of these infections are a result of unprotected sex under the influence of drugs, forced sex, and sexual violence. It is estimated that 33 per cent of adolescent girls have been raped before the age of 18 and 22 per cent aged (15-19 years) describe their first sexual encounter to be forced. With the current data on teen pregnancies, there are possibilities of increased new HIV infections amongst adolescent girls and boys that are undocumented. Many of these adolescent girls have probably not tested for HIV or other sexually transmitted diseases, which are also the leading cause of death. Despite increased HIV testing and prevention campaigns in the country, HIV among the young people’s population continues to rise as a hidden epidemic. Several civil society organisations, CBOs, youth-led initiatives, and governments institutions spearheading behaviour change communication projects, free distribution and demonstration on condom use, stigma reduction campaigns, and community dialogues, the numbers keep rising. The reluctance in one knowing their HIV status and proper use of condoms remains a challenge among the youth.  Other risk factors such as stigma and violence continue to bar many from seeking HIV services. With the current rise in teen pregnancies, efforts should also be directed to HIV and STI screening, ensuring complete health support on testing, treatment, and prevention for adolescent girls. In unfortunate cases where a pregnant adolescent has tested positive for HIV, medical practitioners should be in a position to provide mental health support for these girls ensuring their overall health and well-being are safeguarded. The government should adequately prioritise adolescents and youth sexual reproductive health that is comprehensive and meets the need of young people. This will help to wholesomely achieve the country’s agenda on improving healthcare for all. Odhiambo is the youth coordinator at the Reproductive Health Network Kenya, while Nthiana is a youth advocate with Network for Adolescents and Youth of Africa