Kenya’s economy is headed for a worse period in the face of uncertainty about how long it will take the country to recover from the effects of Covid-19. Parliamentary budget experts paint a bleak picture of what awaits Kenyans, saying the virus has worsened a problem that existed before the outbreak. The Parliamentary Budget Office has raised concerns that many companies have closed down over the past two years, adding that data from the companies’ registrar show that over 380 shut their doors in 2019. They are alarmed that revenue collection has been subdued for a number of years, rapping the National Treasury for varying revenue targets at will without regard to their impact on policy direction. The budget experts further raised the issue with new projects being introduced at any stage of the budget and lack of specific targets, programmes and achievements. PBO is also concerned about a drastic reduction in savings and a steady decline in foreign direct investments said to have tumbled by Sh31 billion in 2019 and by 40 per cent last year. There are also concerns with regard to debt accumulation, particularly among investors, which may lead to loss of access to cheap external markets. PBO, in the latest 53-page report titled ‘Evading recessionary pressure under mounting debt burden’, flags the high level of joblessness in the country as slowing economic growth. The team argues that 55 per cent of Kenya’s labour force is in the agricultural sector – which offers low income and little job security. Also troubling is that the services sector – accommodation and restaurants, ICT, transport and storage, financial and real estate services – has significantly contracted following Covid-19. Worse still is the waning prospect of the agriculture sector, which they say is weather dependent and continues to suffer low-level investments. The experts say the industrial sector's contribution to the country’s wealth has been declining steadily – a reduction in Kenya’s manufacturing capacity. PBO pokes holes on the Treasury’s caps in the 2021 Budget Policy Statement citing “an increasingly unrealistic revenue targets over the last four years.” The experts also deride the Ukur Yatani-led team for linking revenue underperformance to the current pandemic. “Despite indications the pandemic was the main reason, tax revenue has been declining from 17 per cent in 2013-14 to 14 per cent in 2019-20, the largest being income tax and VAT,” the report reads. Experts say the ever-increasing recurrent expenditure amid dwindling tax revenue is a ticking time bomb. Their fear is that the situation will remain persistent following interest payments on domestic and external debt. Another concern is that debt repayment has been rising even as other major expenditures – government wage bill – remain unchanged. “Consequently, debt repayment may be crowding out development expenditure,” PBO warned. “This implies that the decisions in the overall budget are not being guided by reality but rather by the need to indicate a favourable fiscal position.” PBO concluded that previous spending reforms have failed to permanently stop expenditure increments and wastage. Continued increment of budget caps, given the current state of the economy, may result in fiscal unsustainability, they said. “Increased spending at a time when revenues are underperforming, interest payments are rising and the economy’s ability to incur more debt is narrowing, will render the economy vulnerable.” The Kenya National Bureau of Statistics in its latest GDP revealed that Covid-19 had tipped the country into recession. The government is also facing a cash crisis and is struggling to make ends meet. Treasury chiefs said they were optimistic things would change. To change for the better, the experts recommended that MPs occasion fresh appraisal of all projects in the budget and establish a project management unit to handle the same. They also want an overhaul of tertiary education syllabus to reorient education to practical - ‘for-the-job’ training - as opposed to theoretical approach. The experts say conditional grants to counties for investments in agriculture may help improve the quantity and quality of crop and livestock produce. PBO wants the National Treasury to reduce the budget deficit to three per cent of GDP immediately and target to balance the budget within the next three years. They want a freeze of new projects and deferment of all projects by one year, especially where no commitments have been entered. Experts also want a freeze on nominal expenditure growth in all categories, state officers to continue with work-from-home and online meetings and state corporations spending rationalised. PBO wants the government to reschedule debt to free up more money to finance expenditures in the budget. They also want net domestic borrowing reduced to zero, coupled with increases in concessional financing and revision of arbitrary set ceilings. Precarious markers, the team says, is on the fact that the country’s economy is still accosted by poverty, rising inequality, weak private sector investment, and vulnerability to external shocks. PBO, citing a study by Deloitte, warns that the middle-class – which is the main contributor to the high consumption – has been put to question as their income is uncertain and unstable. “There is a general concern that consumer spending is increasingly being driven by household debt,” the experts said. “The rise of short term, high interest digital credit uptake particularly by low-income households has contributed to an increase in household indebtedness.” PBO argues that the said loans typically solve short-term liquidity problems in households and small businesses but are not significant enough to facilitate long-term investments amongst borrowers. “Another concern is the tendency of middle-class expenditure to lean towards imported goods…therefore leaks a significant portion of national income to another country.” PBO holds that the low level of investment has negatively affected the country’s level of productivity, saying obsolete technology, low innovation, and poor tech take-up make things worse. The team lamented that investment is generally approached from a narrow perspective, citing significant input in road infrastructure but very little focus on industries that would benefit from them. Citing a World Bank study which showed that the ‘degree of innovativeness’ is low; PBO argued the innovations have insignificant impact on overall productivity. 