Two more counties controlled by Raila Odinga's ODM party are to approve the BBI referendum Bill next week, the Star has established. Kisumu and Homa Bay could pass the BBI report on Tuesday and Thursday respectively, being the second and third counties to okay the plebiscite. Siaya, Raila’s home county was the first to approve the Bill on Tuesday, slightly under fortnight after IEBC certified the BBI signatures The expeditious approval is seen as an endorsement of Raila's steering of the process. It also demonstrates his grip on his backyard as prepares for a fifth attempt at the presidency in 2022. In Homa Bay for instance, the county’s top brass led by Governor Cyprian Awiti have resolved that the Bill will be tabled and passed by Thursday next week. The assembly had asked the public to submit their views during a public participation window that was to lapse on February 19. But on Friday, assembly speaker Elizabeth Ayoo said they are going to amend the advertisement to bring the deadline to Wednesday next week. “There are new developments which we must now adopt in the matter. We have now resolved to table the Bill in the Assembly on Thursday next week,” Ayoo said. Governor Awiti said the new schedule will put Homa Bay in the map of the first counties to pass the Bill in Kenya. “Let all MCAs do it as quickly as it is tabled in the assembly,” Awiti said. Awiti said the BBI will promote cohesion and prevent perennial electoral chaos. “The BBI will address exclusion and do away with the winner takes it all elections. This will prevent post-election violence,” Awiti said. In the Kisumu, the Bill was subjected to public participation on Friday. Assembly clerk Owen Ojuok said they will hold a public participation forum at the assembly ahead of debate on Tuesday next week. The Bill went through first reading before speaker Elisha Oraro committed it to the Committee of Justice, Legal Affairs and Good Governance for public participation. The referendum has become the new battlefront pitting Raila against Deputy President William Ruto. Its outcome could inform realignment ahead of the 2022 presidential contest. On Wednesday, Baringo county assembly majority leader Lawi Kipchumba told the Star that unlike Siaya, they will rush to reject the Bill. He said MCAs will not take the bait of promises such as ward development funds and car grants “just to please some people and burden Kenyans with more taxes. “We cannot be blackmailed and sweet-talked. The majority of Kenyans have said 'no' to BBI and we have no choice but to reject it,” Kipchumba said. Bomet assembly majority whip Davis Langat told the Star he belongs to a forum of whips from all 47 counties "and the feeling across most of the counties is that people are not for BBI". 