@robertomollo3 Some Homa Bay politicians have pressured MCAs to pass the BBI Constitutional Amendment Bill, 2020. Last Wednesday, Siaya legislature became the first to pass the bill, which now seeks the support of at least another 23 assemblies to proceed to the next stage. The Homa Bay assembly has been urged to follow suit and approve it before next Wednesday. Senator Moses Kajwang, MPs Lilian Gogo (Rangwe) and Tom Kajwang (Ruaraka), former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero want the MCAs not to delay. They spoke on Friday in Gongo village, Rangwe, during the burial of Prisca Ondigo—the maternal grandmother of Senator Kajwang. They argued that Homa Bay is one of the counties where ODM draws much support and a further delay would only amount to lack of seriousness. Assembly speaker Elizabeth Ayoo had, however, assured residents that they will pass the Bill next Thursday. She said they were making arrangements to have it discussed and debated before she puts a question to members. Moses said the bill will enable residents to get more funds for implementation of development projects through the proposed Ward Development Fund. “Homa Bay is an ODM zone and I wonder why our MCAs haven’t passed the bill. We should be setting examples to others just the way Siaya did,” he said. The BBI has proposed increased devolved funds from at least 15 per cent to at least 35 per cent of the national revenue. Moses said that is enough reason to have the MCAs approve the proposed changes. “The Bill will promote economic development. We’ll no longer talk about marginalisation across Kenya,” he said. Kidero, now a Homa Bay governor hopeful, threatened to lead demos in Homa Bay town should the MCAs fail to pass the bill on Tuesday. “I'm telling our MCAs to move with speed and pass the bill on Tuesday. Failing that, I'll lead a demonstration in Homa Bay to pile pressure on them,” he said. Tom termed it wrong for any county assembly to complain that it has little time to undertake public participation. He said public participation is aimed at enabling residents to interact with the bill. "It will be shameful if Homa Bay county assembly fails to pass the bill on Tuesday,” he said. Gogo, for her part, urged MCAs to avoid misinformation that may make them fail to pass the bill swiftly. “Kenyans are tired of chaos every election cycle. The BBI guarantees us peaceful elections,” she said. Magwanga said the proposals will empower the youth by enabling those who acquired loans from the Higher Education Loans Board to start repaying only after getting jobs. “Let’s support the BBI fully to enable our youths to get empowered and enjoy economic development,” he said.  Edited by F'Orieny