Former AFC Leopards skipper Martin Imbalambala, who is currently languishing in poverty at his rural home in Sabatia, has appealed for urgent help. Imbalambala, who has been struggling with partial blindness since 2018 feels he has been neglected in his hour of need and has, therefore, urged well-wishers to support him as he grapples with his condition and the struggle to rediscover himself. The defender's last engagement was with Football Kenya Federation Premier League newbies, Bidco United four years ago before fate struck. The father of one said his troubles began when he developed malaria-like symptoms while visiting his brother in Thika. His situation worsened and subsequent efforts to seek quality medication were dealt a big blow by financial constraints. Imbalambala started his medication at Sabatia Eye Hospital before he was transferred to Lion’s Hospital in Nairobi. “When I spoke to the senior optician at Lion Hospital, he said there was still some hope left for me to regain my eyesight,” said Imbalambala. Following consultations, he started his medication at the Lion’s Hospital in Nairobi and should have reported back for follow-up treatment on December 1, 2020 but couldn’t make it due to lack of funds “I tried to contact those who were supporting me but they didn’t show up,” he said. Imbalambala says life has since taken an ugly twist given he now fully depends on individuals, who sometimes backtrack on their promises. He said before he was weighed down by the illness, his talent would bring him enough income to take good care of his family, his grandparents included. Despite struggling with his condition, Imbalambala says he is still far from hanging his boots and hopes to regain his sight and make it back to the playground. Previously, the Vihiga County government had agreed to rescue the ailing defender, a decision that was later overturned. Vihiga CEC for Sports Patrick Saisi disclosed they had initially come up with an initiative to rescue Imbalambala but the whole idea was foiled after politics took centre stage. “We had two alternatives, one we take him to hospital for medication, if it fails we take him to Thika School for the Blind for studies,” Saisi said. The CEC said the county wanted to create a permanent solution for Imbalambala but the idea feel through at some point.