The Kenya Forest Service has put in place elaborate measures to enhance transparency and accountability ahead of an anticipated tree harvesting. KFS Board chairman Peter Kinyua on Monday said systems have been put in place in readiness for the harvesting of 12,355 acres. "We have put systems in place that we are satisfied with. We have a multiagency team that is composed of KFS, DCI, NIS, and a board member representing experts," Kinyua said. He said all parts of the tree will be valued before allocation."Full payments must be made first. We have an IT-based system to help us," he added. Forests in the country have in recent years been depleted at an alarming rate of about 12,355 acres each year. This is estimated to lead to an annual reduction in water availability by about 62 billion litres, translating into an economic loss of more than Sh1.9 billion. Following an outcry, the government imposed a 90-day ban on logging on February 24, 2018, and later extended it to November 24. The ban was again extended for a year to facilitate sector reforms. On November 23, 2020, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko partially lifted the moratorium. Tobiko said: “Having considered the recommendations of both the board of management of the Kenya Forest Service and the multi-agency team on mapping, verification and valuation of mature and over-mature forest plantations, the government has decided that the moratorium on logging in public and community forests imposed by the government since 2018 shall continue, but varied or modified so as to allow for harvesting and disposal by KFS of mature and over-mature forest plantations for an area not exceeding 5,000 hectares.” Tobiko said the harvesting and disposal of forest plantation materials will be supervised by a multi-agency team. KFS protects 6.4 million acres of gazetted forests and another 420 million acres under counties. Forest plantations currently cover about 335,000 acres in gazetted reserves of Kenya. Most plantations are located in five major water towers: Mt Kenya, Aberdares, Mau Forest Complex, Cherangani Hills, and Mt Elgon. KFS normally plants eucalyptus trees away from water bodies as they consume a lot of water. When trees mature, the KFS carries out an audit and its plantation team marks the trees for sale to the registered saw millers who are about 800. Buyers deposit money in a National Treasury account and are issued with receipts. Millers take the receipts to forest station officers and harvest the mature trees under supervision. Tobiko said the process will be done in a manner that is open, transparent, accountable, and ensures value for money. “The details and particulars of the forest areas to be harvested and the terms and conditions applicable thereto including replanting conditions shall be published in due course,” he said. Saw millers who had cried foul saying trees worth between Sh20 billion and Sh30 billion were rotting welcomed the partial lifting. On February 26, 2018, the government formed a task force to look into the forest resources management and logging activities in Kenya. The task force handed its report on April 30, 2018. In the report, the task force noted that KFS had been unable to “stem and in some instances have directly participated in, abated and systematised rampant corruption and abuse of office.” By doing so, they had overseen wanton destruction of forests, systematically executed plunder and pillaging of water towers, and borne the responsibility of pushing the environment towards the edge of a precipice. The report identified governance, financial management issues, and illegal activities as some of the things that needed to be fixed. The task force said KFS irregularly allocates trees to certain saw millers on a regular basis. "At block 1B in Malagat, Buffalok Limited was allocated over 2,600 trees in September 2017 against 80 trees for small millers. In November, hardly two months later, Buffalok Limited was allocated again over 3,000 trees in block 13F in Makutano." The report said poor record-keeping and allocation of forest blocks in certain cases resulting in double allocation. The report showed that trees were being undervalued. It showed that a compartment 4C, some 221 trees were declared at Sh6,090 per tree for a total value of Sh1,345,890. However, the actual number was 1,400 trees valued at Sh8,526,000. This represents a loss of Sh7,180,110 as revenue for the government. In compartment 10A: 3,000 trees were declared at Sh10,017 per tree, for total value Sh30,051,000. However, the actual number was 9,475 trees valued at Sh94,911,075. This represents a loss in revenue for the government of Sh64,860,075. On Wednesday, Saw millers organising secretary John Kosgei said they have not received any information from KFS regarding reforms. "We do not know some of the conditions," he said. Kosgei urged KFS to ensure there is fairness. "We need blocks that we can manage. Nobody can afford blocks worth Sh10 million, Sh20 million, or even Sh30 million," he said.  Edited by Sarah Kanyara