The BBI proponents have asked Kenyans to build on their renewed unity and greater political consensus ahead of the referendum. In a joint statement, the proponents led by President Uhuru Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi, Kanu's Gideon Moi and Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu said this will be for the enduring benefit of the nation they all hold dear. "As we embark on the next stage in realising the First Amendment, we urge all Kenyans to build on our renewed unity and greater political consensus for the enduring benefit of the nation we all hold dear," the statement read. The proponents said BBI represents a once-in-a-generation break from the past to resolve many longstanding national challenges that hold us back from realizing a united and prosperous Kenya for all. It said, "To ensure the voice of every Kenyan is heard and to enable every one of us to exercise their civic duty, we will undertake civic education to sensitize the entire Kenyan nation on the opportunities that lie for our homeland and nation as part of this initiative". The proponents further said to this end they will hold a joint consultative meeting on March 9 involving Members of Parliament and County leadership. "As our County Representatives have shown, now is the moment for all Kenyans to put aside partisan divides and come together to build a better Kenya; for ourselves, our children, and for generations of Kenyans yet to be born," they said. The political party leaders said over the last month, Kenyans have witnessed first-hand the majesty and vibrancy of the constitutional democracy. According to them, the Building Bridges Initiative Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill was transmitted by the IEBC to all our nation’s 47 County Assemblies setting the stage for the First Amendment. "Thus far,  42 County Assemblies have considered the Bill. Their affirming voice has thundered across the Republic, in resonance with the desire of all Kenyans to further strengthen our governance by breaking the cycle of divisive elections, fostering equitable distribution of resources by enhancing the share of revenues to County Governments, and creating a more robust and responsive framework to secure opportunities for all Kenyans including our micro, small and medium enterprises," they said. The proponents while conveying their immense gratitude to all County Assemblies for their monumental support for the Popular Initiative said their bold action sets the foundation upon which Kenya shall advance inter-generational equity, realize gender parity, guarantee equal opportunities for all, and give each Kenyan a bigger slice of our shared prosperity. So far only Baringo and Nandi counties voted to reject the BBI referendum bill. At least 24 counties were required to pass the bill to the next level. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said at least 30 county assemblies have submitted reports of how they voted on the BBI bill to Parliament. Muturi said three county assemblies did not meet the requirements for submission of the draft bill. He said whereas Baringo, which rejected the bill presented the certificate of rejection, the county assembly did not provide the copy of the draft bill. The same was the case of Kwale and Nyamira, the latter presenting a bill which had clauses variant to the bill submitted by the IEBC to the county assembly. Muturi said 14 counties are yet to deliver the draft bill with the certificate of approval of the same.