Reigning All Africa Games 5,000m champion Robert Kiprop and newcomer Daisy Cherotich braved the scorching sun to win the 30th edition of Discovery Kenya Cross Country Championships yesterday at the Eldoret Sports Club. Kiprop and Cherotich beat a host of  top runners to win the  senior men's 10k and women races respectively. Coming from Elgeyo Marakwet County, Kiprop admitted that he was not sure of victory especially with the presence of  world 10km record holder, Rodgers Kwemoi and Africa cross country junior champion Nicholas Kimeli. Kiprop stuck with the leading pack  for long before breaking away with 2km to go. He clocked 30:17.8 to relegate defending champion Kimeli and Kwemoi to second  and third places in 30:20.8 and 30:25.3 respectively. “This was the hardest race I have ever competed. Competitors in today's race know each other very well and beating them wasn't an easy task,” said Kiprop. Kiprop said the Sunday race was part of his build-up for the Africa Cross Country Championships in Lome, Togo in May. “Today's race is my only title and I am hoping to get more as the date for Africa show draws nearer,” added Kiprop. It was Cherotich's maiden win since venturing into athletics five years ago. Like Kiprop, the shy Cherotich revealed that victory was never on her mind. "With the likes of former Barcelona Marathon champion Valary Aiyabei, former Africa 1,500m junior champion Eva Cherono and Lilian Kasait in the pack, victory was the last thing I could think of," she added. Cherotich noted: “This winis worth celebration. I looked at the starting line-up and I was discouraged but after 8km mark, I stepped forward and that paid-off well." She won the title in 33:53.6 ahead of Cherono (34:01.9) and Eunice Chebichii (34:15.7).  Africa Junior 3,000m champion Gideon Rono won the junior men's 8km while  Marion Jepchumba dominated the women's race. The duo said they are target to make the team to the Africa Cross Country Championships. Selected results 10km senior women 10km senior men 6km junior women 8km junior men