Two women and their male friend linked to the killing of their schoolmate at Egerton University virtually appeared before a Nakuru court on Monday. Through a miscellaneous application, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations sought to detain Diana Njeri, Eric Maingi and Tamar Wambora for 14 days as they conclude investigations into the murder of Eunice Muthoni, 22, a fourth year student at the university. Muthoni’s body was found at River Subuku in Njoro sub-county on December 7 last year after an altercation with her two close lady friends over an alleged love-triangle. Investigations by the Homicide Investigations Unit of the DCI showed the two friends called Muthoni moments after the confrontation and asked her to meet them to settle the matter. Police say that was the last time she was seen alive. The three, Njeri, her husband, Maingi and their friend Wambora are being held in different police stations in Nakuru and appeared before Principal Magistrate, Lilian Arika through Zoom. After listening to submissions from the police and the defence lawyers, Arika said she needed time to write a ruling on the miscellaneous application. “Considering the serious nature of the offence to be preferred against the suspects, I have to take time to make my decision,” said the magistrate. The detectives said the three hold crucial information into the murder of their friend and were likely to tamper with the witnesses if set free. “There is a very high likelihood that the trio might tamper with investigations if they are released by the court,” said the prosecution. The investigating Officer said the probe covers a wide area because some of the potential witnesses have relocated to other counties. “We intend to hold the suspects to assist in the recovery of more exhibits and also arrest other key suspects," he said. The IO told the court that police want to conduct an identification parade and collect DNA samples for forensic analysis. H said the suspects were also expected to undergo mental assessment before taking plea. A post-mortem conducted by Dr. Wangari Wambugu at the Egerton University Funeral Home on December 10, 2020 showed that Muthoni was strangled. Arika will deliver a ruling this Thursday.