The Lamu port will deliver a new transport corridor for Kenya and the region, says the newly appointed Lamu Port–South Sudan-Ethiopia Transport Corridor (LAPSSET) boss. Maina Kiondo who took over as the LAPSSET Corridor Development Authority (LCDA) in January said making the port operational tops his priority. "Priority is the construction of the Isiolo-Garissa-Lamu road for evacuation of cargo from Lamu Port and equipping berth one,” Kiondo told the Star in a telephone interview. He is also focused on security, logistics, customs and clearance and  marketing  of the port this year. Currently, Kiondo is overseeing conclusion of land acquisition activities along the LAPSSET Corridor, paving way for actual developments. The land acquisition process for the 824km stretch and 500 metre wide corridor includes inspection, survey, valuation, public inquires and awards. "So far, 92 per cent of the LAPSSET Corridor has been inspected, surveyed and valued," Kiondo said. The government has invested in the first three berths, to the tune of Sh71.2 billion, as it seeks public–private partnership (PPPs) and foreign investors for completion of the remaining 29 berths. China Communication Construction Company (CCCC) is the current contractor on site, where the three berths are complete, with two container terminals along the berths currently at about 87 per cent complete. The first berth's container terminal is 100 per cent complete, Kiondo said. Weeks after taking over office, Kiondo has started making strides in resource mobilisation and private sector investment, where he says LAPSSET projects are prioritised for PPP. He is expected to meet all LAPSSET implementing agencies' CEOs at KPA on Friday. The latest developments come as Kenya Ports Authority (KPA) pushes for manufacturing and delivering of equipment for the country's second major sea port, after the Port of Mombasa. The process has however been derailed by the Covid-19 pandemic. The equipment being sourced mainly from international markets (manufacturers) include Rubber-Tyred Gantry cranes (RTGs), terminal tractors, forklifts and  reach stackers(for container handling) and pilot boats, tag boats and mooring equipment( for handling of vessels). World's largest container shipping company―Maersk has already shown interest at docking at Lamu, with its operations expected to connect Lamu to over 300 ports globally, a major boost to trade in the country and the entire region. Mærsk moves at least 12 million containers every year, delivering to every corner of the globe. As an incentive to attract industry players to the new facility, KPA has extended a 30-day free storage period for transhipment and transit cargo coming through Lamu, 14 days free storage for domestic cargo, and a 40 per cent discount for cargo-based charges as per the KPA tariff. The new corridor running from Lamu into Ethiopia and South Sudan will be the second major transport and transit corridor in the country, after the Northern Corridor, which is a multi-modal trade route linking the landlocked countries of the Great Lakes Region with the port of Mombasa. The Northern Corridor facilitates interstate and transit trade, between Kenya Burundi, Democratic Republic of Congo, Rwanda,Uganda and South Sudan. The Sh2.5 trillion LAPSSET project was launched during former President Mwai Kibaki's tenure, which includes a 32 berths port at Manda Bay, Standard Gauge Railway line and a highway connecting the three countries(Kenya, Ethiopia and South Sudan), The project will also see the construction of an oil refinery, three airports including the expansion of Manda airstrip in Lamu and construction of resort cities in Lamu, Isiolo and Lake Turkana shores. The authority and KPA plans to promote Lamu as a transshipment port. Kiondo brings to the authority a vast experience spanning more than 33 years, having worked his way up within the civil service. Until his recent appointment to the helm of LCDA, he served as the director of the Northern Corridor Development at the Ministry of East African Community and Regional Development. He becomes the second CEO of the authority since its inception in March 2013. Kiondo has commended the work done by his predecessor, including the completion of the first three berths of Lamu Port, completion of the Isiolo Airport, works on the Isiolo-Moyale road and Moyale One Stop Border Post among other projects. The project management expert is expected to deliver on the national strategic projects within the LAPSSET Corridor.