The Talai and Kipsigis communities have demanded back their land grabbed by British colonialists to create tea plantations in the Rift Valley. British lawyer Rodney Dixon assured the victims that he will handle their case and soon they will have something to smile about. At least 100,000 displaced members of the two communities have more 55 years since Kenya independence seeking to have the grabbed land returned. Last Friday, Rodney Dixon, a queen's counsel, said the matter will be dealt with at the United Nations where incriminating evidence against Britain had been given to allow the legal process go through. “As we stand here today (Friday) we are satisfied with the evidence given by descendants of the two communities on how they were tortured, maimed, raped and their houses  torched before being taken to  to South Nyanza (Gwasi) by the British colonial government,” Rodney said. Rodney also represented the government of Kenya in its actions against the ICC’s attempts to prosecute President Uhuru Kenyatta for crimes perpetrated in the run up to the 2007 election. Rodney, who is working closely with United Nations rapporteur, said no single country in modern world can refuse to acknowledge the facts on Talai and Kipsigis since the atrocities against them are known worldwide. Rodney was accompanied by Governor Prof Paul Chepkwony and lawyer Kimutai Bosek. Through their representatives Dickson Sitienei, who is Talai clan patron, and Evaline Ruto, the representative of women welfare, the villagers told of the tribulations their ancestors went through as land was grabbed to create room for the multinational tea companies in Bomet and Kericho counties. “Our forefathers were taken to Gwasi in South Nyanza after forceful eviction from their land in the two counties so as to create room for multinational tea companies,” Sitienei said. Siteinei regretted the lack of political goodwill from Kalenjin politicians who came to power immediately after independence over their failure to pursue the matter on behalf of the Talai and Kipsigis communities. He said its during the devolved system of the government, through Kericho Governor Prof Paul Chepkwony, when the tribulations of the two communities came into the limelight before the international community. “We are now crying for justice that the land that once belonged to our forefathers reverts back to their descendants,” Sitienei said. Sitienei and Evaline Ruto told the Kipsigis community to think of electing Kericho Governor Prof Paul as senator in 2022 so that he could effectively pursue the legal matters on behalf the Talai and the Kipsigis communities. As senator, Governor Chepkwony will be better placed to accomplish what he started for the Talai and Kipsigis communities at the senate, Evaline said. Chepkwony is on his last lap as governor after completing two five continuous terms in office.