Police in Mombasa are looking for a group of bodaboda riders who attacked and robbed a motorist of his Sh500,000 after he was involved in a minor accident with one of them. The motorist had been involved in a minor accident with one of the bodaboda riders within Nyali area and after he agreed to pay the victim of Sh5,000 as a settlement over the incident a gang of other riders arrived. He went to his bag to get the money and the riders saw the Sh500,000 he had which they grabbed and fought over before they rode off to an unknown destination. Police say the riders were five in number and efforts to track them are ongoing. Detectives from the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) are pursuing the suspects and want anyone with information on their whereabouts to inform them. DCI boss George Kinoti said they are using technology to track down the suspects. “Motorists are advised to avoid falling prey to such antics and report to police officers whenever a road accident happens since some of the would-be victims may turn out to be criminals,” said Kinoti. This comes a week after Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai said they are mapping out places where one is likely to be attacked by the gangs. This follows increasing incidents where the riders are attacking motorists involved in accidents. Mutyambai vowed to crack down on bodaboda riders taking the law in their hands and added they had received numerous complaints where bodaboda riders had assaulted civilians and in some cases, burnt their vehicles. "It is against this backdrop that I caution all bodaboda riders and operators against the uncouth and uncivilised manner of addressing issues," said part of a statement from the IG. He said the riders should adhere to all set traffic regulations, all laws of public order and decency, failure to which, they would be dealt with in accordance with the law. He asked those involved in accidents to report to the police should they be involved in an accident or any incident in the future. "All police officers have been directed to be on the lookout to take the necessary lawful action against any bodaboda rider found to be taking the law into their own hands." Mutyambai acknowledged that the bodaboda sector plays a big role in the Kenyan economy as a source of employment and livelihood for many people. "The operators and riders must therefore closely partner with the police to make this important safe, secure and orderly. The riders have been marked as part of a threat to the national security in the country. They were ordered to form Saccos as part of efforts to contain the menace.