Hard-tackling Tusker holding midfielder and captain Hashim Sempala has challenged his teammates to seize the moment and claim the Football Kenya Federation Shield Cup to enrich their chances of returning to continental football. The 2016 champions were drawn against minnows Mihuu United in the round of 64 which is set to get underway next weekend across different venues. The brewers mysteriously skipped last season’s campaign which was aborted halfway due to coronavirus pandemic. However, Sempala says the club returns to the tournament hungrier for the title which guarantees the winner a ticket to the continental’ inter-club second tier competition. The Ugandan midfielder who was part of the Tusker’s squad that toasted the cup in 2016 has cautioned his teammates against underrating the little known Mihuu whom he says will come into the match with an ambition of killing a football giant. “Shield Cup opponents are very unpredictable and we will approach Mihuu with the seriousness they deserve. This is the surest path for us to return to the continental matches and it is upon us as the players to take the opportunity or squander it. The players are hungrier to win a title this season and we will put our best feet forward to ensure the Cup is in our cabinet at the end of the day,” he said. With Tusker firing from all cylinders in the league, Sempala dispelled suggestions that their participation in the cup will reduce their chances of winning the league. “We have a big squad and this will be an opportunity for the players who have seen minimal playing time to play. The team is ambitious enough and the cup will not in any way disrupt our surge to the 12th league title,” he added. During the draw, three-time champions Sofapaka were pooled with Kitale All Stars while the 2017 champions AFC Leopards face Taita Taveta All Stars. Holders Bandari will launch their bid to retain the cup against National Super League side Murang’a Seal while former champions Kariobangi Sharks will take on Flamingo. High-spending top flight side Wazito in the meantime joined the list of top flight clubs who have been giving the competition a wide berth.  Full draw KSG Ogopa vs Dimba Patriots(DIv 2) Marafiki (Nyeri) vs JKUAT Taita Taveta All Stars (Wundanyi) vs AFC Leopards Alphonse vs Administration Police Flamingo (Naivasha) vs Kariobangi Sharks Uprising FC vs Progressive FC(Malindi) NYSA (Nakuru) vs Machakos United FC Shells (Malindi) vs Fortune Sacco Mutomo Tigers vs Nairobi City Stars Tangaza FC vs MCF Rware (Nyeri) vs Posta Rangers Murang’a Seal vs Bandari Congo Boys (Mombasa Div 1)vs Gor Mahia Kajiado North vs Nkanas (Namanga) Mwatate United vs Twrford (Kajiado) Bungoma Superstars vs Zetech Titans Elim (Kitale) vs Ulinzi Stars Sigalagala TTI vs Dero FC MUST vs Bidco United Kiandege (Nyamira) vs KCB Twomoc (Nakuru) vs Naivas FC Luanda Villa vs GDC (Nakuru) Black Diamond Rangers vs Sindo United Vihiga Sportive vs Nation FC Mobare vs Egerton FC Fussball Nax vs Mara Sugar Mihuu United vs Tusker Vegpro vs Sa Assad Transfoc vs Migori Youth Nyabururu Sportive vs Keroka TTI Blessings VS Equity FC Kitale All Stars vs Sofapaka               