An MP allied to Deputy President William Ruto (pictured) has surprised his Mt Kenya backyard with his sharp tongue. The man has been delivering punches to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s side in a manner that most of the DP’s foot soldiers cannot. It's said Ruto himself has given his sign of approval to the man who is ever in his political entourage. There is now a silent push from within Tangatanga to declare the first-term MP the undisputed Tangatanga spokesman from the region. The discussion has however caused discomfort among political veterans who believe they could be bypassed. A prominent politician who was at the centre of a major political machine in the 2017 polls is set to resign. Sources whisper to Corridors that the youthful politico with the gift of the gab has thrown in the towel and is now working with one of the presidential candidates from Western Kenya. He was initially thought to have moved to a party dominant mostly in Eastern but that is not the case. Attempts by his former party to get him back are said to have backfired. A donor-funded water project in a county in Western Kenya has stalled after an officer took a kickback of close to Sh800,000 to buy biscuits and snacks for the launch and commissioning of the project. Sources tell Corridors that the donor has now refused to facilitate the remaining budget until the officer — who recently applied for a chief officer’s position in the county—refunds the money. Officials indicate the donors had allocated only Sh70,000 for the brief function. Maybe Mahatma Gandhi was right when he said the earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s needs, but not every man’s greed. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tour of his Mt Kenya region has left some MPs in a dilemma. Which camp will guarantee them an easy victory in 2022?  After Uhuru’s passionate speech that appears to have turned the BBI tide, a female lawmaker who had been planning to jump ship from the President’s camp openly admitted she is confused. She told her advisers that maybe it’s time to adopt a wait-and-see strategy as Uhuru may decide to go on a door-to-door campaign against the Tangatanga brigade.