Three counties from Lower Eastern have pledged to unanimously endorse the Constitution Amendment Bill 2020 when the matter comes up for debate at respective assemblies. The leadership of Kitui, Machakos and Makueni county assemblies said they will support the Building Bridges Initiative Bill because of the benefits that accrue from it. They cited the need to devolve more resources to the grassroots as one of the reasons for their support of the document. “Once passed, we will move to popularise the BBI to the entire populace of the Lower Eastern region and the entire country,” they said in a statement on Saturday following a two-day retreat at Stoni Athi Resort in Machakos County. Secretary-General, Judith Achieng Sijeny said the leaders pointed out that the proposed constitutional reforms originate from the views of citizens expressed through the BBI. The Bill Bill requires the approval of 24 counties for it to be presented to both Houses of Parliament for consideration and thereafter be subjected to a national referendum. The number of County Assemblies that have passed the Bill currently stands at 11. The Bill has been approved in Nairobi, Vihiga, Laikipia, Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Busia, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia, Kajiado and Kisii. So far only Baringo County Assembly has voted to oppose the Bill. Three ward representatives however moved to court seeking orders to stop Speaker David Kerich from certifying the results of the chaotic February 11 sittings. On Friday, Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju asked nominated MCAs from Deputy President William Ruto’s backyard in Uasin Gishu to approve the Bill or face punishment. The party met the nominated MCAs at the party headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi. The MCAs were warned that they risk punishment if they vote against the Bill. Ruto has been insisting that Kenya had other challenges that need to be addressed and not constitution reforms. In Nairobi County Assembly, 114 MCAs voted in favour of the report in a unanimous vote, with many saying the county stood to reap big from benefits contained in the report. In Laikipia County Assembly, all the 24 members who were present in the chambers voted in favour of the report.