The formation of an alliance by ANC, Wiper, Kanu and Ford Kenya leaders is premature, nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi has said. He said Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) are national leaders who should focus their energies on pushing for the passing of the BBI bill. The four have promised a new dawn for Kenya and declared they want to bring the  much-needed change in the country’s governance. Mudavadi, Wetang’ula, Kalonzo, Gideon also promised to inject 'hygiene' in Kenyans politics by promoting issue-based politics as opposed to hurling insults at each other. But on Thursday, Osotsi said the formation of alliances will come with divisions and interests that will deal the BBI push a blow. He said the BBI is facing serious challenges from those opposed to its passage “and we risk losing the plot to achieving the main objective of the BBI, which is an expanded executive”. He said the passage of the BBI would provide fertile ground for the four to negotiate for power as opposed to the current situation where there are only two positions. “If they did the alliance for purposes of the by-elections it would be okay. Let us leave the formation of the 2022 alliances for the right time and first push the BBI because it is important for Kenya," Osotsi said. The BBI seems to be facing threats from MCAs who are making “unrealistic demands’ before passing it in their respective assemblies. So far, seven out of the 47 county assemblies have passed the bill. Only Baringo has rejected it. Western counties' MCAs have demanded that they be given Sh500,000 each on top of the car grant announced by President Uhuru Kenyatta before they pass the bill. Mudavadi, Wetang’ula, Kalonzo, Gideon spent the weekend in Western, where they campaigned for the Ford Kenya candidate in the Kabuchai by-election, Kalasinga Majimbo and ANC’s Matungu candidate Peter Nabulindo. The Matungu and Kabuchai by-elections were occasioned by the deaths of MPs Justus Murunga and James Lusweti last year. The by-elections are scheduled for March 4. Wetang’ula, Mudavadi and Kalonzo asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to back one of them for the 2022 succession race, saying they had supported him for close to three decades. Raila recently declared he will not discuss 2022 politics until the BBI process is over. 