Kwale traditional healers are pushing for recognition by the national government. They say the government has neglected and underrated them yet they have been playing a crucial role in the health sector before the introduction of modern medicine. Coast regional coordinator of herbalists Japhet Wande said it is time for the state to regulate the traditional healing sector. “Our existence should be appreciated and we want to be allowed to freely advertise in the media and public spaces because we are experts in handling health matters that are beyond science‚” Wande said. He said they are different from sorcerers because they are known to cause doom but with them, they provide cure through herbs. Working under the cloud of darkness has increased the misconception about witch doctors and traditional healers that they are evil people. Kwale region has over 1,600 traditional doctors. They  have been locally registered under the umbrella of the Traditional Medicine, Food Nutrition Supplement and Practitioners Association Board. They pay Sh2, 500 fees annually to the government for the renewal of their certificates of service. They also pay for permits from the county government. “We are also taxpayers and we deserve better,” Wande said. The senior herbalist said they should be offered fully-fledged offices and research centres, where they can easily carry out their work and undertake research. Wande said traditional medicine could be of great help while researching strange ailments. “Our work and treatments have helped many people get better and we have no doubt we can positively change the health sector if given an opportunity,” he said. In the time of disease outbreak, Wande said, traditional doctors should be allowed to respond first because modern medical research takes quite long. “There are so many diseases like Chickenpox and Malaria that our great grandfathers overcame without taking any samples to the labs,” he said. Wande said they have been receiving referrals after patients who fail to recover in hospitals. Kwale chairman of traditional doctors Mwakusema Hamisi said he has several times treated people from snake bites, children with epilepsy and other ailments. He said such great skills can help save lives, therefore, the government should come up with laws that will recognize and register them under one board, and regulate the sector. “We want to work in a conducive regulated environment that is free from harassment by the members of the public who oppose traditional treatment,”  Hamisi said. He said by being registered under one national board will help separate the genuine witchdoctors and herbalists from the fake ones. He added traditional medicine should be preserved because it’s a cultural heritage. Mwereni senior warden of herbalists Halima Mwakajo said some imposters ruin the reputation of the traditional medicine, therefore they must be ousted from the sector.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris