by WANGECHI WANG'ONDU Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru on Thursday launched two markets along the upcoming Kenol-Sagana- Marua dual carriage. The two market—Kibingoti and Sagana—target the residents as well as travellers along the busy highway who stop over to purchase agricultural produce such as rice, vegetables, sweet potatoes and arrowroots among others. Information from the County’s Department of Trade indicates that the two markets receive about 2,000 buyers daily. While launching the markets, Waiguru said they were in fulfilment of her campaign pledges to the area traders. She said each of the two markets now have the capacity to accommodate about 500 traders, an increase from 100 traders that could be accommodated before. The markets are connected with electricity and have modern sanitation facilities. Sagana and Kibingoti bring to 11, the number of markets that Waiguru’s administration has built in the last three years. Others are Makutano, Wang’uru, Kutus, Kerugoya, Kianyaga, Kagumo, Kiamutugu, Kagio Fresh Produce market and Kagio Clothes Market. The governor said the markets provide a conducive environment for traders to transact their business while farmers have a place to sell their produce, adding that this year, the county government is putting up more markets. Sagana Market Chairman Benson Wanjohi said the new market sheds came as a relief to traders who for a long time had to wear gumboots whenever it rained since the market area was impassable. The new market is now paved with cabro. “Even our customers are happy and we expect business to improve as the market will now attract more customers,” he said. Upon the request by Sagana traders, the governor directed the Department of Works to designate one street within the central business area of the town where traders can sell their wares in the evenings. The governor also promised to build sheds for boda boda operators in Kibingoti and Sagana as a personal gift to them. Apart from the markets, Waiguru said, the residents will benefit from the upcoming dual carriage way whereby all roads within Kibingoti and Sagana towns will be tarmacked. She added that 30 per cent of jobs in the project have been reserved for locals while a post-crash trauma center will be constructed at Sagana Sub-county Hospital to cater for victims of accidents along the highway. The County Assembly Leader of Majority Kamau Murango lauded the governor for delivering on her election pledges saying she deserved to be re-elected when the time comes.  He said that unity between the Assembly and the Executive will ensure that more development is achieved for the benefit of residents. The 84km dual carriage, which is being constructed by the Kenya National Highways Authority(KeNHA) passes through Murang’a, Kirinyaga and Nyeri counties and forms part of the 80km Great North Road that runs from Mombasa through Nairobi to Moyale. The highway is expected to bring with it many investment opportunities for the local community and open the area for business, with Sagana and Kibingoti among other towns along the highway being major beneficiaries. At the same time, Waiguru appealed to the residents to vote for BBI saying it will bring immense benefits for people in the region. She said the proposed amendments will increase the county’s revenue allocation from the current Sh4.8 billion to Sh8 billion which will enable the county to realise enormous development and reduce dependency on the national government. Edited by Sarah Kanyara