Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho on Sunday met Mombasa political leaders to strategise on countering  Deputy President William Ruto’s negative messages about the BBI. It seemed like an emergency session; invitations were only sent out the day before. The Star learnt, however, the meeting was planned earlier but not announced so the press would not get wind of it. Still, countering Ruto's questions about BBI was dominant. Go all out to simplify and sweeten BBI to the average citizen - that was the message of the Sunday meeting that lasted until 2.30. Carpet-bomb Mombasa with the message that BBI is wonderful for the mwananchi and will make their lives vastly better. The meeting at Bahari Beach Hotel was attended by at least four Mombasa MPs, 30 MCAs and all the subcounty and ward administrators. MPs included Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Omar Mwinyi (Changamwe), Ali Mbogo (Kisauni) and Woman Representative Asha Hussein. Joho is determined to lock Ruto out of Mombasa and the Coast region, where he has already made inroads. After the meeting, Joho said it was about unity of the Coast people. “There are those who believe that Mombasa county, Kilifi and other counties at the Coast are swing votes. Let them be aware that we have planned ourselves and are ready,”  Joho said. He said charity begins at home and he is seeking to unite the people in Mombasa before extending beyond its borders. “I am sure my brothers in Kilifi and elsewhere are also meeting so when we come out as a region we will speak with one voice,” Joho said. In the meeting, Joho is said to have instructed MPs and MCAs to simplify and sweeten the BBI message so residents can easily understand it Ruto’s latest tour of the Coast is the fifth in almost a year, signifying the importance of the region to the political mathematics of the national political scene. Invitations to MCAs was sent on Saturday by Mombasa assembly Majority Chief Whip Junior Wambua. “Dear Hon member, HE Governor invites you for a meeting at Bahari Beach Resort tomorrow 07-02-2021 at9am,” the invitation read. On Friday and Saturday during his Coast tour, Ruto said BBI proponents are not sincere and have not truthfully explained the document to the people. He had called for consensus on BBI and reopening it for discussion - which was rejected. The Ruto camp has alleged the government is trying to bribe M CAs with Sh2 million car grants each - not in BBI- to approve BBI in the assemblies. However, the issue of car grants is up to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, which has said lawmakers are already too numerous and overpaid. However, MCAs in Mombasa rubbished the reports, saying Ruto and his MPs are afraid the BBI will bring much-needed funds closer to MCAs and the grassroots people. They said Ruto's MPs oppose this. “They do not want MCAs to have their own kitty so that they can easily manipulate them,” an MCA who requested anonymity said. The BBI, the elected MCA said, will establish a kitty that MCAs will be able to use to further development in the wards. “Right now, some selfish governors and MPs only want the MCAs to be knocking on their doors like beggars so that they can control them,” the MCA said. Another elected MCA told the Star they discussed unity and the benefits of BBI to citizens, so they can better package the message to voters. “BBI will follow the due process that all bills follow at the plenary,” another MCA said. The meeting was still underway in the afternoon. On Friday, the DP said he is being unfairly accused of opposing the BBI. He said instead of pointing fingers at him, the BBI proponents should give answers to question that Kenyans are asking about the BBI. “Don’t blame me for the problems of BBI. These citizens do not have copies of the BBI. They have no information because they have not read the document,” Ruto said. He said the document should be availed to all Kenyans for them to read and understand so that they can make informed choices. “What Kenyans are against is being told to follow a path yet they have the ability to read, understand and make their own choice on which path to follow,” the DP said. He said Kenyans want to know why the Constitution is being amended, for what purpose and who will benefit. He said the 35 per cent of the national revenue that will trickle down to counties as proposed in the BBI could be allocated now. “The Constitution as it is allows 35 per cent to be devolved. It says the minimum is 15 per cent. That means what can be devolved may be 50 per cent or even 100 per cent,” Ruto said. He said the BBI proponents are lying to Kenyans. saying the 15 per cent currently being devolved has challenges that have led to the national government owing counties more than Sh100 billion. “Where will the 35 per cent come from if 15 per cent cannot be devolved properly? That is what Kenyans want answers to,” the Deputy President said. He said 200 more MPs as proposed in the BBI will only burden the taxpayers further. “Of these there will be almost 140 friends of the high and mighty who will be nominated to Parliament. How will these 200 more MPs help the common mwananchi? “I have not said I oppose the BBI. I am saying come and answer questions that the citizens have,” Ruto emphasised. Ruto allies including Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, Malindi’s Aisha Jumwa and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar alleged MCAs across the country have been promised Sh2 million each in car grants 'to betray Kenyans'. “Instead of giving Sh2 million to the MCAs if the BBI is good for the people, why don’t you give the money to the people directly instead because they need it?" Ali asked. The Nyali MP said the time has come for MCAs to stand up with ordinary Kenyans who are closer to them. However, Mombasa MCAs dismissed Ali as selfish and a liar. “That is nonsense. They [Ruto and his allies] are fighting MCAs for no reason. MPs get Sh7 million car grants,Sh40 million mortgages and Sh265,000 house allowance monthly. “What happens in the National Assembly should be duplicated at the county assemblies because we are all state officers. We are demanding what is our right -  not a bribe,” an MCA who requested anonymity said (Edited by V. Graham)