A Form 3 student was Wednesday arraigned in Gichugu where he was charged with assaulting teachers and destroying school property. The student pleaded not guilty and was granted Sh8,000 bail or an alternative bond of Sh20,000. He is a learner at Rwambiti Secondary School in Gichugu, Kirinyaga county. The accused was however locked up at the Kianyaga police station after the court directed police to conduct an age assessment on him and submit the report on February 5 when the case will be heard. Gichugu subcounty police commander Antony Mbogo said the accused was arrested after the school administration sought help from the police. Mbogo said the student had refused to be frisked during a parade and instead went wild and started breaking window panes and beating up teachers who eventually caught him hiding a mobile phone. The police boss said they suspect the student was also under the influence of bhang. “Our officers discovered that the student had bandaged some septic wounds which he was nursing on both biceps and upon interrogation, he accepted to have been using hard drugs,” Mbogo said. Elsewhere, five students from Karumande Boys in Gichugu were on Wednesday arrested after they were suspected to have been involved in burning a dormitory. Mbogo said nothing was salvaged from the dormitory that houses 82 students during the 4am fire incident. This is the third arson case to be reported in Kirinyaga schools after two dormitories were torched at Karia Boys within a span of two weeks. The latest incident happened on Sunday. Mbogo asked teachers to be on the look-out while at the same time take great caution in the wake of school unrest. “Students have registered massive behavioural change, probably occasioned by the many things they experienced during the nine-month holiday. I want to advise teachers to be extra careful while dealing with the students,” Mbogo said. He also challenged parents to watch over their children’s behaviour as they have the greatest role to play in instilling discipline in their young ones.