Asharami Synergy Limited Kenya (‘Asharami Synergy'), a Sahara Group Oil and Marketing Company in Kenya has said it is committed to promoting gender parity initiatives in the nation, especially around encouraging more girls to seek careers in science. The Country Manager, Asharami Synergy, Debola Adesanya said getting more African youths involved in science remained one of the continent’s “surest platforms to achieving accelerated growth and development.” “Science is at the foundation of what Africa needs to take advantage of the huge potential it has in its robust youth population and abundant resources,” Debola said. He added that “Asharami Synergy is delighted to take this all-important step of creating awareness and supporting initiatives that will give more Kenyan boys and girls access into the world of science.” In commemoration of the day, Asharami Synergy took its awareness campaign to the Alliance Girls High School in Kenya. Speaking during a session with the students, Jecinta Ndugire, Trader at Asharami Synergy Limited said the company was delighted at the commitment of the teaching staff and the interest of the girls in exploring the world of science. “It was heartwarming to see the girls exuding so much joy and confidence in their career paths as future scientists and Asharami Synergy will continue to promote more involvement of Kenyan boys and girls in science,” she said. Alliance Girls Principal Virginia Gitonga said the institution had continued to witness more interest from the girls and would continue to support their dreams of becoming great scientists from Africa. “We are grateful to Asharami Synergy for spearheading this initiative of promoting more participation of girls in science. With the support of Asharami Synergy and more stakeholders, the future definitely looks bright for Kenyan youths.” The students who received corporate souvenirs from Asharami Synergy said they were delighted with the choices they had made and looked forward to becoming inventors and renowned scientists with global acclaim. Branice Kazira Otiende said, “The beauty of science is that it unites people despite their race, religion, and ethnicity as they come together to solve problems facing our society. A great example is a Covid-19 pandemic. That’s why is important to encourage young people especially girls to embrace science by rising against the social stereotypes.” Lilan Michelle who derives her inspiration from Thomas Edison said, “Millions of women have impacted so many lives through their inventions and innovations, this means that women are very much capable of soaring to greater heights in terms of science. Thus, girls our future in science starts today.” According to the African Development Bank, less than 25 per cent of African higher education students are in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) fields, with the majority of students studying social sciences and humanities. It has led to a dearth in the domestic STEM workforce and consequently, the outsourcing of STEM jobs in Africa to other countries, including the U.S., China, and India. Annually, February 11 is set aside for celebrating the achievement and encouraging the participation of women and girls in science. The day is also used to create awareness and dispel stereotypes that hinder and discourage girls from seeking STEM careers.