The dwindling standards of hockey in Kenya is a cause for concern for the sports fraternity. In the 1970s and 80s, the country was up there with the likes of India and Pakistan and even played in three Olympic tournaments — 1972, 1984 and 1988.  However, since then, Kenya have lost their footing and 33 years down the line, have not attended the quadrennial global event. Greensharks captain Victor Osiche links Kenya's struggles to failure to adapt to modern dynamics of hockey. The Kenyan international says European hockey is now more tactical hence there's need for Kenya to adjust to fit into the new system. "We have not followed new things to suit the changing times. The likes of Ghana are a force to reckon with because they have modified their game. Today's game is more strategic and skill is no longer an element for consideration. An average player can listen to instructions and absorb but the more gifted one will grapple," Osiche says. He recalls Kenya's 2020 Olympics qualifier match against Ghana in 2019 when the former's tactical ineptitude proved fatal. "India was shining back then because skills was a necessity. We were leading 2-1 against Ghana in the 2019 Olympic qualifiers but lost the game with eight minutes to play because players failed on the tactical aspect. We couldn't keep the ball and our game management was poor," he says. National women's coach Jacquiline Mwangi observes that Kenyan coaches need to be educated on new ways of coaching whereas talent should be tapped from the grassroots. "Kenya is endowed with a lot of talent. A thorough follow-up on these players from primary school to university and bringing them through the national team ranks is crucial. Coaches should also be enlightened on the contemporary ways of coaching," she says. Police striker Titus Kimutai believes the government's minimal support in hockey is demotivating and the player's change of priorities is worrying. The striker scored eight goals in an injury-ravaged 2019 season. "There is very little aid from the government while players cover their training expenses. The hustle comes first. There's job commitment on players expected to carry the team," he says.