A Kibera  court has sentenced a man who stabbed his ex–girlfriend multiple times to 10 years in jail. Robert Ogede was convicted by Kibera chief magistrate Joyce Gandani after the prosecution proved the case against him. Court prosecutor Musyoka had called several witnesses who testified. Ogede was charged that on December 29, 2018, at Kabiria in Riruta, Nairobi, he caused grievous harm to Jackline Mutinda by stabbing her with a kitchen knife several times. Mutinda survived the assault and was treated at a city hospital. Testifying in court, Mutinda said the accused person attacked her while she was in her house. “I was in my house with my boyfriend who is the accused person and I wanted to leave to work when he asked me what was  my plan in life,” she told the court. She said she told the accused that she no longer loved him. “I told him the relationship between me and him was over and I had moved on. To my surprise, he took a kitchen knife from his pocket and stabbed me severally on my face, breasts, chest and hands,” she told the court. She screamed for help and neighbours rushed to her rescue. “I cried in pain. The accused person had closed the door from inside. I pushed him aside and opened the door and ran out,” she added. “I fell down moments after getting out of the door and became conscious as I had bled a lot.” Benjamin Kimeli, the investigating officer, told the court that he received a call  to rush to Kabiria to attend to a fight involving a couple. “When I entered the house I found blood stains on the door and on the walls. We checked and managed to find a kitchen knife which we believed was used to attack the complainant,” he told the court. The woman was allowed to record a statement after she was discharged from the hospital. Other witnesses who testified included doctors and police officers. The accused person denied the charges. But in her ruling, Gandani said permanent injuries were inflicted to the complainant and she had considered the accused's mitigation. “I have considered your mitigation and the duration you have been in prison as you failed to pay your bond terms among other mitigations, but this offence requires a serious punishment. You will, therefore, serve 10 years in jail,”  Gandani said. Ogede has 14 days to appeal.