Garissa residents have called for the splitting of Ijara constituency as a way of honouring Senator Yussuf Haji who died on Monday morning. Haji chaired the BBI taskforce that has recommended the creation of 70 additional constituencies in 20 counties. He had been flown to Turkey for treatment last year before he returned to the country recently. Abdullahi Aden, a taxi driver said Haji's death has robbed them of a true leader who was at the forefront in uniting communities in the region. “We will surely miss his words of wisdom which mostly revolved around messages of peace. He never hesitated to call out any individual whom he thought was out to destabilise security,” Aden said. He said as a way of honouring Haji, President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga who are the BBI patrons should ensure that they split Ijara constituency into two. Another resident Ahmed Abdi who hails from Masalani in Ijara constituency said the request to have the constituency split was contained in the memorandum they presented to the BBI team. “We have been consistent in requesting for an extra constituency and now that Senator Haji is dead, let the two BBI proponents honour our request which I am sure even Haji would have wished to see,” Abdi said. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Sunday said Northeastern residents will vote no if the constitutional amendments are subjected to a referendum. He said as it stands the bare minimum for the residents to support the document was by Ijara being spilt into two constituencies as well as Wajir South. Speaking at Sister's Maternity Home during a function, Duale hit out at President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga for shortchanging residents. Duale questioned how the three counties of Mandera, Wajir and Garissa in Northeastern were only given one constituency given the landmass with Mandera getting an extra constituency. Both Wajir and Garissa counties missed out on the extra constituency in the BBI proposals. “If you want us to listen to BBI then give us the two extra constituency seats. It is very sad how we are being hoodwinked into supporting the amendments when our interests have clearly not been met,” Duale said. Haji has been described by those who knew him as a quiet, strategic schemer and an administrator. He served the country with patriotism and dedication. He left remarkable records in all offices where he served. Haji served as a District Commissioner and Provincial Commissioner before his nomination to Parliament. He was elected unopposed in 2002 and 2007 as Ijara MP and at one time served as Minister for Defence. He is the father of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) Noordin Haji.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris