Youths in Western and Nyanza are thriving on agribusiness and creating employment. Benedetta Nangila, 27, started fodder farming in 2018, not by choice but for lack of school fees. She even worked as a house help earning Sh5,000 a month, but that was not enough to meet her school fee needs. “I quit and went back home to start farming. The monthly pay as a domestic worker was not enough for me,” she said. Nangila, who hails from Kimwanga village in Bumula, Bungoma county, was pursuing a diploma in business administration at the Jaramogi Oginga Odinga University of Science and Technology. She started growing bracaria grass on a 23 by 63 feet section of her father’s farm. Nangila said she harvests three times in a season and the yields can range from 120 to 300 bails. A bail of the bracalia grass sells for between Sh200 and Sh450. “Currently, I have employed 10 young people in the farming venture and I pay them Sh5,000 a month each. This is what I used to get paid when I worked as a house help. I am proud that I am my own boss and I get to offer employment to others,” she said. She sells to dairy farmers in Siaya, Uasin Gishu, Kakamega and Busia counties, and has since expanded to six acres to meet the rising demand for the grass. Michael Otieno from Mamboleo in Kajulu village, Kisumu, is also an agri- entrepreneur making sandals from fish skins. He processes fish skins into leather to make different products such a sandals, wallets, belts, key holders and leather jackets. Otieno said the idea started after he found out that the fish fillet industry had no use for the skin once they extract the meat. “There are five filleting industries in Kisumu county and once they extract the meat from the fish, the skin went to waste. I took it upon myself to find a more sustainable and viable solution for the fish skin waste. I did my research and got trained in leather production from the Kenya Leather Development Council,” he said. Otieno buys the skins from women's groups at Sh30 per kilo or Sh50 per piece for a big size. "The skin is first weighed, sorted and treated to get the desired quality for making the end-products,” he said. The sandals cost Sh1,000, men’s shoes go for Sh2,000, while children's sandals, key holders, wallets and belts cost Sh500, Sh150 and Sh500 respectively. “The market started slowly and the locals did not appreciate the fish leather, but now the shoe cobblers are accepting the fish leather. I have since been able to get clients in Nigeria, South Africa, Norway, Canada and Poland,” he said. The year 2018 was good for him and he sold about 6,000 pieces of fish leather and made a profit of Sh380,000. Though business is picking, Otieno is only able to supply small quantities because he is processing manually. He said he is working to invest in machinery to meet the demand and make more money. Nangila and Otieno are among young people who received training and mentorship from the Global Agribusiness Management and Entrepreneurship Centre at the United States International University Africa. The project has been supported by the Cultivate Africa’s Future Fund, a joint programme of the International Development Research Centre and the Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research. Prof Francis Wambalaba, the principal investigator for the project, said the university is currently running the Metro Agri-food Living Lab with the aim of addressing the twin problem of youth unemployment and gender inclusivity. Under the project, more than 300 youths have been trained in agribusiness in Kisumu, Siaya, Bungoma, Kakamega, Kericho, Nakuru, Nyandarau, Nairobi and Kiambu counties. “The training was focused on financial literacy, record keeping, marketing, registering businesses and value addition, among other areas,” he said. Wambalaba noted that unemployment in developing countries, especially in Africa, is considered an age group phenomenon. In Kenya, the youthful population is about 35.7 million, which is 75 per cent of the total population. He noted that the Covid-19 crisis has rendered more women jobless compared to men as they work in jobs vulnerable to disruption, especially small businesses, agriculture, service, and manufacturing. “This calls for an innovative approach for entrepreneurs to develop a modern agri-food system that is sustainable, and will meet the needs of the diversified urban consumers in addition to spurring business innovation that can address the problem and curb unemployment,” Wambalaba said.