The government has ordered millions of doses of Covid-19 vaccine developed by AstraZeneca, and the consignments are expected to start arriving in the country this month. The Ministry of Health is also expected to develop a guideline and regulations that will be followed in rolling out the vaccination programme. In light of this, Nairobi West Hospital says it is ready to roll out the vaccination once it gets clearance from the government. The hospital's director of medical services Andrew Gachie said the facility needs government direction on how and when to start importation and use of the vaccines. “We are ready like yesterday to roll out, but as a government-compliant institution, we have to wait for directives, maybe in a few weeks. But generally, we have a lot of hope,” Gachie said. Last week, the Health ministry said it had raised Sh19.7 billion through Gavi-Covax, and was waiting for more funds from the World Bank and the Exchequer to bring in substantial amounts of the vaccine to cover at least 40 per cent of the population. The hospital's announcement comes in the wake of their constant improvisation in Covid management. Starting from Covid PCR testing, to Covid asymptomatic patient home care services, to adding rapid antigen testing, to its recent use of a new technology of releasing Covid-19 PCR test results within four hours. Quick results is a great advantage for tourists coming out of Kenya, said the hospital's director of operations Ashok Mehta. Mehta added that the facility is committed to getting the latest medical technology not only for Covid-19 but for other medical treatment as well. “Any person planning to travel out of the country, be it on a schedule or an emergency, can obtain their test results within hours,” Mehta said. While the economy is gradually opening up, there is also an increase in movement in and out of the country, which is a risk factor in super spreading of coronavirus. Initially, most people missed travelling opportunities due to lack of Covid-19 test results. “Obtaining these test results in a short period of time is convenient to many, especially those going on an emergency visit,” Mehta said. “This has also progressively reduced anxiety, built more confidence and provided a platform where a patient is able to receive immediate treatment and isolation or home care, protecting against the spread of the virus.” Since the introduction of fast-track Covid-19 testing, the hospital has been receiving at least 350 people daily at their laboratories.