A nurse who was fired for allegedly participating in a strike and assaulting her boss has lost 12 months' compensation for unlawful sacking. However, the nurse — name withheld for legal reasons — will get three months compensation of Sh174,300, appeal judges held. Judges Roselyne Nambuye, Gatembu Kairu and Kathurima M’inoti noted that the nurse’s conduct in the dispute left a lot to be desired, which the Labour court judge ignored. They said that based on the evidence placed before them, they did not see how it could be said that MP Hospital denied the nurse a fair hearing. “The respondent was fully aware of this legal position, yet she turned up at the hearing with strangers, thus thwarting the hearing,” the appeal judges said. They added: “If anything, it was the respondent herself, through obvious mischief, who made it impossible for her to be heard.” The nurse was employed by Social Service League MP Shah Hospital as a nurse with a monthly gross salary of Sh58,100. She joined the hospital on January 4, 1995 as a trainee nurse but was summarily dismissed on December 4, 2012 for alleged gross misconduct. The alleged misconduct arose from a strike at the hospital on November 5, 2012 during which it was claimed that she and other employees assaulted a senior manager. Aggrieved by the decision to send her packing the nurse on January 13, 2014 filed a case for unlawful dismissal before the Labour court. She denied assaulting the manager and maintained that she was not at her place of work on the day of the strike. The nurse further told the court that the hospital did not inform her of the reason behind her firing. She claimed that her age was the real reason for her dismissal, which constituted discrimination. The nurse asked for Sh12 million compensation. Of the amount, Sh6,972,000 was the anticipated salary until retirement at 60 years of age, Sh5,000,000 for loss of earning capacity and Sh697,200 being 12 months' compensation. The hospital denied firing her unlawfully and maintained that it dismissed her for gross misconduct after she physically assaulted her senior manager. The hospital further said it invited the nurse for a disciplinary hearing in November 2012 and informed her of the allegations. The hearing did not take place on November 23, 2012 because the nurse brought 'strangers' to the hearing. It was rescheduled to November 26, 2012. The nurse requested more time to prepare for the hearing and denied having participated in the strike or assaulting the manager. The court heard from the hospital that after the nurse refused to attend the disciplinary hearing it was rescheduled. She failed to attend the hearing again. Instead, she wrote to the hospital claiming that the disciplinary committee was biased against her. Ultimately, the hospital dismissed her. Judge Hellen Wasilwa in her decision held that the hospital failed to prove the reasons for sending the nurse home. The court noted that the nurse was also denied a fair hearing and awarded her Sh755,300 — one month’s salary in lieu of notice (Sh58,100) and 12 month’s salary (Sh697,200) — as damages for unlawful and unjustified dismissal. The hospital appealed the decision saying the Labour court judge erred by holding that the hospital did not have valid reasons for dismissing the nurse. 