Speaker Justin Muturi has shelved the debate on the partnership agreement between Kenya and the United Kingdom. This was after the National Assembly Trade committee tabled the agreement for ratification by members of Parliament without attaching annexure showing goods that will be traded by the two countries. The treaty sought to define goods which will enjoy tax reliefs on importation from the UK, which members said had to be made known before any business was conducted on the paper. Muturi gave the directive following an intervention by Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie who sounded an alarm that members were about to discuss the agreement without the annexure. The Dagoretti South MP warned that the House was about to make a decision without knowing what goods were due for exemptions in the agreement. “As we look at this treaty without looking at the annexes, we don’t know which products will be exempted. Are we allowing milk, toothpicks, raw hides and skins to imported tax-free under the new partnership?” the MP asked. “This report as has been tabled in the sense that the treaty that is before the House is incomplete. Public participation was also incomplete.” Speaker Muturi weighed in with a caution that maybe the UK will be shipping motor vehicles duty free. “If the document tabled here without annexes, then the process is incomplete,” the speaker said. He told the Trade committee chairman Ali Adan Haji (Mandera South MP) that House staff confirmed that what they received did not include the annexure. “You must have obtained in the streets. If they are not in the table office, then they must have walked here irregularly,” Muturi said. “We need confirmation from the clerk before we can undertake this business. What Kenya is about to ratify is a serious issue.  We need to ensure that members of this House and members of the public have full knowledge of what is before the House.” Muturi said there was no harm in waiting until the there is clarity on the issue of the annexure. He said Parliament must have a say on the ratification of the partnership agreement. This was after Adan said the documents from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had the requisite annexure, and that the same were forwarded to the member who raised the query. “Documents were sent together with the agreement by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What would the public be sending their MOUs on if they don’t have this information?” the MP asked. But Luanda MP Chris Omulele dismissed the assertion saying; “The devil is always in the details. The details are in the annexure. Maybe he saw the annexure or did not.” Some MPs say they were kept in the dark when the agreement was being negotiated, yet have crucial role in legislation of tax regimes. Garissa Township MP Aden Duale said the matter must be dealt with by three committees - Trade, Finance, and Regional Integration. "You cannot introduce documents after a report signed by the speaker and tabled in the House," Duale said, adding that the documents as presented by the committee were inadmissible.