A proposed law that creates an authority which collapses the roles of various institutions within the ministries of Health, Agriculture, and Trade could be returned to Parliament next week. The Kenya Food and Drugs Authority Bill had passed the First Reading in Parliament in May 2019 before it was suspended to allow further consultation. Officials from various government institutions and associations are against the proposed law sponsored by Endebess MP Robert Pukose. Pukose said the Bill was dropped after a meeting convened by Internal Security PS Dr Karanja Kibicho and PSs in the ministries of Health and Agriculture in 2019. Pukose says the consultations took more than one year and the Bill should be scheduled for Second Reading when Parliament reopens next week. “Before we went on recess, this was one of the Bills saved. The House Business Committee will release a schedule next week and I hope they will prioritise it,” Pukose told the Star. He said in June 2019, himself, Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga and a director of agriculture also travelled to the United States and met the directors of the US Food and Drug Administration to understand how it works. “We understood the FDA handles food safety, such as regulation of pesticides and preservatives, while the department of agriculture handles food security.” The revised version of the KFDA Bill has yet to be published. Among the groups that oppose the 2019 version are the Kenya Tobacco Control Alliance and Nairobi-based legal think-tank International Institute for Legislative Affairs. The two have demanded that tobacco control should be expunged from the Bill. They also presented memoranda during hearings in 2019. “The assurance we got from the parliamentary Health Committee, which scrutinised the Bill, was that tobacco control won’t be under the KFDA and will remain under the Tobacco Control Act,” Ketca chairman Joel Gitali told the Star. The 2019 Bill describes tobacco as a medical product yet globally it is controlled as a narcotic due to its devastating health impacts and zero health benefit. “The industry wants to score what it could not score under the Tobacco Control Act. If the FDA is established it could kill the Tobacco Control Board,” Gitali said. IILA acting CEO Celine Awuor said inclusion of tobacco control under the proposed KFDA would kill the gains Kenyans have made in regulating cigarettes and tobacco products. “The (2019) Bill fails to acknowledge the existence of the current statutory regulatory framework for tobacco control; and would usurp already apportioned authority since it seeks to exclude the existing institutional framework from lawfully exercising their statutory authority,” she said. Other groups that have demanded extensive reviews are the Pharmaceuticals Society of Kenya, the Fresh Produce Consortium of Kenya, Association of Public Health Officers of Kenya, Kenya Health Professionals Society and Kenya Livestock Marketing Council. Others are the Agricultural Information Network, the Kenya Veterinary Association, the Federation of Kenya Pharmaceutical Manufacturers and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization.  (edited by o. owino)