More infrastructural development to happen in Nairobi as  President Uhuru Kenyatta directs the Nairobi Metropolitan Service to construct road projects. The president spoke in Kayole Soweto, Nairobi on Friday while commissioning Soweto level 2 hospital that was among the 24 pledged health facilities by NMS. "With these health facilities in Nairobi everyone will be able to access services without having to travel kilometres to Kenyatta hospital," he said. At the same time, the President said residents should access water without payment at the 193 boreholes constructed by NMS and Athi Water. He commissioned a water project at Soweto where he noted that no resident should  pay a single coin in order to get it water Despite having the Northern Water Collector project on course, the president said the water projects in Nairobi has made the basic need available to many. "Water scarcity is one of the major problems facing Nairobi but as the government instructed NMS to drill boreholes even as we wait for the project to be completed. He added, "People in slums can now get water for free." On BBI, the president asked Nairobi residents to support the Referendum Bill and avoid being mislead by people who do not have their interest at heart. Uhuru said Nairobi will be a huge beneficiary if the BBI bill is passed as increase in sub counties will bring in more funds for development. "Nairobi will be full of development from  the Ward Development Fund. More Constituties will increase allocation for more projects' " he said. Going further, the President commended the Nairobi County Assembly which passed the BBI bill unanimously with 114 votes. "Our MCAs in Nairobi have the best interest at heart for their residents and that is why the BBI was passed with no opposition,' Uhuru said. He further requested the residents to read the BBI report and get to understand the benefits Nairobi. The president  was accompanied by a section of  Nairobi MCAs lead by Majority Leader Abdi Hasan Guyo.