The government of Belgium has pledged to donate firefighting equipment worth Sh1.1 billion to City Hall to boost disaster response in Nairobi. The  equipment will be launched during Phase Two of  the Official Aid Funded Project that is scheduled to start June. Speaking at City Hall on Monday, Belgian ambassador to Kenya Nicolas Nihon on said the donation will be channelled through the  KBC Bank NV – M/s Somati Vehicles. “If our customers which is Kenya is satisfied with the project then for the Belgium Government it is a win –win situation . The Belgium-based company, M/s Somati Vehicles has the best equipment available to offer Nairobi,” Nihon said. Devolution executive Vesca Kangongo assured the donors that Nairobi county was committed to implementing Phase Two of the project that was signed in 2018. “The Nairobi City government has made commendable efforts towards addressing these hazards and human vulnerability. The Kenyan Constitution mandates the county to develop and implement suitable disaster management policies,” Kangogo said. She said the county was preparing a Disaster and Emergency Management Act. “The act seeks to put in place institutional systems for disaster management and enhance resource mobilisation. The city has also entered into various strategic partnerships to help address these disaster concerns," she said. Acting county secretary Jairus Musumba acknowledged the fire fighting vehicles and equipment donated in Phase One had gone a long way in helping "our fire and rescue team respond better to fire incidences which are common, especially in the informal settlements." “In the past, the county’s fire department was ridiculed for faulty equipment, arriving at scenes late, running out of water and having difficulties putting out fires in high-rise buildings, but this has not been the case since the commencement of our partnership in 2016,” Musumba said. Phase One commenced on April 20, 2016 after City Hall signed the agreement with Somati Vehicles in the implementation of the Official Aid Funded Project in collaboration with National Treasury The project was to oversee the importation of fire engines, ambulance vehicles, personal protection equipment, breathing apparatus sets, communication systems, construction of new fire station, training, spare parts and materials worth Sh1.1 billion . On October 23, 2017,  City Hall received 26 fire engines from Somati vehicles NV to boost emergency response in the city. The 26 fire engines were bought as part of a partnership with Somati Vehicles NV, a project which begun in 2009 under the defunct city council but was never fully implemented. Each subcounty was to  be allocated one fire engine. Before the new acquisitions, City Hall had 10 fire engines, four of which are second-hand.