Comedian Churchill and Kiss FM's Jalang'o launched a new show in December called 'Shika Dream', which also features Terence Creative. In the show, they ask Kenyans to tell them the one dream they have and what they want to achieve to help Kenyans in a 30-second video. The submissions are vetted and then Churchill, Jalango and Terence ask their audience to vote for one dream that they wish to see fulfilled. With the help of partners like Kenya Charity Sweepstake, the dream is actualised. The winning submission comes in and presents their dream on the Show and it is actualised live on Jalang'o TV and Churchill's Facebook page and on the 'Shika Dream Show' online platforms every Wednesday at 8pm. Last week, Benson Kinyanjui, a student at Maseno University, had one dream, to distribute 1,000 sanitary towels to teenage girls in and around his home in Nyandarua. Speaking to Word Is, Churchill said, "I admire the passion, especially from a young man with six brothers and no sister. God bless him." "The need for sanitary towels in rural areas has been a concern for many. And thanks to Benson and Shika Dream Show, there are young girls in Nyandarua who will have access to sanitary towels." Others who have been awarded over the last seven episodes include Daniel Mwibanda from Kacheliba, West Pokot, who was awarded three computers and a printer to enable him to set up a cyber cafe. A butcher got a deep freezer and a father whose hustle was affected by Covid was helped to pay school fees. H-Town kids from Huruma got a filming kit to create content. Churchill further explained that they started the show since many Kenyans have been reaching out to them on social media and even sending letters with their many ideas and needs. "I believe every dream is valid and no dream is too small. Covid-19 hit almost every Kenyan, affecting some greatly. So we thought of coming up with a platform that will enable Kenyans to share their dreams and pitch to their fellow Kenyans to support them," he said. "Tumepata submissions nyingi sana, it's overwhelming, and we thank the partners who have helped us fulfil some dreams so far. "As always, new concepts take a bit of time to sell to Kenyans, but this is one idea that will allow us to touch vulnerable lives thanks to our partners Kenya Charity Sweepstake. "We may not change the world in one day, but we are determined to change a Kenyan family one day at a time."