Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko has been released by a Kiambu Court on a cash bond of Sh300,000 or a surety of the same amount. The court said the prosecution failed to convince the court on why Sonko should not be given bail or bond in a case where he has been charged with assault. Chief Magistrate Stella Atambo said Sonko should cooperate with investigating officer and heed to summons when required by the investigating officer. The court ruled that parties are at liberty to engage in alternative dispute resolution in a bid to settle if they so wish. " I have invoked section 176 of the criminal procedure code," said Atambo. The matter will be mentioned on February 23. Last week, Sonko was charged with various counts of assault and forcible entry of property in Buruburu Phase Four. Sonko denied the charges of forcible entry and nine counts of assault causing bodily harm with the prosecution arguing that he should be denied bail. Chief Inspector Geoffrey Ndatho in an affidavit told the court headed by Senior Principal Magistrate Stella Atambo that the offence occurred on May 25, 2019, at LR NRB block 78/863 at Kamukunji sub-county in Nairobi county. The court heard that Sonko left his office at City Hall while he was the Nairobi Governor and proceeded to Buruburu Phase Four while accompanied by youths whom under his utterances caused the commission of the offences. Ndatho said that Sonko is being investigated for other criminal offences within the country. A Kahawa West court is also today expected to make a ruling on an application by the police to be allowed to detain Sonko for 30 days as they investigate terror-related charges. Sonko was on Tuesday morning picked up by police at the Nairobi Hospital for the ruling of his assault case. Sonko had been admitted to the hospital on Monday night after complaining of stomach complications and high blood pressure while at the Gigiri police cells. Ahead of the court session, police were informed the former governor was at the hospital. They drove there and picked him up and took him to the court at around 11.15 am. He appeared in court in the company of an ambulance medic.