For the first time in the history of the iconic Kenya Open Golf Championship, fans will follow event proceedings away from the playing venue. And in another unprecedented health protocol, all players and their caddies will be confined to a sporting bubble in Nairobi as part of the European Tour’s stringent approach to curb the spread of Covid-19. Kenya will for the first time in history host back-to-back European Tour events with the Magical Kenya Open teeing off in March 18-21 and the new Kenya Savannah Classic taking off on March 23-26. Kenya Open Golf Limited (KOGL) chairman, Peter Kanyago said the Magical Kenya Open and Savannah Classic will be televised live both in locally and across the world. “Billions of fans will be able to follow proceedings live on TV locally and overseas. The European Tour is offering each player 2000 Euros in both events (1000 Euros per event) to offset the costs of staying in the sporting bubble. This is a great idea and comes at a time when sports in the world are trying to overcome adversity. We are truly happy and excited by European Tour gesture,” said Kanyago. Meanwhile, top pros Dismas Indiza and CJ Wangai who are part of the 12-man Kenya team have praised the new format of putting players in a sporting bubble. “The idea about offsetting costs of players staying in the bubble is heaven-sent. Just imagine if we were to foot all expenses, this would eat into whatever amount those making the cut would earn from the prize money,” Indiza said. The Kenya No 1 will lead a strong field of Kenyans at the Karen County Club for the back to back European Tour events next month. The team has the likes of Greg Snow, Riz Charania, Samuel Njoroge, David Wakhu and Justus Madoya among others. Wangai, who is also the PGK captain, also praised the bubble system, saying it will ensure all players and their caddies are safe health-wise. “Strict health protocols have been put in place on the European Tour in recent months and it’s quite encouraging that Kenya will follow suit,” said Wangai. Tournament director, Patrick Obath confirmed that the bubble will entail regular testing and the players and staff will be required to travel solely between the course and hotel during tournament week. Obath said the safety measures are in place in all main Tour events to limit the spread of Covid-19. This year’s Kenya Open and Savannah Classic will feature 156 golfers. Hosts Kenya and the African region have 12 and three slots respectively from Safari Tour qualification.