Western leaders have asked the government to revive the collapsed sugar industry which is the region's economic backbone. The leaders under the Western Elders Council said the collapse of the industry, pan paper mills and poor maize and tea farming returns, poses a threat to th region's food security and crime due to loss of employment. The council chaired by former labour minister Philip Masinde is made up of elders from the 18 communities of the Luhya tribe. Speaking in a resolution during a consultative meeting at ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi's home at Mululu on February 20, the leaders called upon the two governments to revive the industries The also said the Luhya and Teso communities in Western that borders the country's biggest trading partner-Uganda do not get any share of the economic benefits from the accruing trade. They said that out of the Sh400 billion worth of trade earnings that go to Nairobi, all the region gets is poor infrastructure and a lack of basic social amenities in towns. “We carry the burden of maintaining a peaceful environment in which trade thrives at our borders whether in Malaba, Busia, Lwakhakha, Swan, Kisumu or Sio Port; we deserve more and better treatment from the government,” read a part of the resolution. The elders also decried the erratic power supply by KPLC, which they said has affected efforts by the region residents to invest in agribusiness cottage and hospitality industry. “The long nights of darkness have seen insecurity thrive. We invite investigations into this matter with the urgency it deserves to ensure the electricity supply is predictable and consistent. We are a paying clientele and deserve better treatment from the company monopoly,” they said. The leaders said that Western has been affected by the rising unemployment occasioned by the rising national debt, lack of investments and the impact of the covid-19 pandemic since its residents are mainly wage earners who have lost their jobs. “The percentage of dependents, incidents of domestic violence and petty theft have risen. We appeal to the government to quickly institute policies that will stabilise the economy and secure the livelihoods of Kenyan people,” they said. They thanked President Uhuru Kenyatta for the appointment of Erick Wafukho as Treasury CAS. They said that the region had been marginalised in state appointments under the Jubilee administration. “Since Jubilee took over, we have been horrified at our exclusion in the cabinet. The best we have done is only one appointment since 2013,” the resolution read.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris