US President Joe Biden has said his administration wants to rebuild partnerships around the world and reengage with international institutions like the African Union. He sent a special video message with the best wishes of the people of the United States on the eve of the 34th African Summit. He also said he will visit Africa. Former President Donald Trump notoriously referred to "shithole countries" in Africa. Biden said US reengagement will better support the people of Africa in everything from the Covid-19 pandemic and AIDs to security and tackling conflicts across the continent. He called on African governments to invest more in health to defeat the Covid-19 pandemic. Biden said his administration will partner with the African CDC and other institutions to advance health security. “My administration is committed to rebuilding partnerships around the world and reengaging with international institutions like the African Union. We must all work together to advance our shared vision of a better future,” he said. “To reach this future, we also must confront the serious challenges we face. This includes investing more in global health, defeating Covid-19 and working to prevent, detect a d respond to future health crises.” Biden cited the need to promote growing trade and investment that advances prosperity for all nations and improves the lives and security for all citizens. “We need to build a future committed to investing in our democratic institutions and promoting the human rights of all people.  Women and girls, LGBTQ individuals, people with disabilities and people of every ethnic background, religion and heritage,” he said. The US President also called for raising ambitions to deal with climate change. He said it is important to ensure developing nations can mitigate and adapt to climate change that is already causing pain. He also called for sustainable diplomacy to address conflicts costing lives across the African continent. “None of this is going to be easy, but US stands ready to be your partner in solidarity, support and mutual respect," the new White House occupant said. "We believe in the nations of Africa and the continent-wide spirit of entrepreneurship and innovation. Through the challenges ahead, although they are great, there is no doubt that our nations, our people and the the African Union are up to this task," Biden said. (Edited by V. Graham) 