Jubilee Secretary-General Raphael Tuju has summoned 17 nominated MCAs from the Uasin Gishu County Assembly for a meeting at the party headquarters ahead of the debate and a vote on the BBI Bill next week. The nominated MCAs are already in Nairobi for the meeting to take place today and sources indicate BBI will be discussed. Uasin Gishu is Deputy President William Ruto’s home county and the assembly has a total of 48 MCAs most of who are allied to the DP. “This is to invite you to a Jubilee Party Uasin Gishu nominated members meeting at the party headquarters Nairobi on Friday 19th February 2021 at 12pm. Your attendance is essential,” said part of Tuju’s letter to each of the MCAs. The BBI Bill was tabled at the assembly a week ago and it has been going through public participation before the MCAs debate it and vote next week. Ruto has termed the BBI Bill a no priority to Kenyans but he has not lobbied the MCAs to either reject or vote for it. This has left the MCAs in a tricky situation but most of them said they would make an independent decision after public participation. “Tuju should not intimidate the nominated MCAs because they are leaders with the capacity to decide on the bill independently,” said the assembly whip Gilbert Tenai. Tenai said if the BBI was a good document for the country then there was no need for the party to force it on MCAs or Kenyans . West Pokot became the first assembly in Rift Valley to support the Bill just a week after Baringo MCAs were the first to reject it during an acrimonious meeting. A section of the MCAs in Baringo has gone to court to reject the decision saying there was no voting at the assembly. Trans Nzoia MCAs have also passed the bill while Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet and Turkana county assemblies are expected to make a decision next week. Sources indicate that there has been intense lobbying from allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga who want the MCAs to pass the bill. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos and businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki have urged the MCAs to de-link the BBI from 2022 politics and Ruto’s political ambitions. The two argue that the BBI has far-reaching benefits that override the interests of an individual.