Start hustling, get a move on and name a candidate. That's what Deputy President William Ruto told his rivals on Friday. He mocked them, saying hey are clueless, plan-less and radar-less - just as they were before the 2017 General Elections. Speaking at Kadongo Grounds in Kisauni, Mombasa, Ruto said  he sees a repeat of 2017. He donated Sh1.5 million to boda boda operators in Mjambere ward. “In 2017, I told these people we are competing with them. At that time they were clueless, plan-less and radar-less. “Three and a half years later, I see they are still there. They are just going round in circles,” Ruto said. He dared them to come up with a candidate to face him once and for all and stop dilly-dallying. This was the same tactic Ruto used in 2017 when Nasa - including ODM’s Raila Odinga, ANC’s Musalia Mudavadi, Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang’ula - were delaying in naming their presidential flagbearer. Nasa finally settled on Raila with Mudavadi as his running mate. This time, Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Wetang’ula are seen to be working together, excluding Raila. All four leaders have expressed interest in the presidency. On Friday evening, Ruto said the four are waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement. “You opposition! You are waiting for the President’s endorsement and we are the ones who elected Uhuru Kenyatta. When will he give you the endorsement? “Stop being radar-less. Stop being clueless. Stop being plan-less and start getting your house in order,” the DP said. He said the four should start organising seminars, conferences or retreats early to have a chance against him. He said early planning will help them avoid treason by swearing in a "fake president" at Uhuru Park. Raila was on January 30, 2018 was 'sworn in’ as the people’s president at Uhuru Park. He haq boycotted the October 2017 presidential re-run that was ordered by the Supreme Court after it nullified Uhuru Kenyatta's victory in August. On Friday, Ruto mocked Raila again, saying this time he should plan early. “Otherwise, the things of 2017 will get you in 2022. Then you will go and get sworn in at Uhuru Park again. A fake swearing-in,” the DP said. Responding to the President's calling Tangatanga the "demolition squad", Ruto said the demolition squad is the side that is warming up to him. On Thursday, Uhuru said the Tangatanga "demolition squad" was doing more harm than good. On Friday, Ruto said his hustler nation movement is not an incitement-to-violence tool and is only looking after the interests of the downtrodden. “What the President said - these are the demolition squad," Ruto said, referring to Raila and his allies. He said they destroyed Nasa after they had used it, then entered Jubilee, causing chaos and making it collapse. Ruto said that demolition squad also destroyed the Jubilee manifesto and the Big Four agenda. “They are now confused. They don’t know whether they are in government or in opposition,” the Deputy President said. “Let me tell you, my friends. Look for a candidate. Stop disturbing the President. We hustlers are ready,” he said. Ruto said his rivals are jealous of what Jubilee has done for the people of Kenya and that is why they entered the Jubilee house to destroy it from within. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali said the hustler nation will save the country from the "claws of the bourgeoisie". He said the hustler nation has no business that will hurt the commoner. “Our business is to ensure we move forward together under the wheelbarrow nation. Let us silence these noisy people,” Ali said. Former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar said Ruto is best placed to lead the nation because he has the interests of the downtrodden at heart. He said a hustler government will end the extrajudicial killings that have  orphaned and widowed many across the country, especially at the Coast. “We at the Coast have decided our journey will not be to Canaan. Our journey will be to State House with William Ruto,” Omar said. He called on Mombasa people to join UDA and criticised President Kenyatta for what he called "oppressing Ruto". "The Deputy President helped you to power," the former Mombasa senator said. He said while all other candidates are waiting for Uhuru’s endorsement. Kenyans have endorsed Ruto to be the fifth president of the Republic of Kenya. He predicted a clean sweep by the Ruto-linked UDA of all the top seats at the Coast. Ruto was accompanied by MPs Aisha Jumwa (Malindi), Owen Baya (Kilifi North), Sharif Athman (Lamu East), Vincent Kemosi (West Mugirango), Kimani Ngunjiri (Bahati). He was also joined byLydia Haika (Taita Taveta county), Oscar Sudi (Kapseret), Moses Nguchine (Imenti Central), Khatib Mwashetani (Lunga Lunga), Lamu Senator Anwar Loitiptip, Mohamed Thenge, Omar Shalo, among other politicians. (Edited by V. Graham)