ODM Party members have until August this year to register as life members. This comes after the party said only its life members will be eligible to vie on the party ticket in the 2022 general election. In a statement on Tuesday, Secretary-general Edwin Sifuna said for one to be cleared to contest for any elective position on the ODM party ticket he/she must have been a member for at least one year. "Following last Friday's meeting of the National Executive Committee-NEC, and subsequent deliberations on one's eligibility to contest for an elective position on the ODM ticket, we wish to let potential aspirants know that they have up to August this year to register for Life Membership status in the party," the statement said. The move is in line with former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s plan to rejig the party ahead of next year's general election. The party plans to conduct grassroots elections from the polling stations to the national level, an exercise it hopes will not only strengthen its structures but will also provide fresh energy. The exercise will be undertaken at both the subcounty and county levels next month. The party has already strengthened its nomination rules to ensure outsiders known for last-minute party hopping are blocked from the outfit. In the new regulations, contesters for various seats on the party ticket must be registered as bonafide members of the party at least two years before the elections. Last Saturday, the party’s elections board announced new dates for the party’s grassroots elections. The countrywide exercise will start next month up to April when the delegates will converge in Nairobi to elect the national office including the presidential candidate. Those interested in becoming the party’s presidential flag bearer in next year's elections have up to February 26 to submit their papers to Chungwa House. So far, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has submitted his papers in a race that is widely expected will see him compete against party leader Raila Odinga and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Last Saturday, National Elections Board (NEB) chairperson Catherine Mumma said the elections will start from the polling station.