Deputy President William Ruto and his Tangatanga team are wasting their time and resources opposing President Uhuru Kenyatta and BBI in Mt Kenya region, Kikuyu Council of Elders officials have said. National vice-chairman David Muthoga, secretary-general Peter Munga and Ndaragwa MP Jeremiah Kioni spoke in Nyeri town Wednesday when the council sensitised the youth on BBI. Munga said those with a motive to divide residents in Mt Kenya region should know that the passing of the BBI by MCAs was just the beginning and will prove that the region will forever be united. “Our numbers mean a lot and you cannot take them for granted. We will not allow anyone to divide us,” Munga said. He however said the community is democratic and will welcome non-residents. But those with ill intentions will not succeed in diving them because the community will speak in one voice in 2022. “We have pulled back our youth, women, men and leaders and we are all going to stand as the Kikuyu and Mt Kenya family and no one should ever think of dividing us,” he said. "The region welcomes the referendum and the community is ready to pass it and enjoy its many benefits which include equal distribution of resources and representation." Muthoga who is also the chairman of the council in Nyeri  said the 150 youths attending the BBI sensitisation workshop will be trained as trainers of trainers and will be expected to teach what they learn to members of the public on the ground. "The same will be replicated in other counties in the Central region to ensure that by the time the  referendum comes, residents will know what is contained in the  BBI report," he said. “We also want to assure the president that we hear him, we listen to him and we trust that what he is leaving for us is the best any father would leave to his children and we are proud of what he has done for us,” he said. The elders also congratulated all Mt Kenya counties that passed the BBI on Tuesday and attributed the massive support to the president’s visit to Nyeri recently. Kioni said efforts and resources must now be channelled to the neutralising lies that had been spread by the Tangatanga team about the BBI to the people. Martha Miano, a youth leader from Nyeri county, said the training will enable the youth to understand the BBI. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara 