A Labour court has suspended a decision by the Kenya Rural Roads Authority (KeRRA) that deployed its procurement manager to the Ministry of Transport. Employment and Labour Relations Judge Maureen Onyango subsequently reinstated Margaret Wanja Muthui to her position pending hearing and determination of a case she has filed. Wanja moved to court after she was issued with a letter dated February 10 by KeRRA removing her from being the procurement manager of the authority and deploying her to the Ministry’s office. The letter was deploying her to the office of performance management and coordination under the Presidency. In an affidavit, Wanja says the said deployment was preceded by a disputed tender in which she gave an independent, reasonable opinion as expected of her office. She says her  opinion left certain parties unhappy. “When I rendered the said opinion, I noted various discrepancies with the recommendation to award the tender and the various overpriced items and noted that Roben Aberdare Kenya limited that the tender evaluation committee recommended for the tender award had overpriced the tender by over Sh1 billion,” read her affidavit. According to the court documents, the Authority has no power to direct or release her to the Ministrys’ office. The Ministry equally has no power to direct the Authority to deploy her to their office as her contractual employment is with the Authority and not any other person. “The said deployment is malicious at the very least as the sole reason for the same is my steadfast support for the rule of law and the principles guiding the procurement procedures at the Authority’s corporation.” She says she has been deployed as a punishment for upholding the rule of law and as a result of diligent performance of her duties. Wanja has sued the Ministry of Transport, Kenya Rural Roads Authority and the Attorney General. Through Lawyer Nicholas Sumba, Wanja says this is the second time the letter is being written removing her from her procurement managerial position with KeRRA and deploying her to the Ministry of Transport office. This she says was contrary to a court directive delivered in 2019. The court in that year declared such action an abuse of authority and breach of section 7 of the fair administrative action Act. The court further held that the action is illegal and unreasonable.