Deputy President William Ruto has cautioned leaders against misusing the youth to cause chaos to achieve their selfish ends. The DP said it was wrong for leaders to use youths to engage in violence for political reasons. "As leaders, we must stop misusing the youths to cause chaos for political reasons," he said. He spoke on Monday in Ogembo, Bomachoge Chache constituency, during the burial of mzee Abel Gongera, the father to Kisii deputy governor Joash Maangi. He said Kenyans were free to live and own property in any part of the country without any fear. "We want to unite and live peacefully as Kenyans in any part part of this country. We should, as leaders take the lead in preaching peace and harmonious coexistence among our people," Ruto said. Earlier, the burial service was disrupted after a fist fight broke out between MPs Silvanus Osoro (South Mugirango) and Dagoreti North's Simba Arati over BBI. Present were former Prime minister Raila Odinga, Kisii Governor James Ongwae and several MPs among other leaders. Osoro, an ally of Ruto, had left the podium after telling off ODM leader Raila Odinga, who was also present, over his push for BBI. When Arati went on the stage and told off the DP off over his continued rejection of the document Osoro went back to the podium, held Arati by the collar and they exchanged harsh words before they were separated. Police and enforcement officers had  to intervene and whisk away some elements near the podium. Meanwhile, Ruto in his speech, noted that Jubilee has achieved a lot in terms of development, contrary to claims by some leaders that it has done little since it took over power in 2013. "We have done a lot in terms of development including construction of roads, connection of electricity to households, improvement of health, education and water sectors," he said. " When we took over in 2013, there were only 27,000 households connected to electricity in Kisii County. But as we speak, there are 114, 000 households connected to electricity". The Deputy President reiterated that the hustler movement was about creation of wealth among majority of Kenyans, saying the current model of economic empowerment favoured a few in the society. "The hustler movement is not an enemy of anyone but an enemy of poverty and unemployment," he said. He said there was need to change the current economic narrative where the economy trickles from the top to bottom and make it vice versa. "We want to change the conversation not to be only about leaders, positions and power to include ordinary citizens like boda boda, wheelbarrow and mama mbogas among others," he said. On his part, Raila Odinga distanced ODM from the leadership wrangles facing the Jubilee Party, saying they were not part of the mess. "As ODM, we are out of government and we don't want to be part of the Jubilee mess. Jubilee should not involve us in their internal wars," Raila said.