Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has condemned demolition of houses in Kibos area by Kenya Railways Corporation, which displaced more than 3,000 families. Nyong'o said the KRC demolished the Nubian community dwellings on Friday without consulting him. He spoke on Sunday when he visited the affected families at the 15 acres designated for their resettlement. Present were Majority leader Kenneth Onyango, former Majority leader Samuel Ongow, the business community led by chairman Raju Chathee and a host of MCAs. "We strongly condemned the manner in which the demolition was conducted. It has subjected our people to serious sufferings," Nyong'o said. He said it was tragic that a child died during the demolition in which a mosque was also brought down. The child is said to have been trapped under the debris. "We have lost an innocent life. This is unacceptable and should be condemned," the governor said. Kenya Railways has been reclaiming the land along the metre-gauge line, to pave way for the ongoing renovation of the dormant Nakuru-Kisumu railway line. In Muhoroni subcounty, residents are also counting losses after their houses were demolished by the Kenya Railways on Saturday. Residents in Bandani in Kisumu have been given notice to vacate form railway land. Nyong'o said every citizens has the right to shelter, protection and security and the Nubian community is no exception. He called on the railways to ensure they implement development projects in a well-structured and humane manner. To permanently solve the issue, Nyong'o said he will immediately constitute a committee to discuss the solution to human settlement crisis. He called for biometric data collection of the families. "With such data then we can provide the required services. We will look at everything to ensure Nubian community does not suffer anymore. We will give title deeds to you," Nyong'o said. Business community chairman led by Raju pledged support for the Nubian community. Kibos Sugar Company and Kisumu Concrete gave graders to clear the alternative space for settling the families. Jumbo Foam donated 500 mattresses and 1,000 blankets. "We are ready to offer more support to the families. We already have 15,000 assorted packets of food for distribution," Raju said. Kenya Red Cross also put up tents to accommodate children, women and men. Ongow, who is the county's liaison coordinator, told politicians to desist from inciting the public over the demolition done by Kenya Railways. He lauded Kisumu acting city manager Abala Wanga and business community led by Raju for swift response to the Nubian community. "We must desist from politicking when there is a crisis," he said. Wanga faulted the Kenya Railways for carrying out demolition without a resettlement action plan. “Let us settle our people first. It is inhuman to come and demolition where people stay at night. We have mothers, children, and elderly who have been left in the cold,” Wanga said. Majority leader Kenneth Onyango also condemned the demolition saying the Nubian community has lived in the area for 83 years. “This is the only place the minority group called home. It does not necessarily matter who owns the matter," he said. "In any case, we know what the constitution says about land ownership. Someone cannot stay in your land for 83 years and then you say it is your land,” he said. Kisumu Muslims Association Chairman Sheik Juma Ismael Haji said the demolition was done against a court order. "It’s shocking that those who should guard the law are the same breaking it,” he said. He said they will sue British Government for the problems they facing. “It is the British who brought us to Kenya from Sudan,” he added. He appealed for food and non-food donations to the families. City board director Farida Salim termed the demolition very sad. “I have seen women shedding tears, children confused and men helpless to ensure their families are protected."