A child was killed on Friday night during the demolition carried out by the Kenya Railways Corporation at Kibos in Kisumu County. The minor died after being trapped under the debris during the demolition exercise done under tight security. The demolitions saw more than 3,000 families of the Nubian community left homeless. The affected families said the demolition started at about 10.30 pm. Children, women, and the elderly were forced to spend the night in the cold. Kenya Railways is recovering what they claim is their land near the Railway line to pave way for the renovation of the Nakuru-Kisumu Railway line. Acting City manager Abala Wanga said the county government has absolutely nothing to do with demolition in Kibos. "We are not involved in the exercise in any way. It is purely the Kenya Railways," he said. Wanga condemned the demolition exercise saying it was done even after the county met the Kenya Railways to allow relocation of the families before demolition. He said the county government has identified an alternative place to temporarily resettle the affected families. So far, the county has given 15 acres of land to temporarily erect tents for the families, he said. "As we are resettling the families, we are calling upon well-wishers to join us in our resettlement operations." They need food and non-food items," Wanga said. He faulted the Kenya Railways for carrying out demolition without a resettlement action plan. Wanga urged the railway's management to involve the county government of Kisumu to ensure those to be affected are resettled before demolition. The railways, he said, should suspend the demolition along the line from Muhoroni to Kisumu to give the county time to resettle locals. “Let us settle our people first. It is inhuman to come and demolition where people stay at night. We have mothers, children, and elderly who have been left in the cold,” Wanga said. He asked Kisumu County commissioner Josephine Ouko, KR managing director to sit down with Governor Anyang Nyong’o to sit down and find a permanent solution for the families. Wanga further appealed to the well-wishers to help support the affected families. Miwani MCA Kenneth Onyango also condemned the demolition saying the Nubian community has lived in the area for 83 years. “This is the only place the minority group called home. It does not necessarily matter who owns the matter. In any case, we know what the constitution says about land ownership. Someone cannot stay in your land for 83 years and then you say it is your land,” he said. Onyango said it was unfortunate that a child has died during the demolition of a village. He said the Kenya railways went ahead with demolition despite Nyong’o having engaged them to halt the exercise. Kisumu Muslims Association Chairman Sheik Juma Ismael Haji said the demolition was done against the court order. “It’s shocking that those who should guard the law are the same breaking it,” he said. Juma said they will sue British Government for the problems they facing. “It is the British who brought us to Kenya from Sudan,” he added. He appealed for food and non-food donations to the families. City board director Farida Salim termed the demolition very sad. “I have seen women shedding tears, children confused and men helpless to ensure their families are protected. Salim called on the railways to ensure they implement development projects in a well-structured and human manner. Well-wishers including Kibos Sugar factory, Jumbo Foam, the Kenya Red Cross among others contributed mattresses, foodstuffs, and tents. Kibos Sugar Company and Kisumu Concrete gave graders to clear the alternative space for settling the families. Jumbo Foam donated 500 mattresses and 1,000 blankets. Sheikh Ismael Musa, the Chairman of Kisumu Muslim Association thanked the well-wishers and Governor Anyang'Nyong'o for coming to the aid of the affected families.