Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to clear the ambiguity around his statement on handing over power to thieves. Uhuru last week said he will not leave the country in the hands of thieves, as he exits the stage next year. Though it is not clear who he was referring to, the President noted he would work hard, to ensure the country is in safe hands. He said his interest was citizens who he promised to serve when he was taking power and was ready to hand over power when his second term ends. Mutua said the President should name the “thieves” he was referring to so as to dispel speculations surrounding the remarks. “The President said he can’t leave the government to a thief. We agree with him but we are asking him, who is that thief? Because before electing or hiring someone, and there are many people seeking the presidential position, let’s ask questions,” the governor said while addressing the public in Machakos on Tuesday. The Maendeleo Chap Chap party leader continued, “What are the scorecards of those seeking the presidential position in 2022 elections? Show us your scorecards. As Mutua, I have constructed several roads, purchased ambulances, people don’t pay for medication in public hospitals within Machakos county and youths are benefiting from various development programmes across the county,” he said. He said the electorate must check on leaders’ scorecards before they vote them to various political positions. “All Some leaders' have done is to divide Kenyans, corruption, while others have not brought any development to their areas.  We must think hard before electing our leaders,” the governor said. He said voting for leaders was giving them jobs and therefore presidential candidates must be thoroughly vetted before being elected in the next general election. “Let’s investigate them and their scorecards. Even footballers Ronaldinho, Ronaldo and Messi never got to major leagues before scoring goals in minor ones,” he added. Mutua urged Machakos residents to elect Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Mutua Katuku as their next senator to enable him successfully complete his final term in office as their governor without a lot of interferences. The Machakos senatorial by-election is set for March 18. He said former senators Johnson Muthama and Boniface Kabaka had given him a hard time hence making it difficult for him to effectively serve the electorate as he wished to.  Edited by Sarah Kanyara   