Before the Covid-19 pandemic struck and dominated global news headlines for months on end, one of the ongoing debates that tended to spring up regularly in just about every corner of the world was on foreign aid – or Official Development Assistance as it is otherwise known. This is a debate that has been going on for more than 70 years now, starting with when the US instituted the Marshall Plan to help European nations get back on their feet after the devastation of the Second World War. Before this war, it had not been at all commonplace for victorious nations to help those they had defeated to rebuild. On the contrary, the victors often imposed massive “reparations” on their defeated enemies, ensuring that those who lost the war would be economically hamstrung for the foreseeable future. But with the end of World War 2 in 1945, we entered a different era, and large loans and grants from rich nations to poorer ones, dedicated to projects that would bring about greater and faster economic development, became the norm. With time however, doubts emerged as to the efficacy of any such foreign aid programmes, especially as the emerging independent nations of Africa and Asia, often did not manage to move swiftly towards a widely shared prosperity as did the nations of Europe who benefitted from the Marshall Plan. One of the fiercest critics of what he termed “the foreign aid industry” was the late Prof PT Bauer, who once wrote that “Aid money is given by the poor in rich nations, to the rich in poor nations”. By which he meant that it is the taxes of ordinary people in rich nations that provide the money sent as foreign aid to poor nations; only when the money gets to those poor nations, official corruption will often result in much of that money being stolen by the local kleptocracy. We have already seen this happen in Kenya recently, when even as our “development partners” mobilised to help provide the funds Kenya needed in order to meet this unprecedented public health challenge, the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority warehouses were rapidly filling up with tonnes of unprocedurally purchased goods, which would in the end prove to be of little use in this struggle against Covid-19. All the same, the coronavirus pandemic has added a new dimension to this unending debate on foreign policy. There has already been discussion here in Kenya on whether or not a Marshall Plan will be needed to get the economy back on its feet. Contributing to that debate, the European Union Ambassador to Kenya Simon Mordue wrote a column for the Star on July 5 last year, with the title ‘Why Kenya does not need a post-Covid Marshall Plan’: “I have been asked…given the substantial support that the EU and Team Europe has given to Kenya during the Covid-19 crisis, to speculate on Kenya’s prospects for a swift economic recovery after the crisis, and on Kenya’s need for a “Marshall Plan”. …On the prospects for a swift economic recovery in Kenya, ‘yes, they are good’. On whether Kenya needs a ‘Marshall Plan, it is both a ‘no‘ and ‘yes’. Kenya may need further financial support that is genuinely concessional, coupled with sound financial management and debt consolidation. However, what it needs most is a home-grown economic recovery plan that builds on Kenya’s strengths.” While I do not fundamentally disagree with the ambassador, I must all the same point out that all over Western Europe and North America, thousands of institutions, and millions of individuals who have suffered from the devastating economic effects of the coronavirus pandemic, have been receiving substantial subsidies from their governments to help them “stay afloat”. This is out of the recognition that they have been affected by a ‘force majeure’ that is not in any way their fault. And as such, are deserving of financial assistance that can minimise such impacts. Well, if this is a good idea for Western Europe and North America, why would it not be equally good for those of us in Africa, who have possibly suffered even greater economic devastation (if not necessarily the same levels of hospitalisations and deaths)? This debate will not end anytime soon.