Construction of the Sh3.5 billion meter-gauge railway line from Mai Mahiu Industrial Park to Longonot town will be complete in June,  three months ahead of the set dates according to contractors. This will pave way for collection of goods from the nearby Inland container depot for onward transportation to neighbouring countries. This emerged as the government announced that the ongoing rehabilitation of the Nairobi-Malaba railway line is on course despite public outcry by over ongoing demolitions. Four Cabinet Secretaries James Macharia (Transport), Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution) and Najib Balala (Tourism), Betty Maina (Industrialisation) on Tuesday visited the ongoing works in Mai Mahiu. Macharia said that the government is keen to commence the transportation of containers from the ICD using railway. He said the upgrade will fast track the transportation of cargo within the region, with the rehabilitation of the Malaba route expected to be completed by September. The Transport CS said once complete, the passenger train to the border town will be reactivated. He said the government is banking on infrastructural development to spur economic growth. Wamalwa defended the SGR project, saying the move to rehabilitate the Naivasha-Malaba route was a master stroke. “Completion of the National Project is vital in spurring economic growth with the connectivity of the various counties,” said the CS. Balala said the SGR had boosted economic activities in the coast region and other parts of the country. “Infrastructural development is also a key driver of tourism and we are all in support of what is happening,” said the CS. Maina said several investors have applied to set up industries in the Special Economic Zone. “We have seven investors who have been allocated land at the 1,000 acre zone with players in the hospitality industry showing willingness to set up hotels within the area,” she said. She said last year, exports increased by Sh31 million, while imports reduced by Sh 300 million an indicator of a resilient economy. 