Garissa Governor Ali Korane has called on clerics to use their positions to promote peaceful co-existence among communities. Korane on Sunday said clerics are people of high standing in the society whose words are taken very seriously. The governor was speaking at his home when he met religious leaders from Balambala, Garissa Township and Fafi subcounties. “Religion has shaped the society across the world. Clerics reprimand and correct the mightiest in the society including the political class,” Korane said. He added, “It is my appeal that you use this God-given position to make sure you do that which is right by pointing out the ills and shortcomings in the society which should include promoting peaceful co-existence among communities.” He said clerics play a key role in community sensitisation and spiritual guidance. Korane said he will reach out to all religious leaders from the other subcounties to ask for their support in preaching peace. "We have established a fully-fledged religious directorate in my administration because we understand your role of inculcating success, righteousness, high moral standings and integrity within our community," the governor noted. Korane said peace meetings were ongoing to address the cross-border conflicts between residents of Garissa and Isiolo counties. The governor announced that he had reached out to Qatar, Morocco, Turkey and Saudi Arabia governments to empower local madrassas and schools and support the county government on various projects including the construction of a modern mother and child center at the Garissa Referral Hospital. Council of Imams member Sheikh Osman Abdi urged politicians to tolerate each other "especially now that we are heading towards next year’s general elections." Osman regretted that the politicians were fueling tension across the country through divisive utterances. He warned that such tension was not good for economic prosperity and threatens peace. He called on the National Cohesion and Integration Commission to work closely with other state agencies and take stern action against such politicians.  Edited by P.O