Deputy President William Ruto was absent from a meeting convened by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the State House, Nairobi, on Thursday. The meeting brought together CSs and PSs. This comes as Uhuru last week told Ruto to quit if he was unhappy in the government. The DP, however, responded by saying he respects his boss and will continue to serve. Meanwhile, the meeting at State House deliberated on the status of ongoing national government programmes covering the Big 4 Agenda and Vision 2030 flagship projects. The President outlined his vision and priorities for this year, top among them the completion of ongoing government projects and programmes across all sectors and regions of the country. Also, the president instructed the officials to ensure prudent utilisation of public resources in service delivery, saying that Kenyans must always get the highest value return for their money. Uhuru also urged the officers to embrace teamwork and unity of purpose so as to deliver the promise of a better and prosperous Kenya for all. Early this month, the president deployed CSs to ensure his legacy projects are completed before he leaves office. The head of state has been on a warpath with a section of politicians who have started early campaigns for next year's elections. On February 2,  CSs were on the ground inspecting some of the flagship projects. Transport CS James Macharia, Najib Balala (Tourism), Eugene Wamalwa (Devolution), and Betty Maina (Industrialisation) toured ongoing government projects in Kibera. They then proceeded to Mombasa Road where they inspected the ongoing expressway construction works. The contractor of the Sh62 billion project took them through a PowerPoint presentation of what they are doing. Last year, the president directed the executive to prioritise the completion of the ongoing projects for the financial year 2020/2021, which started on July 1. In a virtual meeting held at the State House Nairobi on July 2020, Uhuru said that his administration will focus on the implementation and completion of the ongoing priority projects and programs as set out in his Administration's Transformative Agenda for the Nation.