The International Boxing Association president Umar Kremlev is  expected in the country thus Saturday  for a virtual forum. Boxing Federation of Kenya confirmed that Kremlev would be in the country for the AIBA African Virtual Forum planned for February 7, 2021. "AIBA President Umar Kremlev will visit Nairobi, Kenya, the capital of the event, while the AIBA Board of Directors and National Federations representatives will join  the meeting virtually," said BFK communications director Duncan Kuria.. "Initially, he was supposed to have arrived on Monday between 5 and 8 pm but he changed his mind due to an emergency. He will now come on February 6th in the morning. If possible, he will also meet with government officials later in the afternoon,"  Kuria added. Kremlev is also expected to join the 'Hit Squad' for a training session and will later donate boxing equipment to St. Theresa and Githurai 44 boxing clubs. Speaking on Monday ahead of the event, Kremlev said he would be happy to welcome each of the member states to the forum. ‘Together with national federations, I am sure we can build sustainable and prosperous future for boxing. We need to unite and show  joint effort to meet the expectations of the IOC. We have a huge potential to overcome all our difficulties,’ added the AIBA President. "For the second year in a row, we are organising AIBA forums on five continents. Unfortunately, last year, because of the pandemic situation, we conducted only three – in America, Oceania, and Asia, and the rest two, Europe and Africa, were cancelled." "This year, because of the ongoing situation, we will organise everything virtually, so that everybody can participate. We will come to Africa to know what we can improve on the continent and in every single country,"Mr. Kremlev said. Among the issues lined up for discussion include a presentation of the new AIBA Committees and Competition calendar, AIBA Development plan for National Federations, Communication strategy, Anti-doping seminars by the ITA representative and the legal team's report. Meanwhile, African Boxing Confederation (AFBC) President Dr. Mohamed Moustahsane said that African boxing has never experienced an open dialogue with the AIBA leadership. "I will be very pleased to welcome President Umar Kremlev in Africa. He will experience the African climate and our way of living and see the difficulties we are facing. I am sure that together we will find a way to solve it,’ claimed AFBC President. ‘This is a unique opportunity for the continent; it is the first time when AIBA President comes to Africa for a Forum to discuss issues openly with African National Federations. It is very good that Mr. Kremlev will be present and will discuss directly with AIBA member countries his plans and projects, will listen to the continental challenges and will see the African particularities. This is the best way to work together, improving relationships and cooperation. Development always goes through dialogue. I’m sure we will succeed in implementing our projects for the development of boxing on the continent and in a short time improve African boxing at all levels," said Dr. Moustahsane.