Examination papers for the 1.9 million candidates sitting their KCPE and KCSE exams in March will arrive in the country next week. The Star has established that the first batch of the material is set to arrive at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport from the United Kingdom, with more consignments following shortly afterward. The details emerged as preparations to secure the test from interference continue. The measures include the deployment of security personnel and ensuring safe storage in containers. Heavy manpower will be deployed to ensure the success of the exams to be written under special Covid-19 circumstances in March and April. Traditionally, the tests are conducted between October and November. The Kenya National Examination Council says 286,901 field officers—supervisors and invigilators—will be contracted for exam administration compared to the 173,000 field officers engaged in 2019. The details are contained in a document assessing preparedness for the two national examinations. For KCPE, 1,191,411 candidates are registered to take the test in 28,451 centres. For KCSE, 752,933 candidates will sit the exams in 10,437 centres compared to 10,287 approved in 2019. Following the long closure of learning institutions, Knec is gathering data on schools that were closed down and the candidates affected. Among the issues put into consideration is likely adverse weather as the exams will be conducted during the long rains season. The council also points to insecurity and flooding of major lakes and rivers in some parts of the country. The Star has also established that school unrest is a new headache for the smooth running of the examinations. The examinations will be the fifth in a row to be administered under strict measures adopted in 2016 to prevent cheating. This year, the council has secured 479 containers at the subcounty headquarters where the examination papers will be kept. They have a double locking system. Subcounty directors of education and deputy county commissioners will be the only ones authorised to open and close them. Expansive subcounties will get extra containers to be located at assistant county commissioners' official compounds. The appointment of supervisors and invigilators is ongoing and will be completed by the end of this month. Knec will also put in place the required mechanisms to be used to deliver and return the exam materials. Preparations for exam marking are also ongoing. Some 7,402 KCPE examiners and 27,248 KCSE counterparts will be involved. Road and air transport will be used to avert any disruption. KCPE exam will commence on March 22 and end on March 24. KCSE candidates will have their rehearsals on March 25 before sitting the exam from March 26 to April 21.