Bungoma and Nyamira counties on Tuesday passed the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment), Bill 2020. The Bill in Bungoma was tabled  by the Justice and Legal Affairs chairperson Peter Simiyu of Kamukuywa ward in a special meeting held at the assembly buildings . Other counties that have passed the Bill are Nairobi, Vihiga, Laikipia, Kisii, Siaya, Kisumu, Kajiado, West Pokot, Busia, Trans Nzoia, Makueni, Narok, Murang'a, Machakos, Kitui, Garissa, Homa Bay and Kakamega. The BBI proponents had dubbed today as 'Super Tuesday' where as atleast 21 counties were expected to vote on the bill. Bungoma Assembly Majority leader Joseph Nyongesa proposed the Bill and was seconded by Maraka ward  MCA Ali Machani. “As a county  we must be part in the history making of this country in passing adocument that will change the live hoods of our people,” said Machani. Siboti MCA Simiyu Wamusai said that despite the fact that the document was not perfect, it was important that they passed it then make amendments later. "Constitution making is an ongoing process and we can always change it as time goes by,"said wamusai. An effort by Mbakalu MCA Bethwel  Mwambu to punch holes on the Bill was met with resistance . The house unanimously passed the bill despite pockets of resistance from MCAs allied to Deputy President William Ruto. The MCAs unanimously agreed to pass the Bill after intense lobbying by Senator Moses Wetangula on Monday. The MCAS who held crisis meeting with the senator declared they will pass the Bill today. Majority Leader Joseph Nyongesa said that they had  decided to  pass the bill because of the "respect"they have for Wetangula. He said MCAs had told Wetangula their grievances to present it to President Uhuru Kenyatta saying they needed more constiuencies in the county . Earlier ,the MCAs had vowed to shoot down the Bill down if Governor Wycliffe Wangamati was bestowed the position of coordinator. Wangamati has had a frosty relationship with MCAs . Speaking after the meeting, Wetangula said Bungoma will pass the Bill because it brings equity and fairness to the entire nation. Nyamira county assembly on the other hand debated and passed the Bill after 36 members voted for it. The procedural motion to debate theConstitution of Kenya (Amendment), Bill 2020 was made by the Majority Assembly leader Duke Masira, and seconded by the Minority Assembly Leader and Nyansiongo MCA Dennis Kebaso. Kiabonyoru ward MCA Duke Omoti said there was no need to waste time since the residents of Nyamira county are waiting for the Bill to go through. The Bill was presented by the assembly chairperson on Justice and Legal Affairs and nominated MCA Abel Mose. According to the resolutions by the committee, more resources will be given to the county, revenue share from the National assembly will increase to 35 per cent from 15 per cent, additional of a new constituency among other benefits as proposed in the Bill. During the debate, Itibo ward MCA Samwel Nyanchama said the 35 per cent, revenue increment and the ward development fund convinces the whole house to pass the Bill for the benefit of the people of Nyamira county. "With the additional resources to the counties and the creation of Ward Development Fund gives me hope to say a big yes to the Bill," he said. Bomwagamo ward MCA Charles Barongo said there has been peace since the birth of the handshake. "We have been having peace since the handshake deal came up.We no longer need to waste time but just pass the bill so that we can get more goodies and continue enjoying the peace that has been there since the handshake," said Barongo. Magombo ward MCA Richard Onyinkwa said the Bill will get out some powers from the governor by introducing WDF which will be full controlled by the county assembly for development. "We have had a situation where governor possessed ultravirus powers especially on matters revenue to the wards but now with the introduction of ward development fund to the wards, there will be more development in the wards unlike before," Onyinkwa said. Nominated MCA Fred Mosiori said youths will be in charge of their affairs since the Bill creates a youth commission that will be taking care of the youths and allow the youths to be in charge of their own affairs. "The time has come for the elderly, and those who have been in power for a long time have to go back and be taken care of as youths will take over the leadership of of most affairs in the country," Mosiori said. Deputy speaker and Bonyamatuta ward MCA Robinson Mocheche said the Bill is the only one that brings goodies to the people of Nyamira county, saying with the introduction of ward development fund, the members will be directly accountable to the people of their respective wards over development. "After a long struggle for development with a few allocation of cash, we have every reason to support this bill that gives resources for development to our wards," he said. The MCAs said the Bill will enable development in the county with the resources that will be coming from the bill. "With this Bill, the contestants in elections who come second will have a place in the political parties unlike when after elections, the second contestants had to beg for a position or nomination slot from their respective political parties," Omoti said. Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo who was present congratulated the members for passing the bill, and said the counties will be more advanced in development due to the Bill. "We are now waiting for the goodies to the counties and I wish to call upon the MCAs to support the national leadership as we proceed to the referendum," Nyaribo said.