The late Mugithi star Mighty Salim was laid to rest on Tuesday at his father’s home in Subukia, Nakuru county. Hundreds of mourners attended his burial ceremony at the Subukia Stadium where politicians, among them Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui and area MP Samuel Gachobe, were present. Salim was eulogised as a man who revolutionised Kikuyu music into the Mugithi genre alongside his late brother Salim Junior. His fellow artists had placed six guitars around his coffin as it has been the norm whenever one of them dies. Mighty died as he was being rushed to Kenyatta University Referral Hospital following kidney failure. He has left behind a widow and four children. His younger brother Salim Young, also an artist, described him as loving and caring, saying he was also a go-getter. President Uhuru Kenyatta contributed Sh2 million to help the family. This was announced by Governor Kinyanjui who delivered the cash. The governor also added his personal contribution of Sh100,000. He said he will work closely with the family to ensure they do not suffer. “My government will ensure the family of Mighty Salim get a job,” he said, adding that the county government will invest heavily in the youth to promote their talent. Other leaders who attended the event included Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, former Subukia MP Nelson Gaichuhie and artists Samidoh and Muigai wa Njoroge. The artists used the venue to request the President to consider reviewing curfew hours, noting that they are being deprived of their livelihood. Currently, the curfew starts at 10pm and ends at 4am. Meanwhile, Salim's family defended MP Kuria against accusations that he issued the late artist with fake cheques. It was also revealed that Deputy President William Ruto sent Sh100,000 for burial preparations. “Deputy President William Ruto and Moses Kuria have stood with this family and you should ignore all the rumours circulating online,” artist Ngaruiya Junior said. Kuria accused the Jubilee administration of politicking instead of catering for the welfare of artists. “The hustler government will cater for your interests because Jubilee has abandoned you,” he told artists present at the ceremony.