Kenya faces a crisis of teen pregnancy and an uproar over morals as a new study shows girls know far more about sex but boys are far more sexually active. Of course, it's the high rate of pregnancies that has caused the furore. Both girls and boys believe boys are always ready for sex and it's the girls' responsibility to prevent pregnancy, a survey indicates. Adolescents exhibited neutral attitudes towards sexual behaviour, with no observable differences between boys and girls. More adolescents reported having casual sex outside romantic relationships than in 'serious' relationships. Research by the African Population and Health Research Centre in January indicated boys aged 10 to 15 reported higher levels of sexual activity compared to girls their age. Boys also have more relaxed and permissive attitudes about premarital sex than girls in this church-going culture. Their relaxed attitude, the January report said, places boys at higher risk of contracting STIs and HIV than girls. The report titled 'How Early is Too Early?' sought to highlight adolescents' views on gender norms and reproductive health. The surveyors interviewed 907 adolescent boys and girls aged 10 to 15. Interviews were face to face. More boys than girls had had sexual experiences; seven per cent of boys reported having penetrative sex, compared with fewer than two per cent of girls interviewed. Sexual experiences also covered include oral sex, kissing, flirting, cuddling and sexual touching - all practiced more by boys than girls Girls were reported to have more comprehensive information on sexual and reproductive health, including sexual relationships, pregnancy, contraception, HIV-Aids and personal hygiene. “Sexual reproductive health information is essential for very young adolescents to gain knowledge and develop skills enabling them to adopt risk-avoidance or risk reduction strategies,” the report read. Overall, boys were more likely than girls to endorse gender inequitable norms. “Their stereotypical views on strength and weakness implied their belief that masculine strength was an important factor in romantic relationships,” the report read. It recommends programmes to improve boys' sexual knowledge health and well-being. It said 70 per cent of adolescents received sexual and reproductive heath information in schools, but boys benefit most. According to the survey, 81 per cent of boys were likely to receive reproductive health information in classrooms, compared with 73 per cent of girls. Thirty-four per cent of girls surveyed received information in school clubs compared to 23 per cent of boys. More girls (43 per cent) than boys (27 per cent) received reproductive health information outside schools. Mothers, sisters and friends are likely to share information, especially about menstruation, pregnancy and HIV-Aids. Contraception and nocturnal emissions (wet dreams) are seldom discussed. Other sources of information included family (home), youth groups/clubs, health facilities and NGOs. “Gender socialisation begins early and in early adolescence, young people begin to form their thoughts, beliefs and behaviours in accordance with the social and cultural expectations for men and women in their contexts,” the report reads. The UN Sustainable Development Goals says gender equality is a fundamental human right.  (Edited by V. Graham) 