Makasembo residents in Kisumu county have until end month to vacate the property following their tenancy termination to allow for the development of a residential housing scheme consisting of affordable housing. In a letter dated January 18, 2021, addressed to all tenants, and signed by Local Authorities Provident Fund (Lapfund) CEO David Koross and acting city manager Abala Wanga, there was a stakeholders engagement on January 22, 2021, with tenants and January 28, 2021, with sub-tenants during which it was agreed that they shall vacate the property. Lapfund is in the process of redeveloping the parcel with a residential housing scheme consisting of affordable houses in line with the National Government and Kisumu county government's affordable housing agenda. “To pave way for the referenced development, please note that you are hereby notified that your tenancy at the aforementioned premises shall be terminated with effect from February 28, 2021‚” reads the letter. The letter indicated that in a bid to ensure a smooth and dignified transition, the Lapfund landlord is in the process of undertaking a resetting action plan to guide the resettlement process. “Together with its officers and the Kisumu county government, the landlord will continue to engage you and other affected persons to ensure a timely conclusion of the process‚” the letter says. Residents have been left in confusion over eviction as they get different communications from the Kisumu government and the National Housing Corporation (NHC) There has been a row between the two over plans to implement an affordable housing project, with the county accusing the corporation of frustrating its efforts over Sh1 billion debt. The houses in question were developed by the old municipal council using a loan from the corporation. The council, however, defaulted on payments and consequently handed over the houses to the NHC, asking it to collect the rent and pay until the debt is fully paid. However, residents said they are frequently threatened by the county government with displacement and demolition to make room for the Big Four agenda of affordable housing. Makasembo residents said they do not object to any development that will improve their lives. “We are fully aware of the national government objectives of building affordable houses across the country. We are 100 per cent in support of the Big Four agenda,” they said. Led by Makasembo Welfare Adhoc Committee chairman Christopher Amollo, they said they had received a gazette notice from the NHC and correspondence from its lawyers restraining the county government from engaging with them until their matters are concluded. They expressed concern that the defunct Kisumu municipal council currently under the county government and the housing agency have been remitting their rents to the corporation. “We have received a gazette notice from NHC and correspondence from the NHC lawyers restraining the county government of Kisumu from engaging with us until their matters are concluded,” Amollo said. He said the county government and the NHC signed an MoU in September 2020 that Kisumu was to pay 10-20 per cent of the principal loan by December 31, 2020. “We are aware that the county has not honoured its end of the bargain,” he told the press. They expressed concern that they have received memos from the county government from October 2020 calling them for a meetings to discuss redevelopment and upgrade of the estate without inviting NHC representatives.   (Edited by Kiilu Damaris)