Kirwara market traders in Gatanga, Murang’a county have decried the poor state of the facility and asked the county government to make it more conducive for business. The traders said the market does not have water and that the available ablution block is unusable and poses a health hazard. Nelly Waithera, a fruit vendor, said the toilets are only cleaned on Wednesdays and Thursdays despite being used by over 200 people. “They buy several jerrycans of water for cleaning twice a week. That is not enough because the block is used by many people. The toilets get blocked and are now crawling with worms,” she said. The busy market that was constructed by former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth also requires stalls. Waithera said she is forced to display her fruits on improvised wooden stalls and uses an umbrella to shield them from the sun. Market activities are often disrupted whenever it rains with traders scampering for shelter. In 2015, the county government sunk a borehole to provide water to the market but it has since stalled due to a faulty pump. “A market should never be without running water to ensure high hygiene standards are maintained,” Waithera said. Market chairman Peter Kariuki said the facility is key to the economy of the subcounty and that it stands to attract more traders once the Sh3 billion highway that is being constructed to connect Murang’a and Nyandarua is complete. The highway is expected to divert heavy traffic from the Nakuru-Nairobi highway and boost trade between the two areas with Murang'a benefiting from potatoes and carrots from Nyandarua while latter gets bananas and arrowroots. Kariuki said with running water and better stalls, the market has the potential to provide a livelihood to hundreds more, while easing the burden on the public health systems. Ignatius Gachuhi, a resident, said the congestion in market has caused traders to spill over to the main road, causing confusion in the shopping centre. Gachuhi said the market should be expanded and a multi-storey building constructed to separate traders dealing in foodstuffs and non-consumables. This, he said, will attract more revenue for the government while providing ample space for traders to conduct the business.  Edited by P.O