Kirinyaga Anglican church bishop Joseph Kibichua has called for soberness and reconciliation among county assembly members as they commence on house businesses. Speaking during a prayer session held at the assembly premises earlier in the week, Kibichua urged the members to carry themselves with decorum and provide the required leadership that is necessary for steering the county ahead. “Drop all last year’s baggage that has weighed you down and affected your performance. As you draw near in winding up the five years, please work together as a team for the wellbeing of our county,” he said. The cleric also reiterated on the importance of conducting civic education to enlighten the residents on the BBI. “There is too much propaganda being perpetuated over the bill hence a lot of confusion. We want civic education prioritized so that our people can read the document‚” Kibichua said. Assembly speaker Waweru Gathumbi regretted the political misfortunes that played out last year. He said the frosty relationship between the county and national government affected most of the county departments. “We are positive that in the remaining 18 months we will put our differences aside and continue working as a team. Apart from the difficulties we encountered last year, I’m proud of our achievement and for having passed some critical bills like the emergency bill and the Covid-19 bill,” Gathumbi said. He said under this year’s calendar, MCAs will also conclude on last year’s pending bills as well as  all house businesses as guided by the law Deputy majority leader Lilian Wanjiku Gitari pleaded with her colleagues to heed to the reconciliation advice given by the cleric. She was backed by Mutira ward counterpart Kinyua Wangui who called on the church to check on the assembly’s progress from time to time. “The church is a voice of reason especially in the field of politics where spiritual nourishment is deficient. It would not hurt if the church often speaks to politicians‚” he said. Tebere ward representative Gudson Muchina urged his colleague to do what is right for the county residents especially in the wake of the BBI report deliberations On his part, Baragwi MCA David Mathenge pleaded with his colleagues to respect the voice of wananchi while determining the fate of BBI. The county legislator who also doubles up as the budget committee’s chair promised of his committee’s commitment in overseeing the disbursement of development funds to the various wards.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris