Busia county will hold the inaugural Busia Business of the Year Gala Award 2021  on Friday, February 5. As part of the event, an open day will be held at Busia Vocational Training Centre where small- and large-scale traders will showcase their products. The exhibitions will be followed by site visits to Busia Sugar Industry, Alupe University College and the cross-border fish market. The county government, the Kenya National Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the national government have partnered to sponsor the event. Governor Sospeter Ojaamong said the investment conference in Busia has attracted many investors, including Busia Sugar Industry and Olepito Sugar Factory that have created employment directly and indirectly. "The hotel industry is also very vibrant with high bed capacity in the region. These, with many others including milling, bakery and fuelling stations, have raised the profile of the county," he said. The governor said Busia was among the first counties to introduce the Cooperative Enterprise Fund for small and medium scale traders, adding that he will sign a memorandum of understanding with the KNCCI mandating it  to source for donor funding for small scale traders at lower interest rates. He lauded the KNCCI Busia chapter for boosting traders by offering them soft loans, building the capacity of up-and-coming traders, and networking with local and external donors on matters imports and exports for local traders. Ojaamong challenged his executive against sitting on their laurels, urging them to instead strive to deliver on their promises to county residents. The governor said it will not be business unusual for officers who waste time sitting in their offices and failing to deliver their mandates. "We have a huge task to implement projects to the tune of over Sh4 billion, considering the limited time to the end of this financial year on June 30, 2021, thus the need to come out of our comfort zones," he said. Ojaamong told departmental heads to stop hiding under the guise of the coronavirus pandemic or delays in passing the supplementary budget, noting that protocols needed to be adhered to contain Covid-19 while the budget was being uploaded by the Controller of Budget. Edited by Henry Makori