World Health Organization has warned that the new Covid-19 variant from South Africa could fuel a new surge in cases and deaths across the continent. The new strain, which is at least 50 per cent more infectious, has been reported in many African countries including Kenya, Botswana, Ghana and Zambia. The 501Y.V2 variant is predominant and powering record case numbers in South Africa and the sub-region. “The variant which was first detected in South Africa has spread quickly beyond Africa and so what’s keeping me awake at night right now is that it’s very likely circulating in a number of African countries,” Dr Matshidiso Moeti told a virtual news conference last week. Moeti is the WHO regional director for Africa. In Kenya, the first cases of the variant were detected two weeks ago in asymptomatic foreigners. "We all know that this variant is 50 per cent more transmissible, therefore posing a significant risk, in that more people will be infected and therefore could be able to stretch the healthcare system more," acting director general of health Patrick Amoth said. Kenya has recorded 100,773 positive cases of Covid-19 since the outbreak of the disease in March last year. At least one million people have been tested for the viirus. The country has a positivity rate of less than five per cent. WHO asked all countries to ship at least 20 samples to sequencing laboratories every month to help map the fast-evolving situation and best target responses at all levels. “Africa is at a crossroads. We must stick to our guns and double down on the tactics we know work so well. That is mask wearing, handwashing and safe social distancing. Countless lives depend on it,” Moeti said. She said African nations must ramp up testing, the isolation of contacts and the treatment of patients, as well as enhancing proven prevention measures. “Our shared goal is to get ahead of the virus. Unfortunately, the journey will be longer, harder and far more costly in the absence of consistent, all-of-society commitments to blocking infection,” she said. Most vaccines work against the SA variant. Kenya plans to reach at least 1.25 million people between February and June. During this period, frontline healthcare workers, all staff working in health facilities and workers offering essential services will be inoculated with priority given to sectors such as security. The Health ministry also announced plans to build the capacity of more than 23,000 healthcare workers including 8,000 health volunteers in areas of vaccine administration, logistics management, data capture and monitoring. The second phase is expected to run from July 2021 to June 2022 during which 9.7 million more Kenyans will receive the jab depending on availability of the vaccines. "The target population in this phase will be Kenyans aged above 50 years and those above 18 years of age with underlying health conditions,” Health Cabinet Secretary Mutahi Kagwe said.  Edited by P.O