There is actually no reason why the Building Bridges Initiative referendum would fail. The excitement among MCAs after getting car grants from the government is a clear indication that BBI will be passed by almost all county assemblies. Only some intoxicated MCAs from some regions will reject the BBI Bill, which is before the assemblies. Tell me which MCA will decline to accept the car grants being given freely by the government? None. Majority of them will approve the Bill because they will be smiling all the way to the bank. The BBI plan to save constituencies protected in the 2010 Constitution will be reason enough for Kenyans from affected regions to support the Bill. The calibre of politicians campaigning for the Bill leaves no doubt that the referendum will be approved very early in the morning. Besides, regional bigwigs are supporting the referendum push. ODM leader Raila Odinga has the whole of Nyanza with him and with ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Cotu secretary general Francis Atwoli supporting the BBI, Western and Nyanza are locked. Raila's key allies in the Coast region, including governors Hassan Joho and Amason Kingi, also support BBI, meaning Raila still dominates the Coast region. President Uhuru Kenyatta is the face of Mt Kenya and despite the current challenges, the region will support the BBI referendum. For your information, the BBI referendum will sail through with or without the support of Mt Kenya region. The other regions supporting BBI wholeheartedly combined will deliver a decisive victory for the referendum, without necessarily relying on Mt Kenya. Uhuru left it until it was too late. He allowed Deputy President William Ruto to penetrate and encroach the region after he planted his own people during the 2017 Jubilee nominations. The Jubilee nominations in 2017 were a total mess and Ruto took the opportunity to plant his allies whom he pushed through to get the tickets enabling him to penetrate Mt Kenya without Uhuru's knowledge. However, the people opposing BBI are lightweights. The political analyst and the University of Nairobi lecturer spoke to the Star