The Kenya Navy is building a cargo and passenger vessel for Sh1.2 billion in the Sh3 billion rehabilitated Kisumu port. Defence CAS Peter Odoyo said on Tuesday building works are on course but did not say when the vessel would be completed. He is one of many Cabinet officials touring the country to inspect projects, prod contractors and tell Kenyans the administration of President Uhuru Kenyatta is fulfilling its development promises. The official spoke while inspecting the Sh3.8 billion rehabilitation of the 217km Nakuru-Kisumu railway line. The rail works are complete and the Kenya Defence Forces is expected to hand over the line to the Kenya Railways Corporation in 10 days. Odoyo said building the vessel at home will save Kenyans Kenyans Sh1.6 billion because an imported one costs Sh2.8 billion. “The Kenya Navy has been underutilised but now the armed forces we are at work,” he said. The vessel will carry thousands of tons of cargo and passengers. "It will be bigger than the MV Uhuru,"Odoyo said. The CAS said KDF has the capacity and expertise to build ships, tanks and rockets. “Kenyans, don’t be fooled. We have the capacity and experts. Give Kenya Navy money and they will build for a ship that can carry even 100 aircraft, a rocket to the moon and a war tank that can hit something at 50km,” he said. He also called on university graduates with a First Class degree in electronics, ICT and engineering to seek further training from the KDF. “We shall train you even more to be the best,” Odoyo said. Odoyo Kenya needs more cargo and passenger vessels for regional trade. The CAS said the Nakuru-Kisumu railway is very important to the refurbished Sh3 billion Kisumu port that needs cargo. Businesses that relied on the railway will bounce back, creating opportunities for youths. Odoyo said the MV Uhuru was rehabilitated by Kenya Navy for Sh200 million. The original contractors wanted Sh1.8 billion but Navy construction saved more than Sh1.6 billion. “We are at the disposal of Kenya Railways and if they want more support from the Navy to rehabilitate more ships we are ready to come in,” Odoyo said. The MV Uhuru has made 45 trips since last year., usually carrying fuel to Uganda. Edited by Kiilu Damaris