The European Union has condemned in the strongest terms the military coup in Myanmar. In a press statement on February 2, the EU said it is an unacceptable attempt to forcibly overturn the will of the people of Myanmar. “Through their high turnout, the people of Myanmar expressed their strong belief in the democratic process in the general election on 8 November 2020. The election marked an important milestone in the country’s democratic transition. Any allegation of voting irregularities has to be settled within the proper legal and administrative channels,” the EU said. The European bloc noted that overturning the choice of the people of Myanmar by force is illegal, against the principles of democracy and takes the country backwards. International media reported that Myanmar’s military seized power on Monday in a coup against Aung San Suu Kyi’s government, after which detained her along with President Win Myint and other party leaders. “The generals made their move hours before parliament had been due to sit for the first time since the National League for Democracy’s landslide win in a November 8 election viewed as a referendum on Suu Kyi’s fledgling democratic rule,” Reuters reported. The move drew criticism from western countries, with US President Joe Biden threatening sanctions against the country. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres on Monday condemned the detention of Myanmar’s top political leaders and government officials. On Tuesday, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has voiced “deep fears” of a violent crackdown on dissenting voices in Myanmar The EU said it has been a steadfast supporter of Myanmar’s civilian and democratic transition, its peace process and national reconciliation, and its inclusive socio-economic development. “We call upon the military to immediately and without any conditions release the President, the State Counsellor and all those who have been arrested, exercise maximum restraint, restore telecommunications, and respect human rights, freedom of expression, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law,” the statement said, The EU also called for an end of the state of emergency and restoration of the civilian government. Aung got to power in 2016 after years of military rule, which took over in the 1962 coup. She has, however, been criticised internationally for failing to stop the expulsion and persecution of hundreds of thousands of Rohingyas in 2017.