A group of opinion leaders from Kirinyaga has protested against the county's BBI steering committee, saying it is non-inclusive. The group called Kirinyaga opinion leaders said youth, the business community, religious leaders, persons living with disability and professionals have been left out. They also fear that should the BBI campaigns be led by some county leaders, the initiative will meet resistance on the ground and be rejected. “We support the BBI proposals because of the benefits we stand to reap under the initiative. However, we are against the handpicking of some leaders we think have contributed to the rundown of our county to lead this process,” said chairman Francis Mutegi. “Much as it was agreed during the Sagana State Lodge meeting with the President that each county produce a 15-member team to market the initiative, the lead team in Kirinyaga is wanting and should be re-constituted.” The group said residents might fail to distinguish the BBI initiative from the 2022 election campaigns if the team leads the push as constituted. The BBI steering committee comprises Governor Anne Waiguru, who is leading the team, Senator Charles Kibiru and Mwea MP Kabinga Wachira as vice chairman and secretary. The disgruntled group says they are not aware of any other members of the committee, which is supposed to have 15 people, apart from the three. If there are, they should make themselves known, members said. The group addressed the press after submitting its petition to the county commissioner. The members said they had also emailed the petition to the national BBI secretariat. Kibiru told the Star that a committee is in place, led by Waiguru. The senator said he is Waiguru's deputy, while county assembly majority leader Kamau Murango is the first vice chairman. He said Wachira and his Kirinyaga Central counterpart Munene Wambugu are the secretaries. Kibiru said the team is properly constituted, with representatives from the business community, youth and women, among other groups. "This is just an interim team and furthermore, not everyone in all our different factions can be brought on board to lead the process. So what the team that has been okayed needs is cooperation so that the process can run smoothly," he said. Mutegi said they are willing to traverse the county to conduct civic education once the distribution of BBI booklets begins. “However, we want the face of BBI in the county to be leaders who have proved to be accountable and of high repute,” he said. John Nderitu said some of the leaders misunderstood the President’s inclusivity message and acted impulsively. “By inclusivity, the President not only meant the political class but all groups. It’s sad though that some of our county politicians decided to lock themselves up in some  high-end hotels in Nairobi and seal the county’s BBI campaign fate. That we shall not accept,” he said. However, not every leader in the county supports the BBI. Leaders opposed to the initiative include Narc Kenya party leader Martha Karua and Woman Representative Wangui Ngirici. Karua is leading the Linda Katiba Movement. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya