Two more suspects were Monday arrested and Sh3 million recovered from them in connection with the Sh15 million heist from the house of a Chinese national in Lang'ata area, Nairobi. The suspects were arrested in Mombasa by a team of Directorate of Criminal Investigation’s Special Service Unit (SSU). Police said they recovered Sh2 million from one of the suspects while the second one had deposited Sh1 million into his bank account. The money has been frozen ahead of withdrawal as an exhibit, police said. According to police, the first suspect was intercepted while onboard a Toyota Vanguard in Mombasa and found with Sh2 million in cash. The car is believed to have been the same they used to escape from the Chinese national’s house last Thursday night. “With further investigations ongoing, the Vanguard vehicle which is believed to be the one captured on CCTV at the scene has been detained and kept as an exhibit,” said the DCI. It was then the second suspect was found with receipts to show he had deposited the Sh1 million in his account and later took officers to the bank where they confirmed the same. Police believe the money is part of the cash that was stolen from the Lang'ata house. Four other suspects were Monday produced in court as police made a miscellaneous application to detain them. The officers were allowed to hold them for five days up to Friday as they continue with investigations. Mr Wang Daoli went to Langata police station on Friday and informed officers there he had lost the money which was in a safe. He had earlier on claimed the money lost was Sh50 million but changed his statement and said it was Sh15 million. He told police he was misunderstood in his earlier statement. Police investigations have since placed some of the detained workers at the crime scene. This was through review of CCTV footage from the house that captured them walk in and out of the bedroom before Daoli discovered the money was missing. They are likely to face stealing by servant charges, police said. Daoli had on February 11 gone to a party outside Phenom estate in Lang'ata to celebrate China’s New Year when the incident happened. He told police he left his house at about 6.30 pm for the party and came back at 11 pm when he found the safe containing the said money in both Kenyan and US dollars missing. Daoli said he had left his driver and househelp in the house. Daoli is a businessman in the country as he imports assorted goods and sells them, he told police. Police later visited the said scene and documented it. The officers said the bedroom was not broken into. The compound too was not breached. The officers concluded the incident was an inside job. When asked why he kept such huge amount of money in his house he explained his nature of work dictates so. Head of SSU Pius Gitari said they are determined to recover all the money. “We always encourage people the safest place to keep your money is in a bank. We are however following various leads into this,” he said.