A county boss close to President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga (pictured) is said to have gone into overdrive to have the BBI Bill passed by his assembly. The county chief has lined up several meetings with the ward reps after getting wind that MCAs were secretly planning to reject the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020. A little bird tells Corridors of Power that the governor is even willing to get down on his knees to beg the MCAs to support the Bill overwhelmingly. He is keen not to be embarrassed as he has been boasting that his region is fully behind the referendum process and his county will be among the first approve the Bill. *** A senior official of a county in Nyanza is said to be on the run from his two wives who are hunting him down for abandoning his children. The man is rarely seen in his homes after finding a new love. The two women have teamed up and are doing everything within their means to prevent their husband from marrying a third wife. The two are said to be trying to get hold of the 'slay queen' to teach her a lesson for eating their own lunch. For weeks now, they have been tracking the love birds at popular entertainment joints but in vain. A mole tells Corridors of Power the two women have even visited their husband's office hoping to get information on the whereabouts of their rival from staff. *** A politician from Central Kenya has vanished from the political stage. The man who had been drumming up support for the BBI has suddenly gone quiet and reduced his public political associations with another politician. It's whispered that regional dynamics could have pushed the man into silence. Sources whisper to Corridors that the man could be in a dilemma over which direction to take as President Uhuru Kenyatta's preferred candidate remains a mystery. However, his associates say his indecision will hurt his political fortunes. *** A vocal Member of Parliament from Western Kenya region who had a run-in with local authorities is regretting his actions that now threaten to derail his 2022 ambitions. Elders from his constituency have vowed to teach him a lesson. The MP is notorious for courting trouble and many of his constituents now say his abrasive and overbearing manner of handling his opponents has no place in the current political dispensation. His opponents are lining up to use his shortcomings, which include his lacklustre performance in the constituency, to vigorously campaign against him in the next polls.