Some Mombasa MCAs allied to Deputy President William have said they are still in the hustler movement despite endorsing the BBI Bill. The MCAs said they voted for development and representation and will not decamp from Ruto’s side. MCAs Charles Kitula (Frere Town), Faith Mwende (Kipevu), Abrary Mohammed (Kongowea), Athman Shebe (Jomvu), Robert Nyiro (Bamburi), Fahad Kassim (Mjambere), and Kombe Nzai of Kadzandani joined Ruto during his Coast tour three weeks ago. Ruto has called the BBI process unnecessary and the ward rep's endorsement went counter to that stance. Nyali MP Mohamed Ali, who hosted Ruto in Frere Town grounds, urged the MCAs to ensure that the BBI Bill does not sail through at the county assembly. Ruto also used the Frere Town meeting to pick holes in the BBI, saying it will increase the wage bill and benefit people who do not want the hustlers to grow. Abrary said the BBI constitutional reforms did not address the issue of land and the blue economy at the Coast but is otherwise good. “This document is good, but it did not address critical issues that affect the Mombasa people. The issues of land and blue economy are very close to our hearts in Mombasa,”  Abrary said. Speaking to the Star, Kitula said the BBI benefits the MCAs more. “In Mombasa, we are going to have three additional constituencies, which means additional wards. The MCAs will be given the ward fund and they can be appointed county executive members,” Kitula said. Kitula said they still support Ruto's candidature for president in 2022. “No, we have not left the hustler nation. Ruto is still our president in 2022. As a matter of fact, Ruto has not been opposing BBI, he has only been advocating for a non-contested referendum,” he said. Mwende, an independent MCA and supporter of Ruto’s candidature, said the BBI Bill shall have more women elected into the Senate. Kassim, Nyiro and Shebe also said they support the Bill because the Mombasa people have supported it. “We are known to be the opposition in this assembly. However, we are happy to say that all Mombasa residents were involved during the public participation and their views are well represented,” Shebe said. The BBI debate at the assembly began at 10.30am and concluded at around 11.50am Tuesday. All 41 MCAs voted for the document. The session was chaired by Speaker Aharub Khatri and attended by Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris