 Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has promised never to desert the ODM party in a move that throws plans for the formation of a Coast-based political outfit in limbo. Only last week, Joho and three other regional governors held a meeting in Taita Taveta where they agreed to have a common party to push for their agenda. The meeting was attended by Joho, Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta), Amason Kingi (Kilifi) and Dhado Godana of Tana River. It was hosted at Samboja's Mwakishimba residence in Wundanyi. During a five-hour closed-door meeting, the governors agreed in one voice that they will support one of their own for the presidency. However, on Friday, Joho took a u-turn saying he is in ODM to stay. He has already submitted his nomination papers to become the party's presidential flag-bearer in 2022. “I have submitted my nomination papers to ODM party and I expects that if I win in the nominations, the entire ODM brigade, including party leader Raila Odinga, will support my candidature,” Joho said. The formation of the Coast-based political party is Kingi’s idea. Joho has been advocating for the strengthening of ODM. The Mombasa governor is the ODM deputy party leader while Kingi was also elected on the ODM ticket. Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir, who is a close ally of Joho, said the governor will not desert ODM, a house he helped to build. “I’m among those who built ODM. Joho is also among those who built ODM. We will not desert a house that we built to go build another one from scratch,” Nassir said. He added, “We deserve to be the leaders of that house (ODM). We were part and parcel of building it to achieve its popularity in this region and in the country.” Nassir, who is eyeing the Mombasa governorship after Joho’s two-terms in office, said they will be moving around the Coast region to popularise ODM. Last month, Joho led a team of ODM politicians in a party popularisation tour of Tana River county. “Next weekend, we will be in Lamu county to continue with our campaigns. We will traverse the entire region to sell our party,” Nassir said. In those meetings, Nassir said they will be selling Joho’s 2022 presidential candidature to their supporters. “We deserve a seat at the top. We want to state that we have the ability to win in ODM nominations onwards to the general election of 2022,” Nassir said. On February 1, Joho and Kingi hosted 26 MPs and senators in a hotel in Mombasa to discuss the future of the region. Joho was looking to popularise his bid and strengthen ODM. However, majority of Kilifi leaders, led by Kingi want a Coast-based party. Teddy Mwambire (Ganze MP) Badi Twalib (Jomvu), Nassir and Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo were among those present. Both Joho and Kingi want to have strong political bargaining power by controlling the two million vote region. “Basically, the meeting was to form a common front for the coastal leadership. We want to speak as one team and have strong political bargaining power,” an MP who attended the meeting said.  Edited by P.O