President Uhuru Kenyatta has appointed Lewis Nguyi as the chairman of the National Hospital Insurance (NHIF) Board. The appointment was made in a special gazette notice dated February 23. Nguyi will take over from Hannah Muriithi who has been at the helm of the board since April 2018. The President also appointed Sitoyo Lopokoiyit as the chairperson of the board of the Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital (MTRH). He takes over from former Eldoret East MP Joseph Lagat. Lopokoiyit works at Safaricom PLC since April 2018, having previously served as M-Commerce Director at Vodacom Tanzania PLC Ltd from October 2015. As the Chief Financial Services Officer, he is responsible for growing M-Pesa to a fully-fledged financial platform. He is in charge of New Business Ventures, Product Management and Development for both Consumer and Enterprise. Lopokoiyit takes over on March 29. In the notice, the President also appointed Dr Daniel Mbinda Musyoka as the chairman of the board of Kenya Medical Research Institute (Kemri) and revoked the appointment of Naftali Agata. The changes at NHIF come at a time when the fund is implementing the Universal Health Coverage (UHC). The government rolled out the UHC pilot programme in Machakos, Isiolo, Kisumu and Nyeri counties in 2018 and the regions have provided insights into what our national UHC programme will look like. The pilot Program dubbed Afya Care – Wema Wa Mkenya- is aimed at enabling Kenyans to access affordable healthcare without financial hardship. It is based on the principle that all individuals and communities should have access to quality, essential health services without suffering financial hardship. According to the programme, the next steps in the UHC include increasing the uptake and utilisation of community health volunteers (CHVs) services, investing in the standardisation of diagnostics and prioritising the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS) programme for biometric registration of patients. Others include strengthening the monitoring of health facilities under the UHC pilot phase, strengthening health systems in the 43 non-pilot counties and ensuring efficient and appropriate use of health funds.