The Kenya National Union of Teachers leadership will not bow to pressure and allow the lobby to collapse, officials have said. They said efforts by the Teachers Service Commission to weaken and subsequently deregister the once vibrant union would not succeed. Knut national vice-treasurer Abdi Hussein Ali said the union has for the last three years faced numerous hardships following a consistent reduction in the number of its members. But he said the Knut leadership is determined to strengthen the union again and protect the interests of its members. “Our membership has been offloaded and others have been forced out,” Ali said in an interview. “We are in agreement that teachers of this country love this union but whatever has happened is not their wish, but they are watching.” The deliberate reduction in the number of Knut members by the teachers’ employer, Ali said, is aimed at scaling down teachers’ remittances to the union. This, he said, is projected at financially weakening the union that fights for teachers’ rights. He, however, said the move will fail as the Knut leadership continues to seek alternative ways through which teachers will pay their subscription fees directly to the union. “We are hurt by what is happening, but we must stand together because all strong unions, all over the world, are fought by governments,” Ali said. “That is exactly what is happening to the Kenya National Union of Teachers.” Ali spoke five days after Knut secretary-general Wilson Sossion warned TSC of dire consequences if it fails to resume remitting members’ subscription fees. Sossion, who was speaking in Vihiga on Saturday when he oversaw branch elections, said the union will bring down TSC chief executive officer Nancy Macharia if the teachers’ employer continues to violate court orders. The unionist said the court had ruled that teachers should be promoted automatically on experience, performance and qualification but the TSC had declined to implement the order. Knut Teso branch executive secretary Omuse Olakachuna said the Knut leadership has no alternative but to devise ways that would save the union from collapse. The union’s leadership, Omuse said, is in talks with members to start contributing fees directly to the union’s branches across the country. Teso branch Knut chairman Olunga Ekweny said TSC will not succeed in killing the union. Knut is presently facing a financial crisis after TSC refused to remit members’ subscription fees. The commission has also systematically reduced Knut’s membership to about 34,000 from about 190,000 three years ago. Sossion said the constitutional rights that TSC is enjoying at the moment were fought for through Knut in 2017. If TSC continues to frustrate the union, Sossion said, they will call on the International Labour Organisation to sanction it. He said teachers will not back the BBI agenda if President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga fail to intervene and protect the union from TSC.  