The government of Somalia has said that the ongoing protests in the country over the elections will not undermine peace and progress gained so far. In a statement through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it said that the locals can rest assured the progress of our nation will neither be circumvented nor stopped. It added that the Federal Government of Somalia will hold an election in order to pave the way for moving forward the realisation of the aspiration of the Somali people for peace and prosperity. The government said that rather than supporting the finalisation of the outstanding issues on the implementation of the political agreement of September 17, the prospective presidential candidates chose to instigate chaos. The government said that elections are the only course for transition not fostering constitutional crisis nor supporting insurrection. Also, the federal government has condemned the violence against members of the Somali Security Forces carried out by security personnel of the prospective presidential candidates on the night of February 19, 2021. "It’s to be noted, the right to hold a demonstration is an indisputable right of every citizen, stipulated by our constitution but not an armed insurrection under the guise of a political demonstration," part of the statement. It added that those who aspire to the highest office in the land and want to lead the Somali nation have sought to bring instability. "...at precisely the moment the federal government of Somalia with the support of the Somali people are protecting Somalia’sintegrity and independence while retaining their dignity and honor as an equal among the nation-states of the globe." On Friday, United Nations secretary-general Antonio Guterres expressed his concern over the outbreak of violence in Mogadishu and called on all parties to exercise restraint and calm. Guterres urged the Federal Government of Somalia and Federal Member States leaders to urgently come together and finalize a political agreement on the way forward for national elections, in line with the September 17 electoral model. The secretary-general also called for the full respect of the rights to peaceful assembly and freedom of expression. Guterres's remarks were echoed by the African Union Commission (AUC) chairperson Moussa Faki Mahamat. Faki said that the dialogue should be guided by the spirit of compromise with a view to arriving at a consensual agreement, including on all outstanding election-related matters. On Thursday, former State Minister of Defense Gen Sheikh Yusuf Inda Adde declared that the government of Somalia President Mohamed Abdullahi Farmajo was illegitimate. Yusuf took control of the monument of the Unknown Soldier in the Somalia capital Mogadishu.