A contingent of armed police officers led by Nakuru Town West Sub-County Police Commander, stopped a strategic campaign meeting organised by Tanga Tanga team. Nine MPs allied to the newly formed United Democratic Alliance among them Senator Susan Kihika, Dagoretti legislator John Kiarie and outspoken Bahati MP, Kimani Ngunjiri, who were blocked from entering the meeting venue. Police lobbed tear gas canisters to disperse the parliamentarians who were set to attend a consultative meeting regarding the London Ward by-election. The officers also threw tear gas canisters inside Kenya Medical Training College, apparently to disperse students who had started gathering and chanting slogans. The other MPs present were Nakuru County Woman Rep, Liza Chelule, her Nyandarua counterpart, Faith Gitau, Nyeri Woman Rep, Rahab Mukami and Mohammed Ali, Nyali. The politicians left and later gathered their supporters at the home of former Nakuru Mayor, John Kitilit within Milimani Estate. Kihika condemned the interruption and accused the government and Jubilee Party of using the police to fight opponents. "It is very wrong for the government to disperse a legitimate meeting. We had followed the due diligence and informed the police officer in charge of London Police Station," she said. She challenged Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang'i and Police Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai to resign and join politics instead of being used to play politics. "The two are State officers and I wonder why they are being used to fight political wars," Kihika said. She said the police and government could have the weapons but the people had the utmost power of the vote. "We are within the official campaign period here in London ahead of the by-election on March 4 and I do not understand why the government is denying UDA an opportunity to woo voters," she added. Ngunjiri said leaders in UDA will not be intimidated by the threats from government proponents. The MP said he had received death threats through his phone. "I have reported the threats to police and I believe action will be taken," he said. Uncowed, the politicians later did a campaign caravan with more than 100 motorbikes, an ad truck and a convoy of vehicles. They also received several defectors who included two candidates for the London Ward sit. Area police commander, Samson Gathuku, said the meeting was illegal and did not adhere to the set COVID-19 protocols.