Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata will host Deputy President William Ruto in Gatanga on Sunday. In a tweet on Saturday, he warned against plotting 'evil schemes'. Two weeks ago, Kang'ata was removed as the Senate Majority Chief Whip after he wrote a letter to the President saying BBI was unpopular in Mt Kenya. The senator said the letter was leaked and that he did not release it to the media. Kang'ata was replaced by Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi. Jubilee secretary general Tuju said that while Kang'ata was within his rights to express his opinion to the President, the party had an issue with the manner in which he did it. On Friday, Ruto said he’s not scared at whatever direction the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020 will take as he is focussed on the presidency. The DP said he will not be moved because some people want to push him to lead a NO campaign against the BBI, but would not. “I don’t want to focus on BBI because it’s upon Kenyans to decide their own fate and the way they want to be governed but not the governors deciding how to share positions among themselves,” he said. He spoke in Nandi Hills town after a series of meetings in which he commissioned development projects in Nandi county. DP Ruto said it was now his turn to gun for the top seat after supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta from 2002. He said the “hustlers” had opted to use the wheelbarrow sign as their logo and had nothing to do with classification of the society. “Why are they concerned with our wheelbarrow trying to interpret its meaning yet they are not telling us what the “Orange, umbrella, cockerel, lion, buffalo or vuvuzella meant…ours is hard work and eating by your sweat,” Ruto said. He said the hustlers nation doesn't believe on them being “organised” from the top by the mighty and powerful but by themselves. “Even the economy, we will not use the current style of borrowing but ensure generation of revenues to fund development because where we are now as a nation is bad due to external debts,” he said.