On February 4, 2021, world football governing body Fifa banned two Kenyan clubs, Gor Mahia and Wazito, from signing new players in the ongoing transfer window. The development came after Gor failed to pay Tanzania winger Dickson Ambudo Sh1.2 million while Wazito failed to offset a Sh1 million debt owed to Liberian Augustin Otu. Apart from Otu, four other players also reported Wazito to Fifa. They included Ghanaian forward Paul Acquah, Togolese defender Issofou Bourhana, Ugandan midfielder Mansoor Safi and DR Congo forward Piscas Muhindo who were all awarded a total of Sh6 million in salary arrears. Mansoor got Sh1,698,000, with Sh370,000 outstanding remuneration. Acquah was awarded Sh2,165,806 plus Sh150,000 remuneration, while Muhindo got Sh1,040,000 and Sh200,000 remuneration. Ambundo left Gor Mahia in 2020 to link up with Dodoma Jiji before Fifa ordered the club to pay him Sh1.2 million accrued from salary arrears and allowances. In the rulings made by Fifa’s Dispute Resolution Chamber on December 16 and October 26, Gor and Wazito were each given 45 days to pay the players. “We take due note that in its correspondence, the creditor informed us that the debtor has not complied with its financial obligation in accordance with the decision of Fifa," said the letter. "In this regard, we wish to inform the parties that a ban from registering new players internationally has been implemented by Fifa as of today. “Debtor member association is requested to immediately implement on the debtor, if not done yet, a ban from registering new players at the national level.” A highly-placed source at Wazito has confirmed they received the letter from Fifa, adding they would call a news conference to address the issue next Wednesday once a ruling has been made on their appeal. It has become a norm for Kenyan footballers to go for many months without a salary and even leave a club without their arrears being cleared. Tusker's Luke Namanda says he is still owed a lot of money by his former employer, Nzoia Sugar. "I'm yet to receive my money from the club to-date, including Sh60,000 that accrued from match-winning allowances," he said. National Super League side Chemelil captain Philip Mwangale also recently raised concerns about the club's inability to pay players. "After the original team was disbanded last year, the club hasn't paid money owed to former players. Clubs ought to rethink their strategies, given such incidents only serve to cast aspersions on the commitment of local clubs to the welfare of their players," he said. The inability to pay personnel is detrimental to their personal growth and career development.