Senators have urged the government to conduct an audit of all children's homes run by foreigners to curb increasing cases of sexual exploitation in the facilities. Nominated Senator Petronilla Were, in a petition to the House, said the audit should involve background checks on all foreign managers of children's homes. “The government should not allow the innocence of our children to be lost in these homes. Children with problems take refuge in these homes and land into the trap,” she told members. Were's petition follows the conviction to more than 15 years in prison of a man from Pennsylvania in the US for abusing four underage girls under his care in the country. A US court found Gregory Dow, 61, guilty of the crimes on February 4. Acting United States Attorney Jennifer Arbittier Williams announced Dow was also ordered to pay over Sh1.7 million in restitution. Dow was accused of sexually assaulting four girls between 2013 and 2017 while running Dow Family Children's Home in Boito, Bomet county. He established the home in 2008. Nominated Senator Alice Milgo said vulnerable children, especially those from poor backgrounds, seek refuge at the nearest children's homes. “Vulnerable children will often run to any home. I hope the Senate committee that will handle this matter will investigate deeply and give strong recommendations on how sexual exploitation in homes can be stopped,” she said. Kilifi Senator Stewart Madzayo said there is a need for urgent intervention since Dow's case was not isolated. “It was not an isolated case. Cases of sexual exploitation in children's homes have become a norm in the country,” he said. He said that Dow managed to flee because he was able to bribe his way out. Dow fled the country in 2017 after police were tipped of the illegal acts at the home, which has since been closed. During the hearing of the case, Dow admitted to abusing the girls multiple times. He had established the children’s home under the guise of Christianity, with financial support from churches and faith-based organisations from the US. Prosecutors said his wife even took his victims to a medical clinic for birth control implants. Williams said Dow had “travelled halfway around the world to prey on incredibly vulnerable victims.” Were said proper background checks need to be conducted on foreigners establishing homes in liaison with authorities from their home countries. “The government should also set up a monitoring mechanism to deter and arrest these incidents,” she added. Were further said the government should consider establishing a police unit to handle such cases. Nominated Senator Agnes Zani said the government should be keen to know how the homes are run. Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang'ula regretted that innocent children are falling into the hands of criminals coming into the country under the guise of running children's homes. “It is time we conduct a thorough audit of these children's homes. Some are run by people who have been convicted of various crimes in their countries,” he said.  