In a recent gathering, I was stunned to hear of a parent who failed to enrol one of her children in school because she was living with disability. Her simple explanation was that the child did not require any formal education. This is an example of how the wider society discriminates against people with disabilities, denying them social, economic, political, education and self-developmental rights. It is against this background, and in appreciation of challenges that PWDs face, that Kenya Pipeline Company, through its foundation, established the Inuka programme. The programme has two facets: Inuka Scholarship programme that helps children access secondary school education and Inuka Social Empowerment Programme that aims at building capacities of PWDs in skills-based training and other economic opportunities. KPC set up the Inuka Scholarship programme in 2016. The first batch of beneficiaries was enrolled in Form 1 in January 2017. They were to complete their secondary school education at the end of last year, but were delayed by the Covid-19 pandemic. With 94 new students joining the programme each year, the number of beneficiaries has grown to 376. The foundation collaborates with the National Council for Persons Living with Disabilities in the programme, which enrolls two children, a boy and a girl, from each of the 47 counties. The initiative pays their school fees and meets other basic needs. Indeed, the programme has been instrumental in complementing the efforts of the national government towards the realisation of one of Vision 2030 goals of providing equitable access to quality education at all levels. The company spends Sh14 million annually, translating to Sh56 million since the programme began. Indeed, KPC has and continues to make a positive impact on society through improving the lives of individuals, special groups, and communities. We have set aside resources to give back to society as our way of appreciating not only the resident communities along our easement – adjacent to our pipeline network. Undeniably, we have made a deliberate decision to consistently set aside one per cent of our Profit Before Tax and dedicated the same to Corporate Social Investment activities annually. Certainly, access to quality education for every child is a necessary ingredient to spur socioeconomic growth. This explains why we attach great importance to education as a key pillar in our CSI initiatives. Through this agenda, the company aims at promoting quality education for all Kenyans. It is important to note that KPC has aligned its CSI programmes with the government goals of access to quality education for all children. Irrefutably, sustainable CSR, which has now morphed into CSI, demands a critical appreciation and understanding of the key issues that affect communities within the areas we operate in and offer solutions that give hope and ultimately transform the lives of the beneficiaries. As Africa’s premier oil & gas company, and as a responsible corporate citizen, we must meaningfully engage and direct our social investments to such issues sustainably and in line with our strategic objectives. The provision of quality education, health, infrastructure, among others, are key considerations in our strategic vision. Certainly, our belief is that creating a lasting impact on society matters more than the profits we may make. Consequently, in realisation of the huge impacts of a proper CSI strategy and the need to better realise the benefits of our philanthropy, we thought as KPC that we needed a more organised vehicle to drive this strategy. It is this thinking that moved us to establish KPC Foundation to drive our CSI agenda. Through the foundation, we seek to accelerate our social investments to communities and transform lives through the implementation of impactful initiatives. Further, a foundation is critical for effective and centralised avenue of giving back to society in an organised, systematic and targeted manner. Communities continue to give positive feedback about KPC in appreciation of the projects and programmes that we have undertaken for them. Besides, the foundation has helped us in broadening the scope of our community support options, which include offering grants to communities during emergencies in form of disaster relief and economic hardships. In 2019, through the Kenya Red Cross Society, we helped victims of landslides in West Pokot to rebuild their homes. Significantly, sustainable CSI can easily be achieved through a foundation. This is because sustainability demands that firms prioritise increased and high-level accountability and transparency not only with key shareholders, but the community at large. Such candidness is easily achieved. Through our foundation, KPC has been able to work closely with communities along our right of way in partnership with other major stakeholders and has responded sustainably to potential environmental challenges associated with our business. It is much easier to communicate the impact of the business to society, without having to justify your existence in times of a crisis. KPC managing director md@kpc.co.ke