President Uhuru Kenyatta has joined leaders in mourning former Cabinet minister Simeon Nyachae who died on Monday. In a statement released from the Sagana State Lodge on Monday, the President said Nyachae's successful transition from public service to the world of business and politics was a demonstration that focus and hard work pay. Uhuru said his death has robbed Kenya of a wise statesman whose long service to the nation helped shape the country's standing as one of Africa's most progressive economies. “I am deeply saddened by the passing away of Mzee Simeon Nyachae, a distinguished son of Kenya, a friend and a man whose contribution to the making of the Kenyan nation will remain with us for eternity,” Uhuru said. He added that "Throughout his many years of service to the nation, right from his time in the provincial administration through to his transition into business and politics, Mzee Nyachae exhibited exemplary zeal to succeed and as he exits from this world, he leaves behind a rich legacy of success.” Uhuru recalled his interactions with Nyachae over the years, saying the former Nyaribari Chache MP was a jolly, accessible, and dependable elder whose wise counsel and friendship he will miss. "I recall with nostalgia my many interactions with Mzee Nyachae over the years. As an elder and friend, Mzee Nyachae always had a word of wisdom and encouragement for me. Many will remember and miss Mzee Nyachae's warm personality and especially his hearty and infectious laughter.” Deputy President William Ruto said Nyachae was a progressive, selfless and steadfast leader who was genuinely passionate about public service, politics, and uniting people in a common cause. “He was a passionate, indefatigable, and forthright operator whose affable disposition and wit earned him friends and foes alike. He was a philanthropist, who took pleasure in helping the needy in society,” Ruto said. ODM leader Raila Odinga lauded Nyachae's long-serving career as a civil servant adding that the Abagusii community has lost one of its most illustrious sons. Nyachae passed away on Monday at Nairobi Hospital aged 88 years. "He has rested after a fairly long illness. We want to thank and appreciate Mzee's life and what he has been able to do," his son and former CIC chairman, Charles Nyachae, said.