Learners under the Competency-Based curriculum will join secondary school based on their performance in continuous assessment tests and a final test in Grade 6. The proposal suggests a hybrid system that could involve both examination and classroom assessment. The hybrid testing system would rely on national assessments administered by KNEC and CATS. The details are contained in the Competency-Based Curriculum taskforce report to be launched Tuesday. It will give the way forward on how the new curriculum learners will transition to secondary school. Kenyatta University deputy vice chancellor in charge of administration Fatuma Chege chairs the taskforce. The pioneer class of the CBC are set to join secondary school in 2023. The proposal suggests that assessments conducted by the Kenya National Examinations Council will be conducted in quarters. The assessments will capture the holistic ideology behind the Competency-Based Curriculum that will involve a variety of testing skills. Such an assessment has been suggested to be carried out at the end of lower primary, Grade 3 and at the end of Grade 6. Under the proposal, learners would sit two national examinations in secondary school - at the end of the junior secondary in Grade 9 and  lso sit another exam at the end of the senior secondary in Grade 12. In senior secondary, the team also proposes students graduate with two certificates. This would include the completion certificate and one based on the acquired skills they will have majored in. Under the new the 2–6–3–3–3 education system, learners will spend two years in pre-primary education, six in primary, three in junior secondary, three in senior secondary school and another three in university. In the preliminary proposals by the team, President Uhuru Kenyatta declared an end to the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examinations under the new curriculum. With the new programme, Grades 7, 8 and 9 will be domiciled in secondary schools with more focus on child development – effectively bringing to an end the examination-based culture. In 2019, President Kenyatta said the reforms in the education curriculum are necessary to ensure quality education that provides learners with relevant skills to become competitive in the global economy. The President acknowledged challenges in the implementation of the CBC system and called for the support of all stakeholders in making the new curriculum a success. (Edited by V. Graham) 