Struggling small-scale traders want the government to set aside money to enable them to recover from Covid-19 shutdown effects. They said the fund would largely benefit informal but registered businesses that closed as a result of the coronavirus. Malaba Informal Traders Association chairman Moses Inagai said on Wednesday the Sh58 billion the government announced in May would be injected to rejig the economy, reopen schools and cushion Kenyans from the effects of the coronavirus pandemic was insufficient to fully activate economic activity. He said small-scale traders have suffered since March last as the government tightened business operations rules to contain the spread of the virus. “There are businesses that were hit by Covid-19 and will never recover,” Inagai said Wednesday. “That is why we are saying the government should come up with another fund to help such traders return to work. Any considerate government would take this bailout request.” He said those to benefit if the funds are availed should be registered businesses. The government announced in May that it was seeking an additional Sh86 billion to reenergise the economy. The money was expected to be used to build classrooms to create more space for learners when schools reopen and hire 100,000 youths for menial jobs in major towns. President Uhuru Kenyatta then said the money would help Kenyans get back on their feet following the adverse effects of the pandemic on the economy. Although Inagai commended the government for its efforts in rejigging the economy, he said informal businesses needed additional money which should directly be invested in their operations. Inagai said traders in the hospitality industry are among the hardest-hit hard by the effects of Covid-19. Other interventions by the government to bailout Kenyans entailed roping-in at least 200,000 small-scale farmers who would get subsidies on farm input through the e-voucher system at a cost of Sh3 billion. The Kenya Tourism Board was also allocated Sh1 billion for post-Covid-19 tourism marketing as Sh3 billion was set aside for hoteliers to renovate their premises – through the Tourism Financing Corporation.