The Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company has been ordered to fix burst sewers draining raw waste into the Nairobi National Park. National Environment Management Authority director-general Mamo Mamo revealed on Monday that broken sewers were directing waste to the park. "Our teams are on the ground to ensure they are fixed," Mamo said in his office. He said officials from Nema, the Kenya Wildlife Service and the Nairobi Metropolitan Services were on site to ensure pollution is stopped. "We are also trying to establish whether there are facilities around Nairobi National Park such as schools, industries, or flats that are discharging," Mamo said. He said some of them could be having concealed pipes draining waste into the park. Of major concern is a major leak of raw sewage near Hyena Dam, where the water looks like foaming pea soup. "Nairobi National Park stinking like hell; unreal colours, water green like pea soup, brilliant blue foam. This is the corner at the entrance of the Hyena dam! What is happening?" photographer Paolo Torchio asked recently. "Why are the competent authorities blind? Hippos, crocodiles, and birds are living inside the cesspool but no action is taken. It was hard to breathe while taking those photos. "Friends of Nairobi National Park (FoNNaP) chairman Gareth Jones on February 2, wrote to Mamo, "We are extremely concerned about the polluted water flowing into Nairobi National Park. The area where there is major water pollution is at Hyena Dam." FoNNaP said the water was flowing from outside the park into a wetland zone that flows into the Hyena Dam, then downstream, and eventually into the Athi River. "We request Nema to kindly act rapidly, working together with the Kenya Wildlife Service to avoid further environmental pollution that is already having a negative toxic effect on the animals and plants within the park," the letter read. The letter was copied to KWS director-general John Waweru, the park's senior warden, the Ministry of Tourism and Nema senior environmental officer Joan Micheka. FoNNaP wrote the letter on World Wetlands Day. KWS head of corporate communications department Trizer Mwanyika told the Star a substantive report would be released once the probe had been finalised. The park has not had a management plan since 2010. It is endangered by increasing construction in and around the park, including buildings and the standard gauge railway, blocked wildlife corridors, and pollution. Tourism CS Najib Balala recently gazetted a new management plan. In the new plan, KWS wants to address 12 issues facing the world's only park within a city. The issues are habitat loss and fragmentation in the dispersal areas, a decline in the wildlife population, poaching, human-wildlife conflicts, alien and invasive species, pollution, mining and quarries. Others are climate change, low park visitation, increased urbanisation, settlement threats to ranches, and infrastructure development. Some of the work KWS has lined up for the park includes fencing, construction of a high-end eco-lodge, improvement of infrastructure, development of a clubhouse, a high-end restaurant (Orpul Place), the establishment of adventure activity concessions, and facilitation of alternative activities to traditional game-viewing. Gazetted in 1946 as Kenya's first National Park through proclamation No 48 of December 16, 1946, the park covers 28,911 acres. It has breathtaking fauna and flora. It is home to 400 permanent and migratory bird species, lions, African buffalo,  baboon, the Eastern black rhinoceros, Southern white rhino, common zebra and Grant's gazelle. Other species are Thompson's gazelles, Masai giraffes, elands, impalas, ostriches, jackals, warthogs, and waterbucks.