Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has accused some government officials of hijacking his women and youth empowerment programme to campaign for Wiper in the by-election. He said on Friday national government officials were going around the county mobilising women through his initiative while campaigning for Machakos by-election candidate Agnes Kavindu of Wiper. The poll is on March 18. The CCM leader said they were "hoodwinking women's groups" by urging them to vote for the Wiper candidate so they can get their proposals funded. Kavindu has nothing to do with it, he said. Mutua spoke hours after Kavindu accompanied CAS for Public Service and Gender Rachael Shebesh and her Transport counterpart Wavinya Ndeti to a women’s meetings in Machakos Town and Mavoko subcounties. The meetings were at the Machakos Golf Club and Athi River subcounty deputy county commissioner’s offices. The leaders have held similar  meetings in Masinga, Matungulu, Kangundo, Machakos town, Mwala, Yatta and Mavoko subcounties. They October 4, 2019, Mutua said, he hosted Shebesh and Machakos Woman Representative Joyce Kamene at is office. He attached photos and a statement from the meeting on that date to show the initiative originated with him at that time. In partnership with the national government, Mutua started the Machakos Women and Youth Empowerment Programme. It enables them to start business and farming investments to improve their livelihoods. “In the last few days, I have observed some other leaders have all of a sudden recognised the benefits of this initiative I started," Mutua said.. "After Machakos has done the bulk of the work for over a year and fruits of the initiative are ripe, opportunists have taken credit for what they have not done, he said. "They are harvesting where they have not sown." Mutua asked Wiper party leaders to stop "hijacking" his women's programme, politicising it and using it as a tool to advance their campaign agenda. He said those leaders should show what they have done for the people of Machakos - "and if there is nothing, they should just shut up," the governor said. “When I set this programme rolling, I was motivated by a genuine desire to improve our people's welfare, specifically women and youth," Mutua said. "I wasn't exploiting their needs for selfish political gain as is happening now." He said women are tired of "being used and dumped by politicians. They want genuine sustainable programmes by leaders who care for them.” Mutua urged women and youth to remain focused and not to be swayed by "these opportunists" because they discard them after the by-election. “They only want your votes and nothing more. Ask yourself where they have been all this time ? Why are they coming now during campaigns?" (Edited by V. Graham) 