Marketers and marketing teams can now be at ease because they are now be able to manage their social media activity across all platforms and track their overall engagement with the Hootsuite application. It is one of the most powerful social media management platform and it lets you manage multiple networks and profiles in one central place. It stands out as a comprehensive social media management tool with ample analytic capabilities and makes it easy for small to mid-size businesses to schedule posts for multiple accounts or clients. This application has added a recent integration with Twitter’s customer feedback feature as a way to improve social customer service. On the publishing area, it has tied its comprehensive integrations into the dashboard to pull in content from sources including Dropbox, Google Drive and Microsoft OneDrive. You can attach photos to your posts and publish or schedule them in fewer clicks. At the Team and Business tiers, it gives you easier access to the collaborative post queue, workflows and content library with approved posts. By clicking on the Compose box on the dashboard on this app, you can add new content source and access it directly. It will take you to the Hootsuite App Directory where you will search for the content source you want to add and install the app. It has the Analytics Control Panel, which is on the main left hand slide out menu comprising of several templates for use in reporting and visualizing received data. It also has the Assignment menu where you create messages, dole out assignments to team members and track those assignments. Its defining feature is its ease and range of integrations. It is now integrated with several Microsoft business apps such as Microsoft Dynamics, SharePoint and Microsoft Teams. The company acquired mobile sales app Sales Prodigy to help sales and marketing managers identify influencers and turn them into Customer relationship management leads through real time management. It is also integrated with enterprise cybersecurity platform ZeroFox to help users identify social threats and risks directly from the Hootsuite dashboard. It also offers several useful reports in different graphical forms. The reports are built from various analytic modules and the modules can be used to build a customized report or you can choose from one of Hootsuite’s report templates. Hootsuite creates a CompetitiveAnalysis spreadsheet in Excel that can also be downloaded as a PDF file. It has a strong internal tracking and messaging capabilities that will be able to support a Small to mid-size business growth and make it work for a team in a larger organization. The ability to measure and track competing brands and companies on a variety of social media performance metrics is very useful for companies who need realtime comparative business intelligence.