Senators have renewed the push for Sh18 billion sendoff package for about 12,000 former councillors who served from 1963. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua reignited the debate on the floor of the House on Wednesday when he sought a statement on the implementation of the resolution of the House to compensate the ex-councillors. “I want to know the progress made in the implementation of a resolution of the Senate on the same matter made on October 18, 2018 arising from a motion filed by Senator John Kinyua,” he said. The House had in 2018 unanimously approved a motion sponsored by Kinyua (Laikipia) to give the former councillors sendoff perks. In the motion, the ex-ward representatives were to receive a Sh1.5 million one-off payment and Sh30,000 monthly pension. There are at least 12,000 former councillors. This, therefore, means that the taxpayers would shoulder a bill of Sh18 billion for the leaders who served before devolution. The pension of the former councillors would total to Sh360 million per month. Kinyua’s motion came as National Treasury appeared to have ignored the recommendation of the Senate Labour and Social Welfare committee which had in 2016 directed that the leaders be paid. This was after the National Forum of Former Councillors petitioned the Senate regarding the need for legislative interventions to address their plight and welfare. “The National Treasury, the State Department for Devolution and Social Services should take the necessary steps to implement the recommendations of the report. Many former councillors live in abject poverty, yet they worked for this country tirelessly,” Kinyua has said. On Wednesday, Wambua regretted that despite the House having adopted the report on February 16, 2016, its recommendations have been ignored. “The committee should state why the department of social services and security, state department for devolution and the Treasury have to date not implemented the committee’s recommendation on the petition to the Senate on the matter,” he said. The lawmakers demanded to know when the former councillors will be paid. “These Kenyan leaders are really suffering. They have been reduced to paupers and beggars. Something needs to be done to these leaders,” he said. Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali shared in the ex-councillors pain. He said the former leaders are suffering and called for quick intervention. “Senate committee should do follow up on this issue. Something has to be done. This is not the way leaders should be treated,” he said. Marsabit Senator Hargura Godana and his Nominated counterpart Rose Nyamunga also weighed in on the matter saying the leaders have been reduced to paupers. “We know very well if there is a commitment to at least make some payments to these leaders, some money would have been availed. These are leaders who served in different capacities some at very difficult times,” Nyamunga said. Taita Taveta’s Johannes Mwaruma said, “I have one person at home, a councillor who was elected five times. He is now 85 years old and he is asking me what is happening. Do you mean I will die without seeing my money?” he said. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka ordered the welfare committee chaired by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja to immediately take up the matter and establish the status of implementation of its report. “Labour committee should make a follow-up to know exactly what has happened…these are leaders who served the country, they are suffering, and some of them have died. So if those who are alive can be paid, that can be a good thing,” Lusaka said. Edited by Sarah Kanyara