Bandari FC coach Casa Mbungo on Thursday played down reports of a re-union with former assistant Anthony ‘Modo’ Kimani ahead of Friday’s match against AFC Leopards in Mombasa. Kimani quit the den last week after Ingwe signed Belgian Patrick Aussems and has been linked with both Bandari and Mathare United. He had led the team for two games including the 0-0 draw with arch-rivals Gor Mahia in the Mashemeji Derby last week as head coach on an interim basis for the second time. He was first appointed on interim basis in 2019 after quitting the den following financial challenges, having worked together as coach and assistant. “Nothing has happened so far. He is not here. If he were, you would have seen him in Mombasa, which is a small city, you can’t miss him,” said Mbungo at a press conference at Mbaraki Stadium. He, however, said if he joins them,  then it would be a huge boost for Bandari.  “We will be unveiling an assistant coach in the next two weeks. Be patient,” he revealed. Ingwe, fourth on the FKF Premier League table, will be banking on their strong defence to take all the three points back to Nairobi. They have the third best defensive record in the league, having conceded only six times in nine outings. Second-placed KCB have the best defensive record having let in only four goals in 10 games, ahead of Ulinzi Stars who have conceded five in 11. Mbungo’s charges, who are 13th in the defensive record having shipped in 12 goals in 11 games, will also be worried about their form in front of goal.  Their inability to turn chances into goals have seen them score a paltry 12 out of 41 chances created in all competitions. And the profligacy in front of goal shown by Mbungo’s charges three days ago during the Betway Cup round of 64 scare against National Super League side Murang’a Seals at St Sebastian Park will give the Rwandan tactician something to think about. The dockers needed post-match penalties to advance to the round of 32 after a 2-2 draw.  “It will be a tough game because we will be playing an impressive side but we must look for a way to win,” said Mbungo. Bandari welcome back forward Yema Mwana and winger Darius Msagha who are fit again following minor injuries, hoping  to put on their scoring boots against Ingwe. Mwana has three goals so far, same as captain Bernard Odhiambo, behind leading scorer William Wadri who has four.  Bandari occupy the seventh position in the league. “We want to get closer to the top,” Mbungo said.