A man was Saturday night shot dead in a botched robbery in Nairobi’s Pangani area. The man was part of a three-man gang that terrorised residents as they rushed home to beat the 10pm curfew. During the robbery incident, a victim suffered severe injuries to the face as he resisted the attempt to relieve him of his mobile phone, Sh2,000 and other valuables. A female pedestrian lost her handbag and other valuables to the robbers. Officers responding to distress calls shot and killed the suspect as his accomplices escaped on foot. Starehe police boss Alice Kimeli said they recovered a homemade gun and the woman’s handbag. The victim was taken to the hospital with a deep cut in the head. In Komarock area, a man was shot and seriously wounded in the jaw in a suspected deal gone sour. The victim was left for dead before he was rescued by locals and taken to the Komarock Modern Hospital where police visited him. Witnesses said he was shot by men on a motorcycle after an argument before he was left at the scene in Umama area. The gang on the motorcycle escaped the scene and no arrest has been made. In Kabete area, a pastor with a protestant church was shot in the leg and left with a serious wound during a robbery. Pastor Kipkorir Rono of Deliverance Church in Kathondeki was driving to his home at about 10pm when a gang struck as they waited for the gate to be opened. He was shot in the left thigh and robbed of mobile phones, a wallet with an unknown amount of money and other valuables. Members of his family were not harmed in the robbery. Police said they suspect the gang wanted cash and other valuables from the victims. They took advantage of heavy rains to rein terror. Nairobi police boss Rashid Yakub said they have intensified patrols in the city to get rid of armed gangs that are on the loose. He urged the public to use free emergency lines to give tips that may lead to the arrest of the suspects. “We are on top of things but we still need the public help to tame these gangs. They are encouraged to call the police hotlines,” he said. 