Campaigns for the Huruma Ward in Uasin Gishu are in top gear after 13 candidates were cleared by the IEBC to vie in the March 4th by-election. The ward, with more than 35,000 registered voters, covers more than half of Eldoret town. The by-election is being held to replace former area MCA Pater Chomba, who died of Covid-19 in October last year. Chomba’s widow Lucy Ng'endo is considered favourite to win the by-election and succeed her husband. She vying through Jubilee Party and has been staging door-to-door campaigns and also hosting activities for women and youth among other groups. “I have a clear vision to continue the many projects which had been initiated by my husband and I am confident the people of Huruma will give me chanceto serve them for the remaining few months,” said Ng'endo, who spoke at a youth sports event she hosted at Huruma grounds on Sunday. She had previously served as a nominated MCA at the Uasin Gishu Assembly. Deputy President William Ruto, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi among several other local leaders have also backed her bid to win the seat. They are, however, yet to set foot in the area to campaign for her, with about three weeks to the polls. However, MCAs led by Francis Muya, David Singoei and Samora Machel, have been campaigning for her. Ng'endo will face tough opposition from other aspirants including Lawyer Kimani Wanjohi of the New Democrats Party (TND) and Peter Kinuthia of the Mandelao Chap Chap party. Also in the race is Nechu Saina of ANC party and Michael Omollo of New Vision Party. Wanjohi and Omollo are also considered among the top aspirants. Security has been stepped up in the area and the IEBC is also closely monitoring the campaigns to ensure all the candidates adhere to the code of conduct. IEBC returning officer for the Huruma by-election Peris Maiyo says so far, the campaigns have been smooth. “As IEBC we are prepared for the elections and come D-Day all systems will be in place to give residents of Huruma a chance to exercise their democratic right as concerns elections,” said Maiyo. Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Stephen Kihara said they would ensure strict security measures remain in place in the area and other parts of Eldoret through the election period.