The Kansoul star Kid Kora has announced that he left the music group, citing withheld payments, degrading music and his peace of mind. The producer-cum-rapper shared a photo of the hip hop trio, Mejja, Madtraxx and him. He captioned it, "I am the one with the name of a thug, but you all are the real Wakoras." In a series of posts on his Instagram stories, Kid Kora accused Mejja and Madtraxx of giving him the short end of the stick. He said they still owe him money, dubbing them ‘blue-eyed monsters’. He added that the two, Mejja and Madtraxx, kept blocking him from receiving royalties from the group’s projects. "Funny how I left this group and everything toxic in my life. Then things changed for me. Started putting on some weight. Confidence is through the roof. Hair growing, skin glowing," he said. "Left all the negatives in 2019 only to wake up this morning to find people I called family took advantage of my kindness. But I am not the same kid from 2019, man's been through the fire. "I speak up now. I walk with a skip in my step and stand tall. Don't let the RnB sh*t fool you. John Snow is back from the dead. A bad queen on my side. Ready to take on all these f***ing blue-eyed vultures. Pay me." He added that he is currently a changed person who no longer sings dirty music, suggesting that their music had since become monotonous, degrading to women and didn’t befit their age. "I pleaded for a new direction. Something with a little more substance that doesn't degrade the women we call mother, sister and daughters. Music that best fitted our age and reality at that moment," he said. "Thirty-four years old with kids and a wife, talking about how many girls you can beba. Talking about clubs but you sleepy AF by 11pm. Back is in pain. Trying to play a young man's game. Just wasn't me anymore. And that's the only reason I left. For a new direction for my music. For my health, mental and physical, and for my peace." In a recent interview with Switch TV, Mejja dismissed claims of a break-up but gave little information.