ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday rubbished claims he and President Uhuru Kenyatta are bribing MCAs with Sh2 million car grants to approve the BBI Bill. He emphasised there were no 'inducements' as he took on Deputy President William Ruto in his charm offensive in Turkana. Speaking in Kakuma on the second day of his whirlwind tour, Raila said  as MPs get car grants, MCAs should enjoy the same perks because they are also legislators who need to visit their constituents. The car grants for MCAs are not part of the BBI proposals. “MPs are getting Sh7 million car grants. Is there a problem if we say MCAs should also get Sh2 million? It is not a bribe,” the former Prime Minister said as he made a passionate appeal to the residents to support BBI. Last week, President Uhuru Kenyatta promised the government would advance grants to MCAs – a position Raila backed days later. The decision, however, is up to the Salaries and Remuneration Commission that already has said lawmakers are overpaid. Uhuru's car grant promise follows demands by ward representatives at a meeting with the President. Similar demands were made when Raila met ODM county lawmakers in Nairobi last week. However, some BI opponents have accused the two leaders of plotting to bribe the county legislators with the car grants to pass the BBI constitutional amendment Bill. The Bill is now before county assemblies and must be passed by at least 24 of 47 before going to Parliament for approval, then a referendum. Raila, accompanied by a host of MPs, promoted BBI as he denounced his likely 2022 presidential rival, DP Ruto, as a liar who opposes reforms. Raila said Ruto is misleading, lying and "fooling youths" with his go-getter, self-starter  wheelbarrow narrative. He said the DP is out to hoodwink and exploit jobless and vulnerable youths. “You remember when they were campaigning in 2013? Mr Six Months. They promised a digital economy. That within six months, every child will have a laptop. Have you seen the laptops here in Kakuma?” Raila asked as the crowd cheered. “They said they will build state-of-the-art stadiums in every county. ….They said very year they will be generating one million jobs…modern employment. Now they are forgetting what they promised youths and they are coming up with wheelbarrows. “What will you do with a wheelbarrow?…. That is fooling youths. We want to bring proper jobs to our youths,” he said. The ODM boss said BBI will come with practical and reliable means of addressing joblessness, unlike the DP’s wheelbarrow - inconsequential work, a non-solution. He said BBI would establish a National Youth Commission that would solely be mandated with advancing the interests of the youth. There would  also be a National Youth Development Fund. “We have so many educated youths. They they are moving all over looking for jobs but jobs are not there. But these people are smart. They can start businesses,  yet they don’t have access to capital. BBI is saying they must have access to cheap capital, interest-free," Raila said. “Turkana is now getting Sh11 billion. It will get Sh20 billion that will come down here in the BBI. Five per cent of that will go to Ward Development Funds," the ODM boss said. The DP was assailed by MPs Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Babu Owino (Embakasi East), Maina Kamanda (nominated) and Mishi Mboko (Likoni), They said he lacks reform credentials. “When Raila was fighting for multiparty democracy, Ruto was in NY92. When Raila was fighting for the 2010 Constitution, Ruto opposed it and now he is opposing BBI,” Mboko said. “This man opposes everything Kenyans stand to benefit from. He opposed the Constitution. He toured the whole country in a red cap. You Turkanas, you wouldn’t have gotten the devolution you are now enjoying,” Kamanda said. Kamanda rejected Ruto's claims Raila has undermined Jubilee. “If it were not for this Mzee, Uhuru would have had big problems from that man. Now Uhuru’s stomach has grown after the handshake with Raila,” he added. (Edited by V. Graham)