Kisumu residents have been asked to be wary of unscrupulous house agents who are conning desperate tenants. This comes after 30 people were last week conned of thousands of shillings by an agent at Okore Highrise estate. Kisumu subcounty police commander Peter Katam confirmed the incident saying 15 people have recorded statements “We are investigating the matter and I can assure you we will arrest the suspects and charge them to serve as an example to such characters,” he said. Katam warned the public to be careful not to be swindled of their money. “Those looking for rentals should deal with real agents and should avoid paying rent to suspicious agents numbers,” he said. The victims were conned between Sh32, 000 to Sh50, 000 they paid for rent for a non-existing house. One of the victims is a KDF officer who paid Sh100,000. On Friday, more than 20 people recorded statements at Kisumu Central police station after being conned. A woman who was conned Sh34,000 said she has recorded statement at Kisumu Central police station. “I went with my things to move in only to find out that I have been conned,” she said. The suspect, she said, was quoting different rent amounts to unsuspecting tenants ranging between Sh15,000 to Sh20,000. Another victim who declined to be named said she was conned six months rent. Willis Juma a victim said the agent behind the racket showed several people four houses on different dates. “We paid for the houses deposit plus one month rent. I personally paid Sh32, 000 with several others paid Sh34, 000 to Sh40, 000 for the same house,” he said. “He gave us a number which he said belonged to the landlord. We sent money through M-Pesa,” Juma said. Already, some of the people ferried their property to occupy the houses they had paid for only to realise other tenants claim the same house. “We want police to speed up the investigations to arrest the suspects. We believe many people have fallen victims of those behind such rackets,” he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris