ODM leader Raila Odinga on Thursday sought to endear himself to Mt Kenya residents saying it was selfish politicians who were selling him as bad for the region. MPs from Mt Kenya last week wrote to President Uhuru Kenyatta saying it would be difficult to sell Raila to residents. Uhuru and Raila are handshake partners and are jointly pushing for support for the BBI. But Raila said he was not marketing himself in Central as of now. He said residents should stop seeing him as an enemy. Speaking on Spice FM in the morning and later Inooro FM, Raila said he has no problem with Kikiyus. He said he has a lot of friends from the community. He narrated how he has related well with prominent personalities from the region while maintaining that his focus at the moment is drumming up support for the Building Bridges Initiative. The former Prime Minister said he has worked closely with a number of Kikuyu leaders including former President Mwai Kibaki, Uhuru and the late politician Kenneth Matiba. "I have never been an enemy of the GEMA nation. It is selfish leaders who sell me as bad. If I was bad, why was Matiba my friend or why did they refer to me as mutongoria njamba in 2002,” he stated. Raila ran for president in 1997 but backed Kibaki for the presidency in 2002. Kibaki won against Uhuru who ran on the Kanu party ticket. Raila was called mutongoria jamba, meaning brave leader, as the Narc wave swept through Kenya after he declared "Kibaki Tosha". Raila said he visited Mt Kenya region after 2002 elections and described residents as being eager and elated to see him after Kibaki rode to power. The ex-premier said there is a lot of propaganda around the BBI process that is being instigated by leaders “who have their eyes on 2022 elections and nothing else.” “Their intention is to have things remain the way they are. They do not want the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister positions created. They also do not want accountability,” Raila said. The MPs in their letter to Uhuru said Mt Kenya residents were not ready to accept Raila. "The successful effort you [Uhuru] made to persuade the people and render Raila Odinga unacceptable in Mt Kenya cannot be undone in your lifetime," they said. Addressing leaders from Kajiado county later on Thursday, Raila said the BBI process had picked momentum across the country. “Members of the Kajiado county assembly have assured me that they will approve the Constitution (Amendment) Bill,2020 in a few days,” he said. The Kajiado leaders were led by Governor Joseph Ole Lenku, area legislators and MCAs. “We want to tell Kenyans that Kajiado is a BBI zone. Do not listen to people telling lies that the county is opposed to the document,” Lenku said. Raila announced he would be going to Turkana county in a few days to drum up support for the BBI. He said it was only a matter of time before a majority of counties endorse the document. He said leaders opposing the BBI were spreading falsehoods to advance their selfish interests. In the radio interview, Raila said those opposed to BBI were the ones painting him as an enemy of Mt Kenya residents. “I am not marketing myself in Central. I am not campaigning for 2022 but asking people from the region to support BBI,” he said. Raila revisited the 2007-08 post-election skirmishes and the subsequent ICC cases saying he was among leaders who wanted the suspects tried locally. Uhuru and Deputy President William Ruto were charged with crimes against humanity at the ICC following the violence that hit the country after the disputed 2007 presidential election. Raila insisted that his only agenda at the moment is to popularise the BBI process. But the Mt Kenya MPs insisted the region is reluctant to accept the handshake especially after Uhuru's previous adversarial relationship with Raila in past presidential contests. "For eight years, between 2011 and 2018, you consistently and persistently cautioned us that Raila Odinga was Kenya’s foremost problem, and pleaded with us to send him home for the country to move forward," they stated. The MPs accused Raila of spearheading divisive politics as a means of achieving power. However, Raila reiterated that his focus and that of Uhuru is to see the BBI pass for unity and prosperity of the nation. Even as the 41 MPs maintain Raila is not liked in Central, the Kikuyu Council of Elders enjoy close ties with the ODM leader. The elders had planned to host Raila in Nyeri in mid-January but the event was cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The hosts had settled on the period hoping that cases of Covid-19 would have reduced significantly by then. In October last year, Raila hosted hundreds of elders from the Kikuyu community at his Bondo home in Siaya county. The elders and senior politicians from Mt Kenya backyard travelled to Bondo to cement the relationship between the Kikuyu and Luo communities. 