 Parents are to blame for the rising cases of teen pregnancies and early marriages in Kwale, a human rights group has said. Kwale Women Focus Initiative chairman Pendo Lugogo said a majority of parents sell their daughters to men for sex in order to earn a living. Lugogo said rising poverty levels coupled with the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic had pushed families tend to fall for the little money offered to them by sex predators. “Parents coach their daughters on how to fetch money from men so that they can beat poverty,” Lugogo said. By December last year, more than 2,821 cases of teen pregnancies were reported in the county. That was a 70 per cent drop from the previous year when over 8,000 cases were recorded. Last year, four girls were rescued from early marriages in Matuga by the Equality Now Foundation and Sauti Ya Wanawake Organisation. The Sauti Ya Wanawake Organisation chairman Mwanakombo Jerumani said the number could be more because many cases are often not reported because parents are part of the deal. Mwanakombo also attributed the rising cases of early marriages to the trend of the competition for fancy weddings among families in Kwale. Lugogo warned parents against destroying the future of their children. She attributed the sex trade to school dropouts. "Once the girls get used to cheap and quick cash, learning becomes a burden and dropping out of school is unavoidable," she said. The activist said cases of sexual exploitation and teen pregnancy are likely to increase as the tourism sector opens up. Lugogo said most teens, especially girls, go for tourists at the hotels along the beach with the hope of getting wealthy foreign love partners. “Most holidayers carry a lot of money with them and due to parents’ pressure, schoolgirls become an easy catch for tourists who sexually abuse them for cheap money,” she said. Yasmin Girls Organization chairperson Mwanaisha Kalandi said many sexual harassment and exploitation cases among teen girls don’t progress because parents accept cash to resolve them out of court.  Edited by P.O