More than 60 people in Nairobi county have been arrested for being in possession of banned plastics. The National Environment Management Authority has heightened surveillance to mop up plastic bags across the country. Those found with banned plastics are arrested and taken to court. On February 10, officials from Nema and Nairobi Metropolitan Services arrested over 30 with banned plastics in Embakasi. They were arraigned in Makadara and were fined between Sh3,000 and Sh70,000. The court also ordered Nema to destroy all the exhibits. On February 11, 31 traders were arrested in Eastleigh selling their merchandise in banned plastics. They appeared before the City magistrate court and fined Sh50,000. On February 12, seven people were arrested in Wakulima Market. They were taken to Kamukunji police station and are set to be arraigned on Monday. Nema deputy director for enforcement Salome Machua said the operations will be sustained to weed out the banned plastics. "We are still enforcing the ban on plastics as we want this country to be free of plastics," Machua said. She said the operation will move to Machakos and Kitengela. Kiambu will also be raided by the authority soon. The arrests come few days after Nema director-general Mamo Mamo warned that those manufacturing plastics and those using it will be apprehended and charged. Kenya banned the use of single-use carrier bags in February 2017. The ban went into effect on August 28 that year. On February 1, Mamo said banned plastics were slowly coming back into the country hence heightened surveillance was necessary. "The banned plastic bags are back in town again and the county directors of the environment have clear instructions to ensure that they put proper crackdowns within the next one week and sustain these efforts," Mamo said in his office. Mamo said the authority has looked at sources of the plastics and the machines that used to produce them are no longer there. "We are working closely with the Kenya Association of Manufacturers so that they can sensitise their members that once we find them with plastics manufacturing machines they will be held responsible," Mamo warned. Mamo said the plastics 'could possibly be coming in from other countries' because there are buses that come at night. "We have asked the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to assist us to get to the bottom of this plastics getting into the country," he said. Border post customs have also been engaged. Mamo said officers have also been posted to the border posts such Busia, Namanga, Oloitotok, and Kwale. The director-general said regional partners were being engaged, especially environmental agencies, with a view to banning plastics across the board. Mamo said banning is a process and already efforts at the East African Legislative Assembly were going towards getting a ban. Uganda, Burundi and South Sudan have not banned the bags and smuggling is a problem. Tanzania announced a nationwide ban on the use of plastic bags starting from June 1, 2019. The move follows similar steps by Rwanda to phase out non-biodegradable plastics to tackle plastic pollution. In September last year, the United Nations Environment Programme called for regional collaboration to combat plastic waste. UNEP director and Africa regional representative Juliette Biao said the ability to cope with plastic is already overwhelming. "Only nine per cent of nine billion tonnes of plastics the world has ever produced has been recycled. Most ends up in landfills, dumps, or in the environment," she said. Biao said plastic waste, being a trans-boundary concern, requires a collaborative approach.