President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday urged Kenyans to be careful when electing leaders to avoid ruining their future. In an apparent attack on DP William Ruto and his Tangatanga brigade, Uhuru said some politicians seeking elective positions do more damage to the country than develop. He spoke at Kabarak during the first death anniversary of former President Daniel Moi. "I beseech you, don't choose demolition squad," he said. The Head of State said political arrogance and intolerance being witnessed in the country raises a lot of questions about the type of leadership that will spearhead the country's agenda for the future. He said respect is the foundation of unity and cautioned against hatred. "President Moi served under my father for 17 years with respect, patience and dedication until his time to lead came," he said. "Insults, chest-thumping and rage won't help us achieve any progress. Let's respect one another." Uhuru said many patriots gave up all they had, including their lives, to fight for freedom but did not even enjoy the fruit of their efforts. "Others took over from them and fought with all they had and fortunately, God bestowed leadership on them. In their regime, they laid the foundation for the agenda of the country," he said. He said other leaders have been striving to build and strengthen that foundation since. "When Mzee Moi took over, he served diligently for 24 years and handed over to Kibaki. Even though he did not like it, he respected the will of the people. "Kibaki served and handed over to me. I will serve and hand over to the next person and that is the foundation we all desire to establish," he said. Similar sentiments were shared by ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi, who said a time has come for all politicians to refocus on where they want the country to be. Mudavadi said just as Moi held the country together for many years, Uhuru has emulated him and focused on the right course to see a united country. "This is evident that you were a serious student of Mzee Moi. When he endorsed you for the presidency then, he knew it was just a matter of time and we can bear witness that you have done so well," he said. Mudavadi, however, added that a time has come for Uhuru to do serious substitution and let go of the people dragging him down. "Mzee Moi played his part. Now the ball is in our court and we have you (Uhuru) as our captain. As our leader, you have the mandate to substitute those who are hell-bent on scoring into their own goal. Such players should be benched so the match can go on smoothly," he said. Mudavadi, while drumming support for the BBI-driven constitutional reforms, thanked Uhuru for listening to diverse views and opting to see that cultural values are upheld in the proposals. He said the only legacy that will keep Kenya going is having elected leaders respect the offices they serve. "We want a legacy that will bring good fruits and tidings to our business men and women, a legacy that will benefit our farmers and create more employment opportunities for our youth," he said. Wiper leader Kalonzo, for his part, accused Deputy President William Ruto of driving a wedge between economic classes, saying that could potentially ruin the country. Kalonzo termed it unfortunate that the DP,  who is in Mombasa on a four-day tour, was using the hustler narrative to cause divisions among the youth. "I want to remind all of us that Mzee Moi made Ruto who he is. He cannot come up with this dynasty narrative, yet he has all along been part of it," he said. "In fact, Ruto, you were more of a son to Mzee Moi than Gideon was. You cannot then antagonise your people by creating class wars; this is radicalising the youth."