In as much as they want to use the visits to enumerate what the Jubilee government has done since coming to power in 2013, I want to state they will fall flat. Kenyans have already rated this administration. A government that has achieved much should be confident of itself; no need for these campaigns. The Cabinet secretaries have been touring various parts of the country in the last month or so but so far, no one is feeling them. I consider the tours as part of political campaigning. It is meaningless to travel upcountry when the cost of living is this high. The government should ease the economic conditions and some of these things will fall into place. Just this week the cost of fuel was increased, will wananchi have time to listen to government officials when life is this hard? No. Some projects were abandoned by contractors while others stalled because government could not pay for them. Money owed to contractors should be paid on time so it can trickle down in the economy. Former President Mwai Kibaki never did such things. He never announced what his government was doing but Kenyans saw and felt the impact of what his government was doing. If indeed there are projects that have been accomplished or are being done by the Jubilee government, it is not the business of the Cabinet secretaries to traverse the country announcing them. Let Kenyans judge for themselves if this government has a good legacy or not. These visits could be expensive compared to the projects the CSs are going to inspect. Some are hiring choppers to fly from one corner to the other. Government should just enhance communication with the public without necessarily overspending. Besides, it is the work of the national steering committee to supervise and coordinate national government projects. That hierarchy of government officials that runs all the way to the assistant chief should be able to feed the Office of the President with all the necessary information. The only CSs who should be crisscrossing the country at this time are the Education and Interior Cabinet secretaries, due to the nature of their work. The Cofek secretary general spoke to the Star