Homa Bay fishermen have raised concerns over a strange occurrence where the Nile Perch fish species are found dead floating in Lake Victoria. They say the incident which started two weeks ago is gradually spreading to a number of the beaches along the lake. The fishermen do not know what is going on and have appealled to the government through the fisheries department to conduct investigations. Currently, the beaches which have witnessed this include Mfangano, Kiwa, Remba, Ringiti and Nyandiwa. The fish are found floating on water while some are pushed towards the lakeshore as they gasp for oxygen. William Onditi, a fisherman, says it is not his first time to witness Nile Perch fish being pushed by water waves to the shore at Nyandiwa beach. Onditi says he was at the beach on Tuesday last week when he saw some fishermen scramble for fish which had been washed to the beach. “Some fish were dead while others were still alive. I have practised fishing for more than 25 years but I have not seen such an occurrence,” Onditi says. He said getting dead fish floating on the water near beaches has been there but the current phenomenon is worrying them. He argued that the incident is gradually growing since it has been seen along some beaches in Bondo, Siaya county. “We are told that the phenomenon has occurred due to the difference in water temperatures. But the government should help us know why the fish dying,” he said. Lake Victoria is one of the freshwater lakes which support the growth of Nile Perch. Homa Bay has more than 60 per cent of the lake water cover in Kenya. Mfangano Catholic Church cleric Leonard Gor asked the government to speed up investigations over the matter. He said that many residents draw their livelihoods from fishing. Most of the fish found dead ranges between 20kg and 50kg. Some are found already rotten. “We’re asking residents not to eat the dead fish. Let us restrain ourselves as the government investigates the matter,” Gor said. Director of fisheries George Okoth and Homa Bay executive for Agriculture Aguko Juma said the incident might be occurring due to suffocation. Okoth said fish have difficulties in breathing when there is a difference in temperatures. “The incident is likely to happen because the temperature of upstream is different from that of the lake water. The imbalance temperature causes a shortage of oxygen hence suffocation,” Okoth said. Juma said they have received such reports. He said the incident started from the side of Uganda. Samples of the dead fish have been taken to Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute for tests. “Fisheries officers are on the ground to find out what the situation is before giving a detailed report,” Juma said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris