The government has established close to 200 innovation hubs across the country, ICT and Innovation PS Jerome Ochieng has said. This is after the Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs in collaboration with the National Government Constituency Development Fund Board conceptualised and rolled out the Constituency Innovation Hubs Project. The project, Ochieng said, seeks to ensure that there are at least four innovation hubs in every constituency across the country. There are 290 constituencies. “Some of the constituencies have done four while others have done beyond. There are some who have established one,” Ochieng said. He spoke during a visit at LakeHub in Kisumu on Friday. He commended the LakeHub team for nurturing the youths to be innovative and creative. Ochieng said the hubs provide an environment where tech communities, entrepreneurs, start-ups and creative minds can explore their talents and skills in coming up with solutions. They also provide platforms where innovators can easily network with investors for funding. “As a government, we understand the importance of nurturing and encouraging technological innovations. It is a fact that it is no longer tenable for our country to simply be consumers of innovations but producers of innovations tailor-made for our unique set of challenges,” he said. He said through the hubs, young people have an opportunity to have access to technology and able to do online jobs. “We create these centres for people to be able to even work outside the country,” he said, adding that the government has started to be the creators of the online work. Ochieng said they are working with a number of courts where youth are doing the digitisation of court processes. These are jobs that will be done through the innovation centres, he said. The ministry is currently piloting Swahili port (Mombasa), Ndhiwa (Homa Bay) and Kirinyanga Central (Kirinyanga) innovation hubs where youths are engaged in real work. Ochieng said the government has spent Sh300 million on innovation hubs and creativity across the country. He said tremendous effort has been made to have fibre connectivity across the country. Ochieng, however, said they have satellite for areas where they are unable to have fibre connectivity. “We try as much as possible to use various connectivity solutions depending on challenges encountered in various areas,” he said. “Almost every corner of this country can be connected in one way or the other all the way from Mandera to Lamu,” he added. The PS said the government is committed to ensuring more than 30,000 schools have connectivity. This, he said, is also in line with the objective to fully realise the laptop project in primary schools. He said they are partnering with the Ministry of Lands to digitised services. “We are at an advanced stage and very soon we will be launching national land management system,” Ochieng said. Through the Ajira Digital Programme, the government has incorporated these hubs together with Youth Empowerment Centres, as a one-stop-shop for access to internet facilities, ICT training and digital jobs for the youth. The initiative is dubbed the Ajira Youth Empowerment Centres. Last week in Bungoma county, there were testimonies from youth in Webuye East constituency of how they are earning income from digital jobs they access through the Ajira Portal. The PS said Kenya, like most other African countries, has a huge youthful population and that provides the country with a great opportunity to nurture a future innovative country. “As a government, we continue to encourage and support such initiatives because we believe that through innovation, we can transform our country for the better and provide meaningful employment for our youth,” he said. The initiatives also target to promote the goals envisioned in the national development blueprint, Vision 2030, as well as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Last year during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, the PS says the ministry, through the Covid-19 ICT Advisory Committee, several local ingenious innovations were unearthed by offering innovators the opportunity to submit and incubate their works. The Ministry of ICT, Innovation and Youth Affairs, through the Konza Technopolis project, has so far completed construction of a Tier III National Data Center. “This facility will be instrumental in supporting innovators with diverse cloud computing space and will create an enabling environment for technological innovations in the country,” Ochieng said. Konza Technopolis, being the first such city in the region, is in itself founded upon the premise of technology. “As such, it is part of Konza’s vision to support and develop the innovation and technology ecosystem in the country and indeed the region,” Ochieng said. Edited by Sarah Kanyara