Leading gaming company Mozzart on Thursday 4 February donated medical equipment worth Ksh 3 Million to the Kakamega County General Hospital. The donated equipment included hospital beds, bed side lockers, maternity delivery beds, patient stretchers, patient monitors, an oxygen concentrator, oxygen flow meter, nebulizers, blood pressure monitors and maternity MVA kits. At hand to receive the equipment was Kakamega County Governor Hon. Wycliffe Oparanya who thanked Mozzart for the kind gesture. “When Covid-19 was at its peak, Mozzart donated medical equipment worth Ksh 10 million to 10 counties and I received this as the then Chairman of the Council of Governors. They have continued to support the communities through other initiatives and this is commendable,” he said. “In Kakamega they recently dug a borehole to provide clean water to the kids at Lurambi Primary School and the community around, they have sponsored Kakamega Homeboyz to the tune of Ksh 20 Million and have now donated very vital medical equipment to our hospital. We are very grateful for their support. As a county we are committed to providing quality healthcare and the equipment is a big boost to our efforts to improve service delivery.” he added. Mozzart Country Manager Sasa Krenta said the company was committed to supporting Kenyan communities even more. “We are happy to be in Kakamega once again; this feel like home now. We have a great partner in Kakamega Homeboyz and we were in Lurambi to commission a new water point for the community. We are delighted to donate vital medical equipment to Kakamega County General Hospital and hope this will make a great impact in the lives of the community around here,” Sasa said. “We have spent slightly over Ksh 50 Million so far on CSR programs and we are just getting started. We are very passionate about the well-being of Kenyans and will continue supporting key projects in Kenyan communities,” he added. Between November 2020 and now, sixteen different hospitals have received essential medical equipment courtesy of Mozzart. The facilities include Mama Lucy Kibaki Hospital, Pumwani Maternity Hospital, Ngara Health Centre, Chemolingot Sub County Hospital, Mathare North Health Centre, Kahawa West Health Centre, Kayole 1 Health Centre, Kayole 2 Sub County Hospital, Nyamache Sub-County Referral Hospital, Rachuonyo County Hospital, Dandora 1 Health Center, Mukuru Health Center and Dandora 2 Health Center. More hospitals around the country are lined up to benefit in coming weeks.