Ex-Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has told off politicians to stop hurling insults at each other and instead exercise sanity and decorum in their political engagements. In an apparent reference to recent attacks on President Uhuru Kenyatta by MPs allied to Deputy President William Ruto, Kabogo urged politicians to be tolerant and civil. When need be, he said, they should differ decently and with decorum instead of hurling abuses at each other. “I don’t agree with everything else that President Kenyatta does. But I will not hurl insults at him,” he former county boss said. In a recorded video on social his Twitter handle, he added, “I will not tell him in a manner that is disrespectful.” Kabogo added that he may not also agree with everything that Deputy President William Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga do or say, he will never them in a manner that is disrespectful. “I will not agree with everything else that William Ruto says. I may not agree with everything that Raila Odinga,” he said. “We should have decorum. We should know that this country belongs to all of us, 47 million and not any one person or any one community,” added. President Uhuru has lately been the recipient of harsh and fierce attacks and criticism from a section of MPs allied to DP Ruto. Last week, a group of 41 MPs from Mt Kenya, Nairobi and Rift Valley allied to the DP Ruto a stern letter to the president ahead of the visit to his backyard last Friday. In the letter, the MPs decry the state of the economy, alleged betrayal of the DP, political 'persecution' and Uhuru's handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga. The 11-page letter also seeks to address what the MPs say is the shelving of the Big Four Agenda for BBI and also tells off the President over his recent utterances. “The mountain will remain restless, dissatisfied and defiant. Ultimately, full-blown revolt will be inevitable,” the letter coming hours before the President tours the region concludes. Early last month, Kandara MP Alice Wahome hit out at the President, saying he should accept his time is up and stop "hiding behind BBI to cling to power" beyond his term. “For Kenya, to remain a truly democratic and rule of law state, our President must accept the reality his term is coming to an end. He must ensure a peaceful transfer of power in 2022 and go home,” Wahome said. Last year, MPs MP Oscar Sudi (Kapseret) and Johanna Ngeno (Emurua Dikir) were arrested for allegedly insulting the President and his family.