Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko was returned to Gigiri police station cells on Wednesday evening after being taken to Kamiti Maximum GK Prison earlier ahead of his appearance in Kiambu court on Thursday. This is after the DCI failed to be granted its request to detain Sonko for 30 days over terror-related charges. The application will be heard on Thursday. The Judiciary had last year opened the Kahawa West Law court which is within Kamiti prisons. The project was funded by the Government of the United States of America with support from the Government of the United Kingdom. The new court where Sonko was to take plea as per police, is the first and largest court in Kenya dedicated to counter-terrorism cases and related high-risk cases. After Sonko appeared at the Milimani courts, police sped off. Sonko has been accused of recruiting a militia which is likely to destabilize security. An application by the DCI seeking to detain him for 30 days pending investigations cites several counts against Sonko, including his being accused of procuring uniform resembling military attire, which he has previously been spotted wearing in contravention of the rules governing its use. "That the military attire is associated with terrorist groups which pose a threat to threat to national security... and hence need to have the suspect detained for comprehensive investigations." The application followed an affidavit sworn by chief inspector Newton Thimangu. Sonko is accused of arming his personal security agents with full military attire. "That I have intelligence information that the suspect is connected to financing of terrorism activities and he is in the advanced stage of procuring arms and ammunition." "That the suspect is under investigation and is likely to be charged for very serious charges arising from the Prevention of Terrorism Act." Sonko had earlier appeared at the Milimani law courts for corruption related charges. Chief magistrate Douglas Ogoti directed that he be taken to Gigiri cells ahead of his appearance in Kiambu over his application to be released on bail.