The Judicial Service Commission has disqualified three candidates from the race to succeed former Chief Justice David Maraga and shortlisted 10 successful applicants. Those disqualified are Otondi Ontweka, Ombongi Matagaro and Prof Mare Otinga. According to JSC the three were disqualified because they did not meet the criteria for the job. The 10 successful candidates will face the JSC in interviews scheduled for April 12 to 30. They are appeal judges William Ouko and Martha Koome, judges Chitembwe Said, DK Njagi Marete and Nduma Nderi, senior counsels Philip Murgor and Fred Ngatia, Prof Kameri Mbote Annie, Prof Wekesa Moni and Alice Yano. Justice Said will be the first to face the interview panel on April 12 followed by Prof Mbote on April 13. Justice Koome will be interviewed on April 14. Justice Njagi will be interviewed on April 15, Murgor on April 16, Nduma on April 19, Ngatia on April 20, Ouko on April 21 while Prof Moni and Yano will be interviewed on April 22 and 23 respectively. The commission invited the members of the public to send in any complaints against any shortlisted candidates in writing by March 3. Once the interviews are completed the JSC will forward the name of a single candidate who has scored highest to the President for appointment as the next Chief Justice. For the position of Supreme Court judge which was also advertised the JSC shortlisted appeal judges Koome, Ouko, M’inoti Kathurima, justices Said, Marete, Nderi, Joseph Sergon, Dr Nyaberi Lumumba and Yano. The JSC team tasked with the duty of hiring the country’s next CJ includes Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu, who is currently acting Chief Justice, judges Mohammed Warsame and David Majanja, Attorney General Paul Kihara, magistrate Evelyne Olwande, Prof Olive Mugenda, Dr Mercy Deche, LSK's Macharia Njeru, Felix Kiptarus and Registrar of the Judiciary Anne Amadi. The recruitment commenced when a notice was published declaring a vacancy on January 18. "Following publication of the notice, the search for a candidate, and the recruitment process and its attendant timelines will be governed and conducted in accordance with all the relevant provisions of the Constitution and the law," JSC said.