The lackadaisical performance of our local top tier clubs against foreign outfits leaves a lot to be desired. The latest disappointment was Gor Mahia’s surprise loss to Zambian representatives Napsa, in the Caf Confederations Cup on Sunday. Local football fans had hoped to leave Nyayo Stadium an elated lot but as it turned out to be, Kenyans were treated to yet another spectacular debacle on the international stage. One, therefore, wonders what exactly ails our football and why our teams usually fail to live up to expectations during international assignments. Coach Alexander Alumirah, who has inspired Vihiga Queens to three consecutive Kenyan Women Premier League titles, believes there is too much laxity in the course of preparations. “It all boils down to adequate preparations. Napsa jetted into the country some five days before their match against Gor. They had enough time to acclimatize and prepare well,” says Alumirah. “Local football administrators should also ensure the players focus fully on their activities on the pitch by taking care of their other needs that may only serve to distract them,” he concludes. Anthony Akhulia, who guides top tier newbies Bidco United, says no local club should expect miracles when it comes to achieving impressive results against well established and endowed foreign outfits. “We need to invest heavily in our football. The main problem with us is that we don’t take football seriously. We need to put the right structures in place, including forming academy sides in order to nurture and track the performance of our budding players,” says Akhulia. Sofapaka goalkeeper trainer John Waw is convinced Gor’s poor show on Sunday was partly due to poor decisions the club made in the last transfer window. “Gor have been performing well with foreign players. The club’s ability in the market was constrained by the financial difficulties they are currently experiencing. They never got to sign quality players,” says Waw. “Our local top tier sides must invest in youth structures. We tend to rely too much on ready-made players who sometimes come to the clubs and find it difficult yo perform because they can’t adopt to the coaching philosophy,” adds Waw. Immediate former Nairobi Stima coach George Oduor who presided over a third-spot finish during the 2019/2020 season, blames the average output from local clubs on inconsistency in developing local talent. “There are many players who end up disappearing in the thin air after displaying great potential during their formative years.”Ask yourself, for example, where the players who helped St. Anthony’s clinch the East African and national titles in the school games competitions went to thereafter. “I happened to be the coach when Ambira Boys clinched the title in 2010 and 2011 yet out of the entire squad only Sofapaka’s Timothy Otieno and Wazito’s Bernard Ochieng can be said to have made it in football,” says Oduor. Indeed, for Kenya to grow in football, local administrators should consider incorporating the views of other stakeholders into their future plans. Success calls for teamwork.