The 12th Parliament on Wednesday turned to God for protection and long life after losing 10 of its members. Speaking during a requiem mass held at the Holy Family Minor Basilica for Bonchari MP John Oyioka, the legislators sought divine intervention, noting the high number of deaths. “Both Houses of the 12th Parliament have lost 10 members collectively. That is such a high number,” National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said. Muturi said because it is not in their power to stop death, it was time Parliament prayed for a long, healthy life. “Last year we were unable to hold our annual national prayer breakfast due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Such tragedies, however, remind us that we need to turn to God,” Muturi said. John Oroo Oyioka (Bonchari MP), Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, and Francis Munyua Waititu (Juja MP) died this month. This is after Parliament lost a member in November and two in December last year. Other legislators who have died include Kabuchai MP James Lusweti, Matungu MP Justus Murunga, Msambweni MP Suleimani Dori, Kibra MP Ken Okoth and Kwale Senator Boy Juma Boy. Haji and Oyioka died on the same day. The Garissa Senator died in the morning while the Bonchari MP later in the evening. On Monday evening, Munyua died at MP Shah Hospital in Nairobi. Oyioka died aged 71 on February 15. He was diagnosed with diabetes and hypertension in 2015 and had been managing the illness. In mid-June 2020, Oyioka suffered a stroke but was treated to full recovery. However, he had another mild stroke in January 24 which he eventually succumbed to while undergoing treatment at the Aga Khan Hospital in Kisumu. Muturi lauded Oyioka for playing a key role in developing his constituency and advancing critical agenda at the National Assembly. “Before his demise, Oyioka was serving in the Committee on Education Research and Technology. In the 11th Parliament, he was a member of the Committee on Energy,” he said. Relatives and colleagues who attended the requiem mass eulogised the legislator as a humble man determined to transform people’s lives. Politicians who attended the mass included Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri, and Kisii MPs Ben Momanyi, Richard Onyonka, Innocent Momanyi, Zaddock Ogutu, Jane Ongera, James Magara, Jerusha Mong’ina among others. The leaders said among the many projects completed during his time include the construction of 12 classrooms in Suneka Primary School and eight in Nyakungu Primary. “He also undertook the construction of Suneka police station, bore holes in Nyangonge Botoro and Riamotinga,” said Kitutu Chache MP. Oyioka is survived by his two widows Teresa Bitutu and Pamela Otieno and six children. “He always puts a smile on my face. He was such a wonderful husband,” said Bitutu. Otieno eulogised Oyioka as a dear friend, mentor and employer who always encouraged her to work hard. The MP will be buried on Friday at his home in Suneka in Kisii county. A funeral service will be held at Itierio Boys High School grounds. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara