Kieni MP Kanini Kega has said the Jubilee party will be merciless in whipping those who will not toe the party line. Kega on Wednesday said the forthcoming whip is targeting those who have opted not to remit their party subscription fees. Speaking on KTN News on Wednesday, Kega said those who will find themselves on the receiving end will have themselves to blame. “The axe is coming and will fall on very many member of the national assembly, but let me be categorical that this action has nothing to do with the deputy president,” he said. Kega who doubles up as the Chairperson for Budget and Appropriations Committee in the National Assembly said DP Ruto called for a meeting with legislators allied to him at his Karen home and they made resolutions. Among them was to stop the remittance of their monthly subscription fee and rather channel the amount to newly formulated party UDA. “What they should know is that choices have consequences and the purge will fall on individual basis because they were not elected as a group but individually,” he said. Kega argued that when they were issued with party tickets, the agreed to adhere to code of conduct as per the party constitution and thus it is hypocritical for them to remit their money to another party while claiming they belong to Jubilee. “I am sure when the party finally receives their letters, it will crack the whip without any mercy,” the legislator said. He said he did not feel sorry for the six senators who have been expelled because they were given enough time to defend themselves. “Instead of defending themselves they brought innuendos and disrespected party leadership while dragging the DP into their woes. What else were they expecting,” he said. Kega said with regards to the dewhipping of Murang’a senator Irungu Kang’ata, the latter had himself to blame for not being truthful to himself. The MP said Kang’ata’s motive in writing the letter was malicious. “We know he is a founder of Tangatanga movement but the President still gave him the opportunity. As the Majority Chief Whip, he had direct access to the president and therefore I strongly believe there are valid reasons as to why he was removed from that position,” he said. While dismissing claims that DP Ruto has been sidelined by the party, Kega said as a matter of fact, the DP has been invited in all state functions but rather chose to skip on his own will. He said what is saddening is how the DP is duping his supporters that he is being sidelined yet he is the one who has fully refused to play his roles as the deputy to the president. Kega’s sentiments were however countered by Kimilili MP Didmus Barasa who said it was unfortunate that Jubilee was punishing MPs with a contrary opinion and especially those allied to DP Ruto. Barasa said for the last three years, Jubilee has never had a party position on key matters despite the fact that no agenda has been frustrated on the floor of the house. “We are not surprised at what is happening. It is however unfortunate at how the party is applying double standards and intimidating those who do not agree with them,” Barasa said. The MP said a time has come for the President as the party leader to sort out what differences he might be having with his deputy so that such differences are not extended to members. He said the DP has been skipping to state functions because they have intelligence that he would be heckled.