Kiambu nurses have finally resumed duties after nearly 50 days of a stalemate. This comes after they signed a return-to-work formula with the county government on Wednesday, ending more than 50 days of strike. The nurses were required to report back within 24 hours upon its signing. A spot check of county facilities on Thursday showed the health workers had kept their side of the bargain. The county and Kenya National Union of Nurses reached the agreement to restore services and end patients' suffering. County secretary Martin Njogu oversaw the signing at the county headquarters in Kiambu town. He cited the need to stop loss of lives due to strike. “Our hospitals have not been running well and we have pleaded with the nurses for sometime and one of the major issues was nonpayment of salaries due to a delay by the exchequer ," he said. "We have paid them on time and we have engaged. They have agreed to return to work and operations can go back to normal.” Njogu said Governor James Nyoro has been following and supporting the County Public Service Board task force that was mandated to fast-track negotiations. Health executive Joseph Murega said with the deal having been struck, patients' agony will now be "a thing of the past". He said: “We have had a difficult time because of Covid-19,. We have  infrastructural development in the county that needs to be manned and services given to our people. We pray that strikes will not happen again.” KNUN branch secretary John Njoroge called for compliance with labour laws going forward so that all parties can work in harmony. "Labour laws are part of the Kenyan Constitution. Today I sign a third return-to-work formula and my prayer is that it shall not just be a paper, the prayers of nurses is that let the labour laws be adhered to and respected so that all of us may live in a harmonious labour spirit,” he said. Njoroge added that the union in constant talks with the county government to find a solution to end the stalemate. He acknowledged that their receipt of January pay. According to the agreement, the county government shall increase risk allowance from Sh3,850 to Sh5,000 in line with the advisory by the Salaries and Remuneration Commission. Nurses who have died of Covid-19 and other illness, as well as accidents before the operationalisation of the comprehensive group life, enhanced work injury benefits and group personal accident cover as provided for by the National Hospital Insurance Fund shall be considered for compensation. Nurses who have been hospitalised and have paid their own bills because of the absence of comprehensive medical insurance cover shall be considered for refund. Those currently employed on a casual basis will be absorbed from July 1 and thereafter there will be no casual terms for nurses. Nurses who were due for promotion by June 30, 2020, will be promoted not later than March 31. Those due for re-designation will be re-designated before June 30. A career progression framework is to be worked out for recognition and proper placement of nursing managers and specialist nurses. The Nyoro administration will allocate resources to support specialist training in nursing and should give opportunities to all cadres of registered nurses, nursing officers and specialist nurses during hiring. Further, the county government shall endeavour to provide adequate and quality personal protective equipment to all nurses in county health facilities. The county undertook to neither victimise any KNUN member or UHC staff nor subject them to any form of reprisal, including arbitrary redeployment. In view of the deal, the county will unconditionally withdraw all show-cause, suspension and dismissal letters issued during the strike.  Edited by F'Orieny