Senators have condemned the bribery allegations that have dogged the ongoing military recruitment exercise. Kenya Defense Forces are recruiting various cadres of officers in their countrywide recruitment drive that started last month. But the lawmakers say the exercise has been riddled with corruption and bribery claims, with recruitment officers said to be demanding kickback of up to Sh700,000. “There are claims of corruption in recruitment exercise on a daily basis,” Narok senator Ledama Olekina said. “The allegations are that the recruitment officers are demanding hefty kickbacks up to the tune of 700,000 to enlist recruits into the military,” the senator said as he sought the house’s intervention to end the vice. While terming the allegations breach to national security, Ledama said the acts,  t are criminal and goes against the mission and roles of the military. Reacting to the statement, Bomet senator Christopher Langat said the country risks having a ‘comprised’ military. “I don’t know if it is by coincidence that just some few minutes before senator Olekina stood to raise this matter, an orphan who had made an attempt to be recruited in Bomet has just sent me a that they need Sh400,000,” the senate said. He reiterated that unless the vice is arrested now, the country risks ending up with military personnel who purchased their way into the service. “This particular case must be dealt with a lot of diligence. It is bad, the complaints are everywhere. Someone says recruitment takes place two or three months before the actual date,” he said. Migori senator Ochillo Ayacko said while it may be true some unscrupulous officers ate demanding bribes, brokers and middlemen also appear to be taking advantage of desperate youths. “As I speak in this house, I have had about 12 people approach me that they have money, I should identify some officers who might take that money and recruit them. “I have thought about it and asked myself how these officers are identifiable. “While it is possible and it’s likely to be true that there are military officers who are receiving bribe in order to recruit, it is also true there are a lot of brokers who are fleecing the public,” he added.