The Salaries and Remuneration Commission has asked counties to develop strategies to tame the runaway wage bill in the devolved units. SRC chairperson Lynn Mengich said governors needed to work toward ensuring their wage bill do not exceed 35 per cent of the revenues. “When the wage bill goes above 35 per cent, service delivery will be compromised and there will be no money for development programmes,” Mengich said. In a statement, she said the new office bearers at the Council of Governors led by Martin Wambora and James Ongwae should immediately embark on plans to lower the wage bill. Wambora was last week elected the new CoG chairman to taker over from Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. Ongwae was elected to deputise Wambora. “The new team should think of how they can work with the SRC to lower the ballooning wage bill in devolved units,” Mengich said. Some counties have been spending over 70 per cent of their budgets on recurrent expenditure, leaving no meaningful amount for development. The Public Finance Management Act requires that all arms of government operate at a wage bill of not more than 35 per cent of the ordinary revenue. The international best practice is where a country’s wage bill to public revenue ratio is between 30–40 per cent. A recent report said majority of counties are increasingly spending more on salaries, wages, allowances and other employee benefits. It said counties used Sh172 billion on such expenditure in the period between July 2019 and June 2020. The report put County Public Service Boards on the spot for failing to establish and adopt an optimal staffing structure that would guarantee a sustainable wage bill. The Sh172 billion wage bill represented 44.8 per cent of total counties expenditure, an increase from the Sh162.77 billion spent in 2018-19 when it was 43.2 per cent. Mengich reiterated that the development agenda of counties will not be achieved if the huge wage bill is not stemmed. “As the new team takes office, counties must find ways of addressing the runaway wage bill,” she said. SRC said counties should ensure that salaries paid to staff are affordable and sustainable. “Even as we strive to improve on the ratio of health workers to the population, or ratio of teachers to pupils, we must not disadvantage development programmes and service delivery. We must strike a balance between addressing under-staffing and affordability.” Mengich challenged the new CoG team to come up with clear strategies on how to address the problem. “The ballooning wage bill is a critical issue that needs to be addressed urgently if devolution is to succeed. It is a matter that must be looked into,” she said. She said her office is willing to work with CoG and other stakeholders to find solutions to the problem. “A wage bill must match economic and revenue growth,” she explained. In 2015, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the National Treasury and county government to stem the rising wage bill as the devolved units had embarked on a hiring spree. Kenya’s public wage bill, including that of national and county governments, currently stands at about Sh800 billion, gobbling up half of the tax receipts.