An MP allied to the Tangatanga faction claims that President Uhuru Kenyatta is dividing the Mt Kenya region by supporting ODM party leader Raila Odinga. Speaking at Kahiga primary school while handing over 13 classrooms renovated by the CDF on Saturday, Kandara MP Alice Wahome said the President should instead allow Kenyans to make their own decision on the next president. She claimed the Mt Kenya region has major issues with supporting Raila Odinga, whom she alleged is the sole reason the BBI bill was drafted. “We know the BBI bill was established to please Raila. Why can’t he go to the people and ask for support like other candidates?” She posed. Wahome added that those lobbying for the BBI will have an uphill task in the Mt Kenya region. She noted that a majority of locals wonder why the funds set aside for the referendum cannot be channelled towards hospitals, education, roads and water projects that the government pledged to implement. Raila, she further said, was given the constitutional role of being the head of the opposition but chose to jump into bed with the government and will be judged in the elections as part of the current administration. “The President is the head of our home but this home has been divided since the infamous handshake in 2018 when he started acting like some MPs were his and others were not,” she said. The conflicts, she said, would have been easily resolved had the President called leaders for a meeting but instead, he chose to further alienate those with divergent views. This led to arrests while Tangatanga MPs were removed from committees in both senate and national assembly, further aggravating the situation. Wahome was the vice-chairperson of the Justice and Legal committee before she was removed in the purge by the Jubilee party last year. “We had been given the committees’ positions because we were part of the ruling party but now that we are out, we should be left to make our own decisions even on BBI,” she said. Wahome said the President should trust that locals will choose a good leader the same way they did when they voted for him. If the country has to go to the referendum, the MP said Kenyans should be allowed to democratically express their opinions. Two weeks ago, leaders from Murang’a County formed a committee led by Governor Mwangi wa Iria and Woman Representative Sabina Chege that will popularize the BBI bill locally. The committee constitutes the eight elected MPs, county assembly speaker and the chief whip with the governor indicating that MPs who will be unwilling to be part of it will be replaced. There have been concerns of rebellion by locals worsened by the controversial letter drafted by senator Irungu Kang’ata to the President in which he said locals prioritised restructuring of the agriculture sector and were not keen on BBI.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris