Fresh from sealing qualification to the Kenya Cup, Strathmore Leos face a Herculean task as they open their campaign against champions KCB on February 27. The match will be following by another equally demanding fixture, against Enterprise Cup champions Kabras a week later. Strathmore head coach Louis Kisia said: “It's tough to open the season against the best teams in the division but we will bank on our fitness since we have a game under our belt while everyone else will be starting from scratch." The students are yet to taste victory against the big two in the longer version of the game but Kisia was upbeat about their chances this time around. "The boys are relishing the challenge. You test yourself by playing the best teams in the country and we will go all out for a win," added Kisia The students last played in the Kenya Cup final in 2012 in a lopsided contest, losing 37-3 to Nakuru but Kisia said the team is ready to scale those heights in the years to come. "First, we are targeting the playoffs then talk about being in the final in the next two or three years. We have a good crop of young players who can go all the way " observed Kisia. The former Mwamba tactician predicted surprises in the shortened season especially with rugby being given the go-ahead to resume activities just a month ago. “There will be upsets as most teams have not done proper pre-season but I guess as we go along teams will improve but it will be an interesting season full of twists and turns,” added Kisia. Kisia will rely on Gabriel Adero, Trevor Opondo, Philemon Olang and Bethwell Anami in the forwards with Arnold Muita, Andrew Matoka, Wiseman Aganya and Lucas Opal the pick of the backs. The start of the league will be preceded by the Charity Cup clash between Kabras and Quins at Nyayo Stadium this Saturday. The league will take 11 weeks culminating in the semis. The top four teams will advance to the semis on May 22 with the final slated for a week later. There will be no fans on the grounds as clubs observe Covid-19 protocols. There will also be Covid-19 tests for players every two weeks.