In September 2019, the National Assembly Committee on Implementation recommended the approval of Mwende Mwinzi as Kenya’s ambassador to South Korea be rescinded. The conditional approval had been made on June 6 by the Defence and Foreign Relations Committee. Parliament had approved the committee's  report on condition Mwinzi renounced her US citizenship. Almost one year and a half later, photos emerged of Mwinzi presenting her letter of credence to South Korean President Moon Jae-in Seoul on February 17 — to the irritation of MPs. Some were furious, calling it contempt of the National Assembly’s rejection of her nomination. They have threatened to deny funding to the Kenyan Embassy in Seoul and called for sacking of Foreign Affairs CS Ambassador Raychelle Omamo. Mwinzi went ahead to start her tour of duty even before the House debated the report by the Committee on Implementation of House Resolutions that asked MPs to quash the approval of her nomination. The matter had not been exhausted, clearly pointing to contempt of Parliament and trashing of the vetting function of the House. National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi agreed the matter was weighty, saying the House should debate and make a decision. Mwinzi, who went through the procedural orientation for diplomatic nominees without rescinding her citizenship, sued the MPs over the recommendation that she renounces her US nationality. She argued that the condition was unconstitutional, saying, "An ambassador is not a state officer as provided for in Article 60 of the Constitution." “Article 78(3) (b) would only be applicable to people who opted in by applying for citizenship and renunciation would be the process of ‘opting out’,” she argued in her petition. Mwinzi further said she is exempted by virtue of Article 78 of the Constitution as she was born in the US and as such, cannot renounce her citizenship. However, Article 78 (2) of the Constitution says only those who renounce their citizenship of foreign nations are allowed to hold public office. Section 31 (1) of the Leadership and Integrity Act provides that a state officer who acquires dual citizenship shall lose the position. This is the section legislators cited. Subsection 2 says a person who holds dual citizenship shall, upon election or appointment to a state office, not take office before officially renouncing their other citizenship in accordance with the Kenya Citizenship and Immigration Act. Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo argued Mwinzi’s appointment is unlawful, saying Parliament declined to approve her nomination for the stated reasons and thus approval and appointment, despite the Constitution, is unlawful. “When the law requires approval of this House and the Executive goes ahead to appoint an individual without its approval, it is unlawful,” said lawyer Amollo, who is the vice chairman of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee. An example surfaces: The Finance committee declined to approve the appointment of former Kenya Power CEO Ben Chumo to head the Salaries and Remuneration Commission, saying he lacks integrity. The MPs said Chumo did not meet the requirements of Chapter Six of the Constitution on Leadership and Integrity. That matter ended there and so should have Mwinzi’s. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr has also said the concerns raised by Parliament are valid. “They have huge implications in other arms of government. Her appointment means that no one should be stopped from vying if they have dual citizenship,” he said. Some have also wondered why Mwinzi or the powers that be are bulldozing through this appointment. Journalist Saddique Shaban said in a Twitter thread that  the deadlock has wasted Kenya's diplomacy on the Korean Peninsula for two years and ashamed the nation. Kenya has not had an ambassador in Seoul during that time. “I don't remember anyone else in recent history who had put up so much fight for a government job. Perhaps the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and State House know why Mwende Mwinzi needs this job so badly that she's readily holding the country at ransom with legal suits to force through the job,” Shaban tweeted. While the Jubilee government might want to reward its chief agent for Mwingi West constituency in the last elections, it probably needs to offer another job to end this drama. Even if she wants the job so desperately, the process of renunciation of citizenship is so onerous, she's rather not consider the option.