As the country continues to witness a rise in schools unrest, two MPs from Kakamega have differed with Education CS George Magoha over the reintroduction of corporal punishment in schools. Lurambi MP Titus Khamala and his Shinyalu counterpart Justus Kizito separately said religious leaders should be integrated in school programmes to instill moral values in students. “As a Member of Parliament I want to disagree with the Education Cabinet Secretary, Prof Magoha, over reintroducing corporal punishment. We need to find appropriate ways of dealing with these social problems that have cropped up amongst our children and corporal punishment is not one of them,” Khamala, who is also a bishop, said. Magoha last week proposed that corporal punishment be reintroduced in schools to quell the increased school unrest and cases of arson. However, Khamala said children come from different backgrounds, including those being raised by single mothers and others from violent families. He noted that some are under a lot of pressure and fear of examinations that lead to them reacting in such ways in schools and corporal punishment will only make things worse. “We are asking the Ministry of Education to integrate religious leaders in school programmes so that they can guide, counsel and instill values into these children,” Khamala said. Kizito said corporal punishment cannot solve issues of school unrest. He said guiding and counseling should be considered in dealing with the challenges being faced by students in schools. “These children have been at home for over a year due to the coronavirus pandemic and they still have a huge hangover on them. They should be given a listening ear, get to understand their problems and look for ways to sort them out and that is why guiding and counseling will come in handy,” Kizito said The MP accused Magoha of making decisions without consulting the education stakeholders, including teachers, parents and students themselves. “It was not appropriate to ask the students to sit exams immediately the schools opened after a long break due to Covid-19. The unrest and cases of arson we are experiencing is due to exam fever. What the students need now is encouragement that they can make it in the final exam,” he said Edited by EKibii 