Forty-eight former and current employees of the National Social Security Fund have sought court orders enforcing payment of an award of over Sh165 million in salary adjustments. They are asking the appellate court to compel the NSSF to implement the judgment of Justice Monicah Mbaru of August 24, 2020, directing it to pay them their lawful salary increments. In her judgment, Justice Mbaru of the Employment and Labour Relations Court ruled that they were entitled to a cumulative Sh165,121,848.29, being salary adjustments as advised by the Price Waterhouse Coopers (PWC) in 2009. “The salary disparities arose from the collapse of the staff grading from 14 to 8 grades and the applicable salary,” the judge said. The 48 were awarded their lawful dues from May 1, 2014, until payment in full. Justice Mbaru added that even before the claimants moved to court to seek redress, the Commission on Administration of Justice and an internal committee formed by the NSSF had made findings that the 48 were entitled to salary adjustments. “The claimants have proven in their evidence that they are entitled to salary adjustments,” Mbaru said. She directed the pension’s authority to implement the court’s decision, adding that court judgments are not mere papers, hence value should be allocated. But the NSSF opposed the implementation of the judgment, claiming it would incur losses. It argued that some of the claimants had since retired and recovery of funds from them may be difficult if they lose in the appeal. The fund also told Justice Hellen Wasilwa that it has lodged an appeal and if it is determined in its favour then it will have incurred a huge loss if it pays the money. In a ruling dated January 19, 2021, Justice Wasilwa suspended implementation of Mbaru's ruling, saying the stay is warranted as it will preserve the substratum of NSSF's appeal. She stayed the implementation until the appeal is heard and determined. However, the 48 have challenged Justice Wasilwa’s decision, saying the NSSF is time-barred as it failed to challenge Mbaru’s orders of August 24, 2020, within the required 60 days from the date of judgment. The claimants claim the fund has now resulted in delaying tactics not to pay them their legal emoluments. “The claimants are on the verge of retiring, while others have retired and may not enjoy the fruits of the judgment if the appeal is not heard and determined expeditiously,” says Kimmel, in his affidavit in the appeal suit. The claimants are asking the second-highest court to set aside the orders of Justice Wasilwa to allow their payments. They argue that Justice Wasilwa erred in law and fact by entertaining NSSF's plea when it had disobeyed the order to pay. The file has been placed before Court of Appeal president Justice William Ouko to give directions. 