Sidian Bank has signed half a million-sponsorship support to the 2021 convention designed to provide more insight into how Saccos can accelerate their growth towards recovery amidst the Covid-19 effects on the economy. The Kenya Union of Savings and Credit Co-operatives Limited (KUSCCO) has signed a half a million sponsorship from Sidian Bank aimed at supporting Co-operatives and accelerating post-pandemic recovery. This sponsorship will also support KUSCCO as they host their sixth Annual Sacco’s Leaders convention which will be held at Pride Inn Paradise Hotel, Mombasa from February 23 to 26, 2021. Themed “SACCOs beyond Covid-19: Accelerating towards Recovery”, the convention will expose leaders to the effects of Covid-19 on the SACCO sub-sector, share success stories, exchange information. It will further provide recommendations and mitigation strategies that will accelerate SACCO's growth to recovery. The bank has fronted its institutional baking which has contributed to the growth of Co-operatives by offering term deposits, individual accounts for the members and credit facilities to co-operatives and its members. “As the country is adversely affected by the Covid19 pandemic, we as a bank have also ensured that we offer solutions to our customers that are major contributors to keeping their businesses afloat,” Sidian CEO, Chege Thumbi siad during the cheque handover. He added that empowering customers is what Sidian Bank brand stands for, which the bank has been able to do through provision of custom-made financial solutions.” “With the Covid-19 pandemic, the affiliated members of Saccos in different industries retorted to the withdrawal of their deposits and defaulted their loans,” Kussco’s Group managing Director George Ototo in a statement to invitees. “This was followed by loan restructuring, postponement of the annual general meeting among other survival measures. The adjustments had a huge impact on Sacco's liquidity and the dilemma of governance is an issue. There is therefore a need for leaders to come together and evaluate the measures, added Ototo. Sidian’s Bank Co-operative banking solution was established with aim of providing tailor-made solutions to the value-chain for transport, finance, agriculture, and savings cooperative sector through unlocking the potential of their banking solutions.