Two EU-funded projects to be implemented in Kwale are expected to change the lives of fishermen. Governor Salim Mvurya said they have received €1 million (Sh 132,290,968) in funding. The two projects are BIOPAMA and KECOFISH at Kisite-Mpunguti Marine Reserve and Shimoni-Vanga seascape in Lunga-Lunga subcounty. The Biodiversity and Protected Areas Management (BIOPAMA) assists African, Caribbean and Pacific countries to increase conservation and governance of biodiversity and natural resources. The projects will run for three years. They are meant to improve the management of marine conservation and small-scale fisheries to spearhead the growth of the blue economy along the Kenya coastal strip and East Africa. EU Ambassador Simon Mordue said they are partnering with Kenya to support sustainable socioeconomic projects that are geared towards increasing food security and providing employment opportunities. “The projects are about supporting sustainable livelihoods of fishermen in the Kwale border communities,” he said. Mordue spoke on Thursday at Kwale headquarters in Matuga when he visited Mvurya before launching the projects in Lunga-Lunga. Similar pilot projects were also launched in Lamu. Mordue said fishermen will be assisted in upgrading their fishing techniques and equipped with the best cold storage and processing facilities for value addition. He said they want to ensure the projects play a key role in economic benefits to the coastal people. The EU is also funding the construction of the Kombani fresh produce wholesale market and revitalisation of the cashew nuts industry in Kwale. Mordue said soon they will launch a huge programme, namely Go Blue, that is estimated to pump in around Sh3 billion worth of investments into the coastal communities. He said creating diverse employment opportunities for the locals is the EU's priority and an area that they will intensify their relationship with Kenya as a way of fighting poverty. Mvurya said his administration has provided local fishermen with basic knowledge, tools, boats and improved landing sites to support the local fishing industry. He said the county will continue to work together with various stakeholders to ensure food and nutrition security. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya