UDA party chairman Johnson Muthama has called on Ukambani politicians to cast aside their differences and help ferry back to Kenya the body of Sheria Musyoka from the USA to Mwingi. The twenty-six-year-old is the son of former chairman of the defunct Mwingi County Council Musyoka Wanzili, who was studying in the US. He was killed in a multi-vehicle crash last Thursday as he walked beside a road near Lake Merced Boulevard in San Francisco. Sheria, who according to media reports had recently graduated from Dartmouth College and leaves behind a widow Hannah Ege and a three-year-old son. Muthama visited and condoled with the Wanzili’s at their Maai village in Nguni division Mwingi Central sub-county on Saturday. He was accompanied by politician Moses Banda who has taken up the job of bringing back the body. Muthama said Sheria never engaged in politics and politicians should not politicise the return of his body to Kenya. He said it was a tradition among the Kambas that people should without exception come together to help. “Musyoka the father of the departed has made it clear that his son has never been an MCA and never sought a political seat. Thus people must draw a line between the father and the matter of burying his son,”   Muthama said. He further cautioned those visiting to console the family to focus on the burial arrangement. He asked the family to be open and receive any persons visiting to condole with them regardless of the visitor's political affiliation. Wanzili is a prominent political figure across Ukambani especially due to his rare acumen to compose captivating and melodious lyrics in praise of political personalities during election campaigns. He was until recently a bosom political aide to Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka for whom he belted out political songs that endeared Kalonzo to the Mwingi North electorate. Currently, Wanzili is in Deputy President William Ruto’s hustler nation bandwagon. On Saturday, Kitui governor Charity Ngilu also condoled with the family. She was accompanied by her 2022 challenger, David Musila, Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi and Mulyungi’s predecessor MP Jonathan Mutambu. According to reports from her communication desk, Ngilu promised to stand with the family in funeral arrangements as well as the airlifting of the late Sheria body back to Kenya.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris