Harassment, intimidation and witchhunt will not deter allies of Deputy President William Ruto from standing with him, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro has said. Ndindi said Jubilee Party has sent government agencies after them but the harassment has not broken their resolve. “They have arrested some of us, sent Kenya Revenue Authority and DCI against us but they have not been able to keep us down. They have only one more year to intimidate us before we get a government that will respect all Kenyans,” he said. “I don’t know whether we are being treated like rubbish because we finished our work and they are done with us.” The MP spoke at Ihura stadium in Murang’a town on Tuesday while issuing bursary cheques worth Sh15 million to over 2,000 college and university students. He said once the CDF receives its allocation from the national government, more students will get bursaries. Ndindi noted that his CDF kitty has also modernised more than 72 primary schools in the constituency, fitting them with tiles. Earlier, Murang'a Senator Irung Kang’ata had been removed from his influential position as Senate Majority Whip and replaced by Kiambu Senator  Kimani Wamatangi. Jubilee secretary-general said Kang'ata had been disrespectful to the party and President Uhuru Kenyatta. Kang'ata's replacement followed the party's expulsion of six nominated senators on Monday. Isaac Mwaura, Millicent Omanga, Victor Prengei, Falhada Dekow Iman, Naomi Jillo Waqo and Mary Seneta Yiane were expelled by the National Management Committee — Jubilee's top organ. But Ndindi said Kang'ata was relieved of his position because he told the truth about the Central region’s low perception of the Building Bridges Initiative. Late last year, Kang’ata penned a controversial letter to the President in which he detailed BBI’s unpopularity in the region. Kang'ata said Mt Kenya residents were keener on having more efforts channelled towards the agriculture sector and did not support the BBI. The letter sparked sharp reactions from pro-Uhuru and pro-Ruto leaders. Uhuru's allies said Kang’ata’s intentions were to decamp to the Tangatanga camp of Jubilee while Ruto's allies said the letter reflected the situation on the ground. On Tuesday, Ndindi hit out at Tuju, saying the secretary-general did not contribute to the election of the President yet those who rallied behind him and brought in votes were being sacrificed. He wondered why the party did not take any action against nominated MP Maina Kamanda and other party members who publicly supported an ODM candidate during Kibra’s by-elections in 2019. Ndindi said other members of the party supported an ODM candidate in Msambweni by-elections last year but did not suffer any consequences.  