Schools in Boni Forest in Lamu county are seriously short-staffed a month after they reopened following a seven-year closure. Bodhai-Junction, Milimani, Basuba, Mangai, Mararani and Kiangwe primary schools in Lamu East are all affected by the shortage of teachers. But Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia denied reports that Boni schools were facing such challenges. He said the two sent to each school were enough because pupil numbers are low. Only one teacher is at Bodhai-Junction Primary to serve the whole school from ECDE to Grade 3. As a result, the teacher has been forced to combine all the learners and teach them in one classroom. Parents said the situation is ineffective, considering the different syllabuses required to be covered. Milimani Primary has two teachers for ECDE to Grade 4 catering for over 70 learners. Classrooms have no windows or doors and their walls are cracked. At Mararani Primary, the rusty iron sheets are almost being blown off the roofs. The school also has two teachers serving learners from ECDE to Grades 4. Last month, the government reopened all the six schools, a week after the rest resumed for the new term in 2021. More than 10 teachers were later airlifted by military and police choppers to their schools. The teachers are housed in military and police camps in the areas. Apart from the teacher shortage, the schools also have inadequate infrastructure. Residents have urged the government to put up more classrooms and deploy more teachers. “How can an ECDE learner sit in the same class with a Grade 3 learner? How does the teacher even handle the classes to ensure all the different learners get something at the end of the day?” Abdi Guyo said. “We need more teachers and classes. The government should stop joking with our children’s education.” The parents are also concerned that crowding of all learners in a single classroom puts them at risk of contracting Covid-19. “We just need teachers and schools here so that our kids don’t have to go so far in search of schools,” Nuru Ahmed said. Ahmed Mbao said the state of the classrooms is a security concern as they might collapse on the children. “The schools were closed for over seven years and its only normal that some of the equipment and facilities are not looking as good as they should. They need serious renovations,” Galo Shulo said. 