The prosecution has protested against an order barring the charging of Kenya Bureau of Standards boss Bernard Njiraini, saying it is aimed at circumventing the criminal justice process. The order stopped the arrest and prosecution of Njiraini over the irregular award of a multi-billion shilling international tender. The tender relates to pre-inspection and pre-verification of motor vehicles at their countries of origin before importation to Kenya. In submissions filed in court, the Director of Public Prosecution and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations noted that the courts should be shy in accepting invitations by litigants to interfere with the independent exercise of constitutional duties by state organs except when there is a violation. The two agencies noted that the courts in many decisions have held that it is not thier duty to decide who should be charged and with what offence. “If the courts were to do so, they would clearly be meddling in matters that are purely within the province of the DPP thus rendering the DPP a constitutionally docile entity,” the application stated. The state also raised questions over an affidavit sworn by Njiraini which was filed in court in support of his case. The affidavit in question, the prosecution said, was a forgery because the advocate who is said to have commissioned it informed police that Njiraini never appeared before him for commissioning of the same. “The affidavit in purported support of the chamber summons dated September 14, 2020 and notice of motion dated October 21, 2020 subject of allegations against 1st and 2nd  respondents herein are forged…,” said investigating officer Peace Maithya of the DCI. According to both DCI and ODPP, the orders sought in the case by Njiraini were unconstitutional as they sought to stop the two agencies from exercising their mandate. The law allows the DCI and other investigative agencies to probe him if there is probable cause to do so, his status notwithstanding, the court was told. In the present case, the court was told, Njiraini did not present any written directive to the DCI by any other authority to justify his claim that the investigations had been commenced for a collateral purpose. “In the absence of that evidence the court can only presume that they are purely acting on the discharge of their lawful authority.” And unless he establishes that the DCI was acting ultra vires to their powers, the court should not unnecessarily inhibit them from investigating, it was argued. Both the DPP and DCI want the application by Njiraini dismissed.  Edited by Henry Makori