The Cabinet on Thursday approved the policy on the revival of 4K-Agricultural Clubs in all Schools across the country. The Cabinet meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House Nairobi said this is in line with the government's efforts to steer the nation to the adoption of smart agriculture. "Mindful that the average age of the Kenyan farmer is 60 years, Cabinet considered and approved the policy on the revival of 4K-Agricultural Clubs in all Schools across the Republic," read part of a dispatch to newsrooms. "This endeavor seeks to foster the interest of children in agriculture, so as to usher a new generation of techno-savvy agricultural players who will revolutionise every aspect of agriculture in Kenya," the dispatch said. Years ago, children in primary schools were taught how to grow crops through 4K Clubs. The 4Ks stood for Kuungana, Kufanya, Kusaidia Kenya in Kiswahili, a clarion call to help the country be food secure. Keeping of rabbits, chickens, goats and growing horticultural crops for lessons and schools were some of the agricultural activities that ended up generating some income from them. The clubs existed in all public primary schools but died in early 1990s. Many stakeholders have been calling on the government to re-introduce the clubs. The dispatch said towards the realisation of greater food and nutritional security, the Cabinet considered the Agriculture Policy, which positions crop diversification and irrigation as the two main planks for both enhanced food production as well as improved earnings for farmers. The Agriculture Policy also addresses the emerging threats of Climate Change, novel diseases, pesticide-resistant pests, and other challenges to food and nutrition security. To further enhance food production in Kenya, the Cabinet also considered the National Water Policy which provides a more robust framework to guide the national efforts towards the achievement of sustainable management, development, and use of water resources. The Policy achieves this by creating better integrations between water resources management, water harvesting and storage, and water supply and sanitation services. "In regard to Manufacturing, as a key driver of our national development goals, Cabinet considered the National Automobiles Policy. The Policy seeks to provide an enabling environment for the domestic motor vehicle industry with opportunities to achieve greater competitiveness in the local manufacturing of automotive products," the dispatch read. The Policy repositions the legal, institutional, and regulatory frameworks for the development of the automotive industry supports local motorcar and motorcycle assembly and facilitates market access for sector products and services. The Cabinet also considered the Local Content Policy which seeks to transform Kenya’s economy by promoting the development of advanced industries through the maximization of in-country value addition. The Policy leverages Kenya’s longstanding competitive advantages and combines them with the established know-how of business operating in Kenya thereby creating a platform where Kenya output is both domestically attractive as well as internationally brand recognised and competitive. "Mindful that upstream and midstream petroleum sectors in Kenya are emerging sectors of the economy with promising potential especially following the nation’s commercial oil discoveries, the  Cabinet considered and approved the development of the Integrated Crude Oil Infrastructure in Kenya," it read. As part of the Administration’s Agenda on Universal Health Coverage, the Cabinet further considered the National Emergency Medical Care(EMC) Policy. "The Policy seeks to enhance universal access and delivery of the highest quality of emergency medical care as part of the Universal Health Coverage (UHC) pillar of the Big Four thereby minimising the morbidity and mortality rates arising from medical and public health emergencies," the dispatch read. In recognition of the fact that Kenya’s socio-economic development is inextricably tied with greater national cohesion and integration, Cabinet also considered the National Policy on Culture and Heritage. The Policy seeks to promote greater respect, appreciation, and understanding of the various heritages and cultures that make Kenya a vibrant melting pot made stronger by her diversity. The Policy positions culture and heritage not as a static or academic aspect of life that is far removed from the day-to-day concerns of Kenyans, rather it centers culture and heritage as an important and dynamic part of 21st-century life that creates a platform for combining traditions with the demands and opportunities of the modern age. "To foster the development of the creative industry, Cabinet also considered the National Music Policy. The Policy acknowledges that unique role played by music as a powerful vehicle for economic growth, youth empowerment, culture and national identity building, education and entertainment," it read. The Cabinet lauded the Creative Sector for playing a significant role in facilitating positive discourse and in both informing and entertaining the public. In approving the Policy, Cabinet noted that Kenya’s creatives can play an important role in marketing Kenya internationally.