Head teachers must now reside within their schools— a directive the Ministry of Education hopes will stop a wave of unrest and arson attacks in the institutions. Two teachers were knifed by a student in Kisii last month and at least 18 schools have had arson attacks on dormitories and other facilities since January 4. Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang has ordered schools to convene board meetings before February 15 to assess the security situation and measures to prevent unrest. In a circular to regional, county, and subcounty directors of education, Kipsang also ordered administrators to close any loopholes for drugs peddling in schools. "Flag out the incidences of drug and substance abuse for corrective actions," the circular reads. The school heads will also be required to report incidents that may cause unrest in schools to the police to avert possible destruction of property or injuries to learners and staff. Schools have also been instructed to enhance guidance and counselling as the long closure due to Covid-19 exposed learners to undesirable behaviour. Managers have been instructed to open up channels of effective communication with the learners and staff that promote grievance redress. The guidelines recommend that more teachers on duty be assigned and security be deployed to dormitories and tuition facilities when students are away.  Regular roll call and other mechanisms of accounting for each learner must be put in place. Since the reopening of schools, the Star has documented 18 schools where dormitories were burnt or destroyed in suspected arson attacks. They include Koelel High School in Gilgil, Bungoma High School, Kabianga Boys, Kisumu Boys, Masara Secondary School, Bukembe Boys, Kituro High, Kimulot Boys High. Others are Kapsogut Boys High, Cheborgei Boys High, Karia Secondary, Musingu Boys High, Tonga Omunuri Adventist Boarding Primary School, Oloormirani High School, Kirimari and Kiambere Secondary Schools in Embu county and Itigo Girls in Nandi. Teachers also were attacked in the early weeks of schools reopening last month. The Ministry is worried schools' unrest could hurt preparations for KCPE and KCSE exams. 