Kenneth Nyachae, late Mzee Simeon Nyachae’s son, on Monday hilariously narrated how the former Cabinet Minister once boxed him for accidentally locking the keys to his brand new Mercedes Benz inside the car. Addressing mourners at Gusii Stadium, Kenneth said it happened one Christmas after they left Kisii for their farm in Sotik. "Dad had arranged for a Land Rover to come and take us to the farm. So he packed his new Mercedes on the roadside and told me to look after the car. ..The music was there with Kenny Rodgers playing," he said. It was at this moment that Kenneth was asked to sit and look after the car ensuring that he did not leave the key inside the car when he went out to stretch. "...the car has a central lock key and he had mentioned that should I feel like I want to step out of the car, I should remove the key," he said. "I stepped out to stretch but forgot the key. The car locked itself and dad and the rest of the family had gone into the farm." Leaving the mourners in stitches, Kenneth said that somehow his dad got wind that he had forgotten the key inside the car. "He was informed and when he was coming with the Land Rover, he did not wait for it to stop. He jumped out of it like the bodyguards belonging to the President and his deputy and came straight for me. I was in form four by then, which means I was a bit tall," he said. "As he came for me, I tried to look as helpless as possible. As he came nearer to me, the punches began and he was very skilled and that was a few weeks after Mohamed Ali had just been knocked down." Kenneth said he has always wanted to go up in life but noted that that day, his father carried him real high. "He carried me up and said I could not adhere to instructions. So dad said I was going to ride in the Land Rover with goats, driver and a bodyguard," he said. He said that his family boarded the Mercedes that had been unlocked and he was asked to ride with the goats. "...on our way, the driver and the bodyguards bought boiled maize at around Ndaragwa area. I was in the back of the Land Rover when they gave me the maize. As I was chewing it, I know the goat was wondering why I was eating the maize alone and yet we were comrades," he added. President Uhuru Kenyatta, his deputy William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga are all at Gusii Stadium for the burial of Nyachae. The three who do not see eye to eye will share a platform as they lead the nation in mourning with the family of Nyachae.