The government has 320,000 litres of chemicals to fight the desert locust upsurge. Government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna has said that this pesticide is enough to control the current desert locust situation in the country. "We have no shortage of pesticides and we are good to go as far as this second wave of invasion is concerned," he said. He spoke on Wednesday during a media field trip on desert locust control in Isiolo. In the past five days, swarms have been reported in Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Marsabit, Samburu, Isiolo, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Tana River, Kilifi, Kitui, Machakos, Laikipia, Nakuru and Nyandarua counties. The second wave of desert locust was reported in November 2020. He said the government in partnership with FAO has put in place various measures to combat the locusts. "In total there are nine aircraft for spraying and surveillance," Oguna said. He added that so far, 1,600 scouts have also been trained in ground surveillance and control of the desert locusts. Oguna said they have also established six operational bases in Garissa, Wajir, Turkana, Isiolo and two recent ones in Mandera and Witu. "The first line of containment is surveillance because you have to know where the locust are before they are sprayed," Oguna said. He stated that about 300 swarms have been sighted in the second wave. "Some 156 swarms have so far been contained." The government has contained the situation by around 80 per cent and only 20 per cent is still being controlled, he said. Hamisi Williams, Deputy FAO Country Representative said immature swarms persist mainly in northern and central counties. According to UN-Food and Agriculture Organisation locust watch, the swarms are highly mobile, the same swarm can easily be sighted several times. Hamisi said there have been no further reports of swarms in Turkana. A few small immature swarms formed from previous breeding along the coast near Lamu and probably in adjacent areas of southern Somalia. "The number of swarms arriving from the north continued to decline. While rains have fallen in southern counties, more rain is needed in the north where the swarms are more likely to eventually mature and lay eggs," he added. Hamisi said in order to reduce the next generation of breeding, ground and aerial control operations are focusing on the swarms before they can mature and lay. "The government will spare no efforts to ensure locusts are eliminated once and for all," he said. Oguna said, besides FAO, the government is also working with local administration in the interventions to support the desert locust control process.  Edited by Sarah Kanyara