Over 1,500 boda boda riders have benefited from free training from Gatanga CDF in a bid to reduce accidents in the area and empower the youths. MP Nduati Ngugi said the majority of boda boda riders were untrained, which he said put their lives and those of passengers at risk. Nduati said lack of licenses also heightened conflicts between riders and the police and made their working environment unconducive. He said when he was voted in in 2017, most of the accidents reported in local hospitals were sustained through boda bodas, with many left nursing lifelong injuries. “My CDF board decided to do something about the situation and save the lives of both the riders and locals,” he said. Since then, accidents involving boda bodas have significantly reduced as more riders continue to acquire licenses. The training enables them to understand traffic rules and follow them. The youths are also trained on first aid and financial management to help them deal with unwell passengers and manage their income. “We have asked the riders to form groups that can access the numerous financial platforms provided by the government to further empower themselves,” he said. Just last month, 35 groups from the constituency received Sh5 million from the Uwezo Fund to undertake business ventures. Nduati said the government has made it easier for the youths to create self-employment opportunities and appealed to them to stop complaining over joblessness and start small businesses. The subcounty police commander Peter Muchemi asked the riders to take the sector seriously as it has the potential to transform their lives. “We are asking boda boda operators to take their work as any other and use it to better their lives,” he said. Muchemi however cautioned the riders against taking law into their hands as has been evident in accidents involving them and urged them to instead involve the police. He said the riders are able to interact with all members of the society and are a vital organ of community policing. Joseph Mbace, a beneficiary, said he works in a car wash in Gatura town and that they approached the MP for help in acquiring driving licenses. This is because many of their clients were afraid to leave their car keys to them due to their lack of training which slowed their work. But after undergoing training, the workers who number 10 are able to drive vehicles to their owners’ location after cleaning them, making their work easier and faster. Faith Gathini said she joined the sector after failing to get any other employment. But riding a boda boda has supported her and with the training, she hopes to earn more while avoiding mishaps that increase her expenditure. Edited by Henry Makori