Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday said he will not resign despite President Uhuru Kenyatta asking him to quit if he felt the government was not doing enough to deliver services. Ruto said he will instead continue supporting the President to roll out Jubilee administration's programmes. Speaking in Isiolo county, Ruto said he will respect the President despite having been stripped of his duties. The DP denied claims of undermining the President, saying Uhuru is the final decision maker in the Jubilee administration. “You all know I am a very respectful person. The President and I campaigned as a team and we formed the Jubilee government. I respect the President and he is the one who makes the final decision in this government,” Ruto said. He added, “I have never contradicted the President because of respect I have for him. Even though the work I was supposed to be doing as the Deputy President is being done by others, I have respected the President on that decision because I want the unity of the country." On Friday, Uhuru who was on a tour of development projects being undertaken by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services challenged the DP to quit. Uhuru said it does not make sense for Ruto to take credit for development projects his government has done since 2013 when they took over and at the same time campaign against some. But Ruto who presided over a fundraiser for 70 churches and boda bodas empowerment programme in Ngaremara, Isiolo, said there is no contest between him and Uhuru. “I work as he directs me to. I have never absconded any assignment given to me,” he said. In January 2019, Uhuru in an Executive Order elevated Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi to a chief minister. In the order, the President handed over to Matiang'i supervisory roles across government Matiang’i took charge of the implementation and monitoring of all development projects initiated and funded by the national government through a new Cabinet sub-committee. The sub-committee — the National Development Implementation and Communication Cabinet Committee — brings on board all CSs, Attorney General Kihara Kariuki and Head of Public Service Joseph Kinyua. On Saturday, Ruto said he respects the decisions made by the President since he is in charge, adding that he will keep working as the Deputy President “because that is my place in the Constitution.” He explained that the Opposition should do their work rather than criticising the government. “We know where we are, where we have come from and how we will go where we want to,” he said. The DP was accompanied by MPs Christopher Nakuleu (Turkana North), John Lodepe (Turkana Central), Daniel Nanok (Turkana West), Ali Rasso (Saku), Anab Gure (Garissa), Rehema Jaldesa (Isiolo), John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South), Gichunge Kabeabea (Tigania East), Mugambi Rindikiri (Buuri), Eric Muchangi (Runyenjes), John Paul Mwirigi (Igembe South) and John Mutunga (Tigania West). Senators Malachy Ekal (Turkana), Millicent Omanga (Nominated) and Naomi Waqo (Nominated). Ruto said if the Opposition had opted to partner with the government, then it should support its development agenda. “They should not use the collaboration to undermine Jubilee. The Opposition should make up their mind to work with us or quit,” Ruto said. The lawmakers said they will oppose the review of the Constitution if it denies the so-called marginalised counties more resources. They said the Building Bridges Initiative was regressive and would slug Kenya’s development agenda. They said there were more pressing issues affecting Kenyans such as the Covid-19 pandemic. Lodepe said Turkana county had no business with BBI as it was not their priority. “Politics is about interests. Since BBI is eating into our resources, we will oppose it,” he said. Saku MP Ali Rasso said if BBI was for the betterment of the country, then MCAs should not be 'bribed' to support it. “Isiolo county will be losing a lot of resources going by the BBI proposals. If passed, the county will collapse,” Jaldesa said. Nakuleu asked leaders to work together to better the lives of the ordinary people.“We are going to back Ruto because he stands for the interests of the marginalised,” the Turkana North MP said. Rindikiri, Mutunga and Gure all said Ruto had the credentials to take Kenya to another level. Mwirigi noted that the youth know where they are and where they want to go “and who to support in 2022.”  Edited by P.O