Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday ran into trouble after he encountered a rowdy crowd chanting BBI in Isiolo town. The crowd, mostly youths, chanted BBI Tosha as the DP struggled to address it. In a video clip seen by the Star, the youths are seen carrying placards and tree branches as they chanted 'BBI BBI," "Hatuko pamoja" a voice is heard saying, as the DP, who can hardly be heard, is seen struggling to address the crowd. The DP was on a meet the people tour in the town after he successfully led a fundraiser for churches in the outskirts of the town at the Ngeremara Township. Ruto was accompanied by a host of tangatanga MPs led by Isiolo woman representative Rehema Jaldesa. Other politicians were nominated Senator Millicent Omanga and Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa. During the event, Ruto said he will not resign despite President Uhuru Kenyatta asking him to quit if he felt the government was not doing enough to deliver services. Ruto said he will instead continue supporting the President to roll out Jubilee administration's programmes. While reiterating his commitment and loyalty to his boss and Jubilee Party, Ruto said he will respect the President despite having been stripped of his duties. He said that despite claims of rebellion against him, he has been and will continue to respect the President. "Uhuru is the boss in this government. I have never acted in contrast to what he has directed me to do. I have done all that he has instructed me to do," Ruto said. The DP denied claims of undermining the President, saying Uhuru is the final decision maker in the Jubilee administration. “You all know I am a very respectful person. The President and I campaigned as a team and we formed the Jubilee government. I respect the President and he is the one who makes the final decision in this government,” Ruto said. He added, “I have never contradicted the President because of respect I have for him. Even though the work I was supposed to be doing as the Deputy President is being done by others, I have respected the President on that decision because I want the unity of the country." On Friday, Uhuru who was on a tour of development projects being undertaken by the Nairobi Metropolitan Services challenged the DP to quit. Uhuru said it does not make sense for Ruto to take credit for development projects his government has done since 2013 when they took over and at the same time campaign against some.