 Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM is seeking to rejig the party ahead of next year's general election. The party plans to conduct grassroots elections from the polling stations to the national level, an exercise it hopes will not only strengthen it structures but will also provide fresh energy. The exercise will be undertaken at both the subcounty and county levels next month. The party has already strengthened its nomination rules to ensure outsiders known for last-minute party hopping are blocked from the outfit. In the new regulations, contesters for various seats on the party ticket must be registered as bonafide members of the party at least two years before the elections. On Saturday, the party’s elections board announced new dates for the party’s grassroots elections. The countrywide exercise will start next month and run up to April when the delegates will converge in Nairobi to elect the national office including the presidential candidate. Those interested in becoming the party’s presidential flag bearer in next year's elections have up to February 26 to submit their papers to Chungwa House. So far, Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho has submitted his papers in a race that is widely expected will see him compete against party leader Raila Odinga and Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya. On Saturday, National Elections Board (NEB) chairperson Catherine Mumma said the elections will start from the polling station. She urged party supporters to enlist themselves as members, saying those not registered will not participate in the exercise. Those willing to take part in the exercise have up to February 21 to register. “In preparations for the party’s grassroots elections to be held in March and April 2021 pursuant to the National Executive Committee resolutions of February 12, and guided by the party’s constitution and the ODM party elections and nomination rules, the NEB hereby invites all supporters of ODM who are interested in becoming ODM members to register,” Mumma said Initially, the party had resolved to conduct a harmonisation exercise to fill vacant positions in its leadership ranks citing Covid-19 protocols that barred large gatherings. But on Friday, the party’s NEC met and resolved to have grassroots elections and dropped the harmonisation exercise. “We had initially agreed as a party to just do a harmonisation because of the Coronavirus pandemic that we thought would not allow us to conduct elections and also the BBI process. The desirable position of the party has always been to carry out grassroots elections from the polling stations,” party chairman John Mbadi said after the Friday meeting. He added, “We feel that at the polling station we have 500 people, membership of ODM will be below that in all polling stations, that is a number that can easily be arranged to sit in a particular place to agree on the 58 members they want to offer service at the polling station.” 