MCAs allied to DP William Ruto have warned Jubilee secretary general Raphael Tuju to stop trying to intimidate and force them to pass the BBI Bill. Tuju has written to Jubilee MCAs, directing  them to to support the Bill, emphasising that's the party position. There's no room for free thinkers on BBI, no voting one's conscience. Most  MCAS support DP Ruto – Rift Valley is his backyard – who has called the BBI process a waste of time and money but declined to lead the 'No' campaign. North Rift MCAs told Tuju on Saturday  they would independently vote on the bill after public participation. They were led by chairman of the majority leaders of county assemblies Josphat Lowoi and Cheptiret MCA Gilbert Tenai. Twenty-four of 47 county assemblies must pass the BBI Bill for it to move to Parliament for debate and voting. If the vote is positive, the Bill then goes to referendum. Lowoi and Tenai condemned the use of force by police to intimidate MCAs arguing about BBI in the Baringo assembly on Thursday last week. “We are asking all majority leaders at the county assemblies not to be intimidated by any one. They should ensure assemblies follow the law and enforce public participation before dealing with the BBI," Lowoi said. He said Jubilee leaders had never met and taken a position on the BBI Bill. “We are urging Tuju to let us do our work as MCAs, just as they did not   interfere with the IEBC during verification of signatures," Lowoi said. The bill has divided opinions. Public support nationwide is shaky. MCAs in Uasin Gishu and elsewhere resumed sittings last week after a long recess. Uasin Gishu deputy speaker Hosea Lama said MCAs have three months to decide on the Bill and communicate their decision to the speakers of the National Assembly and Senate. “The BBI Bill will go through the full process as required by the law including public participation," he said. The Nandi county assembly also reconvened and Majority leader David Koech said, "We are ready to deal with the Bill and it will go through the required process." The position taken by the DP has left most MCAs in a tricky situation as President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga ardently support the Bill as a virtual panacea for what ails Kenya. Ruto allies in the region, led by Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi, have said they will not even bother to lobby. Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono cautioned MCAs to vote on the Bill as their constituents wish. “How the MCAs handle it will also determine their political future because they have to stand with the electorate or go against it at their peril," he said. Elgeyo Marakwet Governor Alex Tolgos, who is chairman of the BBI process in Rift Valley, urged MCAs to be mindful of the benefits of the Bill. (Edited by V. Graham)