A case that could interest Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission?  A finance officer in a county in Nyanza is at loggerheads with a senior officer who feels he doesn't understand the meaning of desperately needed frugality. The man was found to have been hiring five fuel guzzlers every day at Sh15,000 each. The money is to be paid to the company associated with his new wife. The man whose wife works in a foreign bank has received Sh75,000 every day since April 2015 to date - amounting to about Sh136,875,000. The five big cars serve the governor and his deputy, despite the budgetary allocation of 2015-16 that gave the governor Sh18 million to buy one car. On another front, a secretary is accusing the financial wizard of fighting his gubernatorial candidature by also declaring that he too wants to succeed the outgoing governor. Could there be an unholy alliance between cartels involved in the vandalism of a power company's equipment and the company's staff in Kisumu county? A recent surge in cases of vandalism of power lines and transformers in the county has been linked to the staff working in cahoots with a well-organised criminal enterprise. This rip-off costs taxpayers millions of shillings and frequent power blackouts. Currently, residents of Kolwa East ward in Kisumu East constituency are in the dark after a transformer serving Obino area was disconnected and carted away. A former top parastatal official is in deep financial trouble. The man who once led a lavish life is now barely surviving and lives from hand to mouth. Even his attempts to campaign for the Building Bridges Initiative in an attempt to endear himself to state honchos has not helped. The former boss who was recruited by a governor to join the BBI campaign trail is said to have sold his palatial home in Nairobi's leafy suburbs for  Sh28 million and now occupies a rented two-bedroom house in Eastlands One of the 47 governors is under siege. Reason? Corridors has been briefed about a monumental affair with a 'side chick' that has gone awry. Last week on Tuesday, a war of words broke out between the governor and his long-time lover. The lady who is said to have been having an affair with the county chief for five years  is upset after the first- term governor dumped her. The woman is said to have played a critical role during the campaigns especially in mobilising resources. She is now threatening to spill the beans on anything and everything about the man.