The national government will reach a revenue-sharing agreement with Taita Taveta county over the twin Tsavo National Parks and more compensation cases will be processed. That's what Alfred Khang'ata of the Intergovernmental Relations Technical Committee said on Tuesday in Mwatate, Taita Taveta. "There will be revenue sharing between the county and national government and scores of compensation claims will be processed,” chairman Khang’ati said. He did not elaborate but said technical committees of the state and county will hammer out solutions and involve other agencies and stakeholders. The Taita Taveta county government has intensified its push to get at least 25 per cent of the Sh60 billion collected annually from the twin parks. County officials are talking with the IGRTC to seek a way of benefiting from the expansive conservancy. Kenya's biggest protected area occupies more than 62 per cent of the county's land. Lands executive Mwandawiro Mghanga on Tuesday said the ongoing talks are strategising on resolving land issues dating back decades. They range from revenue sharing to human-wildlife conflict. He said Taita Taveta residents bear the brunt of human-wildlife conflict yet they do not benefit directly from revenue collected from the parks. The conflict often results in deaths, injuries and destruction of property. He blamed KWS for delayed compensation to victims of human-wildlife conflict. “The park occupies a large chunk of land, thus denying the residents the use and benefit of their ancestral land for economic gain. Many are also rendered destitute as a result of unending human-wildlife conflicts,” the ex-legislator said. Mwandawiro praised the IGRTC for their steadfast efforts to resolve the escalating wildlife menace in the county. "Our cry has finally been heard because human-wildlife conflict is a serious global threat to sustainable development, food security and conservation in urban and rural landscapes alike," he said. Governor Granton Samboja has been pushing KWS to remit to the county government at least 25 per cent of the Sh60 billion collected annually in Tsavo. He also wants the agency to to be compelled to set aside at least 40 per cent of game ranger vacancies for county residents. IGRTC chairman Khang'ati said the talks are aimed at finding a lasting solution. He said the conflicts had undermined relationships between KWS and residents as wildlife persistently strays from the park. More than 1,500 cases are pending for compensation. KWS has paid Sh35.6 million as compensation for 10 of 23 deaths reported between 2014 and 2016. Khang'ati said timely responses in emergency cases of stray animals will be put in place through the Kenya Wildlife Service "to counter this escalating menace". (Edited by V. Graham) 