Kenya is a partner and a priority to the United States and will remain an integral part of a successful US-African alliance, the United States Navy said on Tuesday. Director of Maritime Partnership Program, U.S. Naval Forces Europe Rear Admiral Jeff Spivey,  US Naval Forces Africa and Vice Commander, US Sixth Fleet, Naples Italy, said the US seeks to enhance their relationship with Kenya. Speaking on Tuesday evening at Mombasa port after the tour of the United State naval ship, USS Hershel “Woody” Williams (ESB 4), Spivey said the US will continue to build on a strong defence partnership with Kenya. “It is imperative that we build on today’s success and identify opportunities as we continue to build a strong defence partnership to create a prosperous economic and security environment,” Spivey said. He said the visit of the US naval ship to Mombasa is part of US Africa Commands standing commitment to Kenya. The US naval ship visit to the port of Mombasa facilitates engagement opportunities between Kenyan officials and military leadership. “We look forward to working with the Kenya Navy in future exercises so that we can be able to share intelligence information and ideas,” Spivey said. The 239-metre longship, which arrived on Monday evening at the port of Mombasa, is the first US Naval ship in over a decade. Captain Michael Concannon, who is the commanding officer of the USS Hershel “Woody” Williams said their visit to Mombasa confirms US resolve and commitment to the preservation of security and stability in Kenya and Africa. Eric Kneedler, Chargé d’Affaires, at the U.S. Embassy in Nairobi said the visit of the USS Hershel “Woody” Williams is a mark of the deep and enduring relationship between the US and Kenya. “We are grateful for our close military cooperation,” he said. Kenya’s Defence CS Monica Juma, Mombasa governor Hassan Joho, Kenya Coast Guard Director General Brigadier Vincent Naisho Loonena were among the Kenyan officials who were taken round the vessel on Tuesday evening. The vessel, which was commissioned on March 7 2020, is currently deployed to the eastern coast of Africa. The United States is committed to growing African countries through interoperability training, maritime security and safety to allow for freedom of navigation in the region.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris