The International Criminal Court has allowed the Prosecutor to file the document containing charges against lawyer Paul Gicheru and list of evidence no later than March 12. In Friday's decision, the Pre-Trial Chamber considered both the Defence's and the Prosecutor's requests for extension and noted that both parties agreed on the necessity of postponing the date of the filing of the Written Submissions and other related deadlines. ICC said the Defence shall file its list of evidence no later than April 8. Both parties will have to file their written submissions, replacing the confirmation of charges hearing in this case, on April 23, 2021 at the latest. "Subsequently, the Prosecutor and the Defence may respond to the written submissions respectively on April 30, 2021 and on  May 7, 2021, at the latest," the statement read. This is the ICC's new calendar for the filing of the written submissions in relation to the confirmation of charges proceedings in the case against Gicheru. Gicheru is suspected of offences against the administration of justice by corruptly influencing witnesses of the Court in relation to the 2007-08 post-election violence in Kenya. He has been granted interim release with conditions and arrived in Kenya on 1 February 2021. ICC in a statement said the confirmation of charges proceedings in this case is conducted in writing. Last week, the International Criminal Court reminded Gicheru of the tough conditions for his interim release from the court's detention after he spoke to the media. Gicheru, accused of influencing witnesses in the case against Deputy President William Ruto, was released by the court on February 1 with several conditions. One of the condition was that he “shall not, directly or through any other person, make any public statements, social media post, or communicate with the media about the merits of the case”. However, on his return, Gicheru gave an interview to the Standard, in a bid to set the record straight that he did not surrender to the ICC to fix Ruto but to clear his own name. “Owing to the nature of the matter, I was entirely a voluntary and personal decision in strict and exclusive consultation with my family without the participation of any third party. Any speculation on any third party involvement was entirely wrong and should be ignored,” the paper reported.