Three patients died with Covid-19 on Sunday, pushing the death toll to 1,779. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said in a statement that 129 Kenyans had tested positive for the virus, raising the virus caseload to 101,819. The new cases were from a sample size of 4,797. The positivity rate was 2.6 per cent. Thirty-three of the cases were foreign nationals and the others Kenyans aged between one and 81 years. “There are 391 patients currently admitted in various health facilities countrywide, while 1,378 are on home-based isolation and care,” Kagwe said. “Thirty-seven patients are in the intensive care unit, 15 of whom are on ventilator support and 18 on supplemental oxygen. Four patients are under observation,” he added. Another 13 patients were separately on supplementary oxygen in general wards. “Today, 59 patients have recovered from the disease, 25 from various facilities while 34 are from the home-based isolation and care. Total recoveries now stand at 84,361,” Kagwe said. Nairobi recorded 87 new cases out of which 10 were from Kibra, Lang’ata and Westlands, eight from Makadara, seven from Dagoretti North and Kamukunji and six from Roysambu. Embakasi West recorded five cases, Embakasi East and Kasarani four cases each, Dagoretti South, Embakasi South and Starehe had three cases each, Embakasi North, Mathare and Ruaraka had two cases each while Embakasi Central recorded one case. Uasin Gishu county had 12 cases, distributed in Moiben (8) while Ainabkoi and Turbo had two cases each. Kiambu had 11 cases; four each from Ruiru and Kiambu Town and one each from Kabete, Kikuyu and Limuru. Machakos had four cases with two of them being from Athi River and one each from Kangundo and Machakos Town. Kisumu had three cases, two from Kisumu Central and one from Kisumu East while Kajiado had two cases from Kajiado Central and Kajiado North. Laikipia recorded two cases from Laikipia East and Laikipia West. Other counties that recorded new infections include Bungoma, Kericho, Kilifi, Meru, Mombasa and Nyamira with the cases being from Kanduyi, Ainamoi, Malindi, Imenti South, Mvita and Manga respectively. 