Family members and friends streamed into Lee Funeral Home, some grief stricken, others braving the pain of loss. Long-serving former powerful Cabinet minister Simeon Nyachae is dead. He was 88 years old. A mentor, astute leader, family patriarch, disciplined and stickler to the rules. These were some words used to describe Nyachae. His two wives, Martha and Grace were overwhelmed with grief. They were supported by other family members as they walked from the Nairobi Hospital to the funeral home that shares a fence with the facility. His son and former chairman of the defunct Commission on Implementation of the Constitution Charles Nyachae and Interior CS Fred Matiang'i led the family in breaking the news. "All of us have lost a father and a mentor," Matiang'i said after Charles broke the news. The politician, who also served as a provincial commissioner, had been hospitalised for over a month. His family said he had succumbed to an illness he "had bravely borne." No sooner had the news broke out than tributes from politicians and leaders started flowing in. President Uhuru Kenyatta described Nyachae as an icon of progress in the country through all the years of his public life. In a statement, Uhuru  regretted the passing on of Nyachae saying the death had robbed "the country of a wise statesman whose long service to the nation helped shape the country's standing as one of Africa's most progressive economies." "Throughout his many years of service to the nation, right from his time in the provincial administration through to his transition into business and politics, Mzee Nyachae exhibited exemplary zeal to succeed and as he exits from this world, he leaves behind a rich legacy of success," Uhuru said. The President said the former Nyaribari Chache MP was a joyful, accessible and dependable elder. "I recall with nostalgia my many interactions with Mzee Nyachae over the years. As an elder and friend, Mzee Nyachae always had a word of wisdom and encouragement for me. Many will remember and miss Mzee Nyachae's warm personality and especially his hearty and infectious laughter," he said. Transport and Infrastructure chief administrative secretary Chris Obure termed Nyachae's death a massive loss that has left the Kisii community worse than it has been. “Many of us we had an opportunity to know him will forever remember him as a person whose life is worthy emulating, a mentor and leader who pursued ideals he believed in,” Obure, the ex-Kisii senator said. He said Nyachae had left a legacy of personal success through hard work and personal discipline which propelled him to the pinnacle of the civil service and corporate enterprise. Former President Mwai Kibaki remembered Nyachae as "one of Kenya’s most illustrious public servants." "Nyachae was a sure-footed bureaucrat who served three presidencies with distinction," Kibaki said in a statement. Nyachae served as a minister for Finance, Energy, and later Minister for Roads and Public Works. Kibaki said that as a minister, Nyachae was a consummate taskmaster "whose oversight led to the conception, implementation and completion of key projects and tasks of the day. He was undoubtedly a major cog in my administration." Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga described him as long-serving career civil servant. "The Abagusii community has lost one of its most illustrious sons. May he Rest In Eternal Peace," Raila said. Deputy President William Ruto also eulogised the former Kisii political kingpin as a "progressive, selfless and steadfast leader" who had genuine passion for public service, politics and unity. "A gifted administrator, entrepreneur and politician of large intellect, Mzee Nyachae was vocal and a tenacious debater whose domination in our country’s political stage will be dearly remembered." Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka described the veteran politician as "a firm administrator, a charismatic leader and consummate politician" who inspired many "including myself."