Cleaning tear gas residue is a serious problem in the Baringo assembly following a riot over the BBI bill, which was rejected on Thursday. On Friday, MCAs visited the scene to assess the situation and opposed the cleaning, saying it should be marked as a crime scene and thoroughly investigated. “No cleaning should be done around this area pending proper investigation to ascertain the motive and the arrest and charging of those responsible,"  Tenges MCA Silas Tochim said. He said MCAs are worried about their security “because how does the government that is is supposed to protect lives of its people and property do such destructive thing” He was backed by Saimo-Kipsaraman MCA John Aengwo who said only security officers are licensed to handle a tear gas. Others condemned the tear-gassing. On Saturday assembly cleaning officer Elima Talam said the department was not well prepared for a special cleaning. “It happened abruptly and we weren’t prepared with specific detergents to clean the messes, especially the ones caused by a tear gas,” Talam said. A teargas canister was sneaked in and fired in the assembly on Thursday evening by unknown people while the members argued about the BBI Bill. Riot police already had been called after mayhem in the assembly. After the Bill was shot down, assembly Speaker David Kiplagat adjourned the session to Tuesday, February 23. After the tear gas - a serious eye, respiratory and skin irritant = was fired, smoke billowed in the house. A small fire scorched the walls. Floors, furniture and cushions were covered with fire extinguisher residue. “We shall embark on a thorough cleaning on Monday although we are not so sure about the procurement of any special washing detergents or equipment” Talam said. She said they started will start with simple surface cleaning, wiping with water and using air freshener to disperse the tear gas odour. Experts advise removing floors, panels, drapery and furniture and treating them outside. Basic cleaning usually involves an alkaline water solution or surfactant (to reduce surface tension) for hard surface cleaner. This is used to spray all exposed surfaces. It's followed by wiping down the surfaces with a damp cloth or mop. Brooms and brushes should be avoided because they will stir up tear gas residue and make it airborne again. Tear gas, normally used by the law enforcers to manage riots, contains dangerous irritant chemicals. For many people symptoms are mild; if they are severe, treatment is required. Common side effects include coughing, headache and shortness of breath. Extreme prolonged and untreated inhalation and exposure can cause lung problems and other issues Severe tear gas poisoning, particularly in an enclosed space, can kill or blind through chemical burns and respiratory failure. (Edited by V. Graham) 