Avocado farmers in Kirinyaga will be given 100,000 seedlings this year to help increase production. Governor Anne Waiguru said the county will also set up an avocado processing factory. Waiguru spoke on Thursday while inspecting several development projects in Ndia constituency where she interacted with farmers benefiting from Wezesha Kirinyaga economic empowerment programme. She said the agricultural projects will create employment opportunities for the youth, adding that farmers will be supplied with improved Kienyenji chicken that are less susceptible to diseases. The governor who visited Mkulima Bora Poultry group said the egg production project which was launched in March 2020 is going on well and that farmers are making extra income from it. She said the project will be expanded to 45 more community interest groups to help increase production during this financial year. “The poultry project, that is currently being implemented by 32 community groups benefiting about 1,000 households produces one million eggs a month, all of which are sold through Kirinyaga Investment Development Authority,” said Waiguru. She added that to further encourage diversification of farming activities in the county, her administration is piloting pig production with twenty community groups which will be supported with piglets and feeds. The governor said the programme will be extended to more farmers upon successful piloting and a pig slaughterhouse constructed. At the same time, Waiguru said that Kirinyaga people were happy about the gains that the Building Bridges Initiative proposals will bring citing support by farmers who will benefit from the additional county allocation. She said Kirinyaga will get an allocation of Sh8 billion up from Sh4.8 that it currently receives. Waiguru pointed out that the fact that most of the county assemblies passed it is an indication that Kenyans understand its benefits.  The Kirinyaga assembly on Tuesday unanimously passed the BBI. The governor who also visited the proposed site for construction of Kariani Bridge also highlighted key development milestones that her administration has achieved in the last three years. She said a lot of work has gone into improving the county’s health facilities, the rural roads network and improvement of urban areas as well as the early childhood and technical education sector. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara