In modern football, the technical bench nowadays consists of coaches handling different responsibilities. Besides the head coach, there is the assistant coach, the goalkeeper trainer, a fitness trainer as well as a physio. In the past, a coach would be expected to wear a number of shoes concurrently both in training and during matches. The coach would generally be some sort of a jack of all trades. But the world of football coaching is now adopting a new trend as the sport embraces a dawn of specialised coaching. Today, serious clubs worth their names have resorted to hiring coaches who specialise in specific tasks. Indeed, Mathare United's Patrick Gitagia is a fine example of the new generation of coaches who have diverted from conventional practice and veered into more exciting and fruitful roles. In fact, his job at the club is a unique one given he is the only known match analyst in Kenya's top tier, the only one the country boasts of so far. Local clubs have suddenly realised the importance of having a match analyst in the dugout. As we speak, the recently appointed Gor Mahia FC head coach Portuguese Carlos Manuel Vaz Pinto is said to have made a formal request to the club to consider hiring a match analyst. Match analysis enhances performance in sport by helping athletes and coaches make informed choices and has as a result, assumed a major role in the world of sport. The field explores behavioural events which are objectively documented during competition. Born on July 17, 1987 in Pumwani, Nairobi, Gitagia kicked off his career in football on the dusty pitches of Pumwani, where he turned out for Sakayonsa in the Mathare Youth Sports Association— organised youth leagues. He was a seven-year-old attending St. johns Primary School  in Pumwani when he took a keen interest in football. On completing his elementary education, he proceeded to St. John's high School. Even there, he still played football with great passion only that the weak structures at the school and a poor sports culture hardly motivated the school team to register positive results against more organised opponents. In February 2013, former Harambee Stars head coach Adel Amrouche saw the need to incorporate the services of a match analyst to help him gather statistics on the team's performance and Gitagia showed up. Amrouche had been named coach, taking over the position from James Nandwa who was there on temporary basis after the departure of Henri Michel. After 18 months at the helm, he was sacked on  August 3, 2014 following Kenya's 1–0 aggregate loss to Lesotho in the second round of qualification for the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations. That also happened to be the last time Gitagia sat on the national team bench. Gitagia admits he has no specific qualifications in the field he has grown to love so much, save for the knowledge he has gathered in the units that were offered in the coaching courses he had previously pursued. "There are no formal courses for match analysts in the country at the moment. I only managed to gather the knowledge I have from the units I did during the coaching courses I undertook," says Gitagia. He has in his possession a Dutch Football Federation (KNVB) coaching course which he studied at the Kenya Institute of Soccer Education and later pursued a Uefa certificate that was conducted at the MYSA headquarters in Komarock, Nairobi. His contribution to the national team was outstanding as the squad went on to perform impressively in their matches. He transacted business with the national team for two years in 2013 and 2014. He was thereafter hired by Kenyan Premier League side Tusker FC, where he worked closely with coach Francis Kimanzi. He eventually joined Mathare United in 2016 where he has served to-date, first under Kimanzi and now under coach Salim Ali. Gitagia says it's a high time Kenyan clubs considered hiring match analysts in order to improve the quality of the game. "Match analysts give the head coaches a third eye. They help them see the details of the game as the coach concentrates on the general performance of the team," says Gitagia. Gitagia lays a lot of emphasis on the importance of a match analyst having formal training in coaching because, apparently, at the end of the day an analyst is also a coach. "At Mathare, I'm also expected to arrange cones and markers and take the players through their steps during training sessions," he adds. Gitagia is quick to point out that many people usually mistake him for a cameraman given that he has to capture matches on camera so as to analyse them afterwards. "On numerous occasions, local football fans have mistaken me to be Mathare United's cameraman. My work is quite different but just like a media person, I must first capture the entire match on camera to enable me analyse the games later," says Gitagia. What exactly is the role of a match analyst? Gitagia explains that the match analyst must be keen on the movement of individual players on the pitch during matches. "I usually observe the performance of an individual player throughout the match. I must help the coach identify their strengths and weaknesses and if possible recommend any changes in the lineup," he observes. "For instance, I may examine the performance of a defensive midfielder on the pitch and find out if he is really up to the task by recording how many times he has intercepted the ball, screened the centre-backs from marauding forwards, how many passes he has distributed in the entire match. "This gives us an idea of the necessary adjustments to make in the line up," says Gitagia. Gitagia, who is the proud father of one child, Junaid Muthama says he has a lot of respect for Wazito FC head coach Francis Kimanzi who has been his source of inspiration over the years. BIO Name: Patrick Gitagia Date of Birth: July 17, 1987 Education: St. John's Primary School, Nairobi; St. John's Secondary School, Nairobi Clubs: Tusker FC and Mathare United Served as the national team match analyst for two years betwee 2013 and 2014.