With the growing number of street families who cannot afford pay-toilets, open defecation had remained a major challenge in the populous town. Once in a while, people who are not part of the street families participate in the vice of dirtying the town when one gets the urge to use a toilet but do not have the required Sh10 or Sh20 to pay for the service. Besides Nakuru Town Business District, the open defecation also happens in the satellite towns of Naivasha, Molo, Gilgil, Njoro, and other upcoming urban centers in the county. To end the menace, the County Government of Nakuru has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with public toilet operators to come up with a legal framework to provide waivers for street families and those who may not be able to pay for the toilets. “The County Government has signed MoUs with 9 Public Toilet Operators to address the issue of open defecation within the Central Business District-CBD and the County at large,” said Chief Public Health Officer, Samuel King’ori. He said the partnership targeted all public toilets within the Nakuru town and other highly populated townships ad trading centers with a high flow of human traffic across the County. King'ori, said there was a need for a sustainable health system to prevent the spread of diseases in public places. The street families have been known for defecating along dark alleys, on public flower beds along the roads, and even on footpaths. Efforts by the National and County government to rid major towns of the street families over the past two decades have been rendered fruitless as they keep coming back. Immediately after he took office in 2017, Governor Lee Kinyanjui launched a Street Children Rehabilitation Programme where they were screened and enrolled into youth polytechnics but that all came back to the town after less than a month. The street children with families were taken back home and re-integrated and they too came back to the town. Speaking during the signing of the MoU, King’ori listed various ways of collaboration including availing access to safe and clean water and improving the hygiene and sanitation of the public toilets. “This plan will also factor in training all public toilet operators across the County,” said King’ori. The nine toilets in the pilot phase of the project are in Nakuru Town West and East sub-counties and the operators include the Lake Nakuru youth, environment and sports association, airline complex self-help group, top market association, Ecotact Limited, and Hossop welding and fitting company. County Director of Public Health, Elizabeth Kiptoo, and Harrison Irungu, Chair of the Public Toilet Operators in Nakuru witnessed the MoU signing.