Two years after the President declared universal health coverage a national priority, the health sector continues to grapple with a myriad of challenges. In recent months, we have witnessed massive industrial strikes by healthcare workers, and in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. Doctors, pharmacists and dentists have since returned to work following government’s acquiescence to most of their immediate demands. However, nurses and clinicians are still on strike. Where negotiations ought to be collective, we continue to see a selective approach to the detriment of healthcare workers. As the state and healthcare workers play Russian roulette with the lives of Kenyans, many continue to suffer. Granted, the working conditions of healthcare providers were inhumane. Sending them to the frontline in this pandemic without the necessary tools is paramount to deploying soldiers in enemy territory with clubs and effervescent war cries. Without the necessary equipment they could also easily infect other patients. The goal of UHC is to ensure every citizen benefits from quality health services, where and when needed, without suffering financial hardship. For UHC to be effective, the quality of care needs to improve across all key dimensions of quality — safety, efficiency, person-centredness, timeliness/accessibility, effectiveness, and equity. It is a no brainer then that the quality of and access to care have floundered during the pandemic. The weakest link in the attainment of UHC is governance. Why in the world would the healthcare management allow workers to go on strike at such a critical moment? The 2017 national strike by healthcare workers caused such a disruption of services nationwide that several facilities had to be closed and yet here we are again. It is no secret that the public health sector is diabolically corrupt. While private entities would bargain downwards for equipment and medicines, procurement officers in the public sector are hell-bent on bargaining upwards to get a cut of the spoils. Case in point, the ongoing investigation of Kenya Medical Supplies Agency officials who are accused of misuse of millions of dollars meant for buying Covid-19 supplies. Why the public sector does not buy directly from the manufacturers is open for interpretation. “The high cost of healthcare is driven by the public sector,” echoes Dr Khama Rogo, Lead Health Sector Specialist with the World Bank. “Manufacturers can guarantee quality as they want to be ethical since they have a brand to protect, but a middle-man has no reputation to protect, since he is a dealer.” Hence, the reason why the public sector would rather procure from tenderpreneurs than manufactures. Dr Rogo argues that if public procurement in the health sector is regulated, then healthcare would be more affordable. Another major challenge is the inadequate human resource. The number of healthcare workers employed is approximately 31,412, a far cry from the required 138,266 as per the Norms and Standards Guidelines by the Ministry of Health. This dire shortage will greatly constrain the achievement of health-related outcomes, including UHC. In April 2020, the government had proposed to hire 6,000 healthcare workers to fight the coronavirus pandemic and had even set aside Sh1 billion to that effect. Just about 155 doctors were hired, with their contracts expiring at the end of January 2021. Finally, the lack of planning and coordination between the county and national governments, in the clamour for resources, further cripples the sector. This has been witnessed by delays in funds disbursement by the national government to the counties, seen by most as a sabotage ploy. While essential service delivery is assigned to the county governments, the national government retains health policy, technical assistance to counties, and management of national referral health facilities. Communications consultant