Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has cautioned leaders against inciting residents and using vulgar language that might cause division. His sentiments come after some county leaders are alleged to have incited people over land and compensation disputes. Speaking on Sunday in Matuga, Mvurya said such utterances pose a great danger to both the county and the national government. “Let us shun creating unnecessary tension with small but very harmful words that can jeopardise our national cohesion and unity,” he said. The governor said it is unethical for politicians to hold public barazas to speak politics of marginalisation and tribalism. He said the injurious words are what contribute to radicalisation cases and extremism among the youth. He told leaders to use proper channels of gaining political mileage saying causing chaos is nothing but doom to the country's stability. “We should use peaceful methods in addressing our grievances and not necessarily create mayhem in seeking rights and justice, that is not good for the economy,” Mvurya said. The county boss said he will not let malicious people split the county into two after working hard to unite the locals and bring tranquillity. He said his government is determined to work with various state security agencies to keep the county secure. Mvurya said his administration supports the fight against any form of crime warning that no indiscipline shall be tolerated. The governor said his administration has trained the county inspectorate officers to have the capacity to effectively combat crime. Mvurya said since the county hugely depends on the tourism sector, peace is essential for its growth. Diani was ranked the seventh-best beach destination among the 25 top beaches in Africa and won many awards due to the calmness and beautiful white sandy beaches in Kwale seashores. He cautioned the youth against being misused by visionless people. In December last year, Interior CS Fred Matiang’i called for community assistance in ending radicalisation and drugs when he held a security meeting with the national government administration officers in Matuga.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris