Highly-rated Tusker forward Henry Meja has been named the club's January player of the month. The 19-year-old striker claimed the award which was introduced this season after four goals and an assist he banged in the month. The national U20 forward was in a form of his own during the month as his solitary goal earned the brewers maximum points away to Kakamega Homeboyz. He also netted a brace and an assist in the clubs 4-2 win over Kariobangi Sharks. The youngster wrapped the month with a goal in their 2-1 win over Zoo Kericho. The rookie said the award was a perfect reward to his hard work in training and was quick to highlight the role played by his teammates in helping him stay sharp in front of goal. “I feel really happy to get this award. I couldn’t have done it without the help of my teammates and the technical bench and I thank them for that. I have been working hard in training and the results have been visible on the pitch,” he said on the club's website “Now I need to work harder because I have set the bar high and I need to maintain it.” Coach Robert Matano on his part challenged Meja to keep the fire burning. “I am happy for him because he has worked hard for it, but I don’t want it to get into his head and relax. He got the award because he performed and for him to get another award, he needs to continue performing. He is a good boy and a good player,” remarked the veteran gaffer. The coach further stated; “I want to thank the management for this initiative. It is going to motivate the players to work hard and that will be beneficial to the team in the long run.” Meja was presented with the award by Tusker treasurer Ben Ochieng. “As the board, we decided to start this initiative as a way of motivating players and giving them an incentive to work hard and also appreciate their efforts every month. It is just a small token of appreciation and hopefully, we can make it bigger as we progress,” stated Ochieng. Meja was handed a Sh10,000 shopping voucher and this will be standard for every award moving forward.