ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto on Sunday carried on their clash about the benefits and disadvantages of the Building Bridges Initiative. They spoke separately but directed their remarks at each other. Raila told Ruto to stop wavering and take a firm stand on the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020 currently before county assemblies. Addressing worshippers at the Catholic Cathedral in Lodwar town, Raila said one cannot criticise the BBI all the time and still say he is not opposed to it. Raila said Ruto should lead the No campaign since he has been consistently poking holes in the Constitution amendment drive. “If you want to oppose the BBI, just stand on the other side and face us. Have your campaigns and we will have ours,” Raila said. Ruto, addressing residents of Mtwapa in Kilifi county, said Kenyans have had enough of the BBI debate and now want their grievances to be addressed. “We have talked about a Prime Minister, additional MPs and new positions seats. That is enough. Let us now talk about boda boda operators, hand cart pullers, casual labourers and small businesses because Kenya belongs to all of us,” he said. “We are ready to face you. At the end of the day, it is Kenyans who will make the decision whether to amend the 2010 Constitution or not,” he said. Raila wound up his BBI 'sensitisation' tour of Turkana on Sunday after three days of rallies and meetings. He met women and youth groups, addressed barazas and rallies in Lodwar, Kakuma and Katulu. Ruto said the BBI talk among politicians has mainly been about creation of seats and leadership positions for themselves. “We want to talk about hustlers and how people can be empowered economically,” he added. “We should not start from the top but the bottom. That is why you see some people are so mad at me. They can be mad all they want to but we will change the economy from the bottom to the top,” he added. Ruto said the hustler narrative would not cause chaos in the country as suggested by a section of leaders. “It is not a competition between the rich and poor. We are not interested in such a competition,” the Deputy President said. On Saturday, Ruto had said he was not pushing for a 'No' vote but said pressing questions needed to be answered. He poked holes in BBI but did not tell people to reject it at a referendum. “I have not said I oppose BBI, but I am saying the people are asking questions, come give them answers,” he stated. He insisted that copies of the document should be availed to Kenyans to read it and make informed decisions. On January 29, Ruto said the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2020 - currently before county assemblies - is a waste of time. He said the document does not demonstrate how the common man and woman will benefit. The DP said supporters of BBI should not lie to Kenyans that the national government will increase its allocations to counties from 15 per cent to 35 per cent with new laws. Speaking in Lodwar, Raila said there is too much propaganda being peddled by a section of leaders about BBI. “Turkana will not be a loser with the passage of BBI. Turkana will get Sh9 billion more if BBI is passed,” he stated. Turkana Governor Josephat Nanok had warned that his county was among eight counties that would suffer if BBI is passed. “Nanok, I came here and campaigned for you to be MP. I thereafter made you an assistant minister. I also campaigned for you to be governor but now you are walking with people who are fighting me,” Raila said. The ODM chief added that apart increasing allocations to counties, youth would benefit from interest-free loans. Accompanying Raila were MPs Junet Mohamed (Suna East), Godfrey Osotsi (Nominated) and Petroleum Cabinet Secretary John Munyes. Mohamed told residents to support the BBI, saying they stand to benefit as people from marginalised areas and as pastoralists He also criticised Nanok for his decision to join the Tangatanga group  led by Ruto. Munyes said he would work closely with Raila to ensure BBI is passed overwhelmingly. (Edited by V. Graham)