The NCPB has bought about 50,000 bags of maize in the last month and still aims to buy one million bags for the Strategic Grain Reserves. Principal Secretary for Crops and Agriculture Hamisi Boga has directed the board to continue receiving maize from farmers using the Sh3 billion allocated for the purchases. Most farmers in the Rift Valley are still holding on to their maize, unwilling to sell to the NCPB as they anticipate prices will increase. The state increased maize prices at NCPB to Sh2,700 per 90kg bag, causing millers and middlemen to raise their prices to more than Sh2,850 per bag. Most farmers insist they will wait for better prices. “We increased the price so farmers can benefit and we urge them to deliver their maize to the board," Boga said. Without maize imports, farmers anticipate prices will rise and their profits will increase. The current prices represent virtually no profit, farmers say. “Because there no imports, farmers stand to benefit from better markets. We have been urging the government to ensure local producers are protected," director of the Kenya Farmers Association Kipkorir Menjo said. "In such a situation, market forces will determine the prices and farmers will benefit," he said. Chairman of Parliament's Agriculture committee Silas Tiren said they are negotiating with the government to raise prices to more than Sh3,200 per 90kg bag. Tiren is the MP for Moiben in Uasin Gishu county. “The price is still too low to enable them to make some profit," Tiren said when he met farmers' representatives at the Eldoret NCPB depot. The farmers have also urged the government to ensure there will be no imports because the harvest is good and a shortage is unlikely in the near future. Last year, farmers harvested more than 40 million bags of maize, compared to fewer than 36 million bags in the previous years. Tiren said the government should not consider importing maize until local production is exhausted. He said once the price is increased at NCPB, the farmers would deliver more produce. The board has adequate facilities to buy and store more than eight million bags of maize under SGR. Farmers have welcomed reforms in the sector, which they say will increase production. Tiren said they want similar reforms in the tea, sugar cane and rice sectors to protect farmers from importation and exploitation by middlemen. He said they would hold talks with Agriculture CS Peter Munya to discuss the problems. (Edited by V. Graham)