Former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka has pleaded with President Uhuru Kenyatta to pardon former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko. Kalonzo on Thursday said it was true that Sonko had hurled many fits of abuse against the president but the entire Ukambani region was apologetic. Speaking during the first anniversary of late Mzee Moi at his Kabarak home Kalonzo said, "Mr. President we understand he has hurled insults on your character and the office you serve but we apologise on his behalf". He said Uhuru was right to take action against Sonko but he should be given a second chance. "Give him to us and we shall mentor him for you. We have to build the nation and sometimes we need to be tough but I plead with you to allow us to take care of him," Kalonzo said. Sonko has been on the receiving end after his ouster as the governor. The embattled city politician was detained after he presented himself at the DCI headquarters for grilling after he alleged that the government-sponsored violence during the 2017 election. Since last week the prosecution has been seeking to have him detained for more days as they conclude investigations. On Wednesday, Sonko was dramatically whisked away to the high security Kamiti Prison as the government prepared terror charges against him. He was, however, transferred back to Gigiri police station cells pending the hearing of an application in which the police seek to have him detained for 30 days as they carry out investigations over his alleged involvement in terrorist activities. Chief Inspector Newton Thimangu of the Anti-Terrorism Police Unit said in an affidavit that Sonko is "recruiting a militia group to disrupt the peace and stability of the nation leading to anarchy which can escalate to civil disobedience of law and order to the detriment of peace-loving Kenyans". Sonko sensationally claimed there was an attempt to inject him with an unknown substance while in detention at Gigiri police station on Tuesday evening. An emotional Sonko told anti-corruption magistrate Douglas Ogoti that he is fearful for his life as he was kept under solitary confinement at Gigiri. His lawyer Wilfred Nyamu said the entire police station was clear of any persons that had been arrested and Sonko found himself in solitary confinement. Sonko told the court that the assault and robbery with violence charges levelled against him before a Kiambu court were framed because he declined to withdraw certain claims he made against Kristina Prat Kenyatta. Sonko in an affidavit claimed that Kristina Pratt Kenyatta contacted him prior to his impeachment. Kristina sought Sonko’s favour to appoint Jane Weru as the Nairobi deputy governor.