You will not be able to contest ODM nomination next year if you have not joined the party by now, these are some of the new rules the party adopted on Friday. ODM leader Raila Odinga chaired the party's top organ, National Executive Committee (NEC), which approved the far reaching rules to tighten nominations ahead of the General Election. A 2019 internal report of the party had blamed ODM's declining numbers in both houses of Parliament on the chaotic and violent party election processes. The new rules which are a broader part of the implementation of the explosive report, are contained in the recommendations of ODM Standing Committee of legal affairs. The committee was tasked with the responsibility of reviewing party's nomination rules ahead of the polls. The recommendations require that contesters for various seats under ODM must be registered as bonafide members of the party at least two years to the elections. Next elections is just 16 months away meaning those who join now will not be qualified to contest in the 2022 primaries. Sources at the six-hour NEC meeting told the Star that the move is meant to reward party loyalists. It is also meant to block defectors from other parties who join last minute with sole aim of clinching the party ticket  by all means. "Nothing much has changed in our nomination rules, going forward it will be a requirement that aspirants must have been in the party for two years for them to qualify for our primaries," said a source who attended the meeting. ODM Deputy Secretary General Agnes Zani who also attended the meeting confirmed changes to the nomination rules but did not give details. "The party adopts the recommendations of the Standing Committee of Legal Affairs to align the party Constitution and Elections and Nomination rules with the Constitution of Kenya, 2010 and applicable national statutes in readiness for next year's General Election," Zani said. The party also tightened the process of its nomination exercise where all results of primaries will be announced only at designated tallying centers. In the past, declaration of ODM nomination results has been chaotic where poll officials are ferried—sometimes forcibly—to unknown places to declare the winners of the primaries. According to the source, the changes will ensure ODM primaries are free, fair and credible. The Friday meeting was also attended by national chairman John Mbadi, Executive Director Oduor Ong'wen, MPs Tim Wanyonyi (Westlands), Esther Passaris (Nairobi MP), Justus Kizito (Shinyalu) among other officials. Edited by Sarah Kanyara