Tusker coach Robert Matano has hailed his charges after withstanding a tough challenge from Nzoia Sugar in a Football Kenya Federation Premier League at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Tuesday. The brewers came from behind to edge the millers 2-1 in a tense encounter whose outcome consolidates Tusker's position at the summit of the log on 32 points from 13 matches. "We knew Nzoia had energy especially after beating KCB in their previous match. My boys threw all ammunition into the match and we managed to secure a vital win," said Matano. Nzoia assistant coach Sylvester Mulukurwa blamed fatigue for their loss but promised to pull off a major surprise in their next match against Gor Mahia at Sudi Stadium. "Our game plan in the second half cost us the match. Our boys fell back to defend and that gave Tusker an opportunity to score. Our players also suffered from fatigue. But we shall prove our worth in our next tie against Gor Mahia," said Mulukurwa. Tusker had their first real chance in the ninth minute when Kevin Okoth failed to stab the ball into an empty net after being set up by Luke Namanda. Nzoia's Hillary Simiyu pounced on a loose ball and struck a thunderbolt shot that swished past a stunned Michael Wanjala right into the net to break the deadlock in the 48th minute. Matano, eager to change the direction of the game, made a triple substitution, bringing on James Macharia, Humphrey Mieno and George Ogutu for Brian Marita, Kevin Okoth and Chrispinus Onyango respectively and minutes later, introduced Farraj Odeny and Zakayo Eric for Hashim Sempala and Namanda. The changes finally paid off when Odeny drew a consolation for the brewers in the 78th minute before Henry Mejja sealed the win in the 81st minute after a ping-pong goalmouth melee. At Mbaraki, hosts Bandari thrashed struggling Vihiga United 5-0 in a one-sided encounter. Benjamin Mosha got on the end of William Wadri's pass to put Bandari ahead in the 28th minute. Abdalla Hassan, Danson Chetamba and Darius Msagha scored a goal apiece as Mosha collected his brace later on to hammer the final nail into Vihiga's coffin. Following the win, Bandari now move to third on the log with 22 points while Vihiga, with nine points, stagnate at 15th, just a spot above the relegation zone.