Kenya Electricity Generating Company PLC has won yet another international contract to drill three geothermal wells in Djibouti. The company has signed Sh 709,822, 630 contract with Office Djiboutien De Development De lenergie Geothermique . The ceremony, in Galla Le Koma, Djibouti, was attended by Kenya’s Energy Cabinet Secretary, Hon. Charles Keter, and KenGen Managing Director & CEO,Rebecca Miano. Speaking during the event, Keter pointed out that African nations shared the common aspiration of delivering electricity to their people. “Although energy access policies have continued to bear fruit, with 2019 data showing tremendous progress, we have seen the Coronavirus pandemic reverse the gains. We can only remain optimistic that things will change in 2021,” the CS said. While highlighting Kenya’s progress in achieving universal electricity access, he indicated that the country’s National Electrification Strategy launched in 2018 had played an important role in helping the nation achieve electrification in an economically viable manner. In 2019, Kenya’s power installed capacity was 2,818.9 MW. Currently, the country’s energy mix comprises geothermal (29%), hydro (29%), wind (12%), solar and others (2%) and thermal (28%). The CS said the country had made remarkable progress in increasing access to electric power as a result of deliberate government efforts and private sector investment. Kenya’s journey towards harnessing geothermal energy, he added, started in the 1950s and assured Djibouti of support in enabling it to realise its geothermal potential. Miano expressed optimism that the three wells will be productive and enhance Djibouti’s efforts towards growing its energy production. In October 2019, the company secured a Sh5.8 billion contract to drill 12 geothermal wells in Ethiopia. The contract with an independent power producer includes installing a water supply system and equipment. In February 2019, KenGen won yet another contract for consultancy services and drilling geothermal wells.