Civilian gun owners have protested failure by the government to renew their licences for a year now. They say they are carrying what are deemed to be illegal guns after their annual permits expired without renewal since last March. And to avoid any action from authorities, the Firearms Licensing Board has told police commanders not to take any action against the licensed firearms holders whose licences have expired. This was communicated in a memo to all ward commanders in the country who were asked to be patient for the board to start the process of renewing the permits. The law requires annual renewal of the licences by the civilian firearms holders. Board chairman Charles Mukinda cited the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason for the process was suspended for a year now. “We were not able to process the permits because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Let them be patient as we restart the process,” he said. The failure to renew the documents has also affected gun dealers who sell the weapons, and this has denied the government revenue. The National Gun Owners Association now wants the process of renewing the documents digitised and uploaded on the E-citizen platform. Chairman Anthony Wahome said the government and handlers of the weapons are losing revenue daily because of the closure of the process of renewing the documents. “E-citizen as a platform can and should be used to pay and renew. It can have details of all licences only regarding how much each should pay without mentioning firearms or serial numbers, especially because vetting happened and they physically inspected all civilian firearms. “Why are they insisting on paying cash physically when we can do this digitally? We must change this for the good of all,” Wahome said. He said each of the about 15,000 licensed gun holders pays Sh5,000 for renewal of the permits to get certificates and urged urgent opening of the process. “Other government agencies have been working even under the pandemic. The board must start operating again and think of digitising their services.” The board issues vetted gun owners with new smart licences and is working towards establishing a centralised electronic register of all private citizens holding firearms in the country. The board has so far created a register for all holders and is dealing with the police reservists. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i had in December 2018 announced the vetting of the civilian firearms holders following increased cases of fake certificates in circulation. Some of the holders were misusing the weapons. At the end of the exercise, 340 firearms and 5,371 assorted ammunition were seized. The board revoked 36 licences improperly issued to civilian firearm holders under the past gun licensing regimes. Some owners opted not to have their licences renewed and surrendered the weapons. The vetting process involves psychiatric assessment by a government psychologist, criminal record checks and ballistic testing of the weapons and ammunition by the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. NGAO is a registered independent, non-profit and non-political association of licensed firearm holders in Kenya whose aim is to promote legal and responsible use of firearms. “Our mandate extends to offering our members frequent training on safe firearms handling lessons that serve as a core element of preserving public safety. We thus provide quality training for licensed firearm holders in the proper use, handling and safe storage of firearms,” Wahome said. Edited by Henry Makori