Deputy President William Ruto has cautioned against divisive politics as the BBI debate rages on, saying that whether it is passed or not, Kenyans will continue with their day-to-day activities. Ruto said that the contests on BBI should not divide the country along with tribal, religious and political affiliations, saying the unity of Kenyans remains key to the attainment of peace and development. "We must stand together as leaders and preach peace and unity despite the challenges we are facing as a country. We will pull together as a nation. After the BBI debate, we will be back to our normal development programmes,” Ruto said. The DP was speaking on Monday in Kapseret, during the funeral service of the late William Kipkemoi Kurgat, a retired Anglican Church of Kenya (ACK) leader. Ruto added that leaders should not take Kenyans back to the era of tribal affiliations. “As leaders, we must eliminate tribal politics at all costs and embrace unity among all Kenyans irrespective of their ethnic, political, religious, and economic status.” The DP described the late Kurgat as a great leader who mentored my individuals to be great politicians besides educating many children from less privileged in the society. He was accompanied the area Governor Jackson Mandago , Oscar Sudi (Kapsaret), Caleb Kositany (Soy), Gladys Shollei (Women Rep, Uasin Gishu), Mithika Linturi (Meru), Samson Cherargei (Nandi), and former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar. Senator Linturi said that leaders should take the lead in preaching politics of honesty and sincerity so as to be emulated by Kenyans, adding that politics of betrayal must be discouraged by all means in the country. The legislators urged those in authority to stop misusing their constitutional powers and instead serve all Kenyans equally. Hassan Omar said that Kenyans were prepared for the greatest revolution ever witnessed since independence in the form of the hustler movement, aimed at economically transforming the lives of the majority of Kenyans. “The hustler movement is not banking on an endorsement from an individual but has instead gone directly to the people to look for their endorsement ahead of 2022,” Omar said. Senator Cherargei questioned the manner in which state agencies were being used to frustrate leaders supporting the DP. “They should stop weaponizing government institutions to fight supporters of the Deputy President.”