ODM leader Raila Odinga has warned MPs against criminalizing the hustler versus dynasties narrative. In a statement on Wednesday, Raila appealed to the legislators to allow DP William Ruto to continue with his slogan without being stopped. "It is a dangerous slogan..it is scary in its similarity to Adolf Hitler's national socialism referred to as Nazism," he said. Nazism was an ideology of the Nazi party which ruled Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945. Nazism profiled German society on the lines of race, social classes and tribe. It had the Aryan race, which it considered the master race, and whose survival Hitler pegged on the elimination of Jews, Romanis or Gypsies. "These ideologies caused a great deal of trauma to Germany and the world. They ended in the Holocaust. I fear the “hustlers vs dynasties” narrative will have the same deadly consequences for Kenya as Nazism did for Germany,” Raila said. "However, I would strongly appeal to MPs to drop any attempts to legislate against this otherwise deadly slogan," Raila said. Raila said that Kenya fought for free speech and association with the coming of the 2010 constitution. "We should be able to allow Ruto and his team to continue with their chosen slogan without any inhibitions," he said. "Those of us who see its dangers should continue educating our people against falling for it. I have Faith that Kenyans will see through the divisive and potentially deadly rhetoric and its attacks on Kenyans and reject it in the ends." The National Security Committee was planning to outlaw DP Ruto's hustler campaign slogan. The Committee which is led by Kiambaa MP Paul Koinange is behind the National Cohesion and Integration (Amendment) Bill 2021. The bill seeks to impose stringent measures against those who propagate the ''hustlers versus dynasties'' narrative. The proposed Bill states that anyone who incites Kenyans along the ''hustlers versus dynasties'' split could be imprisoned for five years or pay a fine of Sh5 million. “A person who has been dismissed or removed from office for contravention of sections 62(1) and 62A(1) is disqualified from holding any other State or Public Office,” the proposed Bill states. 