United Millers has a lost a case challenging a decision by the High Court to allow the standards regulator to destroy 29,714 bags of sugar it imported in 2018. Court of Appeal justices Asike Makhandia, Patrick Kiage and Sankale Ole Kantai said the Kenya Bureau of Standards had the authority to test the sugar or destroy it. “It was not proved that in taking the decision, Kebs acted unreasonably or illogically or that it failed to give reasons for arriving at the decision, it did so as to term the decision unreasonable. This appeal is dismissed as it lacks merit,” the three-judge bench said. The judges observed that Kebs took samples of sugar from United Millers, tested them in its accredited laboratory and found them not fit for human consumption. Kebs then ordered that the sugar be destroyed. The bench said United Millers had not disputed that Kebs had the authority to test the sugar or destroy it if it did not meet the required standards. The judges said United Millers did not prove that Kebs acted unreasonably in destroying the sugar. United Millers said the Nakuru county health department had cleared the sugar but Kebs condemned it. But the High court accepted only the Kebs' report. The miller said in its appeal that the High Court was unreasonable as it did not allow the other report. The High court had said Kebs was the only accredited agency for standards testing. “The High Court cannot be faulted for reaching such a conclusion on account of unreasonableness. There was no proof that the department of health services, Nakuru was an accredited body as well,” the bench ruled. United Millers moved to court after Kebs seized its 29,714 bags of sugar each weighing 50kg. The miller said it had been granted a license to import sugar from Mauritius on July 11, 2017 and imported 997 metric tonnes of brown sugar lawfully. It contended that despite having obtained a certificate of conformity from South Africa, Kebs issued a seizure notice for the sugar and ordered it destroyed. United Millers termed the decision as unreasonable since the sugar had been tested prior to shipment. 