Members of County Assemblies drawn from the Western region have outlined new irreducible minimus for them to support BBI referendum. The over 270 ward reps drawn from Kakamega, Bungoma, Vihiga, Busia and Trans-Nzoia counties want to be given Sh 500, 000 in cash each to pass the bill in their assemblies. They also want Parliament to suspend section 22 of the election act that requires those standing for the ward representative seats to be holders of a university degree as a condition to support the bill. The MCAs further want the Sh2 million car grant they were awarded by president Uhuru Kenyatta to be released by next week. The MCAs were meeting at Golf Hotel in Kakamega town on Saturday. The event was graced ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula. Other leaders present were devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa, governors Wilbur Ottichilo (Vihiga), Sospeter Ojaamong (Busia), Wycliffe Wangamati (Bungoma). MPs Chris Wamalwa (Kiminini), Alfred Agoi (Sabatia) and nominated MP Godfrey Osotsi were also present. MCA Tom Atingo (Vihiga) said that MCAs were broke and must be facilitated to go and popularize the BBI document at the grassroots level. “We don’t have money to conduct public participation and you cannot just go to the people empty-handed,” said Adingo. MCAs from Kakamega, Busia, Bungoma and Trans Nzoia who argued that Sh300, 000 they were promised as facilitation by President Uhuru Kenyatta was too little. Wamalwa said MCAs will play a critical role in the success of BBI because "you are where the rubber touches the tarmac as far as BBI is concerned." He called on the five-county assemblies in Western to speak in one voice. MP Wamalwa vowed to push for an amendment of the election act to allow MCAs who are not degree holders to vie in 2022. Mudavadi urged the MCAs to take the task before them seriously and pass the BBI document as expected. “BBI was just the process but the product is the constitution amendment Bill, now before you,” said the former Deputy Prime Minister. According to Mudavadi, the current BBI document has substantial improvement from the previous version. Central Organization of Trade Unions (COTU) Secretary General Francis Atwoli outlined the benefits of BBI to Kenyans and urged the MCAs to pass the document by next week. “BBI will address the problem of winner takes it all which was a recipe for violence after every election,” said Atwoli. He assured the MCAs that the Salaries and Remuneration Commission (SRC) position on the car grants was final. “It is a done deal and should anyone renege on it, COTU will be the first one to go to court.” Atwoli took a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto saying his wheelbarrow politics had been overtaken by events. “We are living in an advanced digital era and economy where anybody can register do business anywhere by pressing a button on their smartphones, nobody should be telling Kenyans about wheelbarrows today,” Atwoli said. Senator Wetang’ula said counties ought to allocate funds in their supplementary budgets to cater for the MCAs “but the national government must intervene where counties have their supplementary budgets already passed.” He said Western leaders fully support BBI and the process leading to a change of constitution. “We want it to be a dynamic document, Western should have gotten more constituencies based on demography but we hope that will be taken care of going forward," he said. Wetang’ula said the forum must set the momentum to build unity and ultimate strength among leaders from the region. The county chiefs claimed they were not aware whether the President had promised to give MCAs any cash. "We shall follow up the matter and in case your colleagues elsewhere have received the cash, we shall ensure you get your share,” Oparanya told the ward reps.