The Nandi county government is on the spot over what Auditor General Nancy Gathungu terms unsatisfactory performance in implementation of development of projects. Out of the 491 projects that were to be implemented during financial year 2018-19 at a cost of Sh1.4 billion, only one project had been completed by the time auditors visited the county. Gathungu termed the shocking delay "unsatisfactory performance" on the side of the county government. The only completed project – according to the audit report – had not been put into use by October 2019 when the audit team completed its work. The report further revealed that works were ongoing in the 110 of the 491 development projects while the remaining 310 had nothing going on. “In view of the unsatisfactory performance in implementing the projects, the residents of Nandi county did not obtain any tangible service from the 491 projects planned for execution by the county executive during the year,” the auditor said. “No plausible explanation has been provided by management for the unsatisfactory performance.” The explosive report was tabled before the Senate on Tuesday by the Majority leader Samuel Poghisio. The report further questioned Sh103 million that was allocated for the construction of the governor’s house, a project the auditor noted had stalled despite the contractor pocketing Sh97.7 million as part of the payment. The governor’s house project, Gathungu noted, was varied to accommodate an additional floor at Sh21.1 million which was 20.5 per cent variation from the original contract price. “At the time of audit in November, 2019, payments totaling Sh97, 685, 287 had been made to the contractor. However, the contractor was not on site and available information indicated that the project had stalled,” she said. She added: “In addition, although the county budget for the year under review had Sh55 million allocated to the project, the sum was reallocated to other expenditure items in the supplementary estimates for the year.” Gathungu also faulted the county for accumulating a very large balance of unpaid bills totalling to Sh1.6 billion which contravenes the Treasury circular compelling accounting officers to ensure prudent use of resources and avoid accumulation of bills. Nandi county was also found to have irregularly included in the pending bills Sh39.4 million that had not been incurred as the works on the respective projects had not started. In another instance, the county had illegally given to 41 MCAs travelling allowances amounting to Sh2.9 million to attend a workshop in Mombasa. “Payment of allowances from the funds allocated to the county executive was irregular since the county assembly had its own budget for travel and subsistence,” the report reads. “As a result of the irregular payment, the MCAs were made to assume oversight of monies they had directly benefited from, which action hampered good governance in the county government.” In another audit revelation, the county government records indicated that some Sh6.7 million was spent in procuring murram from various landowners. However it emerged that the saidmurram were delivered long before the contracts were signed. “Examination of work tickets for vehicles reported to have ferried the murram indicated that the vehicles were stationary on the dates they were cited to have been used,” the audit says. The county did not provide bills of quantities to determine the estimated quantities of murram to be procured. They also did not disclose the length of the roads on which the murram was used. Edited by Henry Makori