The 2009 Kenyan Premier league champions Sofapaka have acquired the services of enterprising Harambee Stars forward Timothy Otieno from Zambian top flight outfit Napsa. The announcement comes a day after skipper Elly Asieche bolted out of the fold amidst speculations he had grown increasingly unhappy during his final weeks at the club. Otieno, who makes a grand return to the local top tier after a stint with Napsa in the Zambian Super League is expected to partner upfront with Lawrence Juma as the club bolsters its squad for another title charge this year. His last engagement in the country was with Tusker FC, where he emerged the top scorer during the 2019/2020 season which ended prematurely owing to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Sofapaka head coach Ken Odhiambo expressed delight at the development and welcomed Otieno on board while describing him as an important gem to the club. "He (Timothy) is a very good striker. We are delighted to have him with us. He comes on board with a lot of experience having turned out for the national team and having had a stint with Napsa Stars in the Zambian top flight. "I believe he will be unveiled in the course of the week," said Odhiambo. Meanwhile, Wazito FC have confirmed the departure of winger Joe Waithira from the club. Waithira joined Wazito in 2016 and was instrumental in their booming 2017 National Super League campaign that saw them earn their maiden appearance in the Kenyan top tier. He left the moneybags for a while before returning in 2018 when he once again played a pivotal role in their quest for a return to the FKF-PL after a whole season in the cold. Wazito CEO Dennis Gicheru hailed Waithira as player who never disappointed in all the years he donned the club's jersey on the pitch and wished him well in his future tasks. “We can confirm that Joe Waithira has left the club by mutual consent. “I want to thank Joe for his service to the club. He has been a loyal Wazito FC servant and as a club, we wish him all the best for his future endeavours,” said Wazito CEO Dennis Gicheru. Wazito have also loaned out midfielders Edwin Omondi and Castro Ogendo as well as goalkeeper Steve Odhiambo. "We can confirm that Steven Odhiambo, Castro Ogendo and Edwin ‘Euro’ Omondi have been loaned out for the remainder of the season," the club said. Both Odhiambo and Omondi will toil at their former club Western Stima for the remainder of the season while Ogendo will ply trade for NSL side, Kisumu All Stars. “We want them to play week in week out. At the moment, we can't guarantee them playtime and that’s why we saw it fit to let them go out on loan. We wish them all the best. Everyone at the club wishes the three success,” CEO Dennis Gicheru stated.