Love is in the air and there is no group more synonymous with romance and love than the French, which is why this Valentine's Day, I will be teaching you how to make one of my favorite dishes Coq Au Vin. Translated that just means chicken and wine, but with its rich flavors and tender mouthfuls, it's the perfect dish to prepare for your special someone. Things might still be a little crazy outside, but this weekend you and your loved one can bring a little fine dining to your home. Here is how to make the delicious dish. Ingredients 2 tsp. olive oil 4 oz. pancetta, cut into 1/2-inch pieces - you can also use bacon in a pinch 1 whole chicken, cut into 10 pieces salt and freshly ground black pepper 1 lb. mushrooms, quartered 2 medium onions, chopped 2 leeks (white and light green parts only), halved and sliced 2 cloves garlic, chopped 2 tbsp. all-purpose flour 1  bottle dry white wine 1/2 c. chicken stock 2 tbsp. Dijon mustard 6 sprigs thyme 2 bay leaves 1/4 c. fresh tarragon, chopped Method 1. In an oven proof pan, heat your oil and fry you chopped pancetta until they are brown and crispy. Using a slotted spoon, remove them from the pan and keep aside for later. In the same pan, you will now brown your chicken, placing it in skin side down. Once both sides are brown and crispy, remove them and place them on the side for later. 2. In the same pan, add your mushrooms and saute them until they are soft and brown. Once that is done add your onions, garlic and leek and stir until all your ingredients are tender and fragrant. 3. Add your flour to the pot, and stir until it is fully incorporated. Once done, gradually add your white wine. Let this simmer for 4-5 minutes then add in your chicken stock, bay leaves, thyme and Dijon mustard. Simmer for another five minutes. 4. Cover your pot with an oven proof lid and place the dish in the oven for an hour and fifteen minutes when the chicken is tender and cooked through. Sprinkle some fresh tarragon and enjoy with a chilled glass of white wine. 