Hundreds of Lamu residents turned out to show support of the constitutional amendment bill. The BBI campaigns are being led by former governor Issa Timamy who spent the whole day in a meet-the-people tour covering Witu, Kibaoni, Mpeketoni, Mkunubi and Mokowe before he arrived in Lamu Island. Police had a hard time controlling the huge crowd that turned up to receive the former governor and his delegation. Succession politics became the big issue in the BBI campaign as the ex-governor took the opportunity to urge residents to vote out the current governor Fahim Twaha who was absent. Timamy was accompanied by his former rival Swaleh Imu who has since joined his camp. They were later joined by other leaders including county assembly speaker Abdu Kassim and the immediate former speaker Mohamed Hashim. The day-long campaign set the stage for a major rally to be held today and attended by four coast governors led by Mombasa's Ali Hassan Joho. Last week, the four coast governors declared they would ensure BBI sails through in the region and Lamu is the first county expected to vote for it on Tuesday next week. Timamy said he was assigned by theP to led the BBI campaign in Lamu and urged MCAs to vote for it on Tuesday. He said Lamu risks losing one constituency if the BBI is rejected as the IEBC boundary review had recommended that a constituency must have at least 132,000 people. The former governor said the entire  Lamu county  has a population of around 140,000 in two constituencies and could be merged into one if the BBI is rejected. ''I urge you all to support BBI and then vote for me as governor in the coming general election,'' he said. The former governor said the coast region will get an additional 10 constituencies. Kilifi which will get four, Mombasa three and Kwale three. He said his party leader Musalia Mudavadi and President Uhuru Kenyatta should know that Lamu county is a BBI zone. Lamu Speaker Abdu Kassim said they fully support BBI and assured the former governor and residents that all MCAs will vote for it. He also said they are ready to vote out Twaha as he has messed up the county leadership since he took office. ''This time you have war horses, we will place you at a central place to wait for you to be sworn in as we do all the work,'' he said. Abdulrahman Hilal, the chairman of Jubilee in Lamu and a former diehard Twaha supporter, said they have now abandoned him and thrown their political weight behind Timamy . Mutua Kitetu, a human rights defender from Mpeketoni, said they have not read the BBI report but heard about it in the media and have realised it has a lot of benefits as it would increase funding in counties. Kitetu said if BBI goes through Lamu will get an additional Sh400 million for development. Edited by Henry Makori