The country’s Covid-19 positivity rate shot to 6.4 per cent on Monday, the highest since the month of January. The Health Ministry announced that 125 more people had tested positive for the virus from a sample size of 1,953 tested in 24 hours. This comes barely a week after the ministry had announced that the curve had been flattened but warned Kenyans to exercise caution as the country was not out of the woods yet. “When you look at our positivity rate since the beginning of the year since January the highest positivity rate has been 6.8 per cent which was on January 7 and the lowest was 2.1 per cent,” Ag Health DG Patrick Amoth said. “Strictly speaking you could say that we have flattened the curve but flattening the curve is an event so it is not very important because for sure we still have these surges and spikes going on until everybody are vaccinated and everybody is offered protection,” Amoth said. One hundred and twelve more patients recovered from the virus, pushing the number of recoveries to 84,473. Twenty eight of the patients were discharged from various health facilities while the remaining 84 were discharged from the home based care programme. “Sadly, seven patients have succumbed to the disease pushing cumulative fatalities to 1,786. Our sincere condolences to families and friends of those who have lost their loved ones,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe confirmed in a statement. The new cases comprised of 69 men and 56 women aged between one year and 75 years old. All except 53 were Kenyans. “There are 384 patients currently admitted in various health facilities countrywide while 1,333 are on home based isolation and care. Thirty nine patients are in the Intensive Care Unit, 15 of whom are on ventilator support and 20 on supplemental oxygen,” Kagwe said. According to Kagwe, four more patients were under observation. “Another 13 patients are separately on supplemental oxygen and all of whom are in the general wards.” Nairobi recorded 94 cases followed by Kiambu and Laikipia with five cases each, Kajiado, Kercho , Kilifi and Kwale with three cases each, Mombasa and Nakuru with two cases each while Nyandarua, Kakamaega, Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu had one case each.