As local athletics action gain traction upon return from the Covid-19 enforced break, a new phenomenon is equally leaving stakeholders’ tongues wagging. National Police Service, Kenya Prisons Service, Universities, Kenya Defence Forces, regional and individual athletes have dominated proceedings for the longest time. However, Ndura Athletics has recently brought a new dimension onto the track with impressive displays. During last year’s World Under-20 pre-trials as well as the first and second AK relay series last month, all held at the Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi, athletes from the newly-established camp have on several occasions upset the form book. Ndura Athletics is the brainchild of Boniface Ndura of Kitale, Trans Nzoia County, where Ndura Sports Complex stands. Ndura reveals that when he relocated from Limuru, Kiambu County in 1977, he had a myriad of dreams he thought was achievable away from his comfort zone. Key among his dreams was to establish a base to start life afresh, in a ‘foreign land’. While at it, Ndura says he also wanted to help young talented sportspersons achieve their dreams, one which he failed to in his formative years. He says he always wanted to be a sprinter and footballer but this never materialised due to various reasons. But with every obstacle comes innovation and Ndura vowed to never see the sporting potential of youths from his new town rot, like his did. And even though this never came to pass for more than 25 years, he kept the faith. For the last six months, Ndura says he has been busy building the complex which comprises of a football pitch, athletics track and gymnasium. “When I landed in Kitale in 1977, the first thing I did was to acquire land and begun those environmental matters including taking care of disabled animals,” says Ndura, who is also the owner of Kitale Nature Conservancy. “I was born a sprinter and footballer but during our days, there were no resources to help exploit such and there was also no money to be won. Top performers were given utensils and other household items. But my dream never faded. I promised myself that I would achieve it, one way or another,” he observes. “I thought I had better start a stadium as a way of attending to the many youths who, just like me, do not have an opportunity to exploit their talent.” He says most young people are disadvantaged when it comes to opportunities in life especially if they do not acquire the requisite grades to go to the university. “This is my target group — fellows who have completed Form Four but have not acquired marks good enough to take them to the universities or polytechnics,” he says. “And, generally, I’m telling the people of Kenya that we are sitting on a time bomb. We have so many unemployed youths, who have no prospect of succeeding in life. If we don’t take care of them now, ‘this bomb’ will explode and throw all of us into the Indian Ocean.” He observes that he and his son, Philip, who is also coaching the athletes, has been literally working on the project since it started. And as he dug a jibe at the authorities following the slow pace of rehabilitation of stadiums across the country in the recent past, Ndura says it has not been as tough as he first thought. “You know, when you think of building a sports complex, you think of spending a lot of millions but if you compute the whole amount we have spent here, it could be to the tune of about Sh30m,” he says. “These stadiums, although they are stagnating everywhere in the country, they are not very expensive, just a little bit exaggerated by those who come up with bill of quantities ...and then a lot of the money goes into people’s pockets.” Jokingly, he adds: “I am urging Kenyans that, whenever they come across this kind of money — intended to benefit the youth — they should not ‘eat’ all of it. Let them ‘eat’ 20 per cent but ensure that 80 per cent goes into the intended project.” Ndura says the sight of athletes training at the stadium for the first time left him smitten with joy. “I was very excited,” he says. “It’s like when you get your firstborn (child). I am satisfied with what is going on and the achievements we have had. The sky is the limit.” He says Kitale is usually referred to as the country's breadbasket but his dream is to add ‘basket of sprinters’ and ‘basket of footballers’ into the narrative. Ndura reveals that he is working with the various regulatory bodies to ensure that the facility meets internationally—approved specifications. “This is not something you can, as a layman, wake up and decide to do. You have to bring engineers and other experts to add their input, which is key,” he says, adding that he also sought the input of various sports governing bodies including Athletics Kenya and Football Kenya Federation. “We are keen to comply with all the regulations set in building stadiums and so far, Philip has been in close contact with the various federations.” Ndura insists that despite such ideas being mainly inspired by role models, he is not following into anybody’s footsteps, embracing originality every step of the way. “This is not an idea that has been taken up seriously by Kenyans, always being associated with expatriates/foreigners. I decided to be a native Kenyan keen to demonstrate that it can be done,” he adds. Ndura says he is looking forward to seeing his athletes compete this weekend at the third AK relays meeting at the Nyayo Stadium, where 11 runners will be on parade. “We are going to send 11 athletes to Nairobi on February 6. We want to prove that our performances in the first two relay series were not a fluke or by accident. We want to put another sterling performance as we seek to have our athletes in Team Kenya to the World Relay Championships in Poland in May,” says Ndura. Among those leading the charge is Zablom Ekwam, the 22-year-old team captain who has been at the camp since inception. “I met coach (Philip) in 2018, alongside Meshack Babu and we have had good times here. My ambition is to support the dream of our founder. This I want to do by becoming the best 400m runner in the world,” says Ekwam, who is also keen on serving in the Kenya Defence Forces. Born in Kapenguria, the 46.7 runner says he is also keen to inspire potential athletes from his volatile home area to take up the sport as opposed to engaging in banditry and cattle rustling. “I want to be in the league of Joseph Pighisio, Alphas Kishoyian,  Botswana's Isaak Makwala and eventually challenge Olympic and world record holder Wayde van Niekerk of South Africa,” says Ekwam. Along the way, Ndura says some challenges have shown a face with cash flow the biggest. “Sometimes we have to go to the bank to borrow some money but we are turned back. Cash flow is not very good when doing such projects but we have to keep going on,” he says adding that the project has cost him to the tune of Sh30m. Amidst all these challenges, however, Ndura is a grateful man after seeing his efforts recognised by his community and the country in general. “In 2014, I was declared the Trans Nzoia Hero, where I went to represent the people of my county during the Heroes Day at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. We even met President Uhuru Kenyatta.” “I was also conferred with the Head of State Commendation (HSC) in 2020 due to my efforts in conservation... I am not just an ordinary person,” he says amidst laughter. Even though Ndura is hard at work in realising his dream, he recognises that his efforts are not enough. He registers his disappointment in the neglect that has befallen the sports sector in the country. “We usually say that a hyena is very greedy but it has never eaten its young ones. But we, the people of Kenya, are eating our young ones. We get money to build sporting facilities, which we squander, leaving the youth languishing in poverty,” he says. “I think we are just bad-mannered.” He prevails upon individuals who have the interest of the youth at heart to do more in expanding the sporting industry, which he says can go a long way in arresting most of the current societal vices and challenges facing the youth including unemployment and lifestyle diseases. “I have shown the way by constructing this stadium. So many youths will end up becoming millionaires from here,” he concludes.