Former Gor Mahia captain and centre half Harun Shakava is back at the club after a one and a half year stint with Zambian champions Nkana FC. The towering defender left Gor for Nkana in August 2019 but his stay at the Kitwe- based club unceremoniously came to an end last week, thanks to the dry coffers at the club. Nkana have been limping financially despite signing a shirt deal with Betway in September last year. The betting firm came on board to supplement the financial aid the club was getting from Mopani Copper Mines. The dire situation at the club has seen international players who inspired the club to the title last season seek greener pastures elsewhere. The club helplessly watched former AFC Leopards skipper Duncan Otieno leave for Lusaka Dynamos in September. Other big names who have exited the club, owing to poor financial situation  include Congolese striker Idris Mbombo who joined Egypt’s El-Gouna, Zambian play-maker Kelvin Mubanga and seasoned goalkeeper Allan Chibwe. Unconfirmed reports in Zambia indicate that former Kariobangi Sharks' creative midfielder Duke Abuya who is the sole Kenyan remaining at the club also wants out. Gor Mahia vice chairman Francis Wasuna confirmed that Shakava had penned a three-year long contract with the club and were looking forward to signing two foreign players before the closure of the transfer window. Gor launched their business in the window by shipping in Brazilian Wilson Silva last week. “Shakava is back at Gor Mahia. He signed a three-year long contract with us. The coach wanted four new players in this transfer window and we have so far signed two. The rest will be foreign players whom we expect will fly in soon. We will also have around five players leave the club,” he said. Shakava, who before leaving for Zambia had won more than three league titles with Gor will, however, have to wait longer before tasting continental football while in Gor colours. Gor are scheduled to play another Zambian club Napsa Stars in the playoff, where they will host the first leg next weekend before travelling for the return match a week later. “He is ineligible for the playoff but once we qualify for the group stages, we will register him,” he added Meanwhile, Sofapaka have surprisingly parted ways with their skipper and Harambee Stars midfielder Elli Asieche on mutual agreement. At the same time, AFC Leopards new coach is set to jet in today. The club is expected to unveil the foreign coach who is said to have plied his trade in East Africa before in the course of the month.