National volley team, Malkia Strikers captain Mercy Moim is confident of a good show at the Tokyo Olympic Games in planned for July as they prepare to go into residential training early next month. The left-attacker affirmed that Malkia Strikers will be in  Japan to compete and not just make up the numbers this time round. Malkia Strikers go into camp on the March 1 but will start training on March 3 after undergoing mandatory Covid-19 tests. The team will train for 15 days before breaking camp for the  Africa Club Championship. They will then resume training in April before leaving for Tokyo. Malkia Strikers will be among the teams that will go to Kurume City in Japan for a three-week training and acclimatisation ahead of the games. “We hope to train and play a number of friendly matches while in Kurume City. We hope to kick off our friendlies against the Japanese national team in Kurume just to gauge our readiness for the games,” said Moim. The last time national volleyball team featured at the Olympic Games was in 2004. Moim said a lot has changed and warned their opponents to prepare for upsets. “In the past, people have been saying we go to the global stage to make up the numbers but this time round we are prepared to make an impact,” added Moim. She added: “We have a good mix of young and old and generally it’s a good squad. Our opponents don’t know our new players and that will be an added advantage. Unlike some of us who have been around for too long, the young players will act as our secret weapons in the young players who are unknown.” She thanked sponsors Kenya Charity Sweepstake for partnering with National Olympic Committee to raise funds for the Olympic teams. “With Charity Sweepstake on board, KVF can relax and the players can train in peace,” said the national team captain. Kenya Charity Sweepstake have pledged to give NOCK 10 percent of all ticket sales for the Olympic preparation. Already, NOCK has received Sh10 million from KCS to kick-start the preparations. 