Machakos senatorial by-election Maendeleo Chap Chap candidate Mutua Katuku says he has the solution to land ownership problems in the county. Katuku said having served in various leadership positions, including as Finance assistant minister and Water Minister in the past administrations, alongside being Mwala MP, he has experience and connection to sort out the land challenge in some parts of Machakos. “I will engage relevant authorities, discuss and amicably solve land issues not only in Joska and Athi River, but the entire Machakos county,” Katuku told residents during a rally at Joska market on Thursday. He said he will ensure genuine landowners get justice and those who don’t have title deeds get them. “I will ensure each resident gets justice. I will make sure they have their title deeds processed if I become the next senator after the March 18 polls,” Katuku said. “I know these things. I have been an MP for 10 years, assistant minister for Finance for three years and Water minister for two years.” He said he will engage the Kenya National Highways Authority, the Kenya Urban Roads Authority and the World Bank to improve road networks. Katuku said most of the roads under Kenha and Kura are in deplorable state and require urgent upgrading to ensure efficient transportation of goods and people. He said he will also lobby for development funds from the World Bank using his existing contacts to secure more resources for the county. The candidate also toured Kamulu, Muthwani, Ndovoini, Githunguri and Airways. He said road connectivity is critical to the growth of the local economy. "Good roads are critical to growth of businesses and investment and one of my top priorities will be to work with other leaders, including MPs, to ensure funds are allocated to improve roads," he said. He also pledged to work with relevant stakeholders to ensure security is beefed up, particularly in urban centres. "Insecurity has been traced to the high rate of unemployment in urban areas. This is a challenge not only in Machakos but also in other urban areas," he said. He added that as senator, he will lobby for increased funding for construction of market sheds for small-scale traders.