ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi now says he is not seeking an endorsement from ODM leader Raila Odinga. Mudavadi on Tuesday said his remarks were taken out of context to mean that he wants an endorsement. He said he only spoke of an endorsement in honor of a coalition agreement under the NASA formation. Mudavadi was speaking on Citizen television where he admitted that the NASA coalition is on its political ventilator. "As a coalition, NASA's health is not very good because it is suffering from breach of trust, with no confidence among founding partners," he said. Mudavadi said one should anticipate new political formation in the near future because legally NASA remains but no functionality. He said towards the 2017 general election, he alongside Bungoma Senator Moses Wetangula and Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka entered a coalition agreement with ODM and registered NASA. However, the partners did not honour the contents of the agreement. "We set out principals on what was to be done once we ascended to power and how we would stay united in the case that we lost the election, till now that has remained just but a document," he said. Mudavadi took issues with ODM saying despite agreeing that the political party's fund be shared among the coalition partners, only ODM enjoys the fund. "We agreed that the party that would produce flag bearer in 2017 would not field a presidential candidate in the subsequent election," he said. He added, "This is why I insist that an agreement is as good as the people who make it, let us live e by our commitment because if we breach agreements it shows otherwise". Mudavadi maintained that politics is about endorsements and there was nothing wrong if he was seeking any. "Let us not cheat ourselves, politics is all bout endorse. We seek endorsements from the business community, form lobby groups and likes. The final endorsement is by the voter so we should not shy away from talking about it," he said. While reiterating that endorsement does not stop other candidates from contesting, Mudavadi denied claims that he had been endorsed by president Uhuru Kenyatta. "I was not endorsed but president Uhuru Kenyatta is a critical actor in an election and if I can persuade him fine, it is his right, he can proceed and endorse me,' he said. He added, "We endorsed Raila as NASA candidate, the final endorsement would be from people so those selling the narrative that I am seeking endorsement from him it is only but their wish". Mudavadi said he has his own style of seeking a political seat and he understands all the stakes. "I have my own style, I don't have to be insulative and shout the loudest for me to pass my point. I believe in issue-based politics and that is what I drive,' he said. On the swearing-in of Raila as people's president at Uhuru Park, Mudavadi said it was a process that signified nothing. Though he did not confirm on claims that they intentionally sabotaged the event, the former deputy prime minister said the matter is water under the bridge because they had held consultative debates on the matter before the d-day. "We debated at length because as leaders we felt that it was clear that in such day and age a mock ceremony will receive no recognition and with no basis in law, it was impunity," he said. "We are leaders who are seeking to lead the people and we agreed that we could not be tied to a process that breached the constitution," he added. Mudavadi said going forward, the existing laws should be strengthened to compel political parties to honor coalition agreements. This, he said will play a key role in consolidating democracy.