A former Equity Bank teller was charged on Tuesday with conspiring to steal Sh2.8 million from a deceased businessman and his son through Sim swap. Eutycus Mutembei was charged alongside Ayungu Eugene Shivachi with conspiracy to steal Sh257,000 from Kenya Commercial Bank account belonging to Amos Ngata Muiruri. The two were further charged with stealing Sh997,000 from Ngata’s accounts at NCBA Buruburu branch. They also allegedly transferred Sh650,000 and Sh979,83 from Ngata’s and his son Hiram Muiruri’s bank accounts at Equity Bank. The suspects are also accused of unauthorised access to data contrary to the Computer Misuse and Cybercrime Act. They are accused of conspiring with others not before court to perform unauthorised access to data held at the banks on December 8. Appearing before Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku, the two denied any wrongdoing. Separately, they were charged with preparing to commit a felony alongside a taxi driver Morris Koome Riungu and his wife Jane Wacuka after they were found with 39 Safaricom Sim cards. They are accused of having the Sim cards in Makuyu area along Thika-Makutano in Murang’a, all registered under different subscribers. The four are accused that they were not at their place of abode at the time they were found with the items suspected to be for use in theft as they could not satisfactorily account for them. They denied all the charges. In the conspiracy and theft charges, Mutembei and Shivachi were freed on a Sh1 million bond and alternative Sh500,000 bail. In addition, they must present two contact persons each. In the count of preparation to commit a felony, the four were released on a Sh300,000 bond and alternative Sh200,000 bail. The cases will be mentioned on March 3 for pre-trail and fixing of hearing dates. Police said the case came up after an incident in which the late Rev Peter Kania Kariuki, the PCEA secretary-general who died of Covid-19-related complications on July 26, 2020, and Nairobi businessman Amos Ngata Muiruri, who died after botched surgery on November 22, 2020, had their accounts defrauded of millions of shillings. Both men died at a local hospital. According to police investigations, hardly a week after Ngata was buried at his farm in Ndunyu Njeru, Nyandarua, on December 2, 2020, one of his sons discovered the telephone he used for mobile bank transactions had suddenly gone dead. The line had swiftly been activated on another unknown phone. After the son reported the matter to Safaricom and the line was reverted to the family, they discovered that more than Sh2.8 million had been stolen through mobile bank applications he had registered. According to the police, the children visited the banks and confirmed the cash had been transferred to a different telephone number, prompting them to report to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations. According to a report by the DCI, such crimes were underreported and in some cases not reported in good time, thus undermining investigations.