Even before they call for impeachment, I want to believe that the reasons why they want Deputy President William Ruto removed can best be handled by the investigative agencies. Even before they take that route of impeachment, which is I am sure they will not succeed because of the numbers in Parliament, they need to come up with reasons that are acceptable to Kenyans. They are taking a political route instead of a legal route. Why can’t they, with the information that they are armed with, go to the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission? If they think the DP has stolen anything, they should report to the relevant agencies. But on the aspect of them claiming the DP is disrespecting his boss, President Uhuru Kenyatta, I want to ask, who is supposed to complain? Is it ANC, ODM or members of Jubilee? That is a sign of a confused lot. The person they are thinking they can impeach does not come from their party. I would think they would take advantage of the divisions in Jubilee to move and get more members for their parties, instead of even thinking of impeaching the DP. What is their ultimate game? What do they want to achieve by impeaching the DP? It is zero. In fact, they will make us more firm, organised and stronger by ensuring that we consolidate enough members to defeat them. Impeaching the DP on grounds of disrespecting the party leader would be best handled by Jubilee. It is an internal affair and has nothing to do with other parties. When someone is quarrelling with his wife, all you can do as their neighbour is to wait for them to come outside so you can give advice. But you cannot go and purport to be providing solutions to whatever issue they have. For them to think about something that is peripheral and not urgent and will not benefit them is a strong sign they are a very confused lot. I urge our Tangatanga team not to be worried about the threats because impeachers have no reasons to convince Kenyans. The Mumias East MP and former National Assembly Majority Chief Whip spoke to the Star.