East African Safari Classic Rally has been sold to new owners. A team, under the name of Minti Motorsport UK, has acquired the world famous marathon rally. The London-based Raju Kishnani shared the ownership of the East African Safari Classic with J.S. Vohra before a tragic road accident claimed the life of the latter two years ago. “The East African Safari Classic Rally was the best thing I ever bought. However, I lost all interest after the accident with Vohra.  I wish the new owners and new management all the success for the future,” said Kishnani. England-based Minti Motorsports is a family run company owned by Jeet Ghose, son of rally legend Joey Ghose, according to the latest reports. Jeet brings with him the experience of managing various businesses across East Africa and the Middle East. Having grown up as a rallying fan, he is excited to be involved in the Safari Classic and looking forward to adding impetus to the event. Jeet’s father, Joey Ghose, a well-known former Kenya National Rally Championship contender and established Safari Rally driver, said he was excited about the latest move. “We hope to take it back to the old glory and fun. It is a well-known world famous round of endurance rally that is admired by many,” said Ghose. The world’s greatest Classic Rally will begin in Naivasha this year on November 1 and end in Mombasa on November 9 covering almost 5,000km of the most challenging roads in Kenya. Previous winners of the Classic include legends of the late Björn Waldegård, Ian Duncan, Stig Blomqvist, Rob Collinge and Carl Tundo. Subsequently, Minti Motorsport UK has appointed Lynn Tundo as managing director of the Safari Classic and she comes with plenty of rallying knowledge. “She was the chairperson of the Nakuru Club and the first lady leader of a motor club in Kenya. She has organised numerous successful rallies in the KNRC series. Pipi Renu, Raju Chaggar and Darshna Shah will remain in the new setup, which has also appointed Tash Tundo as the marketing manager and Chantal Young as the client manager respectively. “The new team has a deep understanding of Classic Rallies as managing team, entrants, officials and ultimately fans.  Our intention is to bring back the classic, embracing old-fashioned rallying values of camaraderie and fairness,” stated Jeet. “This will be a rally run for the drivers, fans and sponsors. The rally will be as challenging as only African landscapes can be, but at the same time fun, transparent and honest,” said Raju Chagger, the clerk of the course for the third Classic running, First run in 2003, the legendary Safari Classic Rally is a nine-day rally covering up to 5,000km through Kenya. Safari Classic rekindles the spirit of the original Safari Rally, which put East Africa on the motorsport map and earned an unassailable reputation as the world’s toughest rally. Plans for the 2021 rally include new routes across grueling terrain in Northern Kenya, bringing the rally to Baringo, Laikipia, and Nakuru. 