Singer Tanasha Donna has cleared the air over the now infamous ‘kiss’ dominating the grapevine. Tanasha, in a video captured in Dar es Salam’s Club Element that went viral, is seen moving towards as if trying to kiss him, but Diamond seemingly snubs her. However, Tanasha, who is in Mombasa for a video shoot with Nigerian artiste Bad Boy Timz, said a lot of people are misinterpreting the whole scenario, which has been blown out of proportion by the media. “First of all, I am not a person to do public display of affection. If I wanna kiss someone, I’d kiss them behind doors,” Tanasha said. She explained that Diamond called her to the stage unexpectedly and she was trying to whisper in Diamond’s ear asking him why he called her on stage without informing her prior. “We went to party and the next thing, 'Tanasha Donna we need you on stage!' So I went to the stage and I was trying to ask him, 'Why didn’t you tell me?'” Tanasha explained. She said at that time, Diamond was looking back, trying to inform the DJ to play their hit song ‘Gere’ so they could perform it on stage together. “Everything happened so fast! Then obviously, the media went and did what they did. Recreated the whole story,” said Tanasha, who spoke at Kilua Resort in Shanzu, Mombasa. She, however, said her conscience is clear because she knows the truth and she does not need to justify herself to anyone. She said smart people who watch the video will understand she was not after a kiss. The cosiness between her and Diamond, she said, is just chemistry between two great artistes, and that they are not getting back together. “I am single….We are not getting back together,” she said. She said she gets love and hate in equal measure and she is taking it all in a stride. “I feel like I get a lot of love in Kenya but then, you know, when you get a lot of love, you also get a lot of hate," she said. “And then, you know, the father of my child, let’s not deny it, is a very controversial person. So, it’s very normal for that hate to spike. “When you are a celebrity, expect both sides. People will love you, some people will hate you. Jesus was one of the most loved and hated persons in this world.” The songbird said while in Tanzania, she stayed at a hotel but was always going to Diamond’s place because their son Naseeb Junior was there, interacting and getting to know his family more. “I was back and forth constantly,” Tanasha said. She said she is friends with Diamond’s other baby mama, Hamisa, who lives in Dar. She said they work together. “She is great peeps. Shout out to her. Shout out to Hamisa,” Tansaha said. The songbird said she is still learning new things in the music industry and that people are yet to see her full potential. “Expect a new, refined, better version of Tanasha Donna this year, music-wise,” she said. Bad Boy Timz said his first time in Kenya has been great so far and he is looking forward to working with other Kenyan artistes, like Khaligraph Jones. “I’ve always wanted to be in Mombasa,” Timz said.