A female politician who had expressed interest in the Woman Representative position is now staring at incurring huge losses. That is if the Building Bridges Initiative Bill, which proposes scrapping of that coveted seat, is passed in referendum. The politician is said to have gone big in branding her campaign materials including shirts, umbrellas, caps and hoods in readiness for next year’s elections. Her aides confided to Corridors of Power that she is silently praying for the defeat of the referendum being spearheaded by President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) and ODM boss Raila Odinga to save her millions in campaign investments. *** A senior politico known for his deep pockets has become a subject of discussion among his party members who are now questioning his intentions. According to the party’s insiders, the man who has expressed interest in a county seat in Western cares less about the national issues of the party and only concentrates on the local politics. He has even managed to fuel an election mood almost two years to the polls. The politician, Corridors of Power hears, has never been spotted accompanying his party leader on his many forays outside the region - an absence that is now becoming conspicuous and a concern to the party bigwigs. *** Strategists of a senior politician are back to the drawing board following the latest developments in regards to the 2022 presidential race. The man had hoped to reap big from the region's rich vote bloc and secure support from some state operatives. However, he now thinks the entry of another contestant from his backyard is part of a wider scheme to clip his wings and block his ascension to the top seat. He has reportedly planned an urgent meeting to find out how to counter the emerging issues and revive his prospects. *** A first-time female MP from Mt Kenya region has become the talk of the town as Kenyans marked Valentine's Day on Sunday. Why? The MP's husband has remained a small-time mechanic in a rural town. Those in the know are questioning why the MP hasn’t upgraded the business that used to sustain the family before she became an MP. It's whispered the woman believes that money is the root of all evil and could take away her husband. About two years ago, the MP secured her mechanic husband a contract to repair county vehicles but it was later terminated as she fell out with the governor. Currently, the husband is seen at his garage repairing vehicles next to the highway while his wife toils as a servant leader. 