The Defence force in the country has said that the nationwide recruitment exercise of Kenya Defence Forces (KDF)will be fair and a corruption-free. While launching the exercise on Monday at the Defence Headquarters, Vice Chief of the Defence Forces Lieutenant General Franklin Levi Mghalu said that action will be taken against those who will be caught taking part in bribery for recruitment. Lt. Mghalu said that many Kenyans have in the past fallen prey to unscrupulous conmen masquerading as KDF officers, promising to secure placement in the military. “Any person purporting to have the influence to recruit any potential candidate or issue a KDF Calling Letter outside of the designated Recruitment Centre will be a conman/woman,” Mghalu said. He advised Kenyans that bribery and other acts of corruption are against the law. “Should anyone give a bribe, with the aim of securing a place during this recruitment exercise, they will have themselves to blame. Our wish is to conduct an open, free and fair recruitment exercise.” According to Defence, 106 cases were reported in the previous recruitment exercise held between November 27 - December 13, 2019. Of these, 101 cases involved civilians, and five involved the service personnel. “The 101 cases were arraigned in court and some of them are still ongoing while the service personnel proven to have participated in malpractices were dealt with in accordance with the KDF Act 2012.” He said that to curb the vice, KDF will continue to collaborate with oversight bodies to ensure that the public is constantly reminded to report conmen and women out to defraud them of their hard-earned money. Kenyans have also been asked to report any misdeeds or interference in the process to the recruiting team on the ground or the nearest local police station. They can also contact the Defence Headquarters through the hotline number 0726 419 709. KDF has mapped out 327 recruitment centres across all the 47 counties with a presence in 337 gazetted Sub-Counties. During this year’s recruitment exercise, approximately 4,400 Kenyans will get the opportunity to join KDF. This year’s exercise has six categories KDF will recruit in. They include  General Service Officer (GSO) Cadets, General Service Officer (GSO) Cadets (Undergraduate), Specialist Officer Cadets, General Duty (GD) Recruits, Tradesmen/women, and  Defence Forces Constables. The recruitment of GSO Cadets, GSO Cadets Undergraduates, GD Recruits, and Constables has already commenced. The recruitment will be conducted from today, February 8-19, 2021, between 8am - 6pm on weekdays The requirements include; Be a Kenyan citizen with no dual citizenship, be in possession of a valid Kenyan National Identity Card, aged between 18 and 26 years for GSO Cadets, GD Recruits, and Tradesmen/women with Certificate/Government Trade Test. Specialist Officers, Tradesmen/women with Diploma should not be above 30 years old while Chaplains/Imams should not be above 39 years. Also, be physically and medically fit in accordance with KDF standards, have no criminal record. For retired KDF Service members, retired National Youth Service (NYS) Servicemen and Women who wish to join the KDF as Constables should be aged between 30 and 55 years, and 35 and 45 years respectively.