Kiss FM breakfast host Kamene Goro was spotted at 1824, hanging out with nightlife king Joe Muchiri. The two wore matching hoodies, which fuelled dating rumours. Her co-host, Jalang'o, insinuated on the comment section that the two are an item. "I am very happy for you two! You are the best couple I know. God bless your union! Hapa ni mapenzi tu! Joe Muchiri, I knew you will one day join the family. In Kamene you've found true love! Happy Valentine's my people!" he wrote. Well, Kamene has cleared the rumours on The Morning Kiss, when Jalang'o wanted to understand how the two found themselves wearing matching clothes. “How did you find yourselves in pink hoodies in 1824? You know you can try to hide these things but love will always manifest itself,” he said. “You two look good together and I think you are the most beautiful couple I have ever seen.” However, Kamene said it was simply a coincidence. "I don't know how it happened, the same way we find ourselves wearing matching clothes." The media personality has been keeping her relationship life private but always gives her fans an inside look into how her marriage was. She got married aged 23 after quitting her job and settled in Tanzania. Her ex-husband later ended the relationship via a phone call. "So we were just talking on phone and somewhere in the middle of the conversation, he just told me we can't be together anymore, and that’s how it ended," she said on Jessy Junction. "And I remember all I asked him was, 'Are you sure?' And he said, 'Things are better this way'." Kamene revealed in a past conversation on Kiss FM that she is a helpless romantic after being stuck with her ex-boyfriend's tattoo. "My third tattoo was my first boyfriend’s name. I put it on my back, straight down to my spine," she said. "I had to tattoo something on top to cover it. It is so weird, I got the tattoo and two weeks later, we broke up." "Love is stupid! Even before I covered it up, the guys I dated used to get mad. I believe and I am convinced that love is stupid. You never think beyond your nose." Edited by T Jalio