The effects of the Covid-19 pandemic adversely affected operations in the built environment sector and the economy at large. A report by the Architectural Association of Kenya on the Status of the Built Environment report for July to December 2020,  showed 93 per cent of firms in Kenya reported a reduction of sales in the period between May and August compared to the same period in 2019, while only 2 per cent reported an increase in sales. The report released on Tuesday indicates the mean decline in sales stood at 51 per cent. The study also revealed that a quarter of firms saw sales drop by 70% with the decline in sales showing highly heterogeneous patterns- sales declined by 90% for the bottom 10 percent of firms, while sales declined by just 10% for the top 10% of firms. Large firms fared better than smaller firms, with no drop in sales reported at the 90th percentile of the large firms. The report shows that demand for apartments doubled in the second quarter of 2020 as buyers moved away from the costlier standalone units. The Kenya Bankers Association’s (KBA) Housing Price Index released in August 2020 also revealed that most buyers chose lower-priced apartments, which saw concluded sales rise to 75.6%, compared to the 33% reported in quarter one of 2020. Another report by Knight Frank showed that real estate investors recorded a double-digit loss in income as Covid-19 pandemic reduces rent prices and occupancy rate. The hospitality, retail, and health centers were the most affected assets, posting 50.5%, 41.4%, and 26.7% drop, respectively. The decline was attributed to the economic slowdown heightened by the pandemic that resulted in most businesses putting on hold space requirements as they focused on operational rather than capital expenditure. The sector is expected to recover from the shocks of the coronavirus pandemic despite reduced demand from key business segments. Despite the sector being the hardest hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, it has begun to gradually recover supported by financial aid from the government through the Post Corona Hospitality Sector Recovery Stimulus by the Ministry of Tourism through the Tourism Finance Corporation (TFC) and other international agencies, repackaging of the tourism sector to appeal to domestic tourists and relaxation of travel advisories. “We expect this to fuel resumption of activities and resultant improved performance in the medium term With official lockdowns in effect globally, we expect the fall in occupancy levels to fall by an even greater percentage,” AAK said in the report. With less demand, average daily rates (ADRs) are already trending lower and mass cancellations of events will negatively impact revenue per available room (RevPAR). The impact of demand from some corporates keeping staff or team members in hotels during this period will be marginal at best. COMMERCIAL PROPERTY According to the report, many tenancies such as cinemas, kids’ play area and other leisure tenants remained closed following the Government’s directive in March banning public gatherings. The report indicates though sit-down restaurants are now operational, they have to take into account social distancing requirements. By contrast, supermarkets, grocery butchery and fast food outlets have been thriving in business. “Consumers now have the option of online shopping from various outlets. Non-essential tenants have initiated discussions with their respective landlords on rent waivers or discounts and an extension on rent-free months,” it said. Property managers are now at task to minimize operational costs so as to contain outgoings to be balanced against the resulting limited income. Tenants’ gross sales and footfall traffic within their individual stores/premises have declined due to consumers avoiding crowded areas such as mall, retail and shopping centers as a result of social distancing directives. “With a slowing economy and employment levels under pressure, the resulting economic constraints have shifted consumer spending away from impulse expenditure and luxury purchases, and towards a focus on essential items, most especially food,” the report said. In terms of rent concession, reductions and moratoriums, the report indicates there has been no one-size-fits-all solution applied in the sector. Rather, each landlord is handling their situations with their individual tenants on a case-to-case basis. “ In some cases, for example, landlords are requesting turnover sales figures in order to review a tenant’s performance/trading densities during the pandemic in order to grant rent concessions based on this information. Generally, new commercial entities have extended fit-outs, while existing tenants are negotiating rent concessions, however, in almost all cases service charges are still required to be paid in full,” read part of the report. REAL ESTATE According to the report, Kenya’s real estate sector was set to see significant growth in 2020  on the back of its growth recorded in 2019. However, the Covid-19 pandemic affected the projections. “Previously, the sector had witnessed sluggish growth in 2017 and 2018. In 2019, the real estate sector in Kenya recorded an average growth rate of 5.3 percent, which was 1.2 percentage points higher than 4.1% growth rate recorded in 2018, according to KNBS Economic Survey 2020,” read part of the report. The real estate sector recorded moderate activity with average rental yields improving marginally in the residential and commercial office sectors to 5.2% and 7.8% respectively, from 5% and 7.5% in the fourth quarter of 2019. The retail sector, however, registered a 0.1 percent point drop in rental yields to 7.7 percent in the first quarter of 2020, from 7.8 % in the last three months of 2019. “The impacts of the covid-19 pandemic notwithstanding, Kenya’s construction industry experienced relative stability if statistics from Half 1 of 2020 are anything to go by,” the report read. It said the sector (residential and non-residential) grew by 4.3 percentage points in Q1 2020, 0.5 percentage points lower than Q1 2019, attributable to a decline in activity amid a tough financial environment. House prices contracted by 0.2 percent in Q2 2020 with apartments accounting for 75.6 percent of the concluded sales, attributed to affordability, with detached units accounting for 24.4 percent. Mid and high-end markets accounted for 75 percent and 7.8 percent of the sales, respectively, reinforcing buyers’ search for affordability. “Rental prices have declined, attributed to pressure on landlords to offer discounts amid reduced disposable income,” the report said. Despite reduced development activities, the value of residential building approvals in the first two months of the year increased by 204% attributed to clearing of the backlog by the liaison committee dealing with development applications.