KCPE candidates have been given 10 days to revise their subcounty school choices between February 15 to February 26. In a circular on Wednesday, the ministry said the candidates have up to February 26th to revise the schools. "Advice all primary schools presenting candidates for KCPE that the choice of day schools will be based on the parents' area of residence," the circular read. This is a departure from the past where candidates made choices from schools within subcounties where they sat for exams. "In essence, day schools should be within commutable distance from their residence," the circular read. "The schools, therefore, need to be provided with the list of all subcounties schools in the country." This year's exams will be done in March and April. Traditionally, the tests are conducted between October and November. For KCPE, 1,191,411 candidates are registered to take the test in 28,451 centres. For KCSE, 752,933 candidates will sit the exams in 10,437 centres compared to 10,287 approved in 2019. Following the long closure of learning institutions, Knec is gathering data on schools closed down during the shutdown and the candidates affected. Among the issues put into consideration is likely adverse weather as the exams will be conducted during the long rains season. Learners in the Competency-Based Curriculum will sit a final examination at the end of primary school, just like KCPE, but the test will not entirely decide their secondary school. Under the new curriculum, the transition from Grade 6 to secondary school will be based on a hybrid model involving a combination of CATs (Classroom Assessment Techniques and KNEC tests. Learners will be required to take CATs at the end of Grades 4, 5 and 6 that will be part of the final mark the learners get at the end of primary school. Each CAT will carry 20 per cent of the final mark. This means the three CATs will cumulatively account for 60 per cent of the final score. The remaining 40 per cent will be from the Kenya National Examination Council exam to be issued administered the end of Grade 6.