Several key roads and an airstrip in Tana River county are in poor state and are keeping away potential investors, Governor Dhadho Godhana has said. Godhana said the poor state of infrastructure is the result of decades of marginalisation in the area that must be corrected. He told journalists in Malindi on Thursday the government has not heeded outcries from the public and leaders for decades. “We have been crying for the tarmacking of Madogo-Bura road which was destroyed by El Niño in 1997, but up to 2021 the road is still in a bad state,” he said. Godhana said the Tana River transport infrastructure ends in Hola, where works was done by NYS from 2005. He said the government should now tarmac the Mtomwa-Kitui road to ease transport for Tana River residents. The county chief he said those travelling to Nairobi have to go to Madogo and connect to the Garissa-Nairobi highway. The route is over 600km, twice longer than the one through Mtomwa-Kitui road which is 300km. The road was upgraded to murram and has already attracted five bus companies including those from Lamu heading to Nairobi. The governor also called on the government to establish a modern airstrip in Hola to ease air transport in the county. “Investors have been shying away from Tana River. In the last two years there has never been any refurbishment done at the existing airstrip. Kwale, Mombasa Kilifi and Lamu are being upgraded, but Tana River was left behind,” he said. Godhana said he found out that in all tenders advertised by Kenya National Highways Authority, not a kilometre is for Tana River. He hailed the MCAs and Tana River residents for passing the BBI, making it one of those celebrating 'Super Tuesday'. He said devolution has brought a change in Kenya and BBI will bring more development to the grassroots. “Tana River is not ready to be left behind; it is ready to join other Kenyans to contribute to the development of the country,” he said. Godhana said Tana River folk have been locked out of senior public service positions. Only a few of its members serve in boards.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris