The once-booming cashew nut industry is dying and farmers are cutting down trees and planting higher-yielding mangoes. Farmers say the problems are low production, low prices and general lack of economic value. Further, the export of raw nuts has been banned for 12 years, accounting for much of the problem. Fatuma Swaleh from Simba area in Kwale county has abandoned cashew nuts for mangoes. Swaleh said that in the 1970s, cashew nut farming - known as 'white gold-  was the backbone of the economy. She said farmers harvested 10 to 15 bags weighing 90kg each. Today a farmer barely harvests three kilos, Swaleh said. “Production started decreasing and I have cut down my three cashew nut trees for mangoes. Most farmers now rely on mangoes because yields are better. She said they can earn enough to pay children's school fees and other expenses. She spoke during a recent media field visit organised by the Agriculture and Food Authority in Kwale and Kilifi counties to check on the cashew nut industry. Farmer Matano Ngonga in Kwale said he has grown cashew nuts for 15 years and the crop is no longer viable. “I used to harvest more than 12 bags of 90 kgs from my 12 cashew nut trees but today I can only get a handful of nuts for my children to eat," he said. Ngonga said he has not cut down the trees but now relies on oranges, bananas, mangoes and cassava. He says pest infestation also reduced yields. Ngonga urged the national and county governments to support farmers with pesticides to protect the remaining cashew nut trees. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said in an interview farmers must replace their ageing trees with new, higher-yielding varieties. He said they should also invest in cashew specialist agronomy, including pruning, disease control and proper post-harvest management. Boga said they need quality seedlings and services. Cashews are grown primarily in Kwale, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu counties, as well as Taita Taveta and Tharaka Nithi. The PS said cashew is a globally prized crop and global demand for processed and value-added cashews is increasing. He said international prices are as high as Sh200,000 per ton, compared with Sh80,000 domestically. Anthony Muriithi, AFA acting director general, said the area under cultivation is estimated at 56,920 acres, a drop in area and yield. He said national annual production is about 12,848 tons, compared to 300,000 tons in Tanzania. Africa produces 60 per cent of the world’s raw cashew nuts, mainly from Tanzania, Mozambique, Ivory Coast, Benin, Guinea Bissau and Nigeria. John Safari, a former Kilifi Cashew Nut Limited managing director, said production in the 1980s was 30,000 to 60,000 tons. He blamed climate change for much of the decline. Boga said the government is considering partnership from EFF Farmers Foundation to uplift more than 700,000 smallholder farmers in seven years. He said this will be done through activating the cashew value chain and increasing production to more than 200,000 tons a year. Boga said an agro-processing revolution would create 500,000 direct and indirect jobs and generate more than Sh32 billion in foreign exchange. He said talks were underway with county governments and stakeholders on how to begin partnerships and revive the sector.' (Edited by Kiilu Damaris)