The National Youth service will be contracted to complete the construction of the Wote stadium. This comes after Sports CS Amina Mohamed announced the termination of the contractor's assignment due to underperformance. The  Sh300 million stadium was launched in January 2017 but stalled due to lack of funds. The stadium currently 40 per cent complete was expected to be complete by December 2020. However the contractor Traphes and Nitram Enterprise Limited sought an extension of two months due to changes in the design of the 20,000 capacity stadium. In November last year, Managing Director of Traphes and Nitram, Mark Muendo, said the delays were occasioned by last-minute changes in the design of the pavilion due to the topography of the site. ‘‘We will be seeking for more time because of the changes in the initial design of the stadium. When we dug the pavilion, the area was soggy leading to some variations,” said Muendo. But  Sports Kenya Chairman Fred Muteti directed the contractor to complete the project within the set deadlines. ‘‘The issue of extension of time does not arise, in fact we expect the contractor to complete the project before the timelines because there is a steady cash flow,’’  Muteti said. Muteti maintained Sports Kenya’s commitment in ensuring that the project was completed on time. He said a cost variation of Sh12 million caused by the changes of the design had been approved. “The cost of changes of the pavilion and the retaining wall have been factored and we have enough money,” said the Sports Kenya chairman. But Amina, on visiting the site in the company of CS Simon Chelugui, said the contract had been terminated. In September last year, the World Athletics regional development director Ibrahim Hussein expressed satisfaction on the level of compliance to the world standards of the works at the Stadium. Ibrahim who toured the facility alongside Athletics Kenya (AK) officials, urged the Government to build modern facilities that can measure up to international standards. The three-time Boston Marathon champion tipped the stadium to host athletics international events should the contractor fully comply with the required measurements.