Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo wants the government to compensate 3,000 families who were displaced in Kibos after Kenya Railways demolished their houses. He condemned the move and termed the demolitions inhumane, saying the families had been subjected to immense suffering. During the demolitions, a child died after being trapped under debris. A mosque was also destroyed. The victims, he said, are living in pathetic conditions, especially when it rains. He said urgent intervention is required to have them resettled. Children, women, and the elderly are forced to spend the nights in the cold. The families are staying in tents where the county government identified an alternative place to temporarily resettle them. The county has set aside 15 acres to erect tents for the families. Koyoo said they have raised the matter in the National Assembly and are waiting for a response from the government through the relevant ministry. He said together with Kisumu West MP Olago Aluoch, Kisumu East MP Shakeel Shabir and Woman representative Rosa Buyu, they are pushing to have the victims compensated. He assured the families that he would continue to champion their rights. “These are my constituents. They are the people who voted for me,” Koyoo said when the families received food donations on Friday. The families received maize, beans, rice and cooking oil. In Kibos, more than 600 households benefited from the donations. Demolitions were also done in Koru and Muhoroni town. Koyoo also donated food to families who were affected within Muhoroni town and Koru area. They received maize, beans, rice and cooking oil. A total of 150 households in Muhoroni town- juakali sector and 250 households in Koru benefited. Koyoo also distributed uniforms to over 150 pupils at Kibos prison primary and Kibos primary schools that were affected by the demolitions. The pupils stayed home for three weeks after they lost their uniforms and books during the demolitions. “It is very sad that even the pupils were not spared. Kibos Prison Primary School is dear to my heart. It is one of the schools that have been giving me top students pursuing specialised courses in the university,” Koyoo said. He said he would continue to fully sponsor bright and needy students. The MP faulted Kenya Railways for carrying out demolitions without engaging local leaders to find alternative land to resettle the affected families. But Kenya Railways has said residents living along the railway line were given notice to vacate before the demolitions were carried out. Kenya Railways is reclaiming the land for the ongoing rehabilitation of the Nakuru-Kisumu metre-gauge railway. Koyoo has appealed to the government to find alternative land to permanently settle the Nubian community. The legislator said the Nubian community has lived on the land for 83 years. “We must protect the lives and property of all Kenyans. These minority people also have their rights,” he said. Koyoo said it was unfortunate that a child died during the demolition. 