A wife of a former top official in one of the counties in Rift Valley has left her constituents in shock with her new ‘hustle’ that involves selling lemons and cereals. She works from a small kiosk in one of the shopping centres in the area. Residents who are now sympathetic to the woman are warning they will punish the husband who served for one term and is eyeing the same seat in 2022 for what they see as neglect of his family. Already political rivals are using the case to campaign against the former high-ranking county officer. A source states that locals mill around the kiosk not to buy but to monitor how the 'humble' wife is transacting the business. A police officer managing a social media account is causing a huge political division in his home county in Northeastern. This is because the account is attacking perceived opponents of those who have hired the officer and embarrassing them. Further, because of clanism in the region, the trend may even cause a fight. Those affected are now sending a warning to the officer to stop the campaign or they will take action and report him to his superiors at Vigilance House (pictured). The sudden splurge of cash by a party leader has caused a furore with members of his coalition. The party leader of a fledgeling outfit is said to be on a spending spree much to the amazement of the voters and competitors. Corridors of Power understands that the man has been treating and spoiling foot soldiers with serious hard cash as he traverses the region for a by-election set for next month. Political observers now say the fortunes have changed for the better since he endorsed BBI. Well, it's often said that greed and selfishness are the central motivators of mankind. *** There is growing disquiet in a number of state departments. Why? The move by an independent state agency to take over the constitutional mandate to make key appointments is the bone of contention. This includes the recruitment of council members for higher learning institutions. This basically leaves the line ministries with no say, effectively rendering them figureheads in the running of their dockets. Disgruntled voices in the state department are accusing some lawmakers of conniving with the agency to legislate the proposal that will remove human resource functions from the ministries.