A Chinese trader's safe box with Sh15 million cash was stolen when he went for a party, DCI detectives investigating the matter told court on Monday. Police constable Kevin Too, in his miscellaneous application filed before Kibera senior resident magistrate Renee Kitagwa, said he needed more days to detain suspects so he completes his investigations. "The complainant, Wang Daoli, had Sh15 million in his safe box. He locked his house well and the keys well secured. After the party was over, he went back to their house and found the safe box missing," the court heard. He then called the responsible people in management to inform them of the development. "That he called his boss,  a Chinese national  and a managing director  at Housemart Company Limited and informed them of the same." "They allowed the management to allow them to review the CCTV footage which showed some of their employees and the driver mingling around the house at the suspected time of the incident," the detectives said. The CCTV footage, the affidavit says, shows one of the employees at the house at the suspected time. The detectives say one of the employees was constantly on the phone, while another suspect was seen speaking with yet another. In the application in court, one suspect was seen removing a vehicle parked at house no.21 and parked it at a house within Elgon court. The police said the vehicle was removed from the place to pave way for the parking of another car from another company. A car was driven in by unknown drivers and parked at the yard, where another suspect had removed a Toyota Prado. The detectives' application says that immediately the car was parked, the headlights were switched off and the house light was seen going off. Two people were seen entering the building and they left after a few minutes. Four suspects are being held until February 19 as the police continue investigating the case. They are Sarah Mwangi,  Kelvin Mwaura, Bernard Malova and Purity Ayieko. They objected to the application to detain them saying it lacked merit and there was no convincing reasons to hold them. Kitagwa ordered the suspects be detained until February 19. 