Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata has been removed as the Senate Majority Chief Whip, Jubilee Secretary-General Raphael Tuju has said. Kang'ata has been replaced by Kiambu Senator Kimani Wamatangi. Tuju says that while Kang'ata was within his rights to express his opinion to the President, the party had an issue with the manner in which he did it. He added that Kang'ata was later invited to a meeting and asked to apologise but he declined. Tuju said the senator also declined to attend a Parliamentary leadership meeting. Tuju also said that Kang'ata made public matters that they discussed in closed-door meetings. "We had a meeting where we invited Senator Kang’ata but he refused to come. He joined online and later discussed what was discussed to the media. If after talking, you expose what was discussed, then that is not acceptable and that is a big failure as a leader," he said. The Jubilee SG insisted there were requisite numbers to remove Kang'ata but declined to disclose the exact number of senators who penned their signatures for Kang'ata's removal. He said some members were away or sick and asked to be given the form to sign. Deputy President William Ruto's allies had alleged that those behind the ouster had no numbers. Ruto allies had claimed that out of 38 members of Jubilee coalition, only 24 were present in Tuesday's meeting. Of the 24, nine are allied to the Tangatanga faction leaving the Kieleweke wing with only 15 members, less than the 20 required to remove Kang'ata. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka is expected to receive the decision anytime from now. He is expected to announce the changes during Tuesday's afternoon sitting. Tuju confirmed the ouster moments after  Ruto's allies stormed out of the Senate Parliamentary Group meeting protesting what they termed as an illegal and crooked plan to remove Kang'ata as Senate Majority Whip. Addressing journalists at KICC on Tuesday, the nine Senators led by Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen and Meru Senator Mithika Linturi said they walked out of the room after members were asked to sign a form to sanction Kangata's removal. Murkomen said the process was illegal as there were no showcase letters to Kang'ata before the decision was made. Kang'ata had earlier maintained that he spoke the truth in his letter to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Speaking shortly before Jubilee Party Parliamentary Group meeting at KICC, Kang'ata said he has been raised in a strong Christian foundation to always speak the truth. "I am ready to face my accusers and accusations. The bible says what does it profit one to gain the world and lose his soul. I am here and I know there is nothing wrong that I did," he said.