The multi-billion Northern Collector Tunnel that will boost water supply to Nairobi by 140 million litres will be complete by April. The tunnel has been under construction since 2015 and is 91 per cent complete. It will draw water from rivers Gikigie, Iratu and Maragua and channel it to Ndakaini Dam. On Tuesday, Cabinet secretaries Amina Mohammed (Sports), Joe Mucheru (ICT), Simon Chelugui (Labour) and Cecily Kariuki (Water) toured the tunnel and announced that it will be commissioned before mid-year. Amina said the project that is being implemented by Athi Water Services Board is expected to bring to an end perennial water shortage in Nairobi. The board is also undertaking several other water projects as compensation after Murang'a residents complained that majority of homes did not have running water despite hosting the biggest water reservoir in the country. The projects include Ithanga, Gatanga, Gatango, Ichichi and Makomboki community water projects. Amina said the government will ensure water from the projects is channeled to individual homes. Currently, piping works are being carried out from Kigoro treatment plant in Gatanga to the Gigiri reservoir in Nairobi. The four CSs who inspected development projects carried out by the national government in the county appealed to residents to continue supporting the government's development agenda. They also inspected the Sh6 billion Kenol-Sagana road that is being upgraded to a dual carriageway. The road is part of the Great North Road that links Kenya to Ethiopia and is expected to ease traffic along the busy Nairobi-Nyeri highway. The project is being implemented at a cost of Sh6 billion and is scheduled for completion in 2024. Mucheru said the government is also keen on improving internet connectivity in rural areas to boost businesses and learning activities. "The fibre network will complement the Competency-Based Curriculum in schools and we are partnering with the Ministry of Education to ensure schools are provided with reliable network connections," he said. Chelugui said the county has over 27,000 beneficiaries of the Inua Jamii cash transfer programme and that more will soon be registered. "We are urging those already in the programme to exercise patience because we are working to disburse their stipends," he said.  Edited by Henry Makori