 Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga on Saturday accused the Jubilee Party of harassment and intimidation, saying nothing will make her withdraw her support for Deputy President William Ruto. Speaking in Isiolo county during a function presided over by Ruto, Omanga said “no amount of intimidation or persecution will force her to withdraw her support” for the DP who is seeking to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. “We will stand with hustler (Ruto) because he understands the needs of other fellow hustlers and what they go through. Hustling is all about hard work so that one day we will proposer. Some when they see us backing the hustler, they think they can intimidate us. We cannot be intimidated. I will stand with the hustler and they can proceed to do what they want,” Omanga said. She spoke during a church event in Ngaremara township. Omanga is among the six Ruto-allied senators who were last expelled from the ruling party. Others affected by the purge are Isaac Mwaura, Victor Prengei, Falhada Dekow Iman, Naomi Jillo Waqo and Mary Seneta . The Political Parties Disputes Tribunal on Tuesday suspended the decision by Jubilee Party to expel the lawmakers. Tribunal chairperson Desma Nungo also restrained the Registrar of Political Parties from removing the name of the senators from the membership of Jubilee Party pending hearing and determination of their case. The case will be mentioned on February 16 and 17. In Isiolo, Omanga also asked all Jubilee Party nominated MCAs across the country not to be cowed to support the Constitution (Amendment) Bill, 2022 which is supported by the Building Bridges Initiative. “To change the Constitution is our right. You cannot talk of a party position yet you have not called us to take a position. A party position is when all members meet and agree,” she said. She added, “The so call party position was arrived at by some brokers in bars then they come and say there is a party position. MCAs should not accept to be forced on a party position that does not exist.” JP secretary general Raphael Tuju has written to Jubilee MCAs in the 47 county assemblies to vote in favour of the bill. Already MCAs in Homa Bay, Siaya and Kisumu have approved the bill. Baringo MCAs have rejected it. Jubilee deputy secretary-general Caleb Kositany asked MCAs in another letter to ignore Tuju's directive. Senator Naomi Waqo who was also in the DP's entourage said despite the political persecution against them, she will not withdraw her support for Ruto. “During the 2013 campaigns, we were told we support President Uhuru for 10 years then Ruto for another 10 years. We will not deviate from that, 2022 we will stand with the hustler,” Waqo said.  