A diabetes diagnostic centre for children has been opened at the Garissa Referral Hospital. The facility, which was constructed and equipped by Safaricom Foundation at a cost of Sh12 million, will also serve neighbouring counties of Wajir, Tana River, Isiolo and Kitui. Garissa Governor Ali Korane on Thursday, while opening the centre, said it would focus on early detection and providing individualised care for children living with diabetes. He urged health workers in the county to create awareness among residents to go for early screening. He said early detection of the disease helps in managing and treating diabetes. “We appreciate this gesture by Safaricom Foundation. We believe this will have a positive impact on our communities,” Korane said. “The statistics of diabetes among the children in the county is not encouraging. There is a need to invest in research of this ailment.” Safaricom Foundation trustee Barrack Odero said they have screened over 2,000 children and young adults for blood sugar, with 429 of them testing positive for diabetes. He said the programme has reached over 50,000 community members in all seven subcounties of Garissa. “We have so far invested over Sh42 million in this three-year programme and there are several achievements we have seen as we complete our second year of implementation,” Odero said. The programme is being implemented in partnership with the Garissa government and Pastoralists Girls Initiative. Children who have tested positive for diabetes will be receiving free medication, including insulin and syringes. Odera said more support was underway to train health personnel, community health volunteers, schools and Madrassa teachers to enhance awareness and manage diabetes. According to the World Health Organization, 26 per cent of bed occupancy in hospitals in Kenya consists of diabetic patients, while 50 per cent of kidney patients suffer from diabetes. The number of children living with diabetes is increasing by 3.5 per cent annually. About 478,000 Kenyans are living with diabetes and 60 per cent of them are unaware. Safaricom chairman Joseph Ogutu said they will now focus on training teachers and healthcare workers on diabetes management. “We are also planning to conduct a full medical camp in Dadaab, where we are targeting 500 children who will be taken through self-management training, nutrition, the warning signs and symptoms and be trained on uptake of insulin,” he said.        