Residents from Nyeri and Tetu constituencies on Friday held a demonstration demanding the construction of a bridge that was swept by rains two years ago. The demonstrators from Muruguru, Gichira and Mung’aria areas called on the county and national governments to construct the bridge as soon as possible, giving them 14 days,  failure to which they will demonstrate to their offices. The Kagumo river bridge connects the two constituencies. The demonstrators were led by human rights activists Samuel Wandimi of InformAction, an organisation that uses film and community discussions to get ordinary people to speak out and take action. Wandimi said the sweeping of the bridge paralysed the movement of people who use the Muruguru – Gakoe – Gichira road. Zachary Waruru from Gichira said they have informed their leaders about the bridge but no action is forthcoming from them. Waruru said they are forced to use long alternative routes to get to their destinations as the footbridge constructed by residents is weak and dangerous. Karanja Wahome from Gichira said it has been very difficult for area residents to transport farm produce to the market or their coffee to factories due to the lack of a bridge in the area. “Several people have fallen into this river while trying to cross over using hat makeshift bridge and some have sustained injuries. School going children have to use alternative routes to get to the nearby schools,” he said. Parents have to pay extra money for transport for their children to and from school, they said. Susan Wambui from Mung’aria said recently, a vehicle almost plunged into the river while a boda boda rider had an accident in the area. “The governments have money. They are building bridges in other areas but have completely forgotten about us,” she said. Gatitu-Muruguru MCA Muturi Muthee admitted that the government has delayed in doing the bridge and pledged to lobby for its construction. The bridge is supposed to be done by Kenya Rural Roads Authority, he said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris