A rights lobby has withdrawn an application seeking to suspend the verification of BBI signatures by the electoral commission. Through its lawyer, Muslims for Human Rights said the application challenging the verification of the signatures has been overtaken by events as the IEBC has concluded the exercise and allowed debate on the document by the county assemblies. Muhuri’s lawyer Caroline Kituku, however, said the main petition should proceed and fully be heard as it was raising concrete issues on the legality of the upcoming referendum. She further urged the court to reject calls by the BBI secretariat, through lawyer Paul Mwangi, to have the matter consolidated with similar petition being heard in Nairobi. Kituku said the grounds brought up in Muhuri’s petition are so different from what its being challenged in the Nairobi petition. Judge Erick Ogola allowed the withdrawal of the application. Ogola is also expected to give a ruling on Tuesday on whether the hearing of the main petition will proceed in a Mombasa court or will be transferred to Nairobi before a five-judge bench. The application wanted the court to issue orders suspending the verification of signatures that started on December 10. It also sought to have the court suspend the certification and forwarding of the report to the BBI secretariat as the court is not aware of how far the verification has gone. Muhuri said failure to issue the conservatory orders might cause the subject of the petition to be overtaken by events if the IEBC went ahead and completed the exercise and further certified it. However, the BBI national secretariat, through lawyer Mwangi, objected to the application. Mwangi said issues being raised in the petition have already been dealt with by the High Court in Nairobi that declined to issues orders suspending the exercise. He further said the exercise was not the first one to be handled by the IEBC and the petition has never moved to court. He said IEBC has verified signatures during Okoa Kenya, Punguza Mzigo and now the BBI, but Muhuri never raised any queries on the previous exercises.