Magistrate Douglas Ogoti on Wednesday ordered the investigating officer in former Governor Mike Sonko's case to make sure he is safely escorted back to Gigiri police station. Once delivered, the OCS at Gigiri is to ensure the protection of Sonko until he is presented before the Kiambu magistrate at 2pm on Thursday. The two - OCS and IO - will be liable for presenting Sonko in court. They will also ensure he receives drugs needed and is able to see his advocates within working hours. The court had earlier directed Sonko's former legal team in a Sh10 million  bribery case to hand over all documentary evidence adduced to them by the state to the new legal team within 48 hours. Sonko appeared before Ogoti after firing his team of advocates. He is now represented by Lawyer John Khaminwa, Assa Nyakundi and Wilfred Nyamu. Lawyer Khaminwa had urged the court to grant them an order that nobody should touch Sonko or arrest him until the next mention date of the matter before court. Khaminwa took issue with the manner in which numerous vehicles are being sent to arrest Sonko, including a chopper, terming it unnecessary. "Its as if they are handling a terrorist. Like we are in a war zone. We don't have to handle it in such a manner and waste public resources. What's happening is wrong and immoral," Khaminwa said. He asked the court to play an active role insisting magistrates and judges should practise judicial activism. "Invoke your inherent powers and make an order that nobody should touch or arrest Sonko," Khaminwa added. The lawyer also sought an order that he be at liberty to call Sonko's  personal doctor to look at him. Sonko's second lawyer Nyakundi said there is an allegation that someone was trying to inject Sonko with an unknown substance. He said on Tuesday, he tried to gain access to the Gigiri police station station which was heavily guarded but was not allowed to see Sonko. "There are police vehicles outside the courtroom and we are apprehensive that it is an ambush," he said. Sonko's third lawyer Nyamu said Sonko is being psychologically tortured by police officers. "I tried to access my client and was denied access. I had to leave at 8 o'clock. The entire police station was clear of any persons that had been arrested and Sonko found himself in solitary confinement where he is the only person in those cells," he added. "No wonder the motive was to inject him involuntary with what he wouldn't know as he didn't ask for any police doctor to attend to him." He insisted that the motive on Wednesday was to arrest Sonko. "We are not being speculative. There are plenty of cops in this court in civilian clothing. Such an attempt would be an abuse of power and process and would amount to abduction," Nyamu said. "When he came, only one police vehicle was in tow. But now they are many. That's psychological torture. My client is not armed. Why would we have a battery of police men for one person." The DPP however in a brief rejoinder said the defense have raised oral evidence which is in contravention to section 63 of Evidence Act. State counsel Akula says the claims by the defense team should be made in form of an affidavit. He said the Kiambu court is the proper court to handle the claims being made by Sonko and not the Milimani court.