Elders in the Western region have endorsed ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi as the flag bearer of the region. Led by their chairman, Philip Masinde, the elders said the region must form the government or be part of the government come 2022. He said the region has been in the second position three times with Musalia serving the shorter time. Others were Moody Awori who took over from the late Kijana Wamalwa as the Vice President under Kibaki's leadership. While supporting other elders' endorsement of Musalia as their possible candidate for the coming general election, he said action must be implemented to ensure Mudavadi clinches the seat. "Musalia is time for you to go out and make alliances with others who will make you the torch bearer in that alliance," Masinde said. "We don't want to be accused of what we are doing, but we need to decide for our region," Masinde added. He urged other elders to be the ambassadors of Mudavadi in the region as Musalia goes to hand votes to other region. He said the Luhya community has lost as a region at large due to political differences among the leaders. Elders further said the Western region is poor economically with Mumias, Pan Paper and Cotton Miller's in Busia both grounded. They said Mudavadi should work with other regions to ensure he has a strong political base to secure the top seat. The elders were speaking at Mululu village in Sabatia sub-county where they were meeting the ANC party leader. Patrick Chaka from Bungoma said Mudavadi should engage elders’ consistency to get their advice to advance his political career. "For those who have not endorsed their presidency they are late and we should forces on Mudavadi as our candidate at the moment,” Chaka said. Speaking in one voice they said they will only bless one person for the top seat in this region. They have urged Musalia to crack the nut on the looming alliance that he be the torch bearer Mudavadi on his own said the meeting was consultative with the elders from the region on various issues affecting the western at large. "What do you think about our region in terms of economy and politics as well," Mudavadi said. Mudavadi while seeking guidance from the elders and opinion shapers at his home said the party has already endorsed him and he will contest for the top seat. "Be my ambassadors and make use of your network to market me for the top seat in the region," Musalia said.