DP William Ruto allies, including MPs and aspirants for seats, are already jostling for control of the United Democratic Alliance party expected to be Ruto’s vehicle to run for president. While most North Rift lawmakers have already declared they shifted their allegiance from Jubilee to UDA, hundreds of aspirants have already hit the ground to market themselves and UDA. The wheelbarrow is UDA's hustler symbol, representing hardworking men and women who are go-getters. Rift Valley is Ruto's backyard. More than 100 pro-Ruto MPs have told the clerk of the National Assembly they no longer want to pay Sh10,000 monthly Jubilee dues – many transferring most of the money to a UDA-linked organisation. “We have already gone to UDA, as everyone is aware now, and this will be the party of the moment in this region as we head to the elections," Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono said. Rono and Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said they were focusing their resources, time and planning to strengthen UDA ahead of 2022. Party officials say they will open UDA regional offices in Eldoret – to be known as the North Rift Hustlers' Centre. It will coordinate party activities in the region. Fears are emerging, however that UDA nominations for the 2022 General Election may be a problem if not handled well, respecting the wishes of voters. “UDA will be the majority party in this region and the primaries will be like the real elections. Those who win the primaries will be as good as elected as long as the nominations will be free and fair," UDA  activist in Eldoret Ben Kiptoo said. Many aspirants are already wearing UDA colours – mostly yellow and green with a bit of black and white – they crisscross the region to strategise and campaign. “We will be where the DP will be and that is UDA," lawyer Allan Goskey said. He is eyeing the UDA ticket for Nandi governor. He is considered a frontrunner battling incumbent Stephen Sang. In Uasin Gishu, politician Jonathan Bii who wants to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago, has already fashioned himself as the hustler aspirant as he eyes the UDA ticket. He is one of many. "UDA is our house and we will strengthen it as we near the elections," Bii said. Other aspirants are planning their own parties to rival UDA. Businessman Bundotich Kiprop Buzeki, who recently ditched CCM, says he will announce his new party by April. He too wants to succeed Mandago. “Before the end of April we will announce the way forward," Buzeki said. Sources have told the Star he already has joined another party and plans are underway to announce it. Buzeki’s party along with Kanu are expected to rival UDA in the region. (Edited by V. Graham)