Drastic changes are expected in Western Stima’s technical bench and playing unit ahead tomorrow’s game against Mathare United, chairman Laban Jobita has intimated. “Expect radical changes in the team. The team has not been doing well and I can’t sit down and watch my team being relegated. You are also aware of the recent match fixing claims,” he said. The team is languishing in the 16th position having only picked one win, two draws and six losses. Coach Paul Ogai , who is serving his second stint at the helm, is expected to part ways with the team for the second time. It’s unclear who will be in charge of the game against Mathare United tomorrow (Thursday). NSL side Sony Sugar coach Abdallah Juma is expected to take over. The experienced coach has in the past coached Chemelil Sugar, KCB, Bidco United, Talanta, Ushuru and and Thika United. Jobita added: “The reports about Abdalla are true but we are still negotiating. I don’t know who pre-empted the same to the media. We must make changes.” Sony chairman Paul Mayieko said he is aware his coach has been approached by Western Stima. “Coaches come and go. We have coaches on the technical bench who will steer the team if he leaves,” said Mayieko. Ogai said he was unaware of any changes, adding he even trained the team on Monday and is preparing for the Mathare United game. “I’m still the coach and I’m preparing for today’s training. You know most players left the team for greener pastures after the club’s sponsors Kenya Power terminated the sponsorship. Building a new team is not easy because most players don’t have KPL experience,” said Ogai. The club was last week rocked with match fixing allegations after Jobita led police in arresting Ugandan Ronald Mugisha who was allegedly planning to fix the team’s game against KCB. However, on Monday, Jobita withdrew the complaint against the Ugandan.  Asked why he withdrew the complaint, Jobita said he decided not to pursue the case. “My target now is to lift the team from relegation zone not to pursue imprisonment of some people. This is a very tricky situation and the concerned authorities including FIFA should take it up,” he said in an interview. He added: “In a case of match fixing, both the giver and the taker are guilty. I decided to forgive the giver because I discovered a lot of stuff.” According to investigations, there was a worrying trend where Western Stima conceded goals mostly between the 20th to 25th minute and 75th to 80th minutes.   Ends