Nandi county assembly will reconvene next Tuesday, with the BBI Bill top on its agenda. It will be the first Deputy President William Ruto bastion to deliberate the BBI Constitutional (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which he opposes. Ruto's political turfs are largely expected to reject the Bill. A month ago, the DP told leaders from the Nandi region "not to be bothered" by the Bill and has launched a massive campaign against it. Nandi county assembly speaker Joshua Kiptoo said MCAs will be reconvening after a three-month recess. On Wednesday, Siaya county assembly became the first to pass the Bill. It is a stronghold of ODM leader Raila Odinga, who together with President Kenyatta are championing the constitutional changes. The Constitution states that a constitutional amendment bill should have the support of at least 24 county assemblies. In Kwale the Bill will be tabled in two weeks, majority leader James Dawa said. The Puma ward representative said the BBI document was presented early last week but the assembly is on recess. Dawa said once the Bill is tabled, they will conduct public participation. “The report is likely to succeed because common citizens have benefited from the fruits of devolution,” he said. In Kisii, a power tussle in the assembly is threatening to slow down the processing of the Bill. Kiogoro ward rep Samuel Apoko told the Star on the phone that they had gone to Mombasa to iron out the issues facing the assembly. "We had met to pick a compromise temporary speaker to steer the assembly forward. We could not put the cart before the horse," he said. The assembly has been squabbling for three months after some members asked speaker David Kombo to step aside over failure to pay for members' life insurance. The assembly will resume sittings next Tuesday. Apoko said BBI was not their main agenda in Mombasa. "It was not a priority neither is it now. Let's wait we resume sittings in a congenial atmosphere so we start discussions," he said. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya