The National Environment Management Authority has expressed confidence in the ongoing rehabilitation of the Nairobi Arboretum. "The progress of rehabilitating the Arboretum is good. We have installed waste bins already," Nema director general Mamo Mamo said on Sunday. Mamo said the unfenced section will be fenced. He said the river meandering through the parks is clean. Some 21 youths have been hired to clean the park. On February 17, Environment PS Chris Kiptoo visited the park to inspect the ongoing rehabilitation. He was happy with the progress of giving the park a facelift. Kiptoo noted that the pathways were clean while the fencing and cleaning of the river were progressing well. A tree nursery is also being set up. During World Environment Day last year, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the ministry to reclaim and rehabilitate the city’s green spaces, among them City Park, Michuki Park, Ngong Forest, and the Nairobi Arboretum. Kenya Forest Service and Nema have been spearheading the drive. Kiptoo said the Arboretum will be well lit, with clear, clean pathways, and the river will be cleaned. The ministry is committed to the restoration and preservation of the country's green spaces, he said. In December last year, Radisson Blu Hotel and Friends of Nairobi Arboretum signed a Sh12 million to rehabilitate the park. A recent inventory and assessment by the UN-Habitat showed that public spaces in Nairobi, including the arboretum, are substandard. UN-Habitat's report released in September last year said the design of, for instance, walkways, entrances, and amenities such as toilets should promote access to and inclusivity in public spaces. “In Nairobi, however, public spaces are not friendly to persons living with a disability. Only 19.8 per cent of the public open spaces have the inclusive infrastructure — pedestrian infrastructure that suits all users.” In line with this, the state has targeted other green spaces, besides the arboretum, for revival. They include Karura Forest, City Park, and Ngong Road Forest. During the visit, the Kiptoo was accompanied by Mamo and the chairman of Nairobi Arboretum Community Forest Association Brian Waruhiu. Nairobi Arboretum is one of Kenya's most visited green spaces bordering the State House and plays host to a wide array of biodiversity including over 365 tree species. On Saturday, Environment CS Keriako Tobiko launched the Akurinu at 100 Tree planting campaign with a call for repentance for environmental sins. "God created the earth which was so beautiful with trees, rivers, animals without pollution and diseases, but we have destroyed God's creation and we should ask for forgiveness," Tobiko said. Tobiko said trees do not only provide shade but are a sustainer of life and should be protected and conserved. The CS referenced the Fifth UN Environment Assembly where world leaders congregated to make peace with nature. He congratulated the Akurinu church for starting their journey with making peace with nature. Tobiko was accompanied by Water CS Sicily Kariuki. Sicily said destroying the environment harms the water bodies which in turn prohibits access to clean water.