The Kisumu Water and Sanitation Company has launched Sh2 million modern call centre aimed at enhancing service delivery to customers. Kiwasco managing director Thomas Odongo said the centre will help reduce the number of people visiting their offices in line with the Covid-19 protocols. Speaking on Wednesday, he said the centre has the capacity to handle multiple calls at any given time. The call centre number is 0575007000. The company also launched a USSD code *483*86# to enable customers to check their bills. Odongo said they have been grappling with assisting customers at night and with the centre, customers will now get the required services. “There will be a timely response by the call operator,” Odongo said. The MD said the centre, whose vision is to be the most admired service provider to customers, will be operational 24 hours, including weekends. Odongo assured customers that the company is committed to providing clean and safe water to them. Kisumu Deputy Governor Mathews Owili, who presided over the launch, lauded the company for being steadfast in service delivery. He was accompanied by Water executive Salmon Orimba and Lake Victoria South Water Works Development Agency's Paul Agwanda who represented the chief executive officer George Odede. Owili said the project was in line with the county development agenda to ensure residents access clean, affordable and portable water. He urged residents to make use of the call centre. “The water department has done very well in terms of water provision. The coverage of water in Kisumu is over 80 per cent,” Owili said. He said the county has partnered with a non-governmental organisation to expand water supply to 80 per cent in Nyakach, with the project implementation ongoing. Agwanda praised the centre, saying it will improve service delivery. He said the project is in line with the need to connect with the customers for effective provision of water. Agwanda said the agency will continue to support Kiwasco through the provision of infrastructure for water and sanitation to ensure citizens benefits from the national government projects. “This infrastructure can only be optimised if customers get quality service by ensuring that there is seamless communication and linkages with Kiwasco,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris