A packed calendar is lined up for primary and secondary schools this March as they close for a seven-week holiday to give way to KCPE and KCSE exams. Already examination papers for the 1.9 million 2020 exams have arrived ahead of commencement on March 22. KCPE exams will commence on March 22 and end on March 24 for  1,187,517 candidates. KCSE candidates will have their rehearsals on March 25 before sitting the exam from March 26 to April 21, administered to 751,150 candidates. Details from Kenya National Examination Council indicate the process of securing the tests in safe storage containers is ongoing. In this year's examinations, the council has secured 479 containers at the subcounty headquarters where the examination papers will be housed. According to Knec, 286,901 field officers— supervisors and invigilators —will be contracted for exam administration. The containers will have a double locking system and the subcounty directors of education and the deputy county commissioners will be the only ones authorised to open and close them. However, school heads are warning of possible hitches in the smooth running of the examinations as the school funds are depleted. The Education ministry had in January released half the amount — Sh14.6 billion to fund secondary schools and Sh4.6 billion for primary institutions— earmarked for the free primary and day secondary education programmes. Outgoing Basic Education PS Belio Kipsang said the remaining half would be sent to schools in the course of the term. The situation has further been affected by defaulted fees by students, Indimuli Kahi, Kenya Secondary School Heads Association chairman, said. Kahi said the order by Education CS asking principals to go slow on those yet to pay fees has left schools with no alternative funds. School heads who spoke to the Star noted that most schools are expected to begin their end-of-term examinations this week; closure is set for March 19. According to the Education ministry calendar, learners in Pre Primary 1 and 2; Grades 1, 2 and 3; Classes 5, 6 and 7; and Form 1, 2, and 3 learners will proceed for a seven-week holiday. They will reopen on May 10 for the third term of 2020 that was lost following the 10-month closure of the pandemic. Edited by Henry Makori