Three Homa Bay Public Service Board has rejected the appointment of environment officers which was done on January 15. The board has asked the county leadership to intervene, arguing that they were not consulted. Daniel Ogada (chairman), Collins Odhiambo (secretary) and Tobias Odundo (member) said the recent appointments of four county officials were conducted irregularly. The three wrote to Governor Cyprian Awiti, Homa Bay county assembly and the county secretary saying their colleagues who presided over the appointments went against the law. The accused colleagues include Elijah Kodo, Lawrence K’Oteng and Sarah Nekesa. They said the accused have no powers to recruit any county staff. They further claimed vacancies for the four positions were not advertised for competitive sourcing and the process did not comply with provisions of the law. “Section 63(1) (a) of the county government act 2012 gives the board the power to make appointments in respect of office in the county public service at the request of the relevant county chief officer,” the letter read in part. Homa Bay Public Service Board has been marred with leadership wrangles between the two factions. Ogada’s faction has been dismissing activities undertaken by Kodo and his group. Their squabbles began when county assembly wrote to Governor Cyprian Awiti to sack Ogada, Odhiambo and Odundo from the board. But the Employment and Labour Relations court in Kisumu reinstated them after it was established that they were irregularly dismissed in November 2019. During the time they were battling in the court, Awiti appointed Kodo, K’Oteng and Nekesa as new board members to replace board officials. All board members including those reinstated are supposed to work together when recruiting county staff. On Thursday, Ogada, Odhiambo and Odundo asked the county leadership to intervene in the appointments. “We hereby inform Homa Bay government to address the matter since the board did not delegate its power of appointment to any public or state officer,” read part of the letter. They said the board will not be liable to any mistake that may arise due to the processes followed in the recruitment. Ogada described the appointment process as irregular, fraudulent and unlawful. “A requisition was not submitted to the board for consideration. The board will not be held responsible for the appointment of the officers,” Ogada said. They further claimed vacancies for the four positions were not advertised for competitive sourcing and that the process did not comply with provisions of the law.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris