All trucks transporting cargo from Kenya to landlocked East Africa will be subjected to the same clearance process at the border, police said on Monday. No cargo transporter will be exempted from queuing unless they are ferrying goods classified as ‘dangerous’. These goods include weaponry, they said. Busia county police commander John Nyoike told the Star calls by cargo haulers that trucks carrying perishable goods be exempted from queuing along the Malaba-Bungoma and Busia-Kisumu highways may not be implemented. He said special preferences will only be accorded to such haulers when the government issues guidelines on the same. “All cargo on transit must go through the same border clearance process,” Nyoike told the Star on the phone. “When trucks come from Kenya going into Uganda, there is a process that they are required to go through at the customs, not any other place." Cargo transporters seeking to be exempted from queuing include those ferrying perishable goods, particularly fresh food and medicine. Truckers who spoke to the Star on Sunday said the companies they work for make losses as their products decompose before reaching their destination. Nyoike said as police officers, their responsibility is to provide security and carry out traffic checks to ensure all road users comply with traffic regulations. “Whether they are crossing from Kenya to Uganda or from Uganda to Kenya, they have to go through the same process,” he said. In mid-2020 when Kenya was recording over 1,000 coronavirus positive cases per day, heightened Covid-19 border screening resulted in long cargo truck queues along the Malaba-Bungoma and Busia-Kisumu highways. The Ugandan government had then issued guidelines that required all truck drivers to be screened in Busia and Malaba before being allowed to cross into the landlocked country. Slow screening at the border as a result of an insufficient supply of reagents led to a long queue of cargo trucks that stretched for close to 60 kilometres into Kenya. Then Teso North subcounty police commander Wilson Muraya issued a guideline that required all cargo haulers ferrying perishable commodities such as food and medicine to be exempted from queuing. The move, Muraya said, would help ease congestion at the border. Nyoike said on Monday the long queues of trucks transporting cargo into Uganda does not mean slowed clearance at the border. He said the development signifies that there is plenty of cargo at the Port of Mombasa that is destined for Uganda and other East African Community member states. Between 600-1,000 heavy commercial trucks ply the Northern Corridor which links Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, South Sudan and DR Congo to the Port of Mombasa each day. Uganda alone accounts for 83.2 per cent of transit cargo through the Port of Mombasa. South Sudan takes up 9.9 per cent while DR Congo, Tanzania and Rwanda account for 7.2 per cent, 3.2 per cent and 2.4 per cent respectively. It costs an average of $2,100 (approximately Sh223,440) to move a 20-foot container from the Port of Mombasa to Kampala.