Amnesty International has demanded full humanitarian access into the Tigray region. TI said the United Nations report indicates that about 2.3 million people in the region need immediate life-saving assistance. The NGO however said humanitarian access has been difficult due to restrictions and slow processes by Ethiopian authorities. TI said the humanitarian crisis is a result of the conflict between the Ethiopian federal government and the Tigray regional government ruling party, Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), which began in November 2020. The fighting which still continues in several parts of the region has left over 450,000 people displaced. "There is strong evidence of massacres of civilians, indiscriminate bombardment, extrajudicial killings, and looting. Girls and women have also been victims of sexual violence," the NGO said. In a statement on Thursday, the NGO said after weeks of blocked access, the UN announced in November that the Ethiopian authorities agreed to allow “unimpeded, sustained and secure access” into the areas under its control in Tigray. However, the access remains extremely restricted forcing relief agencies to request approval from the federal government to access the region. "The Ethiopian government has introduced two separate approval processes for relief shipments and personnel. These processes have been slow. Many requests for relief shipments have been denied," read part of the statement. It said that majority of entry requests for relief personnel have also not been approved making it difficult to distribute the aid that has been already allowed in. "The humanitarian crisis across Tigray is getting worse by the day. There has been no trade with the region since November. Crops and equipment have been destroyed. Farmers have fled from their land," TI said. "The situation is particularly acute in rural areas where humanitarian access has been even more difficult due to the continued fighting and where banks and markets still are closed," the NGO added. According to the NGO, the healthcare system in the region has almost collapsed. Tigray borders Eritrea and is also home to four refugee camps hosting over 96,000 Eritrean refugees - many of whom are children. Two refugee camps, Hitsats and Shimelba, have not received any humanitarian assistance since the start of the conflict. The NGO said a refugee who recently fled Hitsats revealed that they are forced to eat leaves from the field and drink water from the nearby well.