Shamas Rugby have received a shot in the arm with a Sh17m sponsorship from I&M bank. The partnership dubbed ‘Take Control programme’ targets over 5,000 children (ages 10 to 15) in Kibera, Mathare, Kangemi, Eastlands, Korogocho and Ruiru. The Take Control programme will be implemented through training camps, seminars and workshops that will run for a period of three years. In addition, I&M Bank staff members will provide mentorship programmes for the participants. Sarit Raja Shah, Trustee I&M Bank Foundation noted: “At the Foundation, through the Education and Skills Development pillar, we have identified initiatives aimed at enhancing quality education and skill development amongst financially constrained youth.” “Education access and skills development as outlined in the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goal 4 (SDG 4), looks to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education, as well as promote life-long learning opportunities for all." “We are therefore happy to partner with Shamas Rugby Foundation to roll out the Take Control Programme as this will help mould our youth to be agents of change in our country’s socio-economic development agenda,” he added. Founder, Shamas Rugby Foundation, Azim Deen, noted: “The support we will receive from I&M Bank Foundation will have a tremendous impact on the girls and boys involved in Take Control as they go through their school life and teenage years.” The holistic approach of this programme will allow many to blossom into confident adults who are able to make informed decisions about critical areas in their life and thrive in society.” Speaking at the partnership launch, Kihara Maina, Trustee at I&M Bank Foundation, noted: “The partnership with Shamas Rugby Foundation perfectly aligns with our mandate in education and skills development." "I believe by empowering our youth through life skills development, we are able to build character, resilience, learning and strong value systems, which will, in turn, help them to better understand themselves and interact with others and make better life decisions.”