Traders under the Nairobi Business Community have warned politicians against insulting President Uhuru Kenyatta. Led by their chairman Wilfred Kamau, they said on Wednesday that they won’t sit back and watch the President being undermined through insults by politicians. They told Uhuru’s political critics to respect the presidency even if they do not like him as a person. “The President is a symbol of unity of this country. President Uhuru Kenyatta is the symbol of the country’s unity. He deserves respect. You may not like him as a person but the presidency must be respected,” Kamau said. “If you don’t like Uhuru, respect the Office of the President. Politicians should desist from insulting the President. It will reach a boiling point where he, together with us, won’t be silent any longer; we will say enough is enough.” He said they will take action against those disrespecting the President should they continue on the same path. He did not explain what such actions would be. They expressed concern about increased political tension, which they said is not healthy for the country. It is as if the general election is tomorrow, they wondered. "The politics of today seems to be changing and transforming the elements of politics that we know in this country,” Kamau said, adding that some politicians behave as if there is no government. “This government is solid.” He said the 2007 post-election violence would be like a joke if the trend continues "like this". “We are here today to ask the political divide to cool down the pressure that is there which might bring this country to anarchy. Anarchy follows wanton destruction of property and loss of lives. “We have seen it in other countries, we have seen it here, especially when we talk about the narratives of the hustlers versus dynasties. You remember well in Germany the era of Hitler was the hustlers’ nation kind of a thing; the Jews were the dynasties. He made six million Jews to be killed,” Kamau said. He said a class war is more dangerous than a tribal war. The traders also voiced their support for the BBI and will start town hall meetings to sensitise residents to the contents and ensure the document sails through. “We assure the President that the BBI will go through in Nairobi,” Kamau said.