A mother was clutching her rosary in her right hand, her son clutched his rosary in his left hand. A seminarian was also found dead, tied up in the toilet. Postmortem exams for the three people found dead in the woman's house on Jogoo Road will be performed on Friday at Chiromo Mortuary. The causes of death were not immediately apparent. An unidentified white powder was sprinkled about the living room. The house was turned upside down and there appeared to have been a struggle. Charity Cheboi, 35, her son Allan Kipng’etich, eight, and seminarian Calvin Kimaiyo, 35 were found in government quarters, Chachamim on Jogoo Road on Tuesday. The house belonged to Cheboi who was last seen on Sunday at about 4pm, returning from church. Kimaiyo was last seen at the house on Monday. Police returned to the crime scene on Wednesday and Thursday to comb it for evidence. The boy's parents live separately. The school Kipng'etich attends called his father to find out why he had missed classes. Neighbours said the father went to the house after he failed to reach Cheboi on the phone. He found the door locked. He peered through the window and saw Cheboi and her son's bodies on the bedroom floor. Kimaiyo’s body was found in the toilet; both his hands and legs were tied. His body still looked fresh. Police said the killings of the mother and son and the man appear to have occurred at different times, mother and son first. An investigator told the Star police wanted to know how the killer or killers entered the house, why mother and son were holding rosaries and what the white substance was. Neighbour Jeremiah Kimende said the rooms were messy, with clothes, shoes and cushions scattered about. A broken soda bottle was found in the kitchen. There appeared to have been a fight, police said. Cheboi was a registrar of persons at NSSF, working at Mathare Huduma Centre. Her sister Eva Cheboi said the deaths had broken her and she shuddered to think of the pain her loved ones had suffered. “Cherop and Allan,  I lack words, I just don't know how I should mourn you. I am completely shattered,” she wrote on her Facebook page. (Edited by V. Graham)