Former presidential candidate Peter Kenneth has said that the Mt Kenya region could still produce the next President. In an open contradiction to President Uhuru’s statement last month that the presidency should rotate among various communities, Kenneth said that the region cannot be blacklisted simply because it has produced previous leaders. Kenneth, who spoke at Kiria-ini Catholic Church in Mathioya on Sunday, said the region leaders should be free to compete against other candidates. He said the next president should be elected on the basis of the agenda they will sell to Kenyans. Kenneth is one of the political leaders lining up to succeed the President as the Kingpin of the region. Others include Murang’a governor Mwangi Wa Iria, his Kirinyaga counterpart Ann Waiguru and former Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri. Wa Iria and Kiunjuri have gone further and unveiled Usawa Kwa Wote and The Service Party (TSP) respectively as they prepare for the elections. Kenneth further underscored the need for the region to speak in one voice saying it is the only way it can negotiate for its future. “We have to demonstrate how many votes we can bring together as a region so we can negotiate with others," Kenneth said. He said those claiming that the BBI bill has been fashioned to create positions for individuals are unable to give tangible reasons for their opposition. Most of the things contained in the bill, he added, aim at righting some wrongs that have been occurring in the country, especially in revenue allocation. "This bill has come to equalize all Kenyans. Those fighting it should come out and say exactly what they think is wrong with it," Kenneth said. Kenneth, who vied for the Presidential seat in 2012, further emphasized the need for the criminal justice systems to treat all equally. Anybody who breaches the law should be held accountable, Kenneth said, and that those caught up in criminal cases should stop crying foul. "The law should be followed to the letter. We cannot postpone criminal justice until after the political period is over," he added. With the elections drawing near, a section of Murang'a MPS have continued to lobby for Kenneth to be the region's kingpin. MPs Peter Kimari (Mathioya) and Nduati Ngugi (Gatanga) have said Kenneth has demonstrated the ability to unite and lead the region into the future. The MPs said though the region is solidly behind President Uhuru Kenyatta, the baton should be passed to Kenneth going into the next elections. Kimari said Kenneth's long standing political career has been filled with success and integrity, a testimony of his ability to lead. While drumming up support for Kenneth, Kimari noted that the region requires a unifying figure post 2022 and that the former Gatanga MP is well qualified to take up the mantle. The MP further lauded Murang'a residents for overwhelmingly endorsing the Building Bridges Initiative bill last Thursday. "We are waiting for Tuesday so that our MCAs can pass it and list the county among others that have passed the bill," he said. Besides channeling more funds to the county, the bill will also save Mathioya and Kangema constituencies that are currently protected by the constituency due to their low populations. Nduati said with the expanded executive, Kenneth should get one of the top positions in the next government. The MP said the Presidency has gone to Kiambu county twice and once in Nyeri and should now go to Murang'a County. "Murang'a also has leaders capable of leading the country and should be given the chance," he added. He underscored the need for the region to fully rally behind the President and remain united. The MP said Kenneth's skills would go a long way in further boosting the economy in the future. The duo spoke at Kirwara Catholic Church in Gatanga during a church service  before traversing the county to attend another service at Kiria-ini Catholic church in Mathioya. On Saturday, the newly appointed Public Service and Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Beatrice Elachi called on political leaders in the region to stop creating more political parties that she said will further liquefy its unity. "We are pleading for unity of purpose. We do not to insult each other on 2022, we will only choose one President. We currently have one who needs to deliver on Vision 2030," she said.