Politicians have been urged to allow Kenyans to read and understand the benefits of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Former Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and Uasin Gishu politician Zedekiah Kiprop, alias Buzeki, on Sunday warned against mixing the Building Bridges Initiative, which is behind the proposed changes, with 2022 election politics. Kabogo said some regions have seriously been marginalised and the BBI will ensure equity in the distribution of national resources. He said Kiambu gets Sh8 billion, which, if divided by its population, translates into Sh2,000 a person. "But go to another county and you will find that if you divide the amount of money by the people, you will find that they are getting Sh15,000,” he said. He said resources should be distributed based on the population, adding that the BBI will enable counties that are highly populated to get more money. “For once, this marginalisation will come to an end. And I do not want to mince my words, but at the same time, we do not want counties that have lesser people to get less money.” The BBI also proposes an equalisation fund to counties with fewer people and ensure they are cushioned and do not get less money than they got last year. Kabogo told off politicians telling Kenyans that they will fix the problems in 2022, saying the bill is addressing those problems. He disabused residents of the notion that a referendum will be a contest between former Prime Minister Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. It is a contest between Kenyans and their government for more resources, he said. The two spoke during a fundraiser at Ichuga PCEA church in Kieni, Nyeri. Buzeki called on the church leaders to help bring the high political temperatures in the country down by praying and dialoguing with politicians. This he said will enable the President to deliver all his pledges in the remaining time of his second term. Buzeki blamed the high political temperatures on the differences between President Uhuru Kenyatta and DP Ruto. He accused the latter of refusing to heed his boss’s advice to stop early campaigns and work. Though the two made pledges to Kenyans, the Tangatanga wing led by Ruto refused to work and has instead focused on 2022 campaigns, he said. “This has angered the President because the group has been engaging in verbal exchange as the President tries to fulfil his pledges to Kenyans,” Buzeki said. He told Tangatanga to stop their hypocrisy and instead help the President to deliver on his pledges. The President and his deputy should share praises and blames in equal measure, he said, expressing concern that Uhuru has been working alone after Ruto abandoned him. He told Ruto to be patient, reminding him that former President Mwai Kibaki lost twice but remained patient until he was successful in his third attempt, while Uhuru tried and lost once and had to wait for 10 years before he was elected.