Lemotit Athletics Camp coach Paul Kemei says his athletes will have to be at their best at Saturday's National Cross Country trials if they are to make Team Kenya to the Africa Cross Country Championships in Lome, Togo. Kemei said every athlete at the trials — scheduled for Ngong Racecourse, Nairobi — will be a formidable opponent keen on securing a ticket to the May 1-2 continental showpiece. "Everyone will be hungry for glory and we might see a few new faces clinching slots in the national team. In particular, the juniors are hungry and will undoubtedly push the more experienced athletes to the limit. I pray that our hard work will earn a few of us places in the team to Togo," Kemei said. He said their focus between now and Saturday is to continue training to improve in various aspects of their techniques. "Our focus is to take care of the girls to ensure they are in tip-top shape for Saturday. But even as we continue training, we have to adhere to the Ministry of Health regulations to ensure our girls are not exposed to Covid-19," he said. Kemei was ecstatic as he watched his female athletes sweep the board at the Nairobi Region Cross Country Championships on Sunday at the Nairobi West Prison grounds. It was a clean sweep in the 5km under-18 girls category as Mirriam Chemutai (17:17.3) led Fancy Chepkorir (17:22.7) and Sharon Chepkemei (17:40.3) home. In the 6km under-20 girls' category, Triza Cherotich finished first in 21:25.6 ahead of teammate Dorcas Chepkemoi (21:49.0) and Regina Wambui (22:26.9). Likewise, Sandrafelis Chebet and Emily Chebet clocked 33:48.5 and 35:07.8 respectively to clinch the top two places in the senior women's race ahead of Margaret Nduta who finished third in 35:41.6. "Their performance surpassed my expectations especially the younger ones. The girls deserved their victories for all their hard work in training and persistence despite the challenges we have experienced due to Covid-19," Kemei said. He attributed their success to individual and overall hard work and discipline as well as trust in God. "Despite being an individual sport, we also encourage all our athletes to work as a team. That is why you saw them running together as a pack in the initial stages before each one was free to break away in the last lap," he said.