President Uhuru Kenyatta’s ruling Jubilee Party has kicked out six senators in the latest purge of rebels allied to Deputy President William Ruto. Nominated senators Isaac Mwaura, Millicent Omanga, Victor Prengei, Falhada Dekow Iman, Naomi Jillo Waqo and Mary Seneta Yiane were expelled by the National Management Committee — Jubillee's top organ. Jubilee secretary-general Raphael Tuju announced the expulsions Monday, hours after Ruto met more than 100 Tanagatanga MPs at his Karen residence. “The expulsions are with immediate effect and have been communicated to the Senate and the Registrar of Political Parties,” Tuju said. He said each of the expelled members had a right to appeal the decision. The decision was the culmination of a protracted war against party members who have been accused of undermining the President. Mwaura appeared before the Muchai Lumatete-led Jubilee Disciplinary Committee to answer to charges of disloyalty to the party and advancing the interests of rivals on February 4. The party said he would get a verdict in a fortnight but the decision has come early. On Monday, Mwaura was unavailable for comment. Omanga declined to comment saying she had yet to receive official communication from the party. “It is very difficult for me to comment because I have not received anything. I have only seen letters on social media and some bloggers sharing it,” she said. Prengei said: “I have seen the letter but I have not received final communication from the party. So I may not comment until I receive it before I decide what to do.” The Star has reached out to the other senators for comment. On Monday, speculation was rife that Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang'ata could be on the chopping board after Uhuru summoned senators for a meeting ahead of Parliament reopening. “Mheshimiwa, you are invited for a Jubilee coalition, senate parliamentary group meeting at KICC Nairobi, tomorrow, Tuesday February 9, 2021 at 10am,” reads the message. The invite was sent out by Deputy Majority Chief Whip Farhiya Haji instead of Kang'ata. Haji could not state the agenda of the meeting when reached out to. Kang'ata has been at cross paths with the party leadership after he penned a letter to the President discrediting the Bulling Bridges Initiative's popularity in Central. The letter has been interpreted as disrespect to the party leader. Senators Kipchumba Murkomen (Elgeyo Marakwet) and John Kinyua (Laikipia), both close allies of DP William Ruto, confirmed receiving the invite to the PG. “I have been invited by the Party Leader to a Jubilee Senate PG tomorrow at 10am. I wonder who is being removed this time!” Murkomen tweeted. All the Jubilee Senate PG meetings chaired by the President last year ended in key allies of the DP being removed from their positions. Murkomen was dewhipped as Majority leader while his Nakuru counterpart Susan Kihika was removed from the majority whip position. The meeting also ratified the removal of Tharaka Nithi Senator Kithure Kindiki as Senate Deputy Speaker.  (edited by o. owino)