A woman, her son and a male friend were Tuesday found dead at Chachama government quarters on Jogoo Road in Nairobi. The bodies of Charity Cheboi, 34, her son Allan Kipng'etich, eight, and Calvin Kimaiyo, 35, were found after neighbours broke into their house. The bodies were discovered after the school where Kipng'etich attends called his father to find out why the son had missed classes. The boy's parents live separately. Neighbours said the father went to the house after he failed to reach Cheboi on the phone. He found the door locked. "When no one opened, he peered through the window and saw bodies on the floor," a neighbour said. According to police report, the killings happened at an unknown date and time at Jogoo Road Phase Two government quarters where Cheboi resided. Blood was oozing from Cheboi's mouth. Her left hand still clutched a rosary while her son's body lay next to hers. The Grade 2 boy at Mary Immaculate Complex also had blood oozing from his mouth and a rosary in his right hand. Reports indicate they were last seen on Sunday coming from church at around 4pm. The body of Kimaiyo, who is said to be Cheboi's friend and a third year student at Karen Seminary, was found in the toilet. His hands and legs were tied with electric cables. His shirt was bloodstained and the body appeared fresh. He was spotted on Monday at around 4pm at Cheboi's house. According to Jeremiah Kimende, the rooms appeared messy with clothes, cushions, shoes scattered all over. A broken soda bottle was found in the kitchen. There seemed to have been a fight or a struggle. A whitish substance had been spilled on the floor and two mobile phones were still charging in the bedroom. The incident was reported by Kenneth Ochuodho, a caretaker, within the estate. Upon visiting the scene, police found the door, which was locked, having been forced open by neighbours. Police established that she was a registrar of persons at NSSF working at Mathare Huduma Centre. Friends and neighbours described her as a vibrant person who loved everyone and was outgoing. "I'm so devastated by the news. She was a kind-hearted person who was always bubbly," neighbour Nancy Adesa said. Colleagues said they were surprised by the death of a jovial and fun-loving woman. The bodies were taken to Chiromo mortuary. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara   