The Kenya Railways Corporation has been told to immediately stop the ongoing demolitions in Kisumu until the Managing Director Philip Mainga and Governor Anyang Nyong'o agree on the resettlement action plan. Acting city manager Abala Wanga said Mainga is to ensure the demolitions are halted until he meets Nyong'o on the relocation of those affected. He gave Mainga an ultimatum of 48 hours to meet the governor on the ongoing demolitions "or the people of Kisumu will rise and defend themselves against the injustices". But the Kenya Railways had in the past said that they gave a notice to the residents living along the railway line to vacate as they reclaim land for the ongoing rehabilitation of the Nakuru-Kisumu metre-gauge railway. Wanga said the demolitions in Kibos, Otonglo, Lela, Maseno and Muhoroni have subjected residents to serious suffering which must be stopped. He spoke on Monday when he led the city management officials in touring the construction site of Otonglo market which was demolished on Sunday night by Kenya Railways. "The people of Kisumu are very sad. This episode of demolition by the Kenya Railways has caused a lot of pain to the people of Kisumu county," Wanga said. He faulted the corporation for carrying out demolition without engaging Nyong'o and other local leaders on how those to be affected should be settled down. Wanga said Kenya Railways will meet the wrath of the people of Kisumu if they don't stop further demolition without consulting local leaders. "You must stop such rogue demolition exercises. You cannot at night and lobby teargas canisters to scare residents in order to carry out illegal demolition," he said. Wanga said the railways have continued with demolition until they agree on a well structured way to create space for them despite the governor having called Mainga on Saturday. Nyong'o called the MD on Saturday and advised him to stop the erratic demolitions so that they can meet to have a structured way for opening the pathway for railway. "But the MD chose to ignore the governor. He also spoke to the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i who advised that things are going to be done in a structured manner. They continued and ignored the request of the governor," Wanga said. They went to Kibos and demolished the interior part of the village where people stay. "The railways are supposed to have 30-30 metres along the railway line which we agreed with but going beyond to 500 metres or one kilometre inside is malicious. What are their intentions?" Wanga said. The city manager questioned why Kenya Railways demolished the structures beyond the railway line. He cited the construction site of Otonglo market which is 500 metres away from the railway line and on the other side of the road. "Which kind of surveyor does railways where one cannot tell their boundaries. Are they telling us that they are incompetent. You cannot cross the road and demolish structures on this side of the road where there is no railway line," Wanga said. Residents of Otonglo condemned the demolition and threatened to sue Kenya Railways for compensation. Led by Magnam Environmental Network Chairman Michael Nyaguti, the locals threatened to stage demonstrations against the ongoing demolitions. He supported the construction of Otonglo market which will accommodate more than 500 traders upon completion. "No Otonglo market no railways and no peace in Kisumu," Joseph Otieno, a resident said.