Cases of workers employing their relatives and payment of contractors for work not done are rampant in the county assemblies, an EACC official has said. Mwaniki Gachoka, a commissioner at the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, said the procurement and human resource departments were the weakest links in the fight against graft in the assemblies. The EACC is currently visiting county assemblies to help them seal loopholes used to carry out corruption. Gachoka said the EACC has been to 22 county assemblies to support them in ensuring public funds are prudently utilised. Speaking in Murang’a on Tuesday, Gachoka said a team of EACC officials would scrutinise the county assembly’s operations and systems for seven days and present a report to the speaker. The report will detail the weaknesses that will have been identified and give recommendations. He said the corruption risk assessment will ensure there is efficient service delivery, accountability and responsible decision making. “EACC’s objective is to prioritise corruption prevention as a way of ensuring public resources are not squandered in all government institutions,” he said. EACC officials are also using the opportunity to guide county assembly workers and MCAs on how best to implement their oversight role. “One of the main mandates of county assemblies is to oversight county governments and guard against theft of resources,” he said. Corruption has been a major hindrance to the achievements of the country’s development goals, but the government has put measures in place to ensure it is stemmed, he said. He expressed confidence that the assemblies will be able to set up strong operation systems once the commission has completed the assessment. The commissioner, however, said that EACC is apolitical and that the war against corruption is not being used to fight individuals. He said the commission follows up on graft cases that have been reported and that blameless individuals should not be apprehensive. “If you see us following someone, it is because we have sufficient evidence to do so and it does not matter who is involved or their positions,” Gachoka said. 