The Pharmacy and Poisons Board has closed down 90 chemists in a joint crackdown by officers from the South Rift region. Inspection officials from the board and the Kenya Police Service arrested 42 people in Nakuru, Bomet, Kericho, Narok, Laikipia and Samburu counties. The crackdown started on February 7 and targeted pharmacy outlets that flout regulations. PPB is mandated by law to ensure that all Kenyans access quality, safe and efficacious medicines. The PPB drug inspectors confiscated all medicines found in the illegal premises and arrested workers. In addition, 116 cartons of assorted medicines were seized in the ongoing operation and are under the custody of PPB pending court directions. “The seized medicines will be analysed and disposed of as per PPB guidelines on disposal of pharmaceutical waste. The list of closed premises has been shared with county administration and Kenya Police Service for enforcement of closure,” deputy director, inspectorate Dr Dominic Kariuki said. “We thank the Kenya Police Service and the Judiciary for their cooperation during this crackdown. Those who were taken to courts were given cash bail of between Sh50,000 and Sh200,000,” he added. Those who pleaded guilty were fined up to Sh40,000. During the crackdown, invoices, receipts and other documents from the illegal premises were obtained to assist in identifying the licensed wholesalers of pharmaceuticals who are supplying the outlets. According to Kariuki, the owners of the wholesalers engaging in the supply of products to illegal pharmacies will be prosecuted and their licenses revoked. He said that both public and private healthcare facilities handling pharmaceuticals will have to apply online for disposal of any pharmaceutical waste that they may have or get in touch with PPB regional officers. The board has further called on the courts to enhance fines for those found guilty, in line with the fines in the amended Cap 244, to act as a deterrent. “Members of the public are advised to use health safety codes displayed in registered pharmacy outlets to verify the legality of the premises by sending an SMS free of charge to 21031.” All registered pharmacies are required to display their registration details noticeably to enable customers to ascertain their legitimacy. The directorate of inspectorate, surveillance and enforcement ensures supply chain integrity through inspection of distribution outlets, verification of pharmaceutical imports and exports and market surveillance. The aim is to eliminate unregistered, poor quality and falsified products.  