Counties with similar investment opportunities have been urged to collaborate when implementing cross-cutting programmes and projects. James Maina, the director of Macro-Planning at the State Department of Planning, said partnerships between counties would widen the opportunities available to their people. He spoke in Garissa on Wednesday during a one-day workshop on key investment opportunities created by the ministry. Maina, who launched the Key Investments and Opportunities Booklet, said it is an important tool for highlighting economic opportunities in areas not covered by the Economic Mid-Term Plan 2015. “It offers investment opportunities through public-private partnerships, joint ventures with interested investors, business opportunities for local businesses and areas of cooperation with development partners,” he said. Maina said the national government appreciates the efforts counties have put in place to prepare and publicise county-specific investment opportunities based on respective county integrated development plans. He singled out the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) project, development of stadia, gum Arabic and resins and an integrated meat factory as potential areas of development in Garissa county. Maina said the youth should be empowered through policymaking for the government to realise economic development. “For counties to truly realise their economic potential, young people must be empowered and given priority in policymaking and programmes implementation,” he said. The director said that to ensure that investment opportunities are well disseminated, they have initiated wide sharing of the booklet. “Apart from these county dissemination forums, the booklet will be shared with ministries, departments, agencies, Kenyan embassies, development partners, private sector, academic and research institutions and community and faith-based organisations,” he said County commissioner Mwangi Meru urged county and national governments to cooperate and merge their synergies to maximise the available economic opportunities. He said there is business potential in Garissa that remains untapped. “Despite the unique challenges, the security sector will continue to play its role to ensure the environment remains conducive,” Mwangi said. “As we all know, security is an enabler that ensures that all sectors operate within a conducive environment because environment is key in achieving all this.” Mohamed Khalif said Covid-19 slowed down the implementation of projects reducing cross-border mergers and acquisitions. “At domestic level, local investors have also been negatively affected and slowed uptake of new investments. But Somali people who are known to be aggressive, all they need is an enabling environment, and we are good to go,” he said. 