Ninety-one-year-old Margaret Keenan became the first person in the world to be given the Pfizer Covid-19 jab as part of a mass vaccination program rolled out by the UK government on December 8. It was the first of over 10 million doses of the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine that have been dispensed in the UK so far. Over 107 million doses of various Covid-19 vaccines have already been administered around the world with the US leading at 34 million doses. In Kenya, the Health Cabinet secretary Mutahi Kagwe announced in January that the country had ordered 24 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine. Kagwe said that the vaccines are expected to start arriving next week in Kenya. The vaccine, which was ordered through an African Union and the Gavi-led Covax initiative, is aimed at ensuring African nations are not left behind. Should the vaccines arrive in the country in time, it will be enough to inoculate about 20 per cent of Kenya’s population by end year. Addressing journalists on Friday, Shofco CEO Kennedy Odede called for a synchronized approach involving the government and private sector which will help in distribution once the vaccine lands in the country. “In the US, they are saying frontline workers first, care home staff, the elderly. They have a structure but in Kenya, we don’t have any plan yet. We do not want it to be for politicians, yet health care and community workers cannot access it,” Odede said. However, the government said the vaccines will be first given to the vulnerable groups between February and June. “The other thing about this vaccine is that, if you make it widely available, you block it from the black market which is not usually safe and happens only if the vaccine is not generally accessible. I hope the government learns from past experiences and avoids incidents of the vaccine going to private hospitals instead of going to the poor,” Odede said. In Odede’s assessment, a proper plan that puts health workers, the elderly, and the most vulnerable in front of the queue will be the best approach. He points to the fact that in Nairobi alone, over 60 percent of the population lives in slums adding to the unique challenges they face such as; difficulties in acquiring masks and sanitizers, social distancing in areas where most live in a 10-by-10 house with up to five family members while sharing a toilet with 50 households nearby. It is for these reasons that he claims these residents of informal settlements need to be first in line. Besides, there is the cost aspect of the vaccine which has not been addressed, and if it comes to that, this population will still be disadvantaged. With Shofco having a presence in over 20 slums in Kenya plus a massive network and trust, they will be the perfect partner for the government when it comes to distributing the Covid-19 vaccine in these areas. “For me, this requires door-to-door distribution and this is where Shofco comes in as the last mile delivery partner. If the government comes in a rush, we will go away, but if they come with a plan, we will work together,” he said. Odede who has worked with the community at the height of the Covid-19 period, said he has  a database of over 600,000 households who would need help with the vaccines. "Our trained community health workers can help deliver this vaccine through a partnership with the government.” Shofco also enjoys the confidence of the population, who prefer any help going their way to be distributed by their staff and not local administrators such as chiefs whom they accuse of corruption, nepotism, and discrimination. “Government has to be careful when coming to slums. Things like Huduma Number will not work here because so many people did not bother with it. There are gaps and they cannot rely on that data alone. There are no house numbers here so how are you going to manage distribution?" he posed. "Our staff can work with the government and go door-to-door since they know these community members. They will mark each household after vaccination and this is how we will fight this issue together."