The Nairobi Metropolitan Service will get Sh 5.1 billion more from the Treasury for various projects in the city. This is part of Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani's proposed Sh120.8 billion  expansion of the current budget, which was tabled last week at the National Assembly. In the current financial year, the Nairobi County Assembly allocated NMS Sh27.1 billion — Sh18.0 billion for recurrent expenditure and Sh9.1 billion for development for the transferred functions. Under NMS, the health sector was to receive the lion’s share of Sh8.1 billion, transport and public works Sh3.6 billion, urban planning and lands Sh891 million, water and natural resources Sh3.3 billion, housing and urban development Sh1.1 billion, energy and lighting Sh3.3 billion, and ward development funds Sh1.3 billion. The Sh5.1 billion has been allocated to cater for the increase on account of provision for the settlement of pending bills and the Health Services Improvement Plan. The plan involves the construction, equipping and staffing of 19 levels 2 and 3 health centres, construction and refurbishment, equipping and staffing of Mama Lucy Kibaki, Mathare and Korogocho hospitals and improvement of infrastructure of street lighting and water in informal settlements. An extra Sh5.5 billion undeclared cash kept at the County Revenge Fund was also added to NMS. The 2020-21 financial year Supplementary Estimates No. 1 has been prepared pursuant to the provisions of the Constitution and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012. “It seeks to address post-Covid-19 related interventions, provisions for security-related expenditure, pending bills, salary shortfall and Phase 4 of job evaluation, changes in development partners funded project and scaling down of expenditures to achieve the overall fiscal deficit level,” reads the document in part. The supplementary budget has proposed Sh1.97 billion to the Office of the President under which the funds have been allocated to NMS for health services. “The provision is to address the emerging challenges as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic to the densely populated informal settlement areas as well as decongesting Kenyatta National Hospital,” the document reads in part. Last month, NMS director-general Mohamed Badi announced that Mathare- Korogocho Health Facility will be commissioned in April. The facility, which had stalled since the early 1990s, is being refurbished at a cost of Sh400 million. “NMS will start employing health workers; doctors, nurses and other staff to cater for the hospital to be operational hopefully by the end of April if we receive the money to buy the equipment," he said. Once complete, the Mathare-Korogocho Hospital will be a five-storey building, having its own intensive care unit, patient admission wards, pharmacy, morgue, kidney dialysis centre and theatres. NMS is also in the process of completing the 24 health facilities, Uthiru– Muthua and Kiamaiko hospitals, which were launched last Friday by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Nineteen are being built from scratch, while the rest are being rehabilitated. Ten out of the new facilities are level 2 hospitals and the rest level 3 facilities. Still in the proposed supplementary budget, under the Housing department, NMS has been allocated Sh500 million and S920 million for foreign-financed project. The Badi-led team under the Infrastructure department has also been allocated Sh1.6 billion for roads in informal settlements. NMS is in the process of developing slums in Nairobi's Mukuru Kwa Njenga, Kibera and Mathare, which have been marked as special planning areas. This is in line with President Kenyatta’s March 18, 2020, directive to have NMS undertake slum-upgrading initiatives in the capital.