The Kenya Electricity Transmission Company is racing against time to complete the 308km Olkaria- Lessos -Kisumu transmission project funded at a cost of Sh16 billion. ICT principal secretary Jerome Ochieng on Thursday led a team to assess the progress of the 400/220/132kV transmission line in Kisumu. The team comprised officials from the project' s National Development Implementation Technical Committee. The team sought to acquaint themselves with challenges affecting the implementation of the project with a view to recommending appropriate solutions. The project is financed by the government of Kenya and Japan International Cooperation Agency. It seeks to strengthen the link between South Rift, where there is massive geothermal potential, and the Western parts of the grid where demand is fast growing. The line will transmit renewable energy from the geothermal power plant at Olkaria through Lessos to Kisumu. It will also supply reliable, affordable, and stable power to the Kisumu Port and strengthen the national grid. The project is being undertaken in three lots. KETRACO said in a press release that lot 1 involves the construction of the 229km 400kV double circuit transmission line from the Olkaria II substation to the Lessos substation. With a rating of 1200MW, the transmission line’s foundation and erection works are complete. Stringing work is ongoing for the remaining 38km out of the229km. Lot 2 involves the construction of the 79km 220kV double circuit transmission line from the Lessos substation to the Kibos substation and 132kV from Kibos to Kisumu (Mamboleo). " Lot 3 involves the construction of the new 220/132kV Kibos substation and extension of the existing400/220kV Lessos and 220kV Olkaria II substations," the statement said. The implementing team said the substation works at Kibos and Olkaria are complete. The PS commended KETRACO on its efforts towards providing reliable, efficient and effective national electricity transmission and promoting power trade for sustainable socioeconomic development. “Energy is an enabler of economic, social and political transformation towards a globally competitive and prosperous Kenya,"Ochieng said. "The government of Kenya is and will continue protecting wananchi from high electricity tariffs by financing the capital cost of transmission infrastructures such the Olkaria – Lessos– Kisumu transmission project. In addition to this, Kibos substation is located near the future Kisumu Special Economic Zone,” the PS said. He further noted that the transmission project and the Africities Conference scheduled for November 2021 will elevate Kisumu City to international standards. KETRACO general manager in charge of Systems Operations Joseph Siror emphasized the importance of the project, saying the transmission infrastructure will expand the national grid by injecting additional geothermal power. He added that it will provide links with neighbouring countries to facilitate regional trade and access to affordable power from these countries. The project is expected to be completed by end of March 2021. 