In a move aimed to bring in efficiency, the Kenya Revenue Authority has recommended Nairobi County register into a Sacco or transportation firm for collection of cess. This comes as KRA raised concerns of the current procedure of collecting cess being cumbersome and has called for its review. Cess is a type of tax imposed by the county governments on tax with specific purposes imposed as an additional tax besides the existing tax (tax on tax). Being part of a county’s own source revenue, cess can be levied on extractives like quarry products (minerals, murram and stones) forestry and fishing products In a letter dated January 20, 2021 KRA Deputy Commissioner in charge of Nairobi County Revenue Division Annastaciah Githumba, wrote to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and Nairobi County Government calling for the review of the current cess. “It has become apparent that there is a need to review the procedure that is currently used to assess and collect revenue during transportation of building materials,” reads the letter in part. Githumba Pointed out that the recent procedure used to collect cess was cumbersome as it involved using roadblocks along transportation routes thus being inconveniencing to transporters and county officers among others. In order to deal with the cumbersomeness, KRA has highlighted a number of proposals to be adopted that can approach the cess collection in a structured approach. Part of KRA’s proposals include each vehicle transporting building materials will be charged a flat rate monthly based on tonnage for all trips undertaken within that month. This is contained in the Nairobi City County Finance Act 2013. All vehicles transporting building materials will be required to be registered under a transportation Sacco. Upon payment, the Sacco or transportation firm will be issued with stickers for all its vehicles with compliance monitoring and enforcement to be undertaken through Sacco or firm's compliance reports. Then all the SACCOs and firms will then be required to make a monthly declaration of all the vehicles in their fleet and their corresponding tonnage. Consequently, KRA has called for a meeting next week on Thursday for the three stakeholders (NMS and  City Hall ) to review the new proposals and discuss the way. “This is a follow up from engagements between KRA and a number of stakeholders in the transportation of building materials with regard to the collection of cess. This is therefore to invite you for a consultative meeting to discuss this proposal and chart the way forward on implementation. The meeting will be on February 4, 2021, Times Tower,” reads the letter. 