Maize farmers have been asked to embrace good farming technologies and best practice for better yields. Speaking on Wednesday during a farmers’ training session in Nyahururu, Yara  East Africa’s senior commercial manager Vitalis Wafula said the use of modern farming technologies will lead to an increased yield of 25 to 30 bags per acre from the average 15 bags. “Yara East Africa seeks to empower our farmers not only using our social media platforms and traditional media channels to share knowledge on best practice but also by having in-person training and use of trial farms to showcase the accrued results of adopting these technologies,” he said. Wafula said there was a need for continuous farmer education on soil health, proper land preparation that helps in aeration of the soils, proper planting techniques, proper seed and fertiliser use among other high tech farming technologies to enhance bumper harvest. “We need to continuously demonstrate to our farmers the importance of land preparation to aerate the soils, proper spacing and fertiliser application when planting. Also teaching them the ideal time to weed and to apply top dressing at the onset of the flowering stage all in tandem with the ideal weather conditions,” he said. He added that already, a FarmWeather app has been developed to help farmers predict the weather for up to 14 days. “This helps our farmers be better equipped as they know the onset of the short and long rains seasons,” he added. Laikipia Agriculture executive Lucy Murugi, said the good and high crop harvest, presents a good opportunity for the county to invest in agro-processing firms. She said the training programme was amongst the many that will be held at the grassroots level covering various wards in the public-private partnerships deal. She said the partnership has borne fruit as many are now embracing farming as a source of income. As part of its strategy, Laikipia county is looking into ways of growing its economy to about 400 billion from the current 100 billion through public-private partnerships and by prioritising manufacturing, commercial agriculture, tourism and mining as the key investment sectors. The official noted that the farmers training coincides with the Rumuruti Investment Forum that will be taking place from Thursday where farmers will be sensitised on appropriate agronomical practices. “This forum provides a platform to showcase to our current and potential partners and investors the importance of farmers engagement and also investing in technologies that help lower post-harvest management losses and increase the range of crop value addition,” she explained. -Edited by Sarah Kanyara  