Disquiet has hit the police over a bid by their employer to hire fresh graduates, locking out thousands who have acquired degrees while in service. A legal battle pitting the serving graduates against the National Police Service Commission is now in the offing after the officers threatened to move to court to block the recruitment. In a rare move, a group of graduate officers yet to be promoted despite acquiring higher qualifications has written to the authorities protesting the planned recruitment they term as discriminatory. “We are going to court to stop that malicious attempt to discriminate further against the graduates in the NPS not later than Friday, 5th February, 2021,” they say in a letter to the commission. The officers also want President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene so that the recruitment is stopped and instead serving police officers promoted. They argue there has been discrimination of professional police officers in the service since 2016 when selective upgrade of graduate salaries was initiated. The protests come after NPS on Tuesday announced a countrywide recruitment to the service. The NPS seeks to recruit 5,000 youths and a further 500 graduate cadets. The recruitment is scheduled for February 22 in all constituencies. The serving graduates see this as discrimination given that some of them had moved to court and won an appeal for increment of their salaries. However, the commission appealed the ruling and the matter is pending in court. Another group of officers especially in the Directorate of Criminal Investigations claims they have been going through multiple interviews for promotional courses but those who did not attend the sessions are taken. Officers seeking promotions must be selected by their bosses and dispatched for a six-month rigorous training course at the Kiganjo Training College before being elevated. “We want the DCI to check on the list of those who were taken for the promotional courses and confirm if indeed they went through the service boards as required. We feel it was a farce,” the group said. “That, complaints by the discriminated graduate police officers suffocated on the desks and drawers of the NPSC bosses and that of the IG then.” The commission reversed the salaries of the paid graduate police officers after complaints from those who had not benefited from the scheme resulting to payment of negative salaries to the group. This forced police authorities to conduct a verification exercise on the degrees of all officers in the service as part of ways of upgrading their salaries. The commission later said out of the verification exercise conducted, a total of 3,739 graduate police officers submitted their degree certificates. A court had ordered that the pay of graduate police constables be equivalent to those of their seniors. Justice Byron Ongaya of the Employment and Labour Relations Court issued the orders on May 17 and gave the State up to August 1, 2019 to comply. The officers had sued the NPSC, the IG and Attorney General in November 2018 over delayed review of their job groups. Justice Ongaya said constables who are university graduates on a salary scale below job Group J were entitled to a pay scale equivalent to that of an inspector of police. “Order is hereby issued to NPSC and Police Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai to pay all graduate police constables salaries equivalent to pay for inspectors and as per the prevailing NPSC policy," directed Ongaya. Police authorities said paying the 1,774 graduate officers salaries similar to those of inspectors of police would require Sh928 million annually. They argued that the need for graduate officers could only be determined at recruitment. According to the commission, the IG had discovered unprocedural salary upgrades in the service payroll based on acquisition of degree certificates by officers without following due process. The commission stated that officers have to seek approval from the service to pursue degrees. “Officers who acquire degrees without following the due procedures and obtaining necessary approvals cannot claim any benefits or privileges based on the same,” it said. Justice Ongaya said paying graduate officers a salary scale below job Group J amounts to denial, violation, infringement and or threat to their fundamental rights. Their monthly salaries were, therefore, to be revised to between Sh45,000 and Sh60,000. Edited by Henry Makori