Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei says cancellation of the Tokyo Olympics will demoralise many athletes and greatly hamper their preparations for major sporting events in the future. Tuwei said the disappointment among the local sports fraternity could be similar or worse than among the crop of athletes who missed the 1976 and 1980 Olympics after intensely training for both games. "Cancelling the games after postponing them last year will hugely demoralise many athletes and discourage them from preparing for future events. We have the class of 1976 and 1980 many of who still regret about not participating in both Olympics after preparing for them," Tuwei said. He bemoaned yesterday's cancellation of Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon — originally scheduled for February 19 — noting the effect of the decision on many local athletes. "Many of them were preparing to depart for UAE before the news came. If you speak to them, you will hear of their disappointment because these events provide them with the chance to make money. Last year, there were not many races and so the athletes did not make much," he said. Tuwei said the summer games should continue regardless of a new strain of Covid-19 even if tighter restrictions are to be enacted in Tokyo. "I am hoping and praying that the games will not be cancelled. Let us continue with them even if it means we do so under tighter restrictions. For some of the athletes, this may be their last chance to compete in the Olympics," Tuwei said. He was speaking on Thursday afternoon at Tiloa Primary School in Kuresoi North where he was the chief guest at an event to commission the construction of classrooms. Area legislator Moses Cheboi handed a new 31-seater bus to the school for its exemplary performance in sports. "I have been informed that in this school you are blessed with talents in different disciplines such as athletics and handball. At the same time, I want to urge you not to forget studies so you can reach the highest level possible," Tuwei said. Evaline Chepkoech, Mercy Chepkemoi, Purity Chepkirui and Judy Chepkoech are some of the standout athletics stars pursuing their studies at the institution. Judy said she is raring to go at the National Cross Country Championships on February 13 at the Ngong Racecourse, Nairobi. "I have been training hard and I am optimistic that I can compete with the elite athletes and even secure my ticket to Lome. Just like my role model, Faith Kipyegon, I am as tough as nails with  great endurance," she said.  