Central Region Economic Bloc governors will work towards cooling political temperatures in Mt Kenya counties. Tharaka Nithi Governor Muthomi Njuki said the region is critical to production, which can only flourish in a peaceful environment. “That is why we are very particular to ensure that we cool the political temperatures in our region,” he said. Muthomi said this will be achieved by making the people understand why the Constitution is being changed. We'll especially help them understand that the changes are meant to protect their economic interests, he said. “And that is what we are looking forward to because if there is a community that is usually affected by instability after elections, it is this particular region,” Muthomi said. The BBI constitutional change push has met resistance in the region. The President last week met area MCAs to drum up support for the initiative. Muthomi spoke after governors from the bloc, which has a GDP of $20.54 billion (Sh2.12 trillion), met British High Commissioner Jane Marriott in Nyeri on Thursday. The meeting was meant to discuss areas of partnership between the CEREB and the British government such as agriculture, manufacture and trade, infrastructure, natural resources, human resources and cross-cutting issues. The Council of Governors, with the assistance of the Kenya Institute for Public Policy Research and Analysis, came up with a series of initiatives to help counties recover economically through collaborations with development partners. CEREB chairman and Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia urged the United Kingdom to provide technical assistance to the bloc, which is largely an agricultural zone. He also urged the UK to support the constitutional amendment. CEREB is seeking the UK's assistance in agriculture, value addition and trade. It is hoping to do more business with the UK. Marriott said the UK is looking for ways to engage in programmes that will be of mutual benefit to the two countries. Kiambu Governor James Nyoro said the region also discussed solid waste management, which is a serious challenge. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru praised the development partnership between her county and the UK government, especially on socioeconomic empowerment. She praised the UK government for supporting the upcoming rice husks factory and the Urban Support Programmes. Waiguru urged the ambassador to extend the empowerment programmes to other Mt Kenya counties. Nairobi Deputy Governor Ann Kananu was also present. Edited by Josephine M. Mayuya