Plans by the Migori government to move its headquarters from Migori town to Lichota farm over six kilometres away have elicited discontent from residents and politicians. Governor Okoth Obado’s administration has been accused of planning a ghost project following a similar headquarters project started almost three decades ago. But Joseph Nyambori, a member of Migori municipal board, cited congestion and strained infrastructure as the reasons for moving the headquarters. He said they consulted Obado who approved the move. He said the headquarters will be relocated to a more spacious government land in Lichota grounds. “Consultations are in top gear and we will soon advertise tenders to have the construction work begin. Expanding the current headquarters to accommodate all departments may not be achieved owing to limited space,” Nyambori said. However, led by former Suna East MP Owino Likowa and former Migori mayor Charles Ogejo, residents faulted the plan, terming it a plot to syphon taxpayers money. “Governor Obado should call for a meeting to deliberate on the matter. Migori town has been the headquarters since it was a district, we see a plan for corruption in the project,” Likowa said. His sentiments were echoed by Ogejo who called on the governor to involve the public in critical decision making. “We are reading a sinister motive in the entire scheme. The municipal board should stop misguiding residents; the governor has not involved key stakeholders in the planned exercise,” Ogejo said. The two said that on September 26, two former Migori mayors Suna East MP Junet Mohammed and his Suna West counterpart Peter Masara led the National Assembly Administration and Security Committee to the site. During the visit, led by Kiambaa MP Paul Njoroge and Migori county commissioner Boaz Cherutich, the group said they will ensure the project is completed. “The committee had to visit the site to see the project and recommend on the way forward, even if it included a budget allocation to finish this project which has been an eyesore,” Njoroge said then. Junet and Masara said as former councillors, attempts to have the offices finished and revert to the council and later to Migori county government during the start of devolution failed. Obado’s reaction Suna Central MCA Christopher Onanda said the plan would culminate in chaos as Lichota grounds had been earmarked as an industrial estate. “Gazettement indicated that the headquarters was in Suna Central, Migori town, the said transfer is illegal and should not take place. The Kurian community has been clamouring for their own county and any said transfer to the immediate border may be a recipe for chaos,” Onanda said. Governor Obado’s communication Director Nicholas Anyuor told off those opposed to the project, dismissing them as enemies of progress who are out to use politics to scuttle development. He termed the project Obado’s legacy and said it can commence any time, hence they not tolerate its politicisation. “There is ample space to accommodate county government offices. Migori municipality can either be in Suna East or Suna West and the move has been well thought out and consultations done‚” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris