Infrastructure development continues to hit Eastlands as the Kenya Urban Roads Authority launches Sh.902.7 million project in Embakasi west. The 8Km Umoja-Innercore road project, will rehabilitate eight roads within Umoja and its environs. Some of the roads include Ruaraka Crescent Road, Kangundo Moi Drive link, Malewa-Mwangaza Road, Nasra Estate Road, Kifaru-Mutindwa Road, Kangundo Service Road, Mowlem Link Road and Outer Ring Road links. “This project will open up Umoja and its environs to commercial ventures, to enable residents to move with ease, improve security, create local employment and improve connectivity within Embakasi West, “ Embakasi West MP George Theuri said. The groundbreaking took place at Mowlem on Thursday which was attended by Kura officials, area MP and local residents. The contractor has been given a timeline and is expected to complete the project next year November. The Umoja-Innercore project is part of the government's program of improving informal settlements and densely populated areas in Nairobi. Kura is set to rehabilitate 408 km across all informal settlements in Nairobi. Transport Cabinet Secretary James Macharia said the project is one of the measures to be undertaken to improve access to essential goods and services in the capital city. According to authority, the Umoja-Innercore project scope includes upgrading into bitumen standards of a 7-meter wide two-lane carriageway and inclusion of 2-meter footpaths. Drainage facilities will be improvised as well as bus bays, road marking and street lighting. “After its completion, it will supplement the Regeneration Programme that the Authority finished implementing last year,” Kura said. The first phase of the roads' project covered Eastlands and the City Center. The project involved the construction and rehabilitation of 38 roads covering 79.4 kilometers in the city for ease of transportation. The national government contributed Sh1.8 billion and the county government Sh900 million. The rehabilitation programme was a collaboration between the county government and the national government and focuses on infrastructure and transport, housing and settlement, energy, water resources, environment and solid waste, among others.