Women's marathon record holder Brigid Kosgei has earmarked world half marathon record holder Peres Jepchirchir and world marathon champion Ruth Chepng'etich as favourites to break her record of 2:14.04. Kosgei said the two have performed impressively and it is only a matter of time before they break the record she set at the Chicago Marathon in October 2019. "I cannot say that I am the best placed to break my own record much as my aim is to do that. There are other athletes who have been training hard and that can be seen by their performances in various events. Peres and Ruth are standout candidates for me to break it," Kosgei said. Recounting her journey in the road races, Kosgei said the best is yet to come from the Kapsait native. "My growth in the marathon races has been gradual. I remember I was initially hesitant to specialise in this category. In my first race in Porto, I clocked 2:47.59 before reducing it to 2:27.45 in my next race in Milan. Then later, I broke the world record in Chicago. With much training and my injury woes behind me, I believe I can even run under 2:14.04. This is possible not only for me but for other female athletes as well," she said. After the Ras Al Khaimah Half Marathon — slated for February 19 in  the United Arab Emirates — was cancelled due to Covid-19 fears, Kosgei has shifted focus to the Tokyo Olympics in July. "I was raring to go for victory in the race before I only just heard yesterday that it has been postponed. Of course, it is disappointing but my training continues regardless of whether there are other marathons coming up or not.  I am not thinking about any other races between now and the Tokyo Olympics," Kosgei said. She was speaking on Thursday morning during the launch of her partnership with Stanbic Bank Kenya on a new brand campaign, "I Can Be" at the Kempinski Hotel, Nairobi. The campaign seeks to empower young men and women to achieve their big dreams using Kosgei as a brand ambassador to motivate them. Stanbic Bank CEO Charles Mudiwa said Kosgei's story epitomises the lives of so many young Kenyans who encounter many obstacles in pursuit of their dreams. "Realising our dreams is all about overcoming obstacles. We will work with her to empower young people through seminars. This is only the start of something big that we intend to achieve in the coming years. It Can Be speaks to the philosophy of who we are and where we are going as a Kenyan Bank," Mudiwa said. Kosgei thanked the bank for reaching out to her and promised to draw on her experiences to inspire other young people to greatness. "After retirement. I want to mentor as many athletes as possible at the grassroots so that they can reach my level or even surpass it. I am passionate about education and want to encourage young people to prioritise education even if they are talented in athletics," she said. 