Kisumu county assembly has passed the Building Bridges Initiative Bill. A report on the bill was on Tuesday tabled by Seth Okumu, the chairperson of Administrative of Law and Justice committee. This followed a public participation that was conducted at the assembly premises on Friday by the committee. According to Okumu, members of the public submitted their approval on the need for strengthened devolution and that they are in agreement with the proposal to increase of revenue allocation to 35 per cent as proposed by the amended Bill to spearhead rapid development within the counties. He said that the committee noted members of the public wanted solutions to problems related to gender equity proposed by the Bill are in order and should be approved without ammendment. "The public was also in approval of creation of the ward development fund which would be five per cent of the county 's annual budget as this would improve development close to the common mwananchi". The committee, following an interaction with members of the public and consequent analysis of the public opinion on the matter, recommended that the house approve the Bill. "The speaker pursuant to Article 257(6) of the Constitution of Kenya cause delivery of the certification of the approval of this honorable house on the matter of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020 to the speaker of the National Assembly and the Senate," he said. While debating the motion, Kondele ward representative Joachim Oketch noted that the MCAs have read and understood the document contrary to the perception in the public domain that they are ignorant about it. Oketch said it has opportunities for the youth in business in terms of tax relief. He said BBI will ensure peaceful elections going forward. Majority Leader Kenneth Onyango stated that BBI will ensure autonomy of the county assemblies hence strengthening the oversight role of the MCAs. He further said the Bill will safeguard the ward development fund kitty. Kolwa Central MCA George Olwal noted that BBI is an impetus towards national cohesion especially that he represents one of the most metropolitan wards in Kolwa with several ethnic minorities like Nubians living in kisumu. " Most importantly that BBI align with my party's ODM ethos and national values especially on social and economic justice and freedom with responsibility,"he said County assemblies within Nyanza and Western region are set to vote on the bill this week. Siaya county assembly was the first to pass the Bill in a special sitting. In Homa Bay, the bill will be debated on Thursday as the assembly already asked the public to submit their views during public participation. Speaker Elizabeth Ayoo said MCAs are going to amend the advertisement to bring the deadline to Wednesday this week. “There are new developments that we must now adopt in the matter. We have resolved to table the bill in the Assembly on Thursday this week,” Ayoo said. Assembly speaker Elisha Oraro said, "As required by the law, I am immediately going to write to the Speakers of both the National Assembly and the Senate notifying them of the decision of the County Assembly of Kisumu". Kolwa Central MCA George Olwal noted that BBI is an impetus towards national cohesion especially since he said he represents one of the most metropolitan wards in with several ethnic minorities like Nubians living in kisumu. " Most importantly that BBI align with my party ODM's ethos and national values especially on social and economic justice and freedom with responsibility," he said.