Emmanuel Mayuka clinched the winner for Napsa from the spot in added time as the Zambian side saw off Kenyan champions Gor Mahia in the second leg of the Caf Confederations Cup play-off in Lusaka on Sunday. Two quick first-half goals weren't enough to secure a group stage qualification berth for K'Ogalo, who entered into the Heroes Stadium as underdogs having suffered a shock 1-0 defeat at home a week ago. A resilient character almost saw them turn tables on the pensioners but a 90+6 minutes goal ruined the party for the 18-time Kenyan Premier League champions who crashed out 3-2 on aggregate. The Kenyans had put behind them apparent exhaustion from jetlag, having hardly found sufficient time to rest after arriving in Lusaka on Sunday morning, only a few hours to the tie. K'Ogalo made their intentions clear early and it wasn't long before Samuel Onyango broke the deadlock in the 17th minute. But their celebrations ended abruptly as a lapse in concentration offered Austine Banda a perfect opportunity to restore parity for the hosts barely a minute later. Fleet-footed forward Clifton Miheso put the Kenyans back in the driver's seat after finding the back of the net in the 20th minute as the teams proceeded for the break on a 2-1 scoreline. Portuguese tactician Vaz Pinto brought on Tito Okello for Jules Ulimwengu, Alpha Onyango for John Macharia as well as Sydney Wahongo for Samuel Onyango in the 54th, 67th and 80th minutes respectively. K'Ogalo were among the sixteen teams from the CAF Champions League who automatically qualified to feature in the playoffs. Usually, in the Caf Confederations Cup, 16 winners of the first round advance to the play-off round, where they are joined by the 16 losers of the Champions League first round. The 15 winners of the play-off round will advance to the group stage to join RS Berkane, who qualified directly for the group stage as the winners of the first round with the best CAF 5-Year Ranking following Gazelle withdrawal from the competition after being transferred from the Champions League. The draw for the group stage will be held on today at the CAF headquarters in Cairo, Egypt. In the group stage, each group will be played on a home-and-away round-robin basis. The winners and runners-up of each group will advance to the quarter-finals of the knockout stage.