Governors have picked a fight with Agriculture CS Peter Munya over what they termed as being sidelined by his Ministry on matters agriculture. Through their umbrella body, the Council of Governors (COG), the county chiefs have accused the ministry of reducing them to "mere observers" when formulating policy and legislative reforms in the Agriculture sector. CoG says the ministry has been undertaking reforms in the sector without consulting and concurring with the counties despite the sector being devolved. “The Ministry of Agriculture has continued to undermine the role of county governments in the proposed pieces of legislation,” CoG Agriculture committee chairman James Nyoro said. Nyoro, who is also the Kiambu governor added, “This has resulted in the development of pieces of legations, some of which are in violation of the Constitution.” Nyoro reckoned that the Ministry failed to seek the input of the devolved units when it formulated Tea Act, 2020, Coffee Bill, 2021, Fiber Crops Development Authority Bill, 2021, Nuts and Oil Crops Bill, 2021 and Food Crops Industry Bill, 2021 among other pieces of legislation. “As county governments, we have resolved that we will not allow being treated as mere observes but rather as a level of government that co-creates policies and laws regarding devolved functions that enhances the implementation of these projects,” he said in a statement. Nyoro said the Council will henceforth engage and lobby the National Assembly and the Senate and other relevant institutions for a total review of the articulate of the controversial bills. The county bosses said the enactment of the Tea Act, 2020 that creates Tea Board of Kenya is against Chapter Four of the Constitution which assigns the development and regulations of the agriculture sector to counties.’ Some of the provisions of the Act, Nyoro said, are detrimental to tea farmers especially the centralization of the operations of the Tea Auction and failure to provide for direct sale. “In this regard, the council of governors will seek dialogue with the president on the implementation of the Tea Act with the view to resolve the issues raised by the Council and thereby put the tea industry into low development trajectory,” he said. He added, “The council, however, will resort to other dispute resolution mechanisms if these other consultations fail.” Further, the governors want the National Treasury to remove ceilings it set for Ministry of agriculture for funding of projects and programmes of intergovernmental in nature. The ceiling, it said, limits the funding that can be disbursed to counties in a financial year hence slowing down the implementation of projects such as Kenya Climate-Smart Agriculture Project. “The council will therefore engage the National Treasury to explore appropriate mechanisms for enhancing the financing of the agriculture function and transfer of resources to counties," the CoG said.