New strategies geared towards boosting pigeon pea production across the country have been rolled out by the government. Currently, Kenya produces about 275,000 tonnes of pigeon peas against about one million-tonne demand. The crop is mainly cultivated in Ukambani and Coastal regions. With the support of the World Bank, Kenya Agricultural and Livestock Research Organisation has deployed its resources to develop interventions to upgrade the pigeon pea value chain. The new farming measures are implemented under the Kenya Climate Smart Agriculture Project. Kalro director general Eliud Kireger said they include breeding high-yielding varieties; promoting utilisation of improved technologies, innovations and best management practices; and providing information on marketing and market trends. Kireger said in Kisumu that they are making concerted efforts to promote and disseminate technologies and focus on superior varieties that are drought- and pest-tolerant. He said there is a need to enhance productivity locally, adding that pigeon pea holds the key to ensuring food sufficiency. "Although pigeon pea is a healthy food, the yields in Kenya are low. The average yield achieved by farmers is about two bags per acre against the world's average of 3.3 bags per acre," he said. He, however, added that the potential of this crop is about 10 bags an acre. He blamed low yields on insufficiently adaptable varieties that yield poorly, disease attacks by Fusarium wilt, powdery mildew, anthracnose and rust. "Production is also constrained by pests such as root knot, nematodes, spider mites, pod sucking bugs, aphids, and cut worms,", he said. Other challenges include climate change-induced drought, application of poor agronomic technologies, low soil fertility and inadequate post-harvest technologies. Kireger said the country has the potential to produce even more than what is consumed and exported, adding that farmers will also be trained in marketing information systems and proper production techniques.