President Uhuru Kenyatta has called upon the completion of the Sh 350 million Dandora Stadium project as the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission continues its investigations on the project. This comes as a section of Dandora residents pleaded with the President to open the stadium whose works has stalled. Uhuru said that the investigations should not hinder people's right to access and enjoy Stadium facilities. "As EACC continues with investigations, the contractor should come back on site and finish the remaining works," Uhuru added. However, the President emphasized that the culprits found guilty by EACC will face charges. "I won't say EACC to stop investigations on the Stadium and those who broke the law should be charged. They know what they were doing and if found guilty, action must be taken ," Uhuru said. Last year in October, concerns had  been raised over the stalled Sh350 million Dandora Stadium despite the contractor having been paid. The stadium should have been completed in July last year , but work stopped when it was 80 per cent done. The contractor, M/s Scanjet Construction Limited, left the site in September 2019. Since then, about 10 Nairobi County Executive Committee members and other officials have been investigated on recommendations of the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority. The PPRA questioned the tendering process and the standard of the work. Scanjet Construction had won the tender to build four stadia at Sh1.03 billion.  The job was to be completed in 18 months The PPRA flagged irregularities in the awarding of the tender, alteration of contract specifications, suspected irregular payments and forgery of documents. The authority had on June 13, 2019, received a complaint that Scanjet Construction was using steel structures in clear contravention of the contract specifications for the Dandora stadium. Further, the county government irregularly paid the contractor despite warnings from technical evaluators that contract documents, including cabinet memorandum, were forged to state the stadium should be steel structure when the work is 70 per cent complete. After investigations, the PPRA indicted the county government for paying Sh196.87 million to the contractor despite the technical evaluators questioning the quality of work. It recommended remedial action against any party culpable. The EACC officials also completed evaluating the stadium but their report is yet to be submitted. By the time the project stalled, more than 3,000 seats had been installed in the terraces. The floodlights had also been fitted.