ODM leader Raila Odinga on Sunday said the Tangatanga narrative extolling hustlers will reverse the efforts by many Kenyans to invest in  education. He dismissed the wheelbarrow movement as old fashioned and retrogressive. . “I am wondering why they have been terming us the analogue team and claiming to be digital. They are now moving around country and giving  Kenyans wheelbarrows,” Raila said. Raila was speaking at the Covenant Church International, CCI Rotian, Narok county. He later addressed a rally in Narok town. He also chided the Jubilee administration for promising laptops to Class 1 students, yet eight years down the line, the students have not received any. The Former Premier called upon the Maa community to fully back BBI, saying it would address historical injustices. “If BBI is voted in, more resources will be given to counties like Narok, which stands to benefit from another Sh5 billion, up from Sh8 billion, the ODM boss said. He also questioned Deputy President William Ruto's ability to lead the country after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s term ends in 2022. Raila was accompanied by Environment Cabinet Secretary Keriako Tobiko, MPs Moitalel ole Kenta (Narok North) James Nyikal (Seme), Otiende Omollo (Rarieda), Woman Representative Gladys Wanga (Homa Bay), Kanchory Memusi (Kajiado Central) and Wilson Sossion (nominated). On conserving and rehabilitating the Mau water tower Raila supported it though it has been used as a political tool against him as conservation requires evictions. “Forest conservation is not only in Kenya but all over the world. So all the people should stand up preserve these vital water towers,”Raila said. Tobiko said that the Maa nation is fully behind BBI and will respect Raila and the head of state in bringing the country together. Kenta accused the DP of planting leaders in Narok against the wishes of the people, saying the move has undermined development projects. “Even when it comes to projects, the Maa regions were sidelined by the Deputy President and that is why we are saying we will not back his bid,”  Kenta said Sossion told Tangatanga to respect Raila and stop branding him non-Christian. "Raila is a God-fearing man and attends church, the Tangatanga brigade should stop lying to Kenyans,” Sossion saud. Wanga said Raila stood with the Maa community on the conservation of Mau forest and the community thanked him by supporting BBI. "As ODM, we stood with your son CS Keriako Tobiko when the Tangatanga brigade wanted to impeach him for conserving Mau forest," Wanga said. She scolded Ruto for claiming to be digital, while he promotes little businesses with wheelbarrows and other tools for manual labour in the era of a digital economy. "It is totally ironic to claim that our team are analogue while on the side you want Kenyans to be given wheelbarrows, which at the end of the day will not address issues affecting us," Wanga said. Nyikal told the Kenyans to be wise and stop to using BBI as a political tool for 2022 elections. Memusi said only Raila who can protect the interests of the Maa community. He added that Kenyans should make informed decisions in 2022 and ensure the DP is not on the ballot. "Comparing Raila and Ruto is like day and night and Kenyans should never trust DP is the leadership of this country," Memusi said. (Edited by V. Graham) 