Former Gor Mahia duo of Shaban Odhoji and David 'Calabar' Owino have been drafted in the Napsa Stars 23-man squad to face the Kenyan champions in the first leg of the CAF Confederations Cup playoff on Sunday at Nyayo Stadium. The two will hope to inflict damage on their former employers' quest for continental glory while Gor will be seeking to capitalise on home advantage to put a leg into the group stages of the competition. Gor dropped to the second tier of the inter-club continental tournament after embarrassingly succumbing 8-1 on aggregate in the Champions League's first-round stage to Algerian champions CR Belouizdad. The Napsa contingent was expected in the country yesterday evening for Sunday's encounter with the second leg set for a week later. Calabar, a former Gor assistant skipper, had won three league titles with Gor before leaving for Zambia in January 2015 while Odhoji ditched the green shirt for the Pensioners in February last year. Calabar, who joined Napsa last month after his six-year stay at Zesco United came to an end briefly trained with Gor before putting pen to paper with the Lusaka-based club. Other notable inclusions into the Napsa squad are former Zesco creative midfielder and Burundian Enock Sabumukama and former Simba dangerman Laudit Mavugo. However, 2012 Africa Cup of Nations top-scorer Emmanuel Mayuka did not make the squad due to an injury. Meanwhile, Gor vice-chairman Francis Wasuna is eager to have the match broadcast/streamed live devoid of hitches after sourcing assent from CAF on time. Gor watched their efforts to broadcast their home match duel against Belouizdad go down the drain after a last-minute standoff with Football Kenya Federation over the permission to have the cameras roll. The federation in a latter argued that CAF had objected Gor's request to broadcast the match forcing the club to separately seek Caf's indulgence to replay the match. Despite succeeding, the crew was apparently locked out of the facility. "The club has already obtained consent from CAF and we expect the match to be broadcast for the sake of our fans who will not be allowed into the stadium," said Wasuna. "We wrote to CAF through the federation on time and after they okayed our intention to beam the match live, we embarked on seeking a broadcast company to get the job done and hopefully, we will nail one down before Saturday."