First of all, the composition of the Building Bridges Initiate task force never started with public participation. The process was rushed and the manner in which the panel was selected was not transparent. The whole process started on the wrong footing and that is why people all over the country are expressing their reservations. Fortunately, it will not pass and even if it passes, it will not meet the threshold set by the law. And a legal process that does not meet the threshold should be and can be challenged in a court of law. When you build bridges, you are supposed to bring those from the opposing sides together to meet at a central place to achieve a common purpose. What we have seen is people being divided; the document is not bringing people together. It is ridiculous that some county assemblies have rushed to pass the Bill without even allowing effective public participation. Shame on them. BBI is building bridges to bring back impunity that we fought hard to get rid of when we were getting the 2010 Constitution. Soon after we promulgated the Constitution, we established the Constitution Implementation Commission. The Constitution itself provided for a period of implementation and in the event of failure to meet the set timelines, it gave room for an extension. The extensions were made and therefore after 10 years, we should have held a national constitutional audit conference similar to Bomas 1 and 2 conferences. The stakeholders would then examine the areas we have achieved our common purpose and the areas we have not achieved and then discuss means of identifying areas that have issues and weaknesses. They would then come up with a plan of action to address those issues. Those issues would form amendments to be proposed for a referendum. We have not done that. What is going on is illegal and it is not what is envisaged in the Constitution. It is not envisaged in the Constitution that two individuals whose intentions are not known would push their secret affairs into the document. Boundary review is a function of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission and to purport to award themselves constituencies to fit their own interests is unacceptable. The former Imenti Central MP and constitutional reform crusader spoke to the Star