Zipporah Nashipae wants to be a psychologist and has been admitted to medical school in Thika but she has no money. Zipporah, 20, from Kajiado town, was selected to pursue a diploma in counselling psychology but failed to report to Thika School of Medical and Health Sciences on January 5. She can't afford the annual Sh200,000 fees for tuition, administrative charges and other costs. The course is two years. Her mother lives on the street, her father is in prison, Zipporah and her brother have been taken in by a good Samaritan. Zipporah received her admission letter (TSMHS/ADM/970/21) last year. She is appealing for help. “As a family, we are devastated. My mother is living on Kajiado town streets. A good Samaritan has taken me and my brother into her Isinya home,” Zipporah told the Star on Monday morning. The medical school's principal, Muchule Akanga, said Nashipae’s position is still open and appealed to well-wishers to come to her aid. Zipporah's case was brought to the attention of the Star by Sophie Wambui, who has taken her into her home. “They are extremely poor. I also have a child in school in the UK and I cannot help Nashipae to go to school. I can only provide her food with her brother at my house,” Wambui said.. “I met the mother on the street where she is exposed to harsh conditions and abuse from strangers," Wambui said. She said that she herself was an orphan, forced to live in a children's home before she was adopted. “My own  experience made me take the initiative to help Nashipae and her brother to stay with my family,” Wambui said. She said she tried to reach out to county government officials to help Zipporah, but aid or advice was not forthcoming. Zipporah said she also has tried several times to reach out to the office of Governor Joseph Lenku to no avail. On Monday, the Star was trying to reach county officials to enquire about help so Zipporah can join medical school. The chief officer in Lenku's office, John Njoroge, said he has not heard of Zipporah's case and even if he received an appeal, there is no money because bursaries were exhausted before January. He is in charge of the governor's special projects. He promised to consult further. County executive for education Jeremiah Ncharo could not be immediately reached. (Edited by V. Graham)