The National Environment Management Authority is set to undergo a major shake-up in the latest bid aimed at strengthening the agency. Environment PS Chris Kiptoo on Monday said that the Environmental Management and Coordination Act, 1999 will be reviewed. "We have a waste management policy which is in place and a waste management bill which is going to the National Assembly. The bill will be moving the management of waste from linear to circular approach. All these changes may have an impact on the way EMCA has operated," Kiptoo said. Under the new solid waste management plan, the state seeks to have the country adopt a circular model of waste management where the waste will be segregated, with recyclable ones being retained. The waste will then be collected and transported to a material recovery facility where it will be received, sorted and treated. Counties will have a key role to play in matters environment as some of the functions have been devolved. Devolved environmental functions include control of air pollution, noise pollution, other public nuisances and outdoor advertising. The PS said the changes have necessitated the need to review the EMCA. EMCA is the framework law on environmental management and conservation. The Act establishes among others the National Environment Management Authority, Public Complaints Committee, National Environment Tribunal, National Environment Action Plan Committees and County Environment Committees. Experts have linked the swelling of lakes in Rift Valley and Lake Victoria to massive land degradation. The water levels in the Rift Valley lakes and Lake Victoria have been rising since 2010, submerging surrounding areas, farmlands, infrastructure and causing a humanitarian crisis. It has adversely affected property owners, communities, biodiversity, and wildlife. An assessment report by a multi-agency team formed to probe the phenomenon showed 28 people have so far died as a result of flooding caused by the rising water. Nema was established as the principal instrument of government charged with the implementation of all policies relating to the environment and to exercise general supervision and coordination over all matters relating to the environment. In consultation with the lead agencies, Nema is empowered to develop regulations, prescribe measures and standards and issue guidelines for the management and conservation of natural resources and the environment. The EMCA provides for environmental protection through environmental impact assessment, environmental audit and monitoring and environmental restoration orders, conservation orders and easements. Nema is also the designated national authority for certain multilateral environmental agreements such as the Ramsa Convention on the protection of wetlands. Kiptoo said EMCA has to be mordenised to respond to the current environment where a lot of things have changed. In the sweeping reforms, Kiptoo said that Nema will be strengthened. Other institutions such as Netfund, National Environmental Committee, and National Environmental Tribunal among others will also be reformed. Nema's core functions include coordinating the various environmental management activities undertaken by the lead agencies. The authority also promotes the integration of environmental considerations into development policies, plans, programmes and projects, with a view to ensuring the proper management and rational utilization of environmental resources, on a sustainable yield basis for the improvement of the quality of human life. It also takes stock of the natural resources in Kenya and their utilisation and conservation and establishes and reviews land-use guidelines. Nema also examines land use patterns to determine their impact on the quality and quantity of natural resources and carries out surveys, which assist in the proper management and conservation of the environment. The authority advises the government on legislative and other measures for the management of the environment or the implementation of relevant international conventions, treaties and agreements among other roles. Edited by Henry Makori