Jubilee party’s Bungoma branch chairman John Waluke has said he is still in charge following a move by a section of officials to ouster him from his position. In a meeting last week, a section of officials led by county secretary Martin Wanyonyi ousted the Sirisia MP for allegedly campaigning for a United Democratic Alliance candidate in the Kabuchai by-elections. “Let those who think Jubilee is dead rethink their decision as I am still in charge of the party that is doing well in the county, ” he said. Waluke dismissed rumours that he had abandoned the party and joined DP William Ruto's UDA party. He was responding to claims by Wanyonyi who said that he had been picked to spearhead Jubilee as its county chairman. Wanyonyi said following the revelations that Waluke was now leading UDA party campaigns in Kabuchai by-elections, there was no vacuum in Jubilee party. “Waluke has officially joined UDA, I have taken the mandate to lead Jubilee in the county, I will rejuvenate the party to attract more members,” he said. Wanyonyi who is also the chairman of the civil society members in the county pointed out that he will not allow Jubilee party to die a natural death after it had been abandoned. “Jubilee is a strong party and am asking our party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta and our Secretary-General Raphael Tuju to hand me all the powers to lead the party in the county,” he said. Wanyonyi stated that he will not allow leaders who have moved out to continue serving two masters in both Jubilee and UDA. “Let them continue running UDA affairs and leave Jubilee to me and other like-minded members, we will make it a more appealing party,” he said. At the same time, Wanyonyi asked the resigned UNCTAD Secretary-General Mukhisa Kituyi who has expressed interest to run for the presidency in 2022 to use Jubilee as his only vehicle. “Let Kituyi run for the presidency on Jubilee party, it has all the structures in place and it has spread its tentacles across the country unlike the new party which needs to be sold,” he said. Wanyonyi emphasized that he will run the party by opening offices all over the county after taking it officially. However, Juma Sikuta,  Bungoma’s Jubilee secretary-general dismissed the self-proclaimed chairman Martin Wanyonyi as a greenhorn in matters of politics. “Waluke has never abandoned Jubilee party, he still pays rent for our office in Bungoma town, he has successfully run the party and united all members, nothing like a coup in the party,” Sikuta said. While campaigning on Thursday for UDA candidate Evans Kakai who is eyeing the  Kabuchai seat, Waluke confirmed that he was indeed the UDA county chairman. “I am the party chairman in Bungoma, once we leave Jubilee I will ensure Kakai wins in Kabuchai,” Waluke said.   Edited Kiilu Damaris