From being an assistant manager at the Kenya Farmers Association to the literary world, Kenyans and the Maasai community expressed their grief and shock at the death of 72-year-old Henry ole Kulet. Kulet’s family said he died while receiving treatment at Mediheal Hospital in Nakuru on February 16. His literary works made him a household name and national hero in an illustrious career that spanned over 50 years. Having been inspired by Ngugi wa Thiong’o and novelist Kamara Laye to write through their novels, Kulet wrote nine novels. Some of the popular books he wrote were Blossoms of the Savannah (the current high school set book), Daughter of Maa, Is it possible? Moran No More, Vanishing Herds, The Hunter, How to become a Man and Bandits of Kibi. He was raised in Enkare-Ngusur in Narok District. He studied farm management at Egerton College. In 1967, when he was a young Maasai man, Kulet worked as an assistant manager at Kenya Farmers Association, Kericho branch. In 1987, he retired from his agriculture career. In 2019, he was awarded the Elder of the Burning Spear medal by President Uhuru Kenyatta for his contribution to literature in the country. One of Kenya’s most prolific creative writers, Kulet was a three-time winner of the Jomo Kenyatta Prize for Literature. His novels, Is it Possible? (1971) and To Become a Man (1972) have been translated into French, German and Swedish. Narok Water and Sewerage Services Company MD  Stanley Kuyioni described Kulet’s death as a big blow to the Maasai community and the country at large. “Kenya has lost a literary giant and many people especially those who grew from pastoralists communities were inspired by Kulet because his books were centred on the experiences of Maasai people, environment and culture,” Kuyioni said. He said his literary work during that time influenced performance, education and other community-related activities. “His first novel, Is it possible? made people have faith in everything they undertake and inspired many to venture into a discipline which was not expected that time,” he said. Kuyioni said through his creative work, Kulet proved to the country and the world that he can competently participate in writing just like any other author in Kenya despite his humble beginning. “He joined the league of Ngugi wa Thiongo and others who are known internationally for their work. His legacy will be remembered by many generations and his footprint will inspire young people to author books and develop the reading culture,” Kuyioni said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris