Lamu island donkey owners and cart pushers have been asked to form lobby groups to help agitate for their rights. Speaking on Monday during a stakeholders meeting, county chief cfficer for Trade, Culture and Tourism Atwa Salim asked the two groups to also form cooperatives that will enable them access loans to expand their trade. “We are urging them to form groups to look out for their interests now that they are facing serious competition from boda boda and tuk-tuks. Before it was just donkeys and carts but now things have changed and there are other players but we do not want the pioneers of the transport sector in this island forgotten,” Atwa said. The chief officer equally advised boda boda operators to follow suit and form cooperative societies to manage their trade and ease their operations. Lamu island is an old town whose only mode of transport for the longest time has been donkeys and carts which are used to transport people and goods. The narrow alleys in the island can only allow movement by donkeys and carts. However, with time, Boda Boda operators and tuk-tuk vehicles have invaded the island leaving donkey owners and cart pushers at a loss in their business. Boda Boda operators are especially giving donkeys and carts a run for their money by offering a faster and cheaper mode of transportation compared to the latter which are extremely slow. It is in this respect that the county government has asked the two sides to come together and form a lobby group that will fight for their rights and cushion them from any threats to their trade. Currently, Lamu island has a population of over 300 Boda Boda operators and over 10 tuk tuk tuk vehicles. Lamu Donkey Owners Association spokesperson Omar Kidege has urged the county government to enact legislation that will control and guide all the boda boda, tuk-tuk, cart pushers and donkey owners in their various trades to avert conflicts. He said there should also be a law that limits operations of the Boda Boda people to certain points in the old town instead of having them all over the place. “We shall form the lobby groups but we still insist that county government controls all these new entrants in the transport sector here. We are especially concerned about the Boda Boda as they have completely sent out of business,” Kidege said. Lamu old town was listed as a heritage site by UNESCO in 2011. In 2015, the county government under ex-Lamu governor Issa Timamy banned motorcycles in a bid to preserve the town’s culture and heritage. However, they found their way back in 2017 following the entry of a new administration.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris