A visibly bitter Mathare United head coach Salim Ali tore into centre referee Davies Omweno after Western Stima got an equaliser in stoppage time to hold the Slum Boys to a one-all draw at  Moi Stadium, Kasarani yesterday. The 2008 league champions were headed for their second win of the season after finding the back of the net early in the first half, but Stima levelled matters in the last minute, leaving Ali a disgusted man particularly with the officials. Mathare had taken the lead and what would have been the match winner through Daniel Okoth who headed a well executed cross by Tyson Otieno. Ali heavily criticised centre referee Omweno for Mukisa Junior's goal which he claimed would have been chalked off and a foul awarded instead in favour of his defender Norman Ogolla who was brought down during an aerial challenge. Additionally, Ali lamented that Stima restored parity way after the injury time had elapsed. The fourth official, Isaac Memusi had added another three minutes after normal play and Stima shocked Mathare with a 95th minute equaliser. "We have lost two points in a unfortunate way. The match officials have admitted that Stima netted the equaliser when time was already over. "We conceded in the last kick of the match through a set piece. But I am mad with the referee for turning a blind eye on a clear foul on Ogolla who was pushed before the Stima player headed in the ball, " he protested. As an irate Ali walked down the tunnel, his Stima counterpart Abdallah Juma was all smiles after marking his four-year absence from the top tier with the tie. Juma was appointed on Tuesday, replacing Paul Ogai who according to the club left on mutual agreement. "I am impressed with the players fighting spirit and the point gathered. I trained them for a day and have played to the instructions against Mathare. We had been losing away but the result is our turning point even as we seek to ensure teams get it rough in Kisumu," said the former FC Talanta coach. The result left Mathare second from bottom with five points while the power men are a place above the red line on six points. Meanwhile, newly appointed AFC Leopards coach Patrick Aussems is expected to hit the ground running after the Mashemeji Derby set for Sunday at the Moi Stadium Kasarani.