 Coast residents do not need another political party but a unity of purpose to propel development, Matuga MP Kassim Tandaza has said. There has been talk on the formation of a new political party to unite the region ahead of next year's general election. But Tandaza said the region has many political parties such as KADU Asili, Shirikisho, Umoja Summit Pwani among many others and that what residents lack is unity. He said they only need to end enmity between themselves and have a common agenda. The lawmaker said a majority of leaders from the regions are engaged in politics of resentment subjected towards personal gains causing cracks and disunity among residents. He said leaders must first put their political differences aside and adopt the initiative of working together before thinking of anything else. “The coast-based political party will not work if there is still a lot of resentment among us,” Tandaza said. The idea of forming a regional party was sparked by allies of Deputy President William Ruto who said they needed a party to effectively engage in national politics and lock ODM out of the region ahead of the 2022 General Election. The Coast region is largely believed to be ODM leader Raila Odinga's stronghold. Kilifi North MP Owen Baya and his Malindi counterpart Aisha Jumwa had leaked the possibility of choosing Governor Salim Mvurya as the head of the new regional party that is yet to be formed. The two spoke during the homecoming party of Msambweni MP Feisal Bader. Tandaza said dreaming of forming another coastal political party is as a waste of time. He said the party will not provide the best remedy for people’s problems and it is most likely going to cause more division and political unrest. He cautioned leaders against comparing the coast region with other parts of Kenya. “The coast is made up of various communities even though Mijikenda are the majority unlike Nyanza and Kamba land where there are specific tribes,” he said. Tandaza said upper regions have managed to achieve great things because they are united and speak with one language unlike at the Coast where everyone is self-centered. The formation of a regional party has also faced a lot of condemnation from the ODM deputy party leader Ali Joho who has accused Tangatanga politicians of trying to bring division among the people. Kwale Woman Representative Zuleikha Hassan also opposed the idea of creating a Coast-based party saying it might violate some of the constitutional acts. She said the whole idea of having a regional party contains some tribal aspects which might go against the Political Parties and Election Acts. Garissa Town MP Aden Duale who also spoke at Bader’s homecoming party last year warned that having many political parties would interfere with democracy. He called upon coast leaders to rethink the idea.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris