Newly-appointed Western Stima coach Abdallah Juma will be looking to guide the club to a top eight finish in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. Juma yesterday ended his four-year long top flight touchline hiatus after he was picked to succeed Paul Ogai who parted ways with the Kisumu-based  side on mutual agreement. Prior to his unveiling, the vocal tactician plied his trade in the National Super League with Sony Sugar,  which apparently is set to re-brand to Gusii United. Juma, who immediately hit the ground running after his unveiling by taking the playing unit through their drills, will have his first league assignment in Stima colours on Friday when they confront Mathare United in Nairobi. The former Chemelil Sugar boss opened up on his plan to guide the struggling power men to a top eight finish this season despite the club languishing in the red zone currently. Stima have gathered a paltry five points out of a possible 27 and consequently sit third from bottom. “It feels good to return to the senior league after spending the last three years in the National Super League. After overseeing the first training session yesterday, I  concluded that the team has the capacity to finish within the top eight bracket. I may not ask for one hundred percent performance from the players in the remaining first leg matches since they will be adapting to my philosophy but our opponents will have it rough in the second leg,” he said. With the transfer window already open, Juma disclosed plans to sign experienced players, whom he anticipates will aid him deliver his target owing to their long stay in the competition. Stima have found the going tough in the league this season after losing more than a dozen players in the last transfer window. The club was also hit hard last year after the Kenya Power and Lighting Company withdrew their shirt sponsorship “I do not intend to recruit big names due to the current financial situation at the club but I will bring in a host of senior players who will guide the young turks towards achieving our aim. Coaching becomes easier when you have senior players as they guide the young ones," he added.