 The East African Legislative Assembly wants partner states to harmonise policies and laws appertaining to the Lake Victoria Basin. The MPs want the EAC Council of Ministers and the Lake Victoria Basin Commission (LVBC) to embark on the harmonisation process. The regional assembly further wants LVBC and EAC Partner States, to jointly establish surveillance for safety, security and rescue matters in the lake according to a report of the Committee on Agriculture, Tourism and Natural Resources (ATNR) on the On-Spot Assessment of the Lake Victoria Basin. The report which was unanimously passed by the MPs was presented yesterday to the House in Arusha by Mathias Kasamba on behalf of the substantive Committee Chair, Abdulla Makame. The report also tasks the region to make every effort to safeguard LVBC’s mandate, by strengthening its capacity, through enhanced funding and provision of requisite human resources. The on-spot assessment of the Lake Basin was undertaken by the regional Assembly at the LVBC headquarters in Kisumu, Kenya last year. The committee held  meetings with the management of the LVBC where it was informed (the committee) about functions, activities and programmes as well as the institution’s achievements and challenges. The report avers that LVBC has achieved a number of achievements including preparation of the LVBC Bill, 2019 (The Bill has since being passed by the EALA and awaits assent by the EAC Heads of State), installation of 86 aids to navigation equipment in the Lake to ensure safety of navigation and formulation of the Oil Spills and Toxic Chemicals Contingency Plan. The Contingency Plan aims at guiding necessary actions to be taken, should an incident or accident, that spills toxic chemicals in to the Lake Victoria take place. According to the report, the basin is also facing notable challenges which include encroachment in the ecosystem, unsustainable land use practices and construction and farming on wetlands. Other challenges include the continuous water hyacinth considered an invasive weed, unsustainable land usage and practices, deforestation and fluctuating water levels. Also notable is the lack of legal personality status of the LVBC, which limits the commission because it cannot sign agreements in its name. During the debate, Adam Kimbisa, called for serious investments in the Lake Basin by the EAC Partner States if the region was to develop economically, while Fatuma Ndangiza, decried the heavy donor dependency at the institution. She further called for immediate address of the legal instruments that currently challenge the legal existence of LVBC. MP Oburu Oginga, reiterated staffing as critical in efficient delivery of services at the Institution. On his part, Pierre Celestin Rwigema and Francoise Umuwukiza, urged the EAC Council of Ministers to look for alternative mechanisms to fund LVBC and other EAC institutions. The report also brings to the fore significant progress on the living standards of the people in the region. “The Assembly notes support to cross-border populations that are vulnerable to health risk and environmental degradation to improve their livelihood and conserve fragile ecosystem in Bisoro and Nyarusange Communes (Burundi), Endebbes and Saboti (Kenya), Rulindo and Bugesera (Rwanda), Maswa and Itilima (Tanzania) and Mbale and Kapchorwa (Uganda),” Kasamba noted. On resource capacity, the report talks of perennial under-staffing which is hampering LVBC from achieving its set objectives. It cites the short tenure of five years for the Executive Secretary like other Heads of the EAC Institutions as a move that brings negative impact to the institutions and the Community in general. At the same time, the position of Deputy Executive Secretary at LVBC and various other posts, need to be filled urgently, the report states. “EALA urges the Council of Ministers to direct the EAC Ad hoc Service Commission to expedite the recruitment process for all vacancies in Organs and Institutions of the Community. The Assembly further wants EAC Council of Ministers to take in to consideration the tenure of Head of Institution (LVBC), taking into account the need for the Community to retain highly qualified and experienced experts”, a section of the report presented to the House states. Edited by Sarah Kanyara 