Kirinyaga county will soon set up a husk factory that will process agricultural byproducts to furniture boards through a partnership with the British government. This is part of the UKAID funded Sustainable Urban Economic Development programme (SUED) in Kirinyaga that will see agricultural byproducts such as coffee, cassava and rice made into furniture boards. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has lauded the British government for partnering with her county government to deliver socio-economic development programmes. “The cordial relationship between Kirinyaga County and the UK Government is set to earn the county one of the biggest value addition factories in the county,” she said. “This will be a source of employment to county residents and earn extra income for farmers as well,” Waiguru added. The governor spoke at an event where the UK High Commissioner Jane Marriot met with Central Region Economic Bloc (CEREB) county governors. Kirinyaga County through SUED aims to develop an Urban Economic Plan for Kerugoya/Kutus Municipality which is expected to be completed by August. Waiguru noted that the plan will promote economic growth in a sustainable in an inclusive manner through prioritized integrated projects as well as harness the great potential in the municipality transforming it into a major investment hub. “The programmes will go a long way in improving the livelihoods of the county residents and achieving the county’s development agenda,” she added. Waiguru appealed to Marriot to extend similar economic empowerment programmes to other counties within the economic bloc. Kirinyaga and Tharaka Nithi are the only counties among the 12 in Central that have qualified for the SUED programme. Marriot noted that UK and Kenya enjoy a cordial development partnership and that the former is willing to extend more development programmes to more counties in the region. The Central Economic Bloc comprises of 10 counties namely Kirinyaga, Embu, Kiambu, Murang’a, Laikipia, Meru, Nakuru, Nyandarua, Nyeri and Tharaka Nithi. Also, in attendance of the meeting that was held in Nyeri were Governors Muthomi Njuki-Tharaka Nithi, Francis Kimemia-Nyandarua, Mutahi Kahiga-Nyeri and James Njoro-Kiambu.  