Car and General has reported a 50 per cent jump in its net profit for the year ended September 2020, even as the Covid-19 pandemic strained its business. Profit after tax over the period was Sh274 million up from Shs 182 million made during the same period last year. Even so, profitability was significantly impacted by forex losses of Sh82 million resulting from the depreciation of the Kenya Shilling. “Our results would have been significantly better without this.The year to September 2020 proved extremely challenging given the impact of Covid 19,”the company said in a statement. Notwithstanding, in spite of significant upheaval throughout East Africa, the Group posted a two per cent growth in turnover. This is despite sales dropping as much as 70 per cent in the third quarter of the financial year , with the Kenyan market witnessing a 2.5 per cent drop. Sales outside Kenya however grew 8.7 per cent. Uganda and Tanzania now represent over 40 per cent of Group sales with two wheelers and three wheelers coming to offsetthe overall economic business contraction during the period. “Our two wheeler and three wheeler (“tuk tuk”) businesses experienced reasonable growth. Our equipment businesses (namely tractors, construction equipment and forklifts) remained flat,” the firm said. Turnover for the year under review was Sh12.1 billion against Sh11.9 billion achieved the previous financial year. In its property investment portfolio, the company recorded a valuation loss of Sh52 million, blamed on “adverse current market conditions.” It has completed one development, Nairobi Mega, on Uhuru Highway which opened on June 10, 2020 with retail giant-Carrefour as the anchor tenant. “We have commenced the planning of a second development in Shanzu, Mombasa. We continue to review the property portfolio to ensure it generates satisfactory returns,” management said. The board has recommended a dividend payout of Sh32 million (Sh0.8 per share) which is the same level as the previous year.