The cases of unrest in schools might be a result of drug abuse among learners, the National Authority for Campaign against Alcohol and Drug Abuse has said. The agency on Monday said their claim was not based on recent evidence but previous surveys in learning institutions unearthed rampant substance abuse. Nacada board chair Mabel Imbuga said a national survey carried out in June 2018 found that 20.2 per cent — one in five — of primary school pupils have ever used at least one drug or substance in their lifetime. The survey, ‘Status of Drugs and Substance Abuse among Primary School Pupils in Kenya’ also found that 16.9 per cent of learners were using at least one drug or substance of abuse. It further revealed that 3.2 per cent of primary school pupils were using tobacco, 2.6 per cent were on alcohol and 2.3 per cent chewing miraa or muguka. “This data points to the need for an urgent concerted effort aimed at preventing additional statistics among school-going children as one of the ways through which to curb this menace,” Imbuga said. The survey showed students found drugs in kiosks or shops near the school (28.6 per cent) and bars (25.7 per cent). More than 19.3 per cent got the drugs from friends, 13.7 per cent from other students while 13.6 per were supplied by school workers. Imbuga said tackling alcohol and drug abuse should involve both state and non-state actors. Ministries of Interior, Health and Education, Nacada, counties, parents and guardians must all come on board, she said. “Parents have a responsibility to nurture their children positively and those who choose to raise their children in a home where addiction is prevalent and even considered normal, can end up harming them in various ways,” she said. “Children look up to their parents for guidance in all ways and when a parent’s judgment is affected by substance abuse, they can not only cause a mental, physical, and emotional disturbance, but they can also severely alter or hamper their child’s development in all these stages.” Imbuga said Nacada offers school-based programmes which have resulted in a tremendous improvement in awareness levels on the dangers of drug abuse. The agency also runs family programmes focusing on positive parenting and strengthened communities. “In line with the Covid-19 prevention protocols established by Ministry of Health, we have embarked on media-driven campaigns to reach out to schools and engage them on prevention initiatives,” he said. Nacada called on schools’ boards of management to establish guidance and counselling departments or have chaplains to support learners and prevent their initiation into drug use. “In the meantime, we invite affected schools, churches and other institutions to liaise with us through our regional offices for support and inclusion into our school-based programmes,” she said. Imbuga said the agency is ready to work with and support any institutions requiring help in alcohol and drug abuse prevention and treatment. (edited by o. owino)