Tullow is reviewing its future in Kenya with an investment decision expected by the end of this year, even as major global oil producers move to cut output. The British oil firm and its Joint Venture Partners are currently re-working the development project for Kenya, which it says will “ensure that it is robust at low oil prices.” Oil prices rose by about one per cent on Tuesday as major producers cut output in line with their commitments on restraint, supporting a market thrown out of balance by weak demand during the Covid-19 pandemic. Brent crude was up 51 cents, or 0.9 per cent, at $56.86 a barrel by 0134 GMT, while U.S oil gained 53 cents, or 1 per cent, to $54.08 a barrel. Tullow expects to submit a revised plan to the Government of Kenya later this year, according to management, as it makes major investment decisions across its sites, including mobilising drilling rigs. A drilling rig is being mobilised to Ghana to commence operations in the second quarter of the year, with development drilling restarting in Gabon and Equatorial Guinea, whilst decommissioning activity continues in Mauritania and the United Kingdom. In December, the firm together with its JV-partners received an extensions for its exploration licenses in Kenya to the end of 2021. The firm is currently exploring Blocks 10BB and 13T in the Turkana oil fields, while it reassesses Project Oil Kenya with a phased development concept. In its latest financial and operational update,dated January 27,  the firm announced a capital expenditure forecast of $265 million(Sh29.2 billion) across its operations, with Kenya on its cards. An additional $100 million (Sh11 billion) will be spent on decommissioning with organisational restructuring expected to deliver sustainable annual cash savings of over $125 million (Sh13.8 billion). "Despite the challenges that 2020 presented, Tullow delivered production in line with expectations, executed major reductions to its cost-base and reduced net debt through the Uganda asset sale, CEO Rahul Dhir said. “Tullow has a busy year ahead as we begin implementing the business plan that we laid out at our Capital Markets Day,” he added. The plan is focused on ensuring that Tullow’s producing assets reach their full potential. “We will leverage the new plan and our reduced cost base to generate positive free cash flow at current commodity prices, drive down our net debt and deliver a robust balance sheet,” said Dhir. In execution of its programme in Kenya, the company is working closely with the government on land and water agreements, gaining approval of the Environmental and Social Impact Assessments and finalising the commercial framework for the project. The successful completion of this work will enable the submission of Field Development Plans to the Kenyan government, according to management. The company last year successfully completed the Early Oil Pilot Scheme (EOPS), a two-year programme that was implemented with JV partners–Total and Africa Oil. The scheme, management says, successfully served its purpose by providing critical technical data, logistical and operational experience, and training that will materially assist the journey towards Full Field Development (FFD). The pilot scheme involved developing five existing wells in the Amosing and Ngamia fields located in Blocks 13T and 10BB and the transportation of 2,000 barrels of oil per day by road, from Turkana to Mombasa. This culminated with the maiden shipment of 240,000 barrels of Kenya crude on August 26, 2019 , valued at $13.4 million (about Sh1.5 billion then), the first ever lifting of oil from East Africa to the international market.