ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi has convened a top leadership meeting at his Mululu home in Sabatia on Saturday to chart his political journey. The meeting will come barely four days after Mudavadi together with Gideon Moi (Kanu), Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) and Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) announced forming a super alliance ahead of 2022. Close confidants of Mudavadi told the Star that the ANC party leader wants the meeting to be a private affair. “I can confirm there will be a meeting at Mululu on Saturday but I cannot tell you the agenda and the people who have been invited,” the source said. Mudavadi, Moi, Wetang’ula and Kalonzo announced on Tuesday that they will form a union that will provide the best bet at forming the next government. The alliance could be seen as a third political alternative for Kenyans as Deputy President William Ruto and ODM leader Raila Odinga are also interested in succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta. The four are said to be working on the finer details of the alliance that will support one presidential candidate. Another confidant revealed that the meeting will bring together top politicians, opinion leaders and elders from Western region. “Mudavadi wants to solidify his backyard before he goes out to seek the support of other regions,” he said. Leaders from the region allied to the ANC leader have been asking Mudavadi to leave Western to them and seek the support of other regions. Speaking during a memorial service for Mudavadi’s mother Hannah Atsianzale at Friends International Centre in Nairobi last month, Western politicians made passionate pleas for Luhya unity as they pledged to rally behind the ANC party leader in his 2022 presidential bid. Muhoho Kenyatta, the younger brother of President Kenyatta, suggested that united Luhyas could give Mudavadi the presidency. “Togetherness of the community could lead to much greater roles and development not only at home, but in the country as a whole,” he said. On January 21, Mudavadi dispelled claims that Uhuru endorsed him for the top seat during the burial of his mother on January 9. He said the President is not the kind of person who would impose a leader on people. Mudavadi, Kalonzo, Moi and Wetang’ula first announced that they were working together during a public rally in Machakos on January 27 to drum up support for Wiper senatorial candidate Agnes Kavindu. The four leaders have been campaigning together for ANC’s Peter Nabulindo in Matungu, Ford-Kenya’s Majimbo Kaqlasinga in Kabuchai and Kavindu. The leaders are seen to be banking on the Building Bridges Initiative (Bill), which if passed into law will offer several leadership positions in the Executive including a Prime Minister and two deputies. Speaking in Matungu on Wednesday, Mudavadi said their pronouncement of an alliance in the making still stands. He said they are forging ahead to form a united alliance that will focus on improving the lives of all Kenyans. Kalonzo said the journey had begun and there would be no turning back. Moi has called on Kenyans to support the team saying it will deliver change after the exit of President Kenyatta. The four will be returning to Machakos next week to further drum up support for Kavindu. Edited by Henry Makori