 Agriculture CS Peter Munya has hit out at Deputy President William Ruto over the DP's incessant criticism of the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Opposition leader Raila Odinga. Ruto has been criticising the handshake, blaming the deal for the government's failure to meet its objectives. The DP who is already campaigning for 2022 has often said the handshake disrupted government agenda and was largely to blame for the Jubilee administration's unfulfilled pledges. But Munya on Friday said the handshake should not be used as an "excuse for one's failures." Munya said the Ruto should be responsible because "responsible leaders should own up to their own failures and stop blaming others for them." “I hear people saying that the handshake stopped some work. We are here and this is work going on. Isn’t the handshake there anymore? So how does the handshake stop any work?” Munya said. He spoke at Liwatoni Fisheries Complex where he commissioned three deep-sea fishing boats worth Sh60 million. Ruto has previously claimed the handshake pushed backed the government's Big Four agenda in favour of the Building Bridges Initiative. “We had good plans for the country, including the Big Four agenda. But somewhere along the way someone else came in and suddenly we were told there is an emergency called the BBI,” Ruto said in Mombasa on February 7. On Friday, Munya said the handshake has actually enhanced the government’s work. “This is because there is tranquillity and a conducive environment for development works to take place. There is no more volatility,” Munya said. DP Ruto’s allies say the BBI has denied development projects the funds they deserve to be completed and finances have instead been diverted to ensure the BBI is passed through a referendum. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, a Ruto ally, said the BBI is meant to benefit a cabal of only 10 people. “It is these 10 people who are pulling all the stops to ensure the BBI passes,” Ali said. But Munya said it was deceitful to tell Kenyans the handshake has caused the stalling of development projects. He said those trying to demonise the handshake are enemies of the people and development and are only out to confuse wananchi. “How is that even possible?” the CS said. Munya said Uhuru is making deliberate efforts towards helping youth get jobs and be self-employed. “He does not bring these tools like the one called wheelbarrow. He cannot give you wheelbarrows to roam around with,” Munya said in an indirect attack on Ruto who has made the wheelbarrow his hustler movement symbol. Kenya is moving away from manual technology to a digital economy, Munya said. He said Uhuru has worked for the country and his work is there for all to see. “He has been recognised globally and even made the patron of the global blue economy. Is it really possible that the world approached him and made him patron because he does not work?” posed Munya. The CS said work has to be planned in offices and implemented on the ground, not the other way round. He said meticulous planning, done by experts, has to happen for any development to be realised. “But there are those who are permanently in cars going round and they say they are working. One wakes up in the morning, today, tomorrow, going around the country for three, four years. So you ask yourself, when does this person plan for work? And most of the time he goes to the projects already done and claims responsibility.” He said leaders should not unfairly claim responsibility for completed projects and distance themselves from those that have stalled or failed. “Only the ones that are incomplete belong to the President. Success, you own it, failure is not yours. No! It doesn’t work that way,” the CS said.  Edited by P.O