Despite watching bid to launch his professional career scatter at the eleventh hour, Harambee Stars' forward Piston Mutamba harbours no hard feelings towards his parent club, Bidco United. Mutamba was unveiled late last month by Libyan outfit Asswehly from Bidco but it has emerged that the two parties failed to reach consensus, leaving the player pressed between a rock and a hard place. Mutamba quietly jetted out to complete the move last week but the former national U23, Emerging Stars striker alleges that Bidco’s demands orchestrated its fall. The player, who is in his final two months in his contract, says the league debutants demanded Sh500,000 to let him off their books, an amount their Libyan counterparts failed to raise before the closure of their transfer window. He further alleges that Bidco recalled him to return home and honour his contract to the last day after their asking price was turned down by Asswehly. The Kakamega High School alumnus was part of the more than a dozen players hit by the Wazito purge in July last year but found a soft landing at Bidco at the start of the season, where he penned a six-month long deal. “The deal fell through in the last minute after the two clubs stalled in the negotiations. I had already travelled in anticipation of starting my professional career but it is unfortunate I did not succeed in pursuing my ambitions. I have no problem with the management and the technical bench of Bidco United,” he said in the telephone interview However, the club in a rejoinder claim that Mutamba shot himself in the foot by forging his clearance certificate and blotting club image. "He asked for permission to attend trials in Libya but it dawned on us that he had secured an offer already.We wouldn't have stood on his way had he not forged his release letter and gone against the contract which he signed with us. He has ruined the reputation of the club and will be subjected to disciplinary actions once he returns," said the club secretary general, Geoffrey Misango Meanwhile, the former Sofapaka striker is expected to jet back today following the collapse of his transfer to Asswehly. "I am glad that Asswehly did everything they could do to keep me comfortable. Unfortunately, I have to travel back to Nairobi today," he added.   