The Cabinet on Thursday considered and approved the Children Bill, 2020. The bill is among 14 that have been sent to parliament. The Bill seeks to address the increased vulnerability of children in Kenya by addressing the challenges that arise from the breakdown of families and of community systems. In a dispatch after a cabinet meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta, the Cabinet said this is amid efforts to promote the wellness of the country and being mindful of the central place of the family as the basic unit of the society. The Cabinet noted that the curriculum reforms being instituted under the stewardship of the Ministry of Education have an interplay with enhancing the opportunities available to children in Kenya. "As Kenya’s apex policymaking organ, Cabinet also underscored the need to continuously drive focus on children and children affairs in every aspect of public life," the dispatch read. As part of human capital development geared towards strengthening the governance and management of universities, the Cabinet further considered and approved the Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2021. The proposed amendments seek to entrench the ethos of good governance in institutions of higher learning while enhancing the regulatory role of the Commission on University Education. The Cabinet also considered legislative proposals that seek to enhance the ease of doing business and foster the participation of Micro, Small and Medium enterprises in business by establishing a legal framework for Multiple Awards of Contracts. "That framework would allow for large contracts to be awarded in one-unit price to multiple parties, as opposed to the current “winner takes it all” approach," read part of the dispatch. To enhance participation of the private sector in national development, Cabinet also considered and approved the Public-Private Partnerships Bill, 2021; a legislative intervention to strengthen and revitalise the Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) Programme through enhancing the ease of private sector participation in financing, construction, development, and operation or maintenance of infrastructural or development projects undertaken by the Government. With respect to Bills, Regulations and other Statutory Instruments, Cabinet approved the Public-Private Partnerships Bill, 2021, the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal (Amendment) Bill,2020, the Universities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the National Sustainable Waste Management Policy and Bill,2020, the Community Groups Registration Bill, 2019 and the Proposed Public Management (Equalization Fund)Regulations, Bill 2020 for transmittal to Parliament. Other bills include the Irrigation Act (Amendment) Bill, 2020 and the Irrigation(General) Regulations, 2020, the Children Bill, 2020,  Business Laws (Amendments No.2) Bill, 2020, the National Electronic Single Window System Bill, 2020, the 2021 Budget Policy Statement, the Division of Revenue Bill,2021, the County Allocation of Revenue Bill, 2021, and the Medium-Term Debt Management Strategy, 2021. The Winding Up of Dormant Funds and the Repeal of their Enabling Acts, the Propose Public Finance Management (Public Investment Management) Regulations, 2021 and the Water Regulations, 2021 have also been sent to parliament.