After bagging a crucial 1-0 away win in the first leg of the CAF Confederations Cup playoff, battle-hardened Napsa Stars right-back David 'Calabar' Owino says Gor Mahia are a shadow of their former self. Owino, who won three league titles with K'Ogalo, said the quality of players at the club has reduced over the years. "The players we had during my time and the current one and are heaven and earth apart. The team assembled during our days had the capacity to beat any team in Africa, " Owino said. He added that it was time to improve the management of local football for Kenyan clubs to excel continentally. "There is no big difference between the two countries as far as football is concerned but Zambian clubs take football as a full-time job unlike here," he opened up. The Zambian side — placed 13th in the Zambian Premier League — defied odds to floor Gor Mahia 1-0 yesterday at the Nyayo National Stadium, leaving them with an easier task of registering a draw of any kind at home to book a place in the group stages. Gor, who were pre-match favourites, were punished for their wastefulness in front of goal by Daniel Adoko who fired an 85th minute thunderbolt to settle the contest and leave Gor's chances of advancing further in the competition hanging by the thread. Owino, who clocked full minutes against his former employer, observed that Gor has the mettle to turn the results in their favour in the return leg set for next weekend in Lusaka. "It was a tough game and I must laud my teammates for sticking to the game plan throughout. Our plan was to remain compact and take a chance and luckily it worked for us. The return game will not be easy; it will depend on how each team will prepare for the match, " said the Harambee Stars player said. The stocky defender was the sole player to be cautioned in the match. Meanwhile Gor forward Nicholas Kipkirui is hopeful they can upset Napsa in the return leg. "We should not be written off yet. We have a chance to beat them convincingly in Lusaka and advance to the group stages," the former Zoo FC striker said.