Homa Bay women should support political leaders who will champion their development agenda and improve their living standards, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero has said. Kidero said that many of the devolved functions touch on women and the lives of people at the grassroots. He challenged the women to go for visionary politicians who will harness these functions to their benefit. The Homa Bay governor aspirant said women are the majority in the county and will play an integral role during elections. Homa Bay has eight constituencies with more than 465,000 voters. Of the registered voters, more than half are women. Kidero said due to their high numbers, the women are able to determine who becomes governor and address their challenges. Kidero asked women in Homa Bay to remain focused when electing people who will lead them for another five years after the 2022 elections. “The ball is in your court. Support leaders with a vision to help you achieve your development agendas after the 2022 general poll,” Kidero said. He spoke at Goono Konyuka in Homa Bay town when he met more than 400 women from all eight constituencies. The former governor said should he get elected his administration will focus on water, health and trade to ensure women and youths are empowered. More than five people have expressed interest in succeeding Governor Cyprian Awiti alongside Kidero. They are Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata, ODM chairman John Mbadi, Woman Representative Gladys Wanga, politician Louis Ogingo, businessman Jared Kiasa, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori. They all want the seat through ODM ticket. On Saturday, Kidero said Homa Bay is endowed with numerous resources and has great potential for development. He said he will set up a pineapple processor in Rangwe, a sweet potato plant in Kabondo Kasipul constituency, and an animal feeds factory in Homa Bay town. “There is a need to start a fish processing factory in Homa Bay to help our fisher-folk. We produce a lot of fish from Lake Victoria because we have more than 60 per cent of the water in Kenya,” he said. Kidero who was accompanied by former Homa Bay Trade executive Carilus Ademba asked residents to ignore politicians who talk ill against their rivals. He said his administration will also improve road networks and enhance transportation. “Let every candidate sell you their development agenda. Don’t listen to people who always discuss others especially aspiring political leaders,” he added. Ademba said Kidero has adequate experience in management and will help transform Homa Bay if given the chance. “It’s high time we the people of Homa Bay elected a governor whose ability in management is not doubted,” Ademba said. In their statement read by Florence Oyier, the women said they will stand with Kidero in 2022 and vowed to vote for the Building Bridges Initiative in the referendum. “Homa Bay women will go for leaders who have been tested and proved. We’re also fully behind the constitutional amendments through BBI,” she said. 