Africa is the most vulnerable continent to climate change impacts under all climate scenarios above 1.5 degrees Celsius, experts have warned. Despite the continent contributing the least to global warming and having the lowest emissions, it is likely to be the victim of climate change, hence, need  for different approach to tackle the problem; among them community involvement strategy. In 2015, global leaders pledged to tackle the climate change through the adoption of the Paris Agreement that saw over 196 countries agreed to tackle climate change. Five years down the line the world is still far from meeting the climate goals of capping the global average temperature increase at “well below two degree Celsius above pre-industrial levels. It is also still pursuing efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. It is on this basis a rural community in Dundori- Nyandarua County has partnered with Dundori Community Forest Association [CFA] to play their part in dealing with climate change. According to Nyandarua Donkey Owners Community Based Organisation John Mbugua, their harvest have been dropping as a result changing weather patterns. This is why we decided as a community to tackle the impact of climate change by conserving the Dundori forest by planting trees,” Mbugua said. The Nyandarua Donkey Owners CBO is made up of 16 groups who are mainly donkey owners. In order to create a harmonious co-existence, they designed a win-win situation. KENDAT and Dundori CFA and the Dundori Donkey Owners Self Help Group under Nyandarua CBO group created a project to conserve the forest. “The CBO has set up a tree nursery in an acre piece of land which combines both indigenous and exotic seedlings. Their job is to ensure that they plant trees within the designated area, cater for them and in return their animals are allowed to graze within a certain part of the forest,’’Peter Nguru, chairman, Dundori CFA said. Climate change experts argue that Africa is the most vulnerable continent to climate change impacts under all climate scenarios above 1.5 degrees Celsius. The continent has contributed the least to global warming and having the lowest emissions. They also advise that the continent needs a different approach to tackle the climate change problem, among them is community involvement strategy. Bilha Nyambura a member of the Nyandarua Community Based Organisation revealed that it’s time for everyone to conserve the forest and water towers at large. “There is the bit the government can do but we as the community need to start conserving our forest and water towers or else we shall all perish,’’ Nyambura said. Her group has been able to grow over 54,000 indigenous and 46,000 exotic seedlings. She adds that the nursery has enabled the group make a living from selling the seedlings to different the community and also other stakeholders and money made from the sales are divided among the members or channeled to other activities. The group now plans to venture into bamboo farming within the riverbeds as way of controlling the soil erosion.