Meru nurses have resumed their work stations demotivated but with hope the county government will heed to their grievances after a court order. A labour and employment relations court sitting in Nyeri on Friday ordered the nurses to return to work but will meet with the county government to resolve their grievances. Justice Njagi Marete ordered the two parties to reach an amicable solution before February 17, when the case will be mentioned and progress report tabled to the court. The judge ordered that the nurses unconditionally resume duty forthwith and in any event by 1800 hours. "Towards with the court order on negotiations made, the parties be and are hereby ordered to meet and thrash out all outstanding issues of this dispute and come up with a solution to the issues leading to the strike,” judge Marete ordered. Knun Meru branch secretary-general Nesbit Mugendi said they are forced by the county to work under hostile conditions. "The information we have been receiving is in form of messages telling us we are working illegally. The letters are termination letters. This is against the court order, which was clear of no conditions to return to work." "Some nurses who had returned to their stations yesterday attending to mothers at the maternity wing were shocked to be told that in case of anything the liability solely lies on them," Mugendi said on Monday. “We are not able to carry on our duties. Some were chased from their work station. According to the county government, we should not go back to work." "They want us to go back on condition, whereas we have not given conditions. The environment is hostile and some departments are closed,” Mugendi added. The official said the county is forcing the nurses to pick their termination letters despite the court orders. Reached for comment, Meru Health executive Misheck Mutuma told the Star the nurses are under Public Service Board as their employer. "I can't offer you much unless I refer you to the public service board," Mutuma said on the phone. Lawyer Kiogora Mugambi had sued the nurses' union seeking orders to bar the members from the nationwide strike. Some of the issues that the union raised were that the county had not stated clearly the insurance covers they were allowed to apply for once reinstated. They said the county had promoted some of the trade workers while other salaries were not raised. Justice Marete had earlier issued orders stopping the recruitment of 496 new nurses as advertised by the county government. The judge also ordered the Meru government, the County Public Service Board and the Kenya National Union of Nurses to engage in negotiations to settle the matter. 