County accounting and procurement officers could soon find themselves in the radar of detectives after a parliamentary watchdog committee recommended their prosecution. In a departure from the norm, the Senate County Public Accounts and Investments Committee has spared governors and instead decided to go after accounting officers for the possible loss of county funds under their watch. In the past, the committee recommended investigations, prosecution, sanction and surcharge of the county bosses for the possible loss of taxpayers’ money in their administrations. Some of the counties mentioned in the CPAIC 2015-18 reports include Wajir, Narok, Homa Bay, Lamu, Kericho, Mandera and Mombasa. Others are Taita Taveta, Kilifi, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kakamega and Kiambu. The committee scrutinises the county government books of accounts. The reports show that accounting officers oversaw massive illegalities and irregularities, ranging from flawed procurement, inflated payments, payment for stalled or incomplete multi-million projects to accumulation of pending bills. The reports show, for instance, that the officers are not recovering imprest running into millions of shillings, have not prepared assets and liabilities register thus putting at risk county property. Some of the officers have also opened several commercial bank accounts contrary to the law. In addition, they are poorly keeping records, their budgeting is poor and riddled with weak performance controls while others are not submitting finance documents to auditors for audit – ostensibly to hide their mischief. The situation has been worsened by a wave of fires targeting finance offices, which the committee now wants DCI and EACC to investigate. The panel not only wants the officers prosecuted but has also recommended to their bosses – governors – to institute administrative actions to deter them from future omission and commission that put the taxpayers’ money at risk. In the report tabled in the Senate last Thursday, the Kisii Senator Sam Ongeri-led committee indicted the Baringo Governor Stanley Kiptis-led administration over the loss of Sh6.67 million in the procurement of pharmaceuticals. The county dished out LPOs that quoted higher prices. As such, the county spent Sh13.48 million instead of Sh6.80 million. “The committee observed that there was a breach of procurement laws and procedures which may have resulted to loss of public funds,” the report reads. Further, the committee wants action taken against procurement officers for the possible loss of Sh10.86 million. The county procured assorted items without quotations being collected by bidders. The officers are also under fire for irregular expenditure of Sh2.35 million in the routine road maintenance. “If the behaviour persists during the audit of the FY 20200-2021, the accounting officer may be prosecuted for breach of section 197(k) of the Public Finance Management Act,” the report says. In Kakamega, the committee has recommended to DPP Noordin Haji to prosecute Governor Wycliffe Oparanya and the county finance chief officer for the millions of taxpayers' money sunk in a stalled construction of a borehole at Likuyani. The officer is accused of facilitating payment of Sh2.28 million despite the project stalling at a capping level. “The committee recommended that DPP prosecutes the responsible accounting officer for breach of section 197(k) of the Public Finance Management Act,” reads the report. In addition, the panel wants officers who procured for the construction of Sh66.66 million governor’s residence for their omission and commission that led to the loss of public money. “The committee notes that no due diligence was conducted in the initial tendering process for the governor’s residence, leading to negligence and loss of public funds for the cancelled tender. “Further, noting that the governor is the chief executive officer of the county government pursuant to Article 179(4) of the Constitution, the buck stops with him and he ought to take responsibility for actions taken by the county executive,” the report says. The nine-member Senate committee also wants administrative action taken against officers who irregularly procured 24 laptops worth Sh4.77million and 48 motorcycles valued at Sh11.83 million without the approval of the county executive and budget respectively. In Governor Cyprian Awiti’s Homa Bay, the committee is pushing for the prosecution of accounting offices who approved the use of Sh43.34 million as foreign travel and subsistence. There were no supporting documents, raising concerns the money could have been embezzled. “If the behaviour persists during the audit of the FY2020-2021, the accounting officer may be prosecuted for breach of section 197(k) of the Public Finance Management Act,” it says. Further, the team wants accounting officers to take action against juniors for the expenditure of Sh400.54 million on specialised materials and other operating expenses without proof. In addition, the officers spent Sh479.71 million allegedly on expenditures on payment for Kemsa supplies, construction of roads and other civil works without supporting schedules.