The Building Bridges Initiative referendum campaigns will begin in earnest in the coming days because they are well designed with a purpose to achieve at the end of the day. It is my view that Kenya is set to witness the most highly charged campaigns to be seen in recent times. The campaigns will be rolled out aggressively with the intention of vanquishing Deputy President William Ruto and completely obliterating his 2022 presidential ambitions. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga will go flat out to use this referendum to build their team and momentum towards the 2022 General Election. The referendum would pass automatically without campaigning. But because of the huge stakes, the two will launch aggressive campaigns across the country aimed at vanquishing Ruto. The DP is afraid to come out and state his opposition to the BBI because he knows very well that his die is cast and he will lose terribly. The referendum is Ruto's Waterloo. This referendum was designed specifically to finish Ruto. The DP has not been careful enough and he is realising too late that it was designed to finish him. The DP was lucky that he did not oppose BBI directly. If he had, Uhuru and Raila would have been very happy. Basically, Ruto cannot come out now because he was unable to influence the counties to reject the referendum bill. It would have been easier for Ruto to influence the county assemblies and kill the BBI referendum than try to launch a No campaign. At the county assemblies, he would have turned the tables on his enemies by ensuring that all Rift Valley assemblies did not pass the BBI Bill and then reach out to his allies from Western and Mt Kenya. Ruto could have killed the referendum then. That was the only chance he had. If the county assemblies did not kill the referendum, going forward Ruto has no choice. The reggae dance rallies that will be rolled out will shock Ruto. It will look like a campaign of a lifetime.  The University of Nairobi lecturer and political analyst spoke to the Star