The intrigues surrounding Marianne Kitany and Meru Senator Mithika Linturi’s divorce case are far from over, with Kitany now asking a magistrate to recuse herself from case. The case has been in court since 2018 and in 2019 the country was treated to drama as the hearing was broadcasted live, showing the former lovers battling it out in court. In a new application, Kitany has asked senior principal magistrate Grace Mmasi to recuse herself from the case because she is not impartial. In an application filed by her lawyer Danstan Omari, Kitany claims that on December 8, Mmasi delivered a ruling of her stay application directing the case to proceed. Kitany says the magistrate went ahead to propose dates that were not favourable to her lawyer even though she had been informed. “The court proposed December 15 which her advocate indicated was not convenient and thereafter requested for a date after mid-January 2021 as per his diary,” Kitany claims. She says Mmasi refused to allow the dates and proceeded to give dates convenient to the court and Linturi without considering the indications of her advocates. According to documents filed in court, Mmasi told the parties in court that she was heading for retirement and therefore the matter had to proceed as per her diary. Kitany further says Mmasi told them that she had received communication from the High Court enquiring on the progress of the divorce case. “The said communication from the High Court is a clear indication of interference from other courts in this matter and same was not received by Kitany who is a party in this matter,” she argues. Kitany says the conduct of the magistrate is a clear indication that she is likely to influence fairness and justice in this case having portrayed partiality to Linturi during the session. She says she does not have trust any more in the trial court hearing and determining the matter impartially. “I wish to state that from the above incidences, I am worried that I am likely not to get justice if my case is heard and determined by the current trial court who appears not to consider the sentiments by my advocate,” she said. Mmasi is the fourth magistrate to handle the case after chief magistrate Gesora who had heard the case from the beginning was transferred early last year before he finished the hearing. Last year, the file was first taken to magistrate Liz Gicheha who said she could not handle the matter because she had heard a criminal case against one of the parties when she was in Meru. The file was then taken to senior principal magistrate D Mburu who recused himself from the divorce case because of personal reasons.