Most of the country's population will receive the Covid-19 vaccine next year according to the government's roll-out plan. The government on Friday dismissed reports that the vaccines will be rolled out in the country in December. Health CAS Dr Mercy Mwangangi on Friday termed reports saying otherwise as misleading and a total fabrication. The Health Ministry maintained that the plans to roll out the vaccines in three phases are still on course, adding that the first phase will be happening in this quarter. “For the avoidance of doubt, the deployment plan which is currently undergoing stakeholder inputs is aligned to the government fiscal year. Therefore, this is the third quarter of the current fiscal year which began in July last year and ends in June this year,” Mwangangi said. At the end of last month, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe had revealed that plans are underway to reach at least 1.25 million Kenyans with the Covid-19 between February and June. During this period, frontline healthcare workers, all staff working in health facilities and workers offering essential services will be inoculated with priority given to sectors such as security. The second phase is expected to run from July 2021 to June 2022 during which 9.7 million more Kenyans will receive the jab depending on availability of the vaccines. The target population in this phase will be Kenyans aged above 50 years and those above 18 years of age with underlying health conditions. Plans by the ministry show the third phase of the vaccination drive could run concurrently with the second phase, depending on availability of adequate vaccines, with the hope of reaching 4.9 million people who will include all other vulnerable populations. “The Covid-19 vaccination programme which is still on course is divided into three phases as we earlier informed you, and nothing has changed,” Mwangangi said. “It is important to note that if vaccines become available sooner than expected and resources are available the targets may change.” Kenya has already committed to initially procure 24 million doses of vaccines through the COVAX facility with the consignment expected in the country this month.