Schneider Electric has vowed to support the national Buy Kenya, Build Kenya initiative by announcing the launch of the locally-manufactured Prisma iPM electrical switchboard. The initiative is set to boost job creation opportunities in the country. To ensure the success of this initiative, Schneider Electric is investing in the training of its local personnel and partners to ensure that the product delivered to the market meets international IEC standards 61439-1&2. Prisma iPM is an electrical switchboard that is used to manage the electrical distribution system in large and commercial scale buildings. It will manufacture the enclosures at its local manufacturing facility in Kenya. Schneider Electric’s partners will assemble the final product to the highest technical and electrical safety quality standards. Local manufacture of enclosures will mark the beginning point in the localization of the IPM electrical switchboard. Trade CS Betty Maina launched Schneider Electric’s new Kenya-made switchboard at an event held at its Nairobi plant. “I’m delighted to see a multinational company such as Schneider Electric invest and scale upon its local manufacturing," The CS said. She said the government wants to further economic development through promoting local capabilities, and Schneider Electric’s launch today is an endorsement of our aim to grow industrialization in the country. Local production will reduce the time needed to get the Prisma iPM switchboards to market, lowering costs and making the product more affordable for Kenyan organizations. The Prisma iPM switchboard is a best-in-class design that can be easily upgraded and can be used in every type of commercial and industrial buildings, including retail, hotels, offices, schools, and hospitals. Building owners will benefit from world-class electrical technology at prices that offer excellent value for the local market. “Our technology is designed to be reliable, safe, and future-proof, and the Prisma iPM switchboard is an example of this,” explained Carol Koech, Country President East Africa at Schneider Electric. “We are excited about the opportunity to contribute to the country’s Buy Kenya, Build Kenya initiative and support both the nation’s economic development as well as its technical know-how. By assembling locally we’ll be better able to serve our customers nationwide as well as projects under the country’s National Housing Agenda.” Prisma iPM is designed to provide optimum safety as well as high reliability and continuity of service of any electrical installation thereby improving the efficiency and safety of electrical professionals. All switchboard configurations have been tested, are IEC standard compliant, and designed to meet the Schneider Electric quality guarantee.