Round eleven of the Football Kenya Federation Premier League will be the most exhilarating as some of the competition's favourites come head to head in the fiercest duels of the season. The focus of the weekend will be the titanic battle between traditional soccer giants Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards who will renew their bragging rights rivalry  in the much touted 'Mashemeji Derby' slated for  Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Sunday afternoon. Leopards are riding to the battle field on the back of an impressive run that has seen them win three matches in a row since their back-to-back debacles against Wazito FC and Western Stima who beat them 1-0 and 2-0 respectively. They last beat Gor in 2016 under Ivan Minnaert. They have since pulled off hard-fought wins against much stronger sides, including KCB, Kariobangi Sharks and Posta Rangers whom they edged 2-1, 2-0 and 2-1 respectively. Gor brushed aside their shock 1-0 loss to Vihiga United to wallop a hapless Zoo Kericho side 3-0 before running over Bandari 3-1 at Mbaraki, Mombasa. During their last two meetings n the 2019-20 season, Gor emerged the better side against Leopards, beating them 4-1 in their first battle before outclassing them 1-0 defeat in the second leg. In fact, Leopards will be seeking their first win in the last seven encounters with Gor Mahia. They have struggled to impress in the derby with their best performance being a one-all draw they registered against them in the  2017-18 season when they once again fell to Gor 1-0 in the return tie. Ingwe can, however, strut to the pitch confidently, while taking solace in the fact that they are way ahead of their arch rivals on the FKF-PL log. They are currently fourth on  18 points from eight matches while Gor Mahia are sixth on 15 points after eight matches. Leaders Tusker face Wazito at MISC, Kasarani on Friday. The Brewers are eager to consolidate their position at the apex of the log where they sit comfortably on 23 points after ten matches, a point above KCB. The moneybags, who are currently third on the log on 20 points, will be eager to throw their newly acquired midfielder Elly Asieche into the deep end of the brewery after clinching him from Sofapaka on Wednesday. KCB stand a mathematical chance to reclaim their spot at the summit if they manage to see off a resurgent Vihiga United side who recently pulled off a 1-0 upset away to Gor Mahia. Kariobangi Sharks hope to claim the scalp of Bandari when the two sides clash at Utalii Grounds on Saturday. The Nairobi lads are fifth on the log on 18 points from 10 matches and may climb to third if both Wazito and Leopards return negative results. Kakamega Homeboyz will host Nairobi City Stars at Bukhungu on the same day. Homeboyz are staring at relegation as they are precariously placed 15th, a spot above the play offs zone and two above relegation. Zoo have a date with Bidco at Kericho Green stadium. On Monday, Ulinzi Stars will be seeking their second win of the season as they settle scores with Western Stima who are looking forward to some positive results after tinkering their bench with coach Paul Ogai making way for Abdalla Juma. It will also be a day that will witness a battle between Mathare United and Nzoia Sugar at MISC, Kasarani.