Politicians campaigning for the Matungu parliamentary seat have found it difficult to handle talk about the revival of Mumias Sugar Company. They are keen to avoid mentioning the troubled mill, with voters seeming unhappy with empty promises from politicians. Most residents are sugarcane farmers who have borne the brunt of the collapse of the once giant mill. Candidates are finding it difficult to use sugarcane farming to endear themselves to the voters. The locals are unenthusiastic about the fortunes of the company and do not care to listen to any more promises. The by-election set for March 4 was caused by the death of MP Justus Murunga last year. ANC candidate Peter Nabulindo and Athman Wangara (independent) are some of the candidates who contend that sugarcane is no longer an issue in the campaigns. Nabulindo said the people are tired of listening to politicians talk about the revival of Mumias Sugar Company because they feel the issue had been used for a long time with nothing to show for the promises previously made. "Anytime you mention revival of the company, the people will tell you off because they feel they are being taken for a ride and you could easily lose their support," Nabulindo said. "People feel bad that sugarcane which supported them to put food on their tables and educate their children is dead and that they now have to sell land to raise school fees." Wangara said voters feel the Mumias issue has for a long time been used for political gain at the expense of voters. "The voters who are farmers now know that nothing good on sugar matters can come from politicians. You'd rather talk about other things but not sugarcane because by doing so, you hurt them even more," Wangara said. He is one of the former employees of the troubled mill. The company stopped milling two years ago over huge debts running into billions of shillings and lack of adequate raw materials occasioned by poaching of its contracted farmers by rival millers in the region. The closure resulted in loss of thousands of jobs and greatly hurt the economy of the region. The company is currently under receivership by the Kenya Commercial Bank group over unredeemed debentures and hopes for its revival remain remote. Earlier attempts by the national government to resuscitate the miller flopped even after pumping in over Sh3 billion in its turnaround plan. Those eyeing the Matungu seat have avoided holding large rallies and instead adopted door-to-door campaigns where they speak to voters one on one. "The big rallies are sometimes deceptive and you can easily falter because you end up talking to people who may not even be your supporters," Nabulindo said. The by-election has attracted 15 candidates. Nine of them are independents. Apart from Nabulindo and Wangara, other candidates include Alex Lanya (UDA), Charles Kasamani (United Democratic Party), Paul Achayo (Movement for Democracy and Growth), David Were (ODM) and Faida Auma of Maendeleo Chap Chap. The independent candidates are Murunga's widow Christabel Murunga and son Eugene Murunga, Bernard Wakoli, Gregory Atoko, Kevin Nectus, Wilberforce Lutta, Anzelimo Kongoti and Samuel Munyekenye.  Edited by P.O