Presidential hopeful Mukhisa Kituyi is assembling a robust campaign machine for his 2022 presidential bid. Days after returning to Kenya, the former Unctad secretary-general has started setting up a campaign secretariat and assembling a think tank as he girds for an epic contest. Unctad is the UN Conference on Trade and Development. Kituyi is registering a political party and is to visit his Western backyard to seek the blessings of his community before embarking on countrywide tours. “We are in the process of building up. We have our strategy coordination team, operations team, logistics team but we are still in the formative stage. We are still early in the day,” he told the Star in an exclusive interview on Wednesday. The former Trade Minister disclosed he is building a secretariat, a communications nerve center in the city and setting up resource mobilisation and outreach teams. “Right now, I am hauled back in Nairobi working on the secretariat and registration of the party. Soon after that, I will be announcing my itinerary as I go to Western Kenya,” he said, signalling a series of rallies. Kituyi said he will aim to consolidate the Western vote that has been divided for a long time. “I am just coming into the fray. I must maximise what I am able to mobilise before I say we sit down. Give me time to build my base,” he said. Kituyi is the latest entrant into the crowded presidential race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. He jetted back into the country at the weekend from Geneva, Switzerland, following his resignation at the end of his seven-year term at the Unctad helm. He disclosed he has been in talks with other like-minded "reformists" to forge a formidable force to propel him to State House. “There are some we have been talking to for a long time before I came back. But the basic thing is let me build the party. Let me tour the country. Let’s see how far we are able to go,” he said. Kituyi said reviving the economy after the ravages of Covid- 19 will top his agenda if elected president in the 2022 General Election. He dismissed claims his candidature was being sponsored by other parties to jeopardise Luhya unity and spoil Mudavadi’s chances of ascending to the country’s top seat. “Don’t think Kituyi is anybody’s project. Tell me, who in this country can be able to employ Kituyi as his project?” Kituyi asked. He added, “Who is sending me to spoil for Musalia? I think Musalia has been projecting himself as a system person. So how can the same system that he projects as representing send me to spoil for him?” Kituyi denounced the hustler narrative by Deputy President William Ruto and condemned tribal political alliances, saying leaders should come together and seek leadership based on their ideologies. “The choices about the next leadership of Kenya cannot be confined to persons who were in Kanu YK 1992. You cannot say the Gideon [Moi] Kalonzo [Musyoka] axes vis-a-vis the Ruto axis are the only choices,” he said.  (Edited by V. Grahm)