To his Murang’a county supporters, the open letter by former Senate Majority Whip Irungu Kang’ata to President Uhuru Kenyatta on alleged unpopularity of the Building Bridges to a New Kenya Initiative in the region was like wisdom “out of the mouth of babes”. There is no denying the fact that the highly publicised letter propelled the youthful senator in the eye of a storm in ways that he may not have imagined. In a country where competition as to who is more prayerful than the others is considered a qualification for political office, even if there is no demonstrable spiritual commitment, it might be helpful explaining that ‘out of the mouth of babes’ is in both the Old and New Testaments. Psalms (8:2) has God ordaining strength “out of the mouths of babes and sucklings”. Similarly, the Gospel of Matthew (21:16) quotes Jesus saying that “out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants, you have perfected praise”. Over the years, this idiomatic expression has changed to mean wisdom. Simply put, it means that young people or children, though inexperienced, are capable of saying wise, insightful, or mature things. But his own party has since removed Kang’ata from his position as Majority Whip in the Senate for being completely out of tune with the philosophy and the highly publicised standpoint of his party leader and co-initiator of the BBI, President Uhuru Kenyatta. In the treatise that the two leaders signed on March 9, 2018, at Harambee House, President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga point out that their action was informed in part by the painful reality of Kenya’s electoral system which, every election cycle, precipitates deadly violence leading to loss of lives and limb, displacement of populations and destruction of property. The two leaders also observed that all Kenyan elections, especially where there is a strong challenger facing an incumbent President, have been characterised by pre-election and post-election violence. This is true of the 1992, 1997, 2007 elections and even the 2017 polls that took place under the more progressive 2010 Constitution. The 2007 election witnessed the worst form of violence that almost drove the country to the precipice, had it not been for the timely intervention by the international community that culminated in the National Peace Accord Act of 2008. In the 2017 elections, violence and the resultant deaths, including of children, use of rape and other gender-based violence against women, and the massive destruction of property that accompanied it continue to be a blot on the integrity, dignity and sovereignty of Kenya among the community of civilised nations. For starters, Uhuru and Raila were the foremost protagonists in the 2013 and 2017 presidential elections. Unlike in 2007 when the international community intervened through the African Union, and everyone knew that talks were ongoing between the two political camps, there was no indication whatsoever in 2017 that the two sides had been talking. Yet when they showed up together, they had a detailed roadmap of what they christened as Building Bridges to a New Kenya Initiative. The roadmap had five key components. I will highlight three of them for now. The first component of the BBI agreement is the background in which the proponents reflect on the journey Kenya has travelled in the last 55 years in trying to arrive at the dreams of the founding fathers and mothers. This dream is “to build a great nation responsive to the needs for prosperity, fairness and prosperity for all Kenyans”. The background further admits that although Kenyans have made progress along this journey, we are yet to achieve the goals as set out by the founders at Independence in 1963. As a result of these failures, especially on leadership, Kenyans are “crying out for leadership that shows the path to dignity, prosperity and security”. The second component deals with ‘Where we have come from’, and reflects on the conflicts and tensions brought about by differences on strategies to take the country forward. This divergence on strategy has “led to lack of a collective approach in the management of public affairs, and fostered feelings of exclusion and animosity”. This second part therefore pitches for and puts the case for a decisive action on the part of the current leadership across the board to stop once and for all “the same dangerous political dynamics that have played out over the years, and that if not altered will result in the same kinds of calamities we have experienced in the past”. The third part addresses the question of where we should be going as a people, pointing to the direction that Kenya as a country must take if it has to avoid returning every so often to the dark, divisive and painful past described in the second part–‘Where we came from.’ It is in the third part where the two leaders state the main intent and purpose of BBI as “intent on not witnessing the country suffer similar future cycles of the same tribulations that have bedevilled us since 1963”. Since then, the two leaders have sought to offer leadership towards their shared vision that will hopefully prevent future generations inheriting dangerous division and offer them a path to a bright future for all by declaring that: “The initiative aims to create a united nation for all Kenyans living today, and all future generations”. In summary, these first three parts trace our governance history, the challenges and pains we have faced; our failures in addressing them and a projected direction and a new determination to confront the issues of interest that have been identified. But Kang’ata does not seem to share in this philosophy if his letter to the President is anything to go by. As the Chief Whip of the ruling party in the Senate, he was expected to rally members to push through constitutional, policy, legal and administrative reforms aimed at making this vision a reality, but he fell way too short of the glory. Kang’ata’s reference to “unpalatable political alliances” the President has supposedly entered into pointed to a man more inclined to conform to rather than seek to transform the dynamics of ethnic prejudices on which he seems keen to ride on to power as governor of Murang’a in 2022. Ironically, he continued to claim that he had done nothing wrong even as his standpoint and bigotry left no doubt that his continued holding of Majority Whip position in the Senate was no longer plausible. He would have done himself a great service if he could have quit rather than wait as he did to be jettisoned from his untenable perch. suba.churchill@civilsocietyrg.org