Former Unctad secretary-general Mukhisa Kituyi will soon announce the party on which he plans to contest for the presidency next year. After naming his party, Mukhisa will tour the country to market his candidature and seek to hear the voices of Kenyans on the way forward. The former Trade minister spoke moments after arriving in the country from Geneva following his resignation from his role at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. On Sunday, Mukhisa said he will officially declare he is in the race to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in a weeks’ time. First, he is retreating to his Western Kenya backyard to "consult, seek advice and blessing". “Based on these I will come back to the national stage where I intend to formally declare the start of the campaign to seek to be the fifth President of Kenya,” Mukhisa said. Bringing the economy back on its feet, he noted, will top his priorities if elected during the August 2022 polls. “I will show sufficient attention to creating hope for the hopeless, reviving the livelihoods of those who are victims of the disruptions,” he said. He said he will be glad to address locally some of the economic challenges he has been handling at the global scene. Mukhisa joins a crowded field of aspirants eyeing the top job including Deputy President William Ruto, former Vice President Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC boss Musalia Mudavadi, Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana and his Machakos counterpart Alfred Mutua. ODM leader Raila Odinga has yet to declare he is running for president but all indications are he will be in the race. Mukhisa’s bid will likely jolt political bigwigs eyeing the presidency in Western Kenya like Mudavadi and Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula. The former lawmaker also challenged politicians to shun intolerance and avoid toxic politics as the country moves to the electioneering period. He said it is possible for politicians to differ respectfully and not resort to insults as has been the case. "I want to say that it is possible in Kenya for politicians to differ without resorting to insults and name-calling," Mukhisa said. “I want to learn to be part of the conversation about how can we save our politics from these rising tension and combativeness. Can we find enough consumers of a politic that says let's step back and look at who are we trying to serve?” “The tensions, unsavoury language is already with us 18 months to the next elections.” The former Trade minister landed at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport on Sunday morning and was welcomed by family, friends and supporters. He then proceeded to Makadara Friends Church for a thanksgiving prayer. The ex-Kimilili MP was non-committal on the direction he will take on the Building Bridges Initiative process. He said he will make a complementary contribution to the law change drive being spearheaded by President Uhuru and his handshake partner.  