The government has availed Sh930 million to facilitate the introduction of Covid-19 vaccines in the country. The Taskforce on Vaccine Deployment and Vaccination chairman Dr Willis Akhwale has also confirmed that Unicef will support the transportation of the vaccines to the country. The government is expected to take the doses to the central vaccines stores in Kitengela. The stores are expected to hold enough stocks of the vaccines that could take the country to almost the end of the year. Kenya has already committed to initially procure 24 million doses of vaccines through the Covax facility, with the consignment expected in the country this month. The task force was appointed in mid-December and given the mandate to ensure the country is prepared to undertake vaccination immediately the vaccines arrive. Akhwale said any vaccine used in the country must be registered by the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. “In the last two weeks, manufacturers of various vaccines have submitted their dossier to the board and we expect that in the coming week, we could see based on how the dossiers will be evaluated the registration of the vaccine by the board for use in Kenya,” Akhwale said. As part of preparations for the arrival of the vaccines, the Ministry of ICT has designed a digital platform that will be used to ensure data is captured to track the people who will be vaccinated, the stocks of the vaccines and to monitor the side events. The system is expected to be piloted this week. “The vaccination will basically take place within the counties so a lot of activities are going to be at the county level and already, we have engaged the counties and are making plans on how they will conduct micro-planning,” he said. “This means there will be various issues that at the national level we may not understand, including the issue of healthcare workers. The counties themselves are better placed to know whether they have adequate healthcare workers at the vaccination post or if they need to do internal redeployment.” The government plans to use level 4, 5 and 6 healthcare facilities as such high level facilities usually have adequate numbers of healthcare workers. There may be no need for redeployment, unless the specific counties decide to do so. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi on Friday maintained that plans are underway to reach at least 1.25 million Kenyans with the Covid-19 vaccine between February and June. During this period, frontline healthcare workers, all staff working in health facilities and workers offering essential services will be inoculated with priority given to sectors such as security. The second phase is expected to run from July 2021 to June 2022 during which 9.7 million more Kenyans will receive the jab depending on availability of the vaccines. The target population in this phase will be Kenyans aged above 50 years and those above 18 years of age with underlying health conditions. Plans by the ministry show the third phase of the vaccination drive could run concurrently with the second phase, depending on availability of vaccines, with the hope of reaching 4.9 million people who will include all the other vulnerable populations. “The Covid-19 vaccination programme that is still on course is divided into three phases as we earlier informed you, and nothing has changed,” Mwangangi said. “It is important to note that if vaccines become available sooner than expected and resources are available the targets may change,” she added. Currently, the task force is developing operational guidelines that will guide the training of healthcare workers in ensuring that they are able to deploy the vaccine within the vaccination posts.