ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has intensified his bid to consolidate Western votes ahead of the presidential 2022 race. He has increased visibility in recent months, visiting the region on a weekly basis to ring-fence his bastion from threats by ODM leader Raila Odinga and Deputy President William Ruto. On Friday and Saturday, Mudavadi toured his Vihiga backyard, Kakamega and Busia counties, where he attended funerals and later had meet-the-people stopovers. He used his stopovers to urge residents to register as voters in large numbers to firm up his presidential bid. Mudavadi has won over Cotu boss Francis Atwoli's heart, who initially championed Raila as the preferred successor to President Uhuru Kenyatta. Visibility is expected to increase in the coming weeks, especially in Kakamega county, where he is not taking the Matungu by-election campaigns lightly.  Matungu MP Justus Murunga, who died late last year, was an ANC member. On Saturday, Mudavadi cautioned voters in the region against falling prey to politicians out to divide Kenyans along political, ethnic and class lines. "The transition ahead in relation to 2022 is a period to reflect, interrogate, assess and make a wise decision on the ballot on whom Kenyans want to give the mandate to lead the nation for the next five years of the country’s electoral circle," he said. He was speaking during the burial of Mzee Justus Ndombi in Mukhweso village, Navakholo constituency. MPs Emmanuel Wangwe (Navakholo), Bernard Shinali (Ikolomani), Ayub Savula (Lugari), Ernest Kagesi (Vihiga),  Titus Khamala (Lurambi) and Vihiga Woman Representative Beatrice Adagala were present. The lawmakers urged Mudavadi to go out and make friends in other regions to come up with the winning team. Mudavadi recently declared that his march to State House is unstoppable. On Friday, he said he does not need endorsement to win the race. He asked the Luhya community to be aware of schemes by politicians from other regions to portray the region as a divided house. "We must resist these plans where they are pushing several candidates from the Mulembe nation to stand for the presidency so as to appear divided," he said. He said he supported Raila twice, and it was time the ODM leader returned the favour. "In 2017 he said he had one bullet, but it appears he now wants to borrow another gun and continue firing. I'm telling him that I have enough bullets," he said. Mudavadi slammed Ruto, accusing him of taking the Luhya community for a ride by promising them free Mumias Sugar Company shares. "How do you promise us shares of a company that is dead?" he asked. He said his agenda number one remains the resuscitation of the economy and creation of jobs to help Kenya get back on its feet and compete with other countries in attracting foreign investment.