Christians all over the world have ushered in 40 days of lent with a celebration of Ash Wednesday. This is the beginning of the 40-day penitential season of Lent, during which Christians spiritually prepare for Holy Week when they remember Jesus' death, and Easter when they celebrate Jesus' resurrection. For Catholics, those preparations often include prayer, fasting and almsgiving. But what exactly is Ash Wednesday? The ashes are prepared by burning palm leaves from the previous year's Palm Sunday celebrations. Clergy all over the world dispense the ashes while making the sign of the cross on the bowed foreheads before them. As they “impose” or “dispense” the ashes, the pastor or priest reminds each Christian of Genesis 3:19: “For dust you are and to dust, you shall return.” This day is observed by abstinence and fasting. In most cases, Catholics are asked to abstain from eating meat. This should be done on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday as are all Fridays during Lent. Last week, Pope Francis said Lent is a time for hope despite the uncertainties, and to care for those who suffer or feel abandoned and fearful because of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Love is a gift that gives meaning to our lives,” Francis wrote in his Lenten message for 2021. “It enables us to view those in need as members of our own family, as friends, brothers or sisters. A small amount, if given with love, never ends, but becomes a source of life and happiness.” According to the Crux, Pope Francis asked priests to take special anti-Covid-19 precautions this year when distributing ashes on Ash Wednesday. He asked the priests to consider sprinkling ashes on the top of people’s heads rather than using them to make a cross on the forehead. Biblical significance of ashes Ashes were used in the past to express grief. According to Samuel 13:19, when Tamar was raped by her half-brother, "she sprinkled ashes on her head, tore her robe, and with her face buried in her hands went away crying". This gesture was also used to express sorrow for sins and faults. Jesus is also quoted as speaking of the practice in Matthew 11:21 and Luke 10:13: "If the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago (sitting) in sackcloth and ashes." Ash Wednesday is traditionally observed by Western Christians. Lent is a solemn religious observance in the Christian liturgical calendar that ends approximately six weeks on Holy Thursday, the memorial of the Lord's supper the Thursday of Holy Week before Easter Sunday.