Party leaders have moved to make the final plea to voters to support their candidates as the Matungu by-election campaigns enter the home stretch The candidates intensified their hunt for the over 61, 000 votes last week as new faces joined their campaign teams. ODM leader Raila Odinga campaigned for party candidate David Were at Mirere and Shirumbure on Saturday. He termed him as the best person to replace Justus Murunga who died on November 14, last year. ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi will on Monday join Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala and Lurambi MP Titus Khamala to seek support for his candidate Peter Nabulindo. Mudavadi, Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kanu boss Gideon Moi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula promised a new dawn for Kenya as they drummed up support for Nabulindo. Deputy President William Ruto’s allies Oscar Sudi, Mohammed Ali and former Mombasa senator Hassan Omar joined the UDA's candidate Alex Lanya in the campaign last week to boost efforts by former senator Boni Khalwale, Mumias East MP Ben Washiali and former CS Rashid Mohammed. The by-election is set for Thursday. The official campaign period ends on Monday. The by-election has attracted 15 candidates, among them 9 independents, including Murunga's widow Christabel Amunga and son Eugene Ambwere. Other candidates in the race are Charles Kasamani of the United Democratic Party, Paul Achayo MDG and Faida Auma of Maendeleo Chap Chap and independents; Bernard Wakoli, Athman Wangara, Anzelimo Kongoti, Kevin Nectus, Wilberforce Lutta and Gregory Atoko. The by-election's outcome will have a direct bearing on key politicians positioning for the 2022 succession race. Ford Kenya has lend support for the ANC candidate in a show of unity and to ring-fence Western from threats by ODM and DP Ruto's UDA. Political pundits have opined that the by-election in Matungu and Kabuchai is not about candidates but bigwigs flexing muscles to know their standing in the Luhya nation ahead of the 2022 race. While Raila will use the election to confirm whether he still has a grip on the cite rich region, DP Ruto wants to use the by-election to gain a foothold in the region. Mudavadi and Wetang'ula on the other side will be seeking to assert themselves as the undisputed region political supremos.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris