Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has lauded MCAs on a day 21 assemblies voted to approve the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020. The ODM boss said the action of the assemblies pushes the country closer to the referendum, which according to BBI Secretariat should be held in June this year. In a statement to newsrooms on Tuesday, the AU special envoy on Infrastructure said despite the propaganda and misinformation that had been peddled around the law change process, the Assemblies stood firm. “County assemblies have been able to push back on a year-long campaign of lies, misinformation and undue influence on a document whose centre piece is ensuring prosperity and equitable sharing of the same,” Raila said. “I thank the members of those county assemblies and our governors who refused to give in to mistrust, cynicism, brinkmanship and fear mongering and passed the Bill resoundingly.” He said the outcome has vindicated his earlier position that the country is undergoing a constitutional moment. “As I said during the launch of the collection of signatures on the Bill, I have worked with our people on processes of change like this for a long time. I know for a fact that Kenyans are not slow learners when it comes to recognizing and seizing moments of change.” “That faith stands reaffirmed and renewed.” The opposition chief noted that the battle now shifts to the two Houses of Parliament, adding that the country is inching closer to the referendum. “We are extremely close to giving our people the reforms they need to create a united, inclusive, stable and prosperous nation that also deals decisively with the crime of corruption.” “I now look forward to working with our two houses of Parliament in the coming weeks as we move confidently towards a referendum.” On Tuesday, a record 21 County Assemblies voted to endorse the BBI Bill surpassing the 24 threshold required for the Bill to proceed to the next stage. So far BBI has been approved in 33 out of 34 assemblies which have debated the document. They include Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Busia, Kakamega, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Vihiga, West Pokot, Nakuru, Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga and Kiambu counties. Others are Meru, Nyamira, Narok, Kajiado, Taita Taveta, Kitui, Makueni, Lamu, Mombasa, Kwale, Garissa, Machakos, Muranga, Samburu, Marsabit and Kisii Only Baringo Assembly has rejected the Bill.