A cheap drug that is being rolled out to prevent TB in Kenya is safe for pregnant women, a study shows. The 576 Kenyan mothers living with HIV, who took the drug—isoniazid—for five years, did not experience any adverse outcomes. They all had better pregnancy outcomes than those who did not, even though researchers said the difference was not statistically significant. Eighteen per cent of women who took the therapy experienced a pre-term birth compared to 22 per cent of women who did not. “An adverse birth outcome occurred in 25.7 per cent of IPT (isoniazid preventive therapy)—unexposed births and 22.4 per cent of IPT—exposed births,” says Aidspan, who first reported the study. A study from South Africa’s Stellenbosch University last year had raised concern that the therapy could lead to adverse effects such as preterm deliveries or stillbirths if initiated during pregnancy. However, the Kenyan study now provides reassuring evidence that isoniazid is safe. It was carried out in Kisumu by researchers from Canada's Emory University, and US's University of Washington through a retrospective chart review of the 576 mother-infant pairs at two health facilities in the county between 2015 and 2020. Kenyans will pay Sh1,500 for the three-month TB preventive therapy, being rolled out beginning this month. The therapy will be a combination of rifapentine and isoniazid. It will reduce the pill burden from nine to three pills a week for adults and prevent TB in those at the highest risk of developing the disease. The treatment is being funded by US President’s Emergency Plan for Aids Relief (Pepfar), Unitaid, Usaid and the Global Fund. The three organisations said in a press release last week that there is enough treatment for up to three million patients. “A new fixed-dose combination (FDC) of “3HP”, short-course tuberculosis preventive treatment combining two drugs, rifapentine and isoniazid, is starting to be rolled out in five TB high burden countries in Africa,” reads the statement in part. However, the US Food and Drug Administration warns severe and sometimes fatal hepatitis associated with isoniazid therapy has been reported and may occur or may develop even after many months of treatment. This risk increases according to age of the recipient. The authority says there are still no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. "Isoniazid should be used as a treatment for active tuberculosis during pregnancy because the benefit justifies the potential risk to the fetus," FDA says. Welcoming the new fixed-dose combination TB preventive treatment, WHO said it will enable better adherence and outcome from reducing the pill burden. “This collaboration between Unitaid, the Clinton Health Access Initiative and manufacturers has been vital to supporting the uptake of TB preventive treatment as recommended in WHO guidelines,” said Dr Tereza Kasaeva, Director of Global TB Programme at WHO. Without treatment, five to 10 per cent of the people with latent TB will develop active TB. The risk is higher for those with compromised immunity.  Edited by Sarah Kanyara