We all know that the government has already rolled out the Competency based Curriculum system of education, which is now at Grade Four. Further, the ministry of education has released what it intends to do to ensure seamless transition in all the stages. In my view, the following are some of the headwinds on the path of implementation. First is resources. That the government is facing challenges in financing its obligations including debt servicing is not in doubt. This financial burden is now compounded as it must ensure the CBC system of education is implemented. Some of the areas it must address are: Expansion of public schools to accommodate more learners, employment of teaching and non-teaching staff, improvement/establishing infrastructure and facilities, procuring new teaching materials as those of 8-4-4 system will be rendered obsolete and develop assessment tools as well as administer them. Second is the placement of learners in junior secondary schools. One of the objectives of CBC is to ensure 100 per cent transition from primary to secondary school. The biggest challenge is how this will be undertaken, noting that secondary schools are far less than primary schools. Yet another is how to balance performance scores with learners’ interest noting the relatively younger learners may not have concretised their interest at the end of primary education. Also, noting that there are various categories of secondary schools (day, boarding, single-gender, mixed), it will be a challenge for the ministry to come up with modalities which will seamlessly place learners in these secondary schools. Regarding the age of the learners, which is relatively lower (11-12 years) compared to the current ones (13-14 years) one can foresee difficulty in young learners travelling far from home for education. The third is the placement of learners in senior secondary schools. Modalities must be developed of placing learners in senior secondary schools in respect to learners who have been in junior secondary schools only as well as those who realise that their pathway choice lies in another school because their present school does not offer it. This is because it is envisaged that all secondary schools must offer at least two of the three pathways. (The three pathways are Art and Sports Science, Social Sciences and STEM–Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics). Fourth is managing assessment of learners. In my view, there are far too many assessments compared to the present 8-4-4 system. Consider the following compulsory assessments whose tools are developed by the Kenya National Examination Council: • Leading to transition to junior secondary schools  (stated). Grade Four – 20 per cent, Grade Five –20 per cent, Grade Six(a) –20 per cent and Grade Six (b)—40 per cent • Leading to transition to senior secondary schools  (implied). Grade Seven –20 per cent, Grade Eight –20 per cent, Grade 9 (a) 20 per cent, and Grade 9 (b)—40 per cent. It will be important for the Ministry of Education to address some of the following issues: Confirm the percentages of assessments in respect to transition to senior secondary schools, state when these assessments will be conducted, who meets the cost of administration, what will happen to learners who are absent during assessments, if a learner’s scores are transferred along when the learner is transferred to another school. The fifth issue is the heavy workload at junior secondary schools. It is envisaged that at junior secondary schools the core subjects are 12, excluding the optional ones. Is this not too heavy for the learners? Equally, shall we have enough teachers in all the schools to ensure this? Finally, no document to mark the end of junior secondary schools? Reading the ministry’s report on CBC it does appear that there is no assessment to mark the completion of basic education. How then will we filter those transiting to TVET, universities and other tertiary institutions?