The UK Government has called for applications for the Kenya Catalytic Jobs Fund. The Fund is looking to test and support innovative enterprises that have the potential to stimulate large-scale job creation and an improvement in the livelihoods of vulnerable populations. They seek to unlock barriers to scaling up innovations of all types (product, process, network, customer engagement) . The applications are open on February 8th, 2021 and can be accessed through https://kcjf.grantplatform.com/ . Speaking during the launch, the UK Deputy High Commissioner to Kenya, Julius Court, said Kenya has a vibrant, innovative business ecosystem. "...and a youthful population that is driven, creative, and prepared to hustle. The Fund is one way the UK is part of efforts to tackle some of the challenges presented by Covid-19 by promoting private sector opportunities for young people," he said. The fund is seeking proposals which will create significant impact via direct job creation, improved work conditions, indirect job creation and/or improved livelihoods of customers, suppliers and other actors in the value chain. The Fund is looking for innovations that are ready to rapidly scale and deliver this impact. Successful applications are likely to be established companies whose large customer and supplier base facilitates rapid scaling. They are also interested in earlier stage companies who are able to demonstrate the ability to reach scale rapidly (within 12 months of the grant award.) The Fund will support innovations aimed at increasing international competitiveness. This will support agribusiness or manufacturers to innovate, test new technologies and provide evidence to key state actors to address market distortions and unlock policy constraints holding back key sectors. It could help companies to integrate more horizontally (through associations) or vertically (in supply chains) as well as scope out international markets. It could help attract anchor investors into the new Special Economic Zones (SEZ) in close collaboration with (and not in duplication of) other economic development initiatives run by FCDO and other development partners. To note, the applications will be processed on a rolling basis. For more information please visit www.kenyacatalyticjobsfund.org