The government has announced it will launch a disarmament exercise in Marsabit and all the neighbouring counties as part of the progressive long-term vision for peace and security for the region. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said this is in response to the evolving fragility of the situation, "which has been aggravated by toxic battles for supremacy by scheming politicians and tribal animosity". Speaking in the National Assembly where he had been invited by the Departmental Committee on Administration and National Security to deliberate on increased insecurity in the county, Matiang’i noted that possession of illegal firearms among communities has been a major contributory factor to the frequent inter-communal conflicts in the county. He added the police are hot on the heels of the perpetrators and some leaders who have been arming them. “During the last voluntary disarmament exercise, 342 firearms were surrendered. However, many more weapons still remain in the hands of the locals,” he said. Matiang’i said the trend is hinged on the longstanding culture of revenge attacks. He also took issue with the partisan approach to the conflict by leaders, who take sides in favour of their communities. According to the CS, competition over the control of power and county resources has also intensified since 2013 when implementation of devolution began. In his presentation, he described the conflict as “a costly affair” that has led to avoidable loss of lives, displacement of local populations, malicious destruction of property, and disruption of economic activities in the county. “Plans are underway to operationalise the recommended police stations and posts in the vast county.  The officers will also be provided with adequate modern equipment, including armoured vehicles, dog units, and even drones.” The government also plans to delocalize police personnel born and working in the county. Besides, various agencies, led by the Communication Authority of Kenya (CAK) have begun monitoring social media and vernacular FM stations to check for inciting messages for further action. Committee chairman Paul Koinange prescribed the stepping up of the convention of security and community peace meetings to complement police crackdown on perpetrators and sponsors of the clashes. Several people have in the recent months been killed in the area and others displaced in inter-clan clashes.