It would be nearly impossible to mention every problem your laptop can experience. You may have encountered a lot of situations where you also may want to use your laptop but you cannot use it. A most common scenario is where you do not have anything on which you can rest your laptop. The Asus Zenbook Flip 13 also called Asus ZenBook UX363EA is a 1.3 kg lightweight laptop with chassis and lids made of diamond-cut aluminium alloy.  The chassis and lids of this laptop are made of aluminium alloy with Pine Grey colour and the unique asymmetric -circle ZenBook finish is featured on the lids, presenting a surface that is soothing and sophisticated in appearance. It weighs only 1.3 kg and features a profile of less than 14 mm, which results in a sleek form factor that’s easy to carry. The side bezels of this laptop are less than 5mm thin, giving this a clean look. Even though it is more like a 12-inch laptop, ASUS has managed to squeeze in an excellent keyboard with six rows of keys, in the standard layout. ASUS ZenBook Flip 13 falls in the category of laptops that you can use anywhere and everywhere. As the name says, you can flip the display 180 degrees and turn this into a tablet PC. It features the exclusive 360° ErgoLift hinge design, which allows the display to be flipped to any position, according to the user requirement. The hinge is durability-tested for over 20,000 open/close cycles. With thin and light form factors, it is equipped with the 11th gen Intel Core processors. It also supports up to 16 GB of memory and a 1 TB SSD as well as Thunderbolt 4, HDMI 1. 4 and USB 3.2 Gen 1 Type-A ports. All of these options ensure comprehensive connectivity. The display on ZenBook Flip is soft to the eyes, shows excellent colour accuracy. The display is super crisp and is on par with the best. Given that this is a touch screen display with a glass layer on top, the reflective side of the laptop gives off that premium feel to the user. The laptop is equipped with a 67 Wh battery which can provide up to 14 hours of battery life — more than enough to cover a day of work or play allowing users to work an entire day without charging. Along with up to 14 hours of battery life, the laptop also offers a fast charge function that charges the battery from 0% to 60% in just 49 minutes. The USB-C easy charge support means the ZenBook Flip 13 can be used with a wide range of standard USB-C chargers (5V-20V). Users can enjoy ultrafast charging with any Power Delivery certified charger, including the 65-watt fast-charge adapter supplied. It has an optional ASUS Pen (SA201) active stylus accessory that supports 4096 levels of pressure sensitivity and MPP 2.0, allowing users to create more detailed and vivid works. For business travellers and other remote employees, remote conferencing is increasingly common. Voice quality is important for efficiency and clear communication, so the new ZenBook Flip 13 features an ASUS AI Noise-Canceling Audio, which ensures that users can hear and be heard clearly in any scenario. The ClearVoice Mic function page lets the user select from one of four modes: Normal, Balance, Single presenter or Multi-presenter. ASUS has added a new IR camera algorithm to the new ZenBook Flip 13 UX363, which not only provides sharper image quality but also achieves more accurate white balance and colour saturation. The new IR camera algorithm also enhances portrait photography performance, when the user uses the IR camera in a dark or complex light environment, the new IR camera algorithm can still automatically correct the exposure value and colour balance of the face area, so that the user's skin colour can maintain a natural bright rendering effect. The Asus ZenBook Flip 13 is a beautiful laptop that offers decent battery life, very good graphics, and a lot of pep for most of what you’d do on a small 13-inch convertible laptop. It's also the first laptop to remove the headphone jack, and that has us worried. The laptop is available at Elevetus Technologies from Ksh.145,000. 