The Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority (EPRA) is reviewing the laws to ensure consumers benefit from fair pricing of petroleum products. Petroleum prices in Kenya have largely depended on the international pricing model, with EPRA updating monthly after reviewing incorporating landed costs. This pricing modal has on many occasions seen consumers pay highly for fuel imported several months ago even when global prices are low. In media statement, the regulator said it is seeking consensus from players in the industry that will see predictable supply of petroleum products. The draft regulations, which are in line with the changes occasioned by the Energy Act 2019 and Petroleum Act 2019, are also meant to enhance compliance and gradually reduce or eradicate cases of unscrupulous trader ''Unlike before where the country has experienced sudden supply disruptions, EPRA is keen to ensure through these rafts of rules, such occurrences are a thing of the past,'' EPRA said. The proposed law conserving the environment is also a key consideration in the  for regulations. To have sector players understand the rationale for the proposed rules, EPRA has embarked on  nationwide sensitisation and consultative sessions before the next stages of validation. It will be holding the  first forum later today in Nanyuki , Laikipia County,  Nakuru, Eldoret, Kisumu, Mombasa and eventually Nairobi at the end of this month. “The proposed regulations will improve petroleum supply and distribution logistics in the country and ensure that only prudently incurred costs are passed onto consumers,” says Acting director general Daniel Kiptoo Bargoria. The regulations, he adds, also consider supply and distribution logistics even in instances when we experience serious disruptions in the supply chain. As a result, supply and distribution of petroleum in the country will be undertaken more sustainably. He added that EPRA remains focused on developing regulations aimed at empowering players in the energy sector and protecting consumers. “The proposed regulations provide for stiffer penalties and fines for offenders to bolster compliance levels, ultimately protecting consumers from substandard petroleum products and ensuring they get value for money,''