Desert locusts have invaded the Kenyan Coast for the first time in 70 years due to Cyclone Gati. Experts called it a strange phenomenon. The first invasion of Kenya in 70 years started in December 2018. Locusts have invaded 17 counties so far. Carla Mucavi, UN Food and Agriculture Organization representative to Kenya, said on Monday this is the first invasion of the Coast. “This is because the traditional locust migration was altered by Cyclone Gati that deflected mature swarms to coastal counties of Tana River, Lamu, Kilifi and Taita Taveta,” she said. She said the swarms laid eggs and wingless hoppers have been present since January 7. She spoke during a high-level emergency desert locust  meeting in Nairobi on Monday. Mucavi said the second-wave invasion continued in December and January and swarms from Somalia entered through Mandera and Wajir counties. Swarms from Ethiopia crossed over through Mandera and Marsabit counties, she said. Some incoming swarms were blown back by winds to Ethiopia through Dawa River in Mandera and Dukana in Marsabit. She said swarms have invaded Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Lamu, Kilifi, Isiolo, Marsabit, Samburu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Baringo, Laikipia, Meru, Tharaka Nithi, Kitui, Makueni and Taita Taveta. By February 7, 183 swarms have settled in Kenya; 157 of them, or 86 per cent, have been treated with insecticides, the UN expert said.  FAO has said the second wave will continue and may be more intense than the first last year. Early collective efforts are needed to control the swarms before the long rains season when crops are in the field, Mucavi said. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said more swarms are expected in February and March. “We need to ensure  these are controlled before the long rains since rains create a conducive environment for the desert locusts to thrive,” he said. The CS said a lot is being done to control the upsurge but more needs to be done. Munya said that during the first invasion in 2019, six regional control bases were established  in Isiolo, Marsabit, Garissa, Turkana, Masinga and Wajir. Two more have been established in the second wave, one in Mandera and another in Witu, Lamu. The bases have managers from the national government, county staff and FAO field officers. He added that in November last year as the second invasion began, Kenya developed an Emergency Locust Action Plan with FAO. The CS said Sh3.2 billion is required to win the war against the desert locusts. He called progress "so far so good." The plan involves ground and aerial surveillance, ground and aerial control by spraying and protection and recovery of livelihoods. Kenya has deployed 11 aircraft - four survey helicopters, three fixed-wing sprayers, two KDF sprayer helicopters and two fixed-wing spray craft are on standby. Thirty-nine vehicles are mounted with sprayers; 16 are in use. Two hundred NYS personnel are involved in ground control but the full 500 who were trained will be deployed, Munya said. Another 500 NYS officers will be trained by FAO. Last month FAO supported training 100 chiefs and other officers for surveying and collecting field data. Experts say stocks of pesticides - both organophosphates and biopesticides - are adequate for now. Stocks will be increased, however, through a World Bank-funded project to sustained control till the end. Desert locust control is very expensive, as maintaining and fuelling aircraft for many months costs millions of dollars. Mucavi said during the first wave, FAO Kenya alone appealed for Sh3.6 billion and received Sh3 billion. The funds were used for control, surveillance and livelihood recoveries. For the second wave, FAO Kenya appealed for Sh877 million and has received Sh219.1 million from the UN and Ireland. Additional reporting by Nuru Abdul Rahman (Edited by Kiilu Damaris)