Residents of Daadab and Fafi subcounties in Garissa will benefit from increased water provision after the Garissa Water and Sewerage Company commenced works to drill 15 boreholes in the area. Speaking during the signing of an agreement between the company and project consultant, Gawasco managing director Yusuf Ibrahim said the World-Bank funded Water and Sanitation Development project would see the company drill the 15 boreholes in strategic settlements located within a 50km radius of Daadab town The project will benefit an estimated 120,000 residents and will cost Sh641 million. It will also see the construction of new and solar-powered boreholes in seven villages including Welhar, Bulla Nyanya, Weldon, Mathagesi, Labisigale, Bulla Kheir and Bogyar. Similar boreholes will also be sunk within Fafi subcounty in the villages of Alinjugur, Hagardera, Yumbis, Welmerer, Mathamarub, Biyamathobe, Fafi Centre and Harbole. The project will also entail the upgrading, rehabilitation and extension of the Dadaab water pipeline and also involve the construction of an office block - dubbed Maji House in Garissa town which will accommodate Gawasco. Through the project, ablution blocks, pit and VIP latrines in public places like schools, markets, hospitals and bus stops in both Fafi and Daadab subcounties will be constructed. “This project falls in line with Governor Ali Korane's pledge of ending water shortage for Garissa residents,” Ibrahim said. He said it will also help improve infrastructure, access to water and sanitation facilities for the residents as well as bring water to over one million livestock. Speaking during the signing ceremony, the project consultant Ranji Ngware called on all parties involved in the project to adhere to their commitment and ensure the community realises all the benefits that the project promised them. Speaking on behalf of the project contractors, Hussein Abdi of Rajo Group assured residents they would strive to deliver the project on time despite its steep deadline while at the same time undertake quality work. Present during the event was acting director of water services Abdihakim Mohamed, Gawasco corporate affairs manager Mohamed Dolal, company finance manager Yussuf Bane and Gawasco technical manager Christopher Kamau. The county government has already enacted the County Water Management Framework 2018 to enhance water services. The new framework is meant to create a conducive environment in the management of the sector. Last week, Governor Ali Korane said this would go along way in addressing the issue of water governance, supply and challenges that have troubled the sector for decades. “I can comfortably say that since I took over we have made great strides in the provision of water in the last three years that has seen access to water rise from 45 per cent to 78 per cent across the county,” Korane said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris