There was a sluggish uptick in land and property prices in Nairobi in the quarter to December 2020, with steep depreciation recorded in satellite towns. The fourth quarter land and property index by Hass Consult shows land value in Nairobi’s satellite towns rose sluggishly over the quarter at 0.35 per cent while registering a fall of 1.1 per cent over the year compared to a 6.93 per cent rise in 2019. Kiambu County was most affected with six out of seven towns registering decreases in asking prices. Kiambu Town, Ruiru and Limuru witnessed the highest annual drops of 11.4, six and three per cent respectively while Juja, Ruaka and Thika also registered annual price corrections. Tigoni was the only recorded suburb in Kiambu County that registered a 1.9 per cent land price increase, on account of very recent infrastructure upgrades and stringent land-use laws in the area. Sakina Hassanali, head of development consulting and research at Hass Consult said Kiambu County has in the last decade seen the most intense development in infrastructure, which put the county into a bracket of investment that was in a league of its own - attracting institutional investors. Within the capital city, land prices in Nairobi's suburbs recorded a lackluster performance registering a static 0.002 per cent increase between October and December of 2020 which was a reversal of 11 consecutive months of price drops. Over 2020, land prices in Nairobi fell 2.56 per cent compared to a 1.69 per cent rise in 2019. The highest annual price falls in land value was experienced in Parklands at 7.35 per cent over 2020 followed by Riverside at 7.2 per cent –both apartment dominated suburbs. Hass Consult notes that land prices within the city will always be a measure of the property market performance and specifically the apartment market whose underlying suburbs have seen the biggest losses. ''Until we see a revival of the apartment market which at the end of the day is a function of economic growth, land prices in the inner city will continue to remain stagnant,'' Hassanali said. Similarly, property prices remained stagnant in Q4 with a drop of 1.2 per cent bringing the annual rise in prices over 2020 to just 0.17 per cent. Stagnant price growth over the year was attributed to price falls on apartments that fell an average of 4.6 per cent over the year while both detached and semi-detached houses retained positive price growth. Within the apartment segment, Kileleshwa and Kilimani led the pack with the biggest quarterly and annual sales price falls at 2.6 and 2.8 per cent and 9.9 and 8.6 per cent respectively. Kilimani and Kileleshwaaccounted for 28 per cent and 17 per cent of the sales property mix or a combined 45 per cent effectively now accounting for nearly one out of two properties on sale in Nairobi. ''We have seen the Kilimani and Kileleshwa markets move from steep price growth, in all ways a price boom, until it reached levels that buyers could no longer reach with the roadblocks in mortgage finance and reduced liquidity from a global pandemic,'' Hassanali said. Developers in the area are now creating smaller apartments with lower price tags to allow buyers to continue accessing their products at a price that works for both buyer and seller. ''This shift in supply has led to suburb wide apartment repricing,'' Hassanali said. On the rental price frontier, residential rental prices accelerated by 1.1 per cent in the quarter, despite a fall in apartment rents of 1.24 per cent in the same period. Apartments in Kilimani showed the strongest fall in quarterly rents at four per cent followed by Kileleshwa, recording price falls of 2.6 per cent over Q4. The annual corrections amounted to a fall of 9.4 per cent in Kilimani and a fall of 8.4per cent in Kileleshwa over 2020. A year in review of rental prices showed an uptick of 5.5 per cent in the year, and was led strongly by the increasing rental prices for detached houses – up 7.3 per cent in 2020.