The Education ministry's school desks programme has not solved the problem of congestion in classrooms, Limuru MP Peter Mwathi has said. Mwathi said the desks were not enough and some learners were still sharing, breaking Covid-19 social distancing requirements. He said many private schools were closed down owing to the impact of the coronavirus and their pupils transferred to public institutions. The lawmaker said that they are planning to use the CDF funds to add more desks in Limuru schools experiencing furniture shortage. Mwathi said some schools managers have started seeking help from his office. "There is a process we need to follow. I have sent some CDF officials to visit all public schools and assess the need of every school, especially on desks. We do not want to hear of a school which is not observing social distance," the MP said. He spoke when he commissioned rehabilitated classrooms at Ngecha Primary School, Kabuku. Mwathi said that once the CDF committee is through, they will seek instructions from the board before advertising to carpenters to tender to make those desks. "We shall do a very clean exercise since we do not want issues to start following us since the government had also spent a lot of money on such a project," he said. Mwathi said the facelift at the school will change pupils' perception so they can work hard to meet the status of their school. "The idea is to bring academies in public schools. We change learners' perception and encourage teachers to work hard and I'm sure they will perform," he said. Parent Samson Wachira said the facelift was changing parents attitudes to the schools. "Today, a lot of schools have changed their appearances. They are attractive. Parents had a bad attitude since if they failed, they believed all learners in that particular school will fail" he said. "That was why they were rushing to take their children to private schools. Today, am sure they will support the public schools like private schools" Wachira added. 