When he saved those two post-match penalties en-route to Kariobangi Sharks shoot-out victory over English Premier League side, Everton in the SportPesa Super Cup, the football world was in the hands of Brian Bwire. Hitherto unknown among the Kenyan football-loving public, the performance made people stand up and notice and this catapulted him into overnight stardom. “Saving the two penalties against Everton in a high-pressure match was my most memorable moment to date. It instilled more confidence into my game and my teammates and coaches had even more trust in me than they did prior to the game,” said Bwire. Indeed, since then, none other than Kenya’s number one goalkeeper Arnold Origi gave his endorsement of Kariobangi Sharks shot-stopper  Bwire as his long term successor in the national team, Harambee Stars, in the not too distant future. It was another show of faith, to a player who is just 20 years old, from someone who has been there and done that. Bwire showed the maturity of being a top class goalkeeper when as a teenager he made his topflight debut for Sharks in 2018 in a 5-2 victory against Tusker. He went on to dethrone then Sharks’ regular and first choice shot-stopper John Oyemba eventually forcing him out of the club. Since then, the Makongeni-born shot-stopper has not looked back. Dethroning an international calibre goalkeeper like Oyemba illustrates the qualities that Bwire possesses despite his age. Successive coaches both at national team and club level have continued to show the trust they have in the Busia native. But he says all the adulations he has received will not go into his head as he seeks to cultivate a long successful career. “Obviously I am very happy for the show of support I have received from different quarters. It will make me work harder not only to live up to the expectations of others but also for the standards I have set myself ever since I started playing competitively,” said Bwire. He started playing football in Makongeni estate, an area that is renowned for producing top class shot-stoppers with Boniface Oluoch and Robert Mboya among the Kenyan Premier League goalkeepers to have come from the area. “I don’t think there is anything in particular that makes Makongeni produce good goalkeepers. But I think having role models playing at the highest level encouraged others to follow a similar path,” explained Bwire who started his career at Makongeni Sports Academy and looks up to Origi. “Origi is without a doubt a huge inspiration for me. I have had the opportunity to train with him at the grass-roots and with the national team and hopefully I will have a long and successful career as he did,” Bwire said. Like most kids growing up in Eastlands, Bwire had numerous challenges as he started off in the game. Unlike outfield players, being a goalkeeper comes with unique requirements when it comes to equipment. “It was one of the main challenges. Getting equipment like boots, training kit, gloves was hard. Most often players who came from our area and wanted to give back to the community would come to our rescue and This is an impact I too would like to make in Makongeni,” said the Kenyan international, who is part of the local players called up for non-residential training by Stars coach Jacob Ghost Mulee’s ahead of next month’s do-or-die Afcon qualifiers. “Being in the national team provides a big platform to learn and improve your career because you play with players of different qualities. They also bring the experience of playing in different leagues so at least you have an idea of what is needed at a higher level,” said Bwire of his experience in the national team set up. Though he is relatively young in the game, Bwire’s confidence is up there and can be mistaken for cockiness. He does not see any goalkeeper around who would challenge him in a one-on-one contest. “I have confidence in my ability and my own game. I don’t see anyone as a threat but as usual, you can learn something to improve your own game,” he said. With time still on his side, the player harbours no regrets in the path his career has taken so far. “I am lucky to be where I am right now and I don’t take it for granted. Every single day, I know I must put my best foot forward because there are many talented players out there,” he said. While not training with his club or away on national assignment, Bwire takes his time to train young upcoming goalkeepers in Makadara as he hopes to keep the trend of the area churning out some of the best shot-stoppers in the country. “Training junior keepers comes natural to me. I like to impart the experience I have gotten to the next generation because it is a similar background where I came from and I am more than happy to give back,” he said. As for whether he will make the Kenya One Jersey his own having seen it exchange hands from Patrick Matasi, Farouk Shikalo, and Boniface Oluoch in recent years, only time will tell. However, right now he is content with being among the custodians being considered for Harambee Stars duty. With Sharks within striking distance of top spot, Bwire who is still out nursing a shoulder injury wants to see the youthful team go all the way and claim a maiden league title. “Unlike in previous seasons, we have seen the title race is wide open with as many as six teams in with a real chance. It would be my dream to win the league,” he said. The player has not set his sights on moving overseas right now but his long term target remains playing at the highest possible level. Having seen his career go from unknown ranks to a national team regular, he advises young footballers that nothing is impossible with discipline, hard work and faith in God.