A prestigious international school has been ordered to readmit a student it suspended last month. In the case, a parent had sued the school situated along Lang'ata Road for suspending her son for allegedly engaging in a fight. The boy is in his last year and expects to sit his final exam later in the year. In his short ruling on Monday, Justice James Makau directed the school to allow the boy back but on a virtual basis, the pending hearing of the case. “The school is directed and ordered to allow and or provide means to facilitate the minor to proceed with education or proceed with learning virtually in respect of all subjects from home pending the determination of the case,” Judge Makau said. The court further directed the school comply with the Basic Education Act as regards the disciplinary process it is undertaking against the minor. The Act provides that once a learner is suspended, a disciplinary committee should be formed after 14 days. When the committee decides to expel the learner, it has to write to the Education CS to enforce the decision. The case will be mentioned on February 22 for further directions. The mother, who cannot be named because of legal reasons, says her son was illegally sent away from school for fighting without any evidence. The mother pays a Sh1.2 million school fees per term for her son. She says the suspension was discriminatory. According to court documents, the school ignored her son’s complaint of being sexually harassed by other students and decided to send him away for fighting. She informed the court that as a result of the alleged fight, he was put in solitary confinement away from the rest of the students. "...Denying him the opportunity to study and interact with his peers was a discriminatory action by the respondent (school)," the mother said in her suit papers. She was called to school and informed that her son had broken school rules. The mother revealed that when she inquired from the child on the veracity of the allegations, she learned that he had been bullied and sexually harassed by follow learners. It was also revealed that the school, despite receiving complaints from the student, did not take any action. The mother also said her child had received threats both verbally and on social media platforms from other students with regard to the alleged incident, as well as parents of the alleged perpetrators. She expressed her disappointment at how she and her son were unjustly treated by the school. The school had asked the court not to grant the orders, arguing that the petition was bad in law and an abuse of the court process. The school wanted the mother to exhaust all the available alternative remedies before they moved to court. “The petitioner herein has failed to demonstrate the existence of exceptional circumstances warranting the curt to exempt her from the obligation to exhaust alternative remedies in the interest of justice” court documents read.