The Jubilee top brass has vowed to restore party discipline within its rank and file, with officials insisting that nominated Senator Isaac Mwaura will serve as an example. The party's disciplinary committee on Monday summoned Mwaura to appear before it over alleged breach of the party's constitution in select instances. In what could signal more trouble for rebel MPs, Jubilee chairman Nelson Dzuya on Tuesday said the ongoing disciplinary measures will strike hard to restore sanity. “We are going to have people like Mwaura serve as an example going forward,” Dzuya told the Star. During the homecoming of Msambweni MP Feisal Bader, Mwaura declared that Kenyans are tired with the Moi and Kenyatta families. "We can't be ruled by the same families all the time. The Moi family ruled for 24 years. The Kenyatta family ruled for  15 years and another 10 is coming to an end. That is 50  years and it is enough," Mwaura said. According to Dzuya, the Jubilee Party is determined to crack the whip on elements he said are outrightly acting in violation of the constitution and the Political Parties Act. The chairman said the ruling party had for long tolerated a few members who were purportedly exercising their democratic rights but insisted they had 'crossed the red line.” “A political party is governed by its own constitution and that is why we are going to be firm and fearless in the coming days in dispensing of the disciplinary issues,” he said. The ruling party has been rocked with vicious factionalism and internal turmoil following a nasty fall out between President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto. Mwaura's prosecution is seen as a part of the forces allied to the President to forestall any shift in allegiance among the Jubilee members as the window of the 2022 alignments and realignments sets in. In a charge sheet released on Monday, the party accused Mwaura of pledging allegiance to another political party contrary to Jubilee's code of conduct. "On December 31, 2020,in Msambweni, Senator Isaac Mwaura Maigua, acted contrary to the conduct expected of a Jubilee member when he publicly announced his new-found political allegiance to the United Democratic Alliance party during the homecoming party of the newly-elected Msambweni legislator Feisal Bader," the charge sheet read. The party is also seeking a disciplinary action against Mwaura for allegedly proclaiming that the party was 'dead' through Kenya Diaspora Media USA, his Twitter handle and during an interview on Citizen TV. However, MPs allied to Jubilee's Tangatangata faction led by Ruto have complained of being unfairly targeted for party discipline, while arguing that those aligned to their rival Kieleweke faction are the untouchables. In another case, the party's disciplinary committee chaired by Lumatete Muchai is said to have recommended that at least one nominated senator be expelled from the party over breach of the code of conduct. The report of the committee is awaiting a review by the party's National Executive Committee, which is yet to sit six months after the disciplinary committee held and concluded hearings. Nominated senators Falhada Iman, Naomi Waqo, Mary Seneta, Millicent Omanga and Victor Prengei had in May 2020 appeared before the committee and defended themselves over accusations of party disloyalty. The NEC has, however, never held a sitting to formally look at the committee's report amid concerns that infighting among the Tangatangata and Kieleweke camps has crippled operations. 