A flamboyant first-term MP has all of a sudden become so disciplined and diligent in handling parliamentary (Parliament pictured) affairs to the amusement of his colleagues. Previously the legislator — just like many others — would just show up, especially in House committees, sign the attendance sheet and off he would go. But of late, he has been sitting for long hours. And it's not just his patience that's a wonder, but he also is the most active member of a committee, asking tough questions of those who appear. “The guy is nowadays very active in this committee unlike before. He needs to be applauded,” two members of the committee were overheard saying. What on earth could have made him behave like a servant leader? Let's see if he maintains the high standards, or slips into the trough with his friends. *** With the war of words between ODM boss Raila Odinga and ANC chief Musalia Mudavadi escalating over the week, an MP from Western region who would ordinarily side with his boss opted to watch from a distance. Word along the corridors of Parliament has it that the MP who has ambitions for another political seat in 2022 feared taking sides. Those in the know said that the usually abrasive legislator is in a fix because voters in his county are divided between the two political supremos keen to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta in 2022. He is interested in running on the Amani National Congress party ticket, so  to be seen siding with Raila could spoil his chances. Talk of playing it safe 16 months to the 2022 General Election. *** A female MP is reported to have gone full-throttle in her war against the wife of a city businessman. Corridors has learnt the MP is now living with the businessman at a rented mansion in one of the posh estates of Nairobi. The man abandoned his family and moved in with the MP. While the young wife had decided to let go of her husband for the sake of peace of mind, the MP is said to recently started hurling all sorts of insults at her. It is also said she has been tracking her phone calls to check who the lady talks to. One wonders why the MP would still want to harass the woman who allowed her to keep her husband. Maybe the wife knows something she doesn't and is glad he's gone. 