Kenya’s dream to eliminate elephantiasis might soon become a reality. A recent study has found that the disease had been eliminated in some parts of the Coast region. Research results released last week found that samples from Lamu East, Lamu West and Jomvu had shown no positives for the disease. “We started a new kind of treatment and in two years we have eliminated elephantiasis infection itself. Of course, people have swollen feet,” head of vector borne diseases division at the Health Ministry Dr Sultani Matendechero said. “In Kilifi they have done more than 200 surgeries for free  for swelling of the testicles because that one can be corrected surgically. In Kilifi and Kwale so far no positives for elephantiasis, so as a country we are moving towards elimination which we hope possibly this year we will celebrate elimination of that,” he added. The ministry in 2015 launched a breaking transmission strategy to eliminate the disease at the Coast. After five years of successfully implementing mass treatment at the Coast, the ministry conducted the transmission assessment starting in March. The programme was restarted in six counties of  Lamu, Tana River, Kilifi, Mombasa, Kwale and Taita Taveta. Under the project, more than four million people have been reached with mass treatment, given medicine against elephantiasis and many people already affected, some with swollen scrotum, have been reached with surgeries. Over the last six years, the government has also been distributing medicine donations worth almost Sh1 billion every year courtesy of donations from GSK then and support from the END Fund. Elephantiasis, scientifically referred to as lymphatic filariasis, is a neglected tropical disease, with a high prevalence of the condition in the Coastal region. Infection occurs when filarial parasites are transmitted to humans through mosquitoes. Infection is usually acquired in childhood, causing hidden damage to the lymphatic system. The adult worms only live in the human lymph system. The lymph system maintains the body’s fluid balance and fights infections. The worm causes blockage of lymphatic channels, causing the lymph to accumulate and cause swelling of the body parts below the blockage. The swelling affects mostly the legs and the scrotum in men. However, in less common cases, it affects the arms and the breasts in women. “We did that with guinea worm, now we are at elephantiasis, next will be trachoma, then we do leishmaniasis. That is the only way we can do it because you remain with fewer and fewer, then we focus on them better,” Matendechero said. “What we are doing now, we really want to break the cycle. We have to admit we don’t have resources, people are not interested in these diseases of poverty so we have to make do with the little resources we have.” According to the World Health Organization, the painful and profoundly disfiguring visible manifestations of the disease, occur later in life and can lead to permanent disability. Such body deformities often lead to social stigma and sub-optimal mental health, loss of income-earning opportunities and increased medical expenses for patients and their caretakers. These asymptomatic infections still cause damage to the lymphatic system and the kidneys, and alter the body's immune system. Even though the eradication is possible by implementation of the WHO preventive treatment protocols, once the worm has established itself in the body, there is no drug that can destroy it and it must live out its lifespan. -Edited by SKanyara