The United Nations Environment Programme has announced that the war to end marine plastic pollution is on course. Unep has said that more and more countries are joining the Clean Seas campaign to fight marine litter and plastic pollution. “Over 60 countries - both coastal and landlocked - have signed up to this global movement with ambitious pledges and commitments,” it said. Unep said at least 11 million tonnes of plastic are dumped into water bodies every year. This is the equivalent of one garbage truck being dumped every minute. It is estimated that about five trillion macro and microplastic pieces are floating in the ocean, making up 60 to 90 per cent of marine debris. Scientists have warned that there will be more plastic than fish in the world’s oceans by 2050 unless people stop using single-use plastic items. Through the Clean Seas platform, UNEP is connecting and rallying individuals, civil society groups, industries and governments to reduce marine litter. Since its launch in 2017, the campaign has become a catalyst for change, transforming habits, practices, standards and policies around the globe. Unep said many countries have pledged to reduce or eradicate single-use plastics from their societies through stronger legislation and regulation. Others have committed to investing more in national recycling facilities and promote action plans to prevent harm to the coastal and marine environment. Kenya joined the campaign in December 2017 and has imposed one of the world’s toughest bans on plastic bags. Before 2017, about 100 million plastic bags were used in Kenyan supermarkets every year, but a ban on the production, sale, importation and use of plastic carrier bags came into effect in August of that year. Today, large supermarket chains sell reusable bags and the government encourages all retailers to offer alternatives to plastic bags. Being found with a plastic bag in Kenya attracts a fine of between Sh2 million and Sh4 million or a jail term of one to two years, or both. Despite the ban, some plastics are being smuggled into the country. Unep said the next phase of Clean Seas is expanding on the source-to-sea approach focusing on the root cause of marine plastic, which mainly comes from land-based sources and works its way to the sea through lakes, rivers, and waterways. Edited by A.N