The Commission for University Education has threatened to limit some universities' ability to teach certain courses over a certification row with professional bodies. In a letter to vice chancellors, the regulator accuses some professional organisations of bullying their way to have a hand in certifying university degree programmes. Professional organisations maintain an oversight of the knowledge, skills, conduct, and practice of specific occupations. CUE chief executive Mwenda Ntarangwi in the letter warned that courses being taught in universities that sought certification and continue engagement with professional organisations will be stumped out. He argues that it is in line with a court ruling of 2019, that gave the CUE sole mandate to moderate and approve courses in universities. “On a sad note, however, and despite the court judgment, some professional bodies continue to engage universities with little regard, if any, to the commission,” the notice reads. In this regard, the letter reads, any university engaging anybody as far as the accreditation, licensing, and recognition of university education is concerned, the commission will decline to accredit such programme. In the ruling made in 2019, it was declared that CUE has the sole prerogative of regulating the courses that are administered by universities. The ruling came after a three-year struggle by professional organisations to have the powers to regulate and certify university courses reinstated. These powers were taken away and handed to CUE after Parliament amended the law. Regulatory bodies like the Engineers Board of Kenya, the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board, Law Society of Kenya were however of a contrary view. The commission, however, does not reveal the professional bodies that have contravened the court order but warned universities of possibly blacklisting courses that will get approval in such a manner. The letter notes that discussions to harmonise training requirements and standards professional bodies’ demand of a graduate is ongoing. “There’s need to work together towards achieving respective statutory requirements on training and accreditation leading to registration by the respective professional bodies without necessarily causing unnecessary economic burden to our key stakeholders,” the letter reads. The commission's warning comes at a time the Teachers Service Commission is pushing for the scrapping of the Bachelor of Education Degree for a two-tier training programme that will see teachers only join the teaching profession after a post graduate training. University heads had earlier opposed the proposal, noting it was not in the place of TSC to recommend what universities should teach. -Edited by SKanyara