A waiter who was assaulted by a senior Chinese manager of a Nairobi restaurant has been awarded Sh3 million damages. The Employment and Labour Relations Court has ruled that the waiter’s rights were violated by the restauranter. The waiter, whose name has been withheld, moved to court last year claiming that his contract was unlawfully terminated after reporting the assaults and inhuman treatment to the police. He had worked for the restaurant for three months that he described as hell on earth. Justice Nduma Nderi on Thursday ruled that the complainant's fundamental rights were violated. “The court grants the claimant general damages in the sum of Sh3 million for these human rights and fundamental freedoms violations,” he ruled. Judge Nderi said SOS had suffered extreme cruelty, humiliation psychological trauma, Pain and suffering, loss of self-esteem as a result of continuous sexual harassment, verbal abuse, and confinement while being humiliated in front of his co-workers. “The restaurant and the manager are guilty of perpetuating the egregious abuse against SOS in violation of the law in that he was not only sexually molested and physically assaulted continuously but was also subjected to psychological torture by the manager,” the court held. Justice Nderi further said the restaurant fostered an enabling environment for the inhuman, cruel and demeaning assaults on the waiter continuously. The court said apart from that they had the audacity to summarily dismiss him, without following due process for daring to report to the police the despicable things done to him. According to court records, he was kept in confinement while being whipped and was treated and punished in a cruel, inhuman and degrading manner. “He was cajoled to engage in anal sex with the manager and was threatened, verbally abused, and given corporal punishment upon resisting the advances of the manager,” the judge said. In his testimony, he said he suffered nightmares and hallucinations due to the physical and psychological assault that was condoned and never stopped by the restaurant management. Judge Nderi also ruled that SOS lost prospects of employment and lost his source of legitimate income as a result of the indignity meted out to him by the respondents and for exercising his right to report his employer to the authorities. His dismissal was unlawful as there was no notice or payment. SOS was awarded six months’ salary in compensation totalling Sh72,000—he was earning Sh12,000 a month. Through lawyer Musyoki Mogaka, SOS had presented video footage showing how he was physically assaulted. The Chinese senior manager was deported to China after the incident and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations blamed the High Court for it. In its response, the DCI told the court that after receiving the complaint from SOS, they arrested four Chinese nationals, including the manager. “In February 2020, four suspects were arrested and the DCI sought 21 days custodial sentence to detain them to enable us to complete investigations and the court ordered that the four be remanded at Kilimani police station for 15 days.” However, they claim that in the course of their investigations, the four suspects filed for a revision of their detention at the High Court, which ruled that they be repatriated. “The state placed the blame for the premature deportation at the doorstep of the High Court, which curtailed ongoing investigations of the offenders by ordering the Ministry of Interior to deport the four before completion of the investigations.” The court ruled that the DCI cannot be blamed for the repatriation because they were following the orders of the High Court.