The Nyamira assembly has frozen county staff employment until the current ballooning wage bill is contained. In a letter dated July 1, 2021, the county assembly wrote to County Public Service Board CEO Ann Mwasi demanding that all employment processes be stopped. “The county assembly through the adopted committee report froze all new employment until the county government puts in place the necessary measures to curb the ballooning wage bill and have it under control within the legally allowed threshold,” the letter stated. "Effectively, there is no budgetary provision for any new recruitment." The letter indicated that the wage bill has surpassed the required legal limit, hence the need to contain it. “The county assembly is deeply concerned that the county’s wage bill has persistently surpassed the required ceiling of 35 per cent provided for in the Public Finance Management regulation 2015. In the current financial year 2021-22, the county’s wage bill stands at 53 per cent, way above the legal threshold,” stated the letter. A section of MCAs have demanded that the public service board be suspended on grounds that it had failed to contain the escalating wage bill. They said the board's officials were continuously employing workers, posing a huge threat to the county's development. An MCA, who did not want to be named, said if the wage bill continues to rise, Nyamira county will have no development as all the money will be used to pay salaries. “We need development. We cannot have a county that is running without development. What are we legislating if we cannot get to control the manner in which resources are being utilised in the county?” he posed. Board CEO Mwasi confirmed to the Star that they received the letter from the county assembly. "The assembly is our employer and we have to do what it says. In this case, as the technical adviser to the board, I have advised the board accordingly as much as the letter demands," she said. "I have copied the same to the governor and the county secretary and I have not signed any appointment letters." Edited by A.N