Residents should brace for more demolitions as the government plans to  reclaim grabbed sewerage land. During his Ukambani tour on Friday, President Uhuru Kenyatta said his government will continue reclaiming public land. “Hizo mashamba lazima zirudi. ("Those pieces of land must be reclaimed.") It is the right of every Kenyan to have access to clean water. That is why the government continues to expand the sewerage system,” he said. President Kenyatta said those criticising him for reclaiming public land for sewerage were against development to benefit residents of low-income areas. “Unaskia wengine wananipiga sijui nilifanya nini. Lakini jameni kama mradi wa sewerage ulikuwa na tumesema irudi ndio wananchi huku chini waweze kupata maji safi, tumeskosea wapi wenzangu) Loosely translated, he was asking where the problem is amongst those chastising him on the implementation of the sewerage project to improve access to clean water. The demolitions had caused an uproar from legislators, especially from senators who said it was inhumane as the country battles the Covid-19 pandemic. The head of state urged the National Environment Management Authority to ensure the environment, as well as rivers are protected. He said his government will do everything possible to ensure water pollution is ended. The President urged people not to dump solid waste into rivers, thus bringing disease to people. "We want to ensure everybody has access to clean water and we can only do that through protecting our environment, developing and ensuring cities have proper sewerage facilities, the President said. In April last year about 5,000 residents in Kariobangi North estate were left homeless after the government flattened homes where they had lived for 12 years. The state was repossessing the grabbed Dandora Estate Waste Sewerage Plant land. On May 8, the national government said it had suspended further demolitions for four months as the country fights Covid-19. However, barely two weeks after, at least 1,500 city residents were forced to spend a night in the cold in heavy rain following the Ruai demolitions. They were said to be living on the disputed 3,000 acres meant for expansion of the Sewerage Treatment plan in Ruai. When demolitions commenced in April, residents obtained a court order stopping the evictions and demolitions. Ten months later, the demolitions resumed as hundreds of Njiru residents were left homeless. The demolitions were carried out as Covid-19 cases rose daily. An 8pm to 4am curfew was imposed and Nairobi was classified as a “diseased zone", with four other counties. Residents claimed there was no prior notice of the demolitions, which caught them off guard, with little time to salvage their belongings. Water CS Sicily Kariuki said the ministry was facing many problems, including encroachment, as the government attempts to improve the sewerage system. Nairobi has only two main wastewater treatment plants in Kariobangi and Dandora (Ruai). The Ruai Sewage Treatment Plant is the third largest in East and Central Africa, treating up to 80 per cent of Nairobi's waste. It treats 210,000 cubic meters per day while the Kariobangi plant treats 32,000 cubic metres daily. However, the capacity has significantly declined to 11,000 cubic metres per day, the main factor being illegal occupation. The ministry said almost half of the 75 acres initially earmarked for the facility had been occupied by squatters and private developers. Reclamation has given room for the state to implement the main sewerage project to increase treatment capacity by more than 55 per cent. Current capacity is said to be less than  40 per cent. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 