I have been interacting with Kenyans at the grassroots levels and  have first-hand information on what is in their mind, particularly about politics. The varied opinions bring out a picture of the society that is sharply divided along the lines of ethnicity, political parties and cult-like personalities. You will realise the strategy of profiling Kenyans has worked the moment a conversation starts. You will either be branded a diehard supporter of President Kenyatta, ODM leader Raila Odinga or Deputy President William Ruto. The other day, a group of Kenyans supporting the DP engaged me in a heated war of words. “We are not happy when we see you supporting the President. He is not a good leader. Our businesses are hurting because of the Covid-19 restrictions he has imposed.” “You have not gained anything from his leadership, you are struggling to earn a living the same way we do. We demand that you ditch him and join us in the United Democratic Alliance.” In response, I would tell them. If you read my opinion pieces carefully, you would realise I am not supporting any side. The only thing is that I am blunt when it comes to stating the truth and exposing the hypocrisy, deceit and dishonesty exhibited by some of our political leaders. Therefore, it is wrong to brand me as an Uhuru man. However, let us call a spade a spade. Just like his predecessor, President Mwai Kibaki, Uhuru has had strong and weak points. So, I would urge those who have fallen prey to the trap laid down by his opponents, to change their minds. Well, during our debate, the allegations of the stealing of billions allocated to contain the Covid-19 pandemic propped up. One of them stated that when the media published this exposé, President Kenyatta stepped out immediately and assured the country the culprits would face the full force of law. One year later, no one has ever been arrested, prosecuted and jailed. The President had directed the anti-graft bodies to probe this matter in three weeks and present the report to him? What happened? Was he taking us for a ride? What I reminded them is the agencies complied with the deadline and the DPP presented the report to him, they would not agree. Why did he fail to confirm this publicly? You missed this. The president did that and directed the DPP to immediately charge the suspects. Uhuru had done his part. Under the law, he has no power to prosecute. He can only pile pressure on anti-graft agencies and DPP to discharge the mandate bestowed on them by Kenyans. By directing the probe, it showed he was a strong believer in the rule of law. He knew the cases built on the shaky ground of mob-lynching and unsubstantiated allegations stood no chance of success. The convictions would be secured when the law is followed to the letter and spirit. For now, I urge the ODPP and Uhuru’s handlers to break their silence. Kenyans want to know the status of the Covid-19 billionaire saga. Did the DPP fail to charge the Kemsa directors because of a lack of sufficient evidence? If yes, are they gathering new evidence to tighten the loose end? I hope we are not staring at a possibility of the collapse of the investigation because those, who were shouting from the roof-tops, chickened out and would not record their statements. If you know that so and so is a thief, be ready to present that evidence. The directors who were asked to step aside will have to wait longer before knowing their fate. The DPP updates will spare the President from being bashed left, right and centre. Political Analyst and Blogger Nairobi  Edited by Kiilu Damaris