The government will soon start testing for toxins on vegetables being sold in supermarkets and wholesale markets in Nairobi. The move seeks to ensure that Kenyans are eating healthy and quality vegetables. Agriculture CS Peter Munya said consumers have become aware of potential food hazards and are demanding safe food. “This has resulted in setting up of measures to safeguard food and feed imports by national and regional agencies,” he said. Munya spoke on Tuesday while launching a standardisation mark for horticulture products such as vegetables, fruits and flowers. The mark certifies products as having been produced and handled with standards that protect consumers’ health. He blamed unethical behaviour among traders, farmers and growth in unregulated urban and peri-urban production as hindrances in enhancing food safety in the domestic market. “Consumers in unstructured markets are unwilling to pay premium price for quality produce. There has been a lot of focus on food security and not on quality and safety,” Munya said. Agriculture and Food Authority director general Kello Harsama on Thursday said, AFA will crack down on value chain players flouting food safety regulations. “We will start conducting checks and tests on vegetables being sold in supermarkets, wholesale markets, and even in the farms. This will ensure that food getting into the market is safe,” Harsama said. Kenyans will soon be able to buy vegetables and fruits bearing a quality mark from the supermarkets and other retail stores. This follows the unveiling of a mark of quality for the KS1758 Code of Practice to scale up compliance with quality and safety regulations for fresh produce. Retail Traders Association of Kenya CEO Wambui Mbarire said the mark of quality is part of a campaign to ensure all actors in the industry follow laid down procedures for responsible handling of fresh produce at every point of the value chain. She said despite huge revenues generated by horticulture value chain, there are still challenges in ensuring quality of food traded in formal and informal domestic markets is of the highest standards. “Full implementation of the code of practice would institute a system that incorporates good agricultural practices, hygiene, environmental and social considerations in which food getting into our domestic markets would go through,” Mbarire said. The symbol for the KS1758 Code of Practice has been developed through a joint initiative of the Horticultural Crops Development Authority, Retail Traders Association of Kenya and the Standards Implementation Committee with support from the Rockefeller Foundation. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)