ODM party leader Raila Odinga on Friday reminisced on how he campaigned for former President Mwai Kibaki in 2002, saying it was proof against the perceptions that he doesn’t like Kikuyus. He made the remarks in Nyeri where he joined the family of former Thika mayor Mumbi Ngaru for the burial of their mother Esther Ngonyo. Raila said when he said ‘Kibaki Tosha’ he considered the former President as a Kenyan who could lead not a Kikuyu. “Didn’t I know Kibaki was Kikuyu when I was saying Kibaki Tosha. By bad luck, he had an accident when he was leaving Kitui county. I travelled the entire country when Kibaki was away…I was the one leading the campaign and we won,” Raila said. "People became worried but I told them that we still had to campaign regardless of Kibaki being injured and we won the elections." Raila decried the divisions that have followed saying Kenya would have made progress if leaders worked together instead of diving Kenyans along tribal lines. Noting that Kibaki and him came up with vision 2030, Raila said it was to help Kenya to get out of poverty. "The blueprint has all plans for moving the country from the status of a third world economy to an industrialized middle-income economy by 2030," Raila said. The ODM leader was accompanied by Kieni MP Kanini Kega among other leaders from the region. Raila further said the country could do better if there were no incidents of corruption. "We sealed loopholes . We did a lot with Kibaki. Kenya has enough money and if we seal loopholes, we will have a lot of money," he said. "You cannot meet youths and start dishing out millions of shillings every month. That money could be around Sh1b from one person who is not even having a business," he said. He said Kenya needs no new formula for development adding that the plan is already laid down. "We have enough plans of improving the lives of all Kenyans from Mama Mboga to the youths. What is needed is for these to be implemented. We already planned this with Kibaki we just need enforcements," he said. Raila further noted that Mama Esther was a hardworking person who raised an extensive family. "She was also a keen promoter of harmony in society. May She Rest In Eternal Peace," Raila said. She was later nominated MP for EALA under the Orange Democratic Movement. Ahead of 2007, she was among the few notable leaders from Central Kenya who stuck with Raila, with the fury and indignation of a whole community on her and her family. Raila who addressed the mourners said he has been doing his best with president Uhuru Kenyatta to unite the people of Kenya. Ng’aru, is a longtime Raila supporter and a former Executive Director of LDP.