Spillages of poisonous waste from Naivasha dumpsite into homes and farms is threatening to drive away several homeowners. Already, some families in Karai and Mountain View estate have started to move out due to the pungent and choking smoke from the dumpsite. Approximately 10 acres of private land have been occupied by the waste in the last three years, with fears the situation could worsen if authorities don't act. Efforts by the Nakuru county government to relocate the dumpsite have hit the wall after failing to acquire alternative land around Naivasha. One of the affected homeowners, Njoroge Muchiri, said the choking smell, flowing waste and lack of support from the county government had left them frustrated. “We are recording cases of chest infections daily due to the poisonous emissions from this dumpsite whose waste has found its way into our homes,” he said. The trader said they cannot harvest rainwater as their roofs have been covered  by the soot from the dumpsite, making the water poisonous. “Our appeal is to have this dumpsite relocated to areas where there is no human settlement, as it has caused us untold suffering,” he said. Another resident, Flora Wambui, said the situation was getting worse by the day as the amount of dumped waste continues to pile up. Wambui said when they moved into the estate, the dumpsite was kilometres away and well-managed before things changed. “The waste has been slowly spilling from the dumpsite and it has finally found its way into our homes, leaving a trail of suffering and diseases,” she said. Lakeview MCA Simon Wanyoike admitted the dumpsite was a disgrace to area residents, noting that those responsible for managing it have failed. “We have two schools near the dumpsite and some teachers are seeking transfers due to health complications, while minors are getting treatment for various diseases,” he said. He said a perimeter wall should be constructed to avoid the  spillage. Environment chief officer Muriithi Kiogora said efforts to procure land for a dumpsite had failed due to lack of appropriate site. “The county has this financial year set aside Sh8 million to fence the dumpsite and we are seeking partners so that we can start processing the organic waste,” he said by phone.  