Despite making the 46-athlete team to the World Athletics Under-20 Championship, Vincent Keter feels sorry that his great friend Simon Kipkogei will not be joining him in the men's 1,500m race. Keter timed 3:38.85  to win the men's 1,500m at Saturday's national trials for the World Under-20 whereas Emmanuel Lemama (3:42.05) and Kipkogei (3:45.16) finished second and third respectively. "We had developed a strategy where we would run together side by side before allowing him to take the lead while I follow in second place. However, it was not to be even after we had began the race by running toe-to-toe with each other. So, it feels a bit sad to see that our plan did not work out but all in all that is the nature of competitions," Keter said. Alongside Lemama, the two now have the task of cementing the country's dominance in the middle-distance race by bagging gold and silver on home soil during the August 17-22 global event. Keter is confident they can fulfil the country's expectations by putting in a monster performance at Moi Stadium, Kasarani in 42 days time. "I was confident of a win because of the hard work I have been putting in, even during the semi finals. "I am glad about today's win but there is not much time and therefore, my focus immediately turns to the upcoming global championship. "There is still much to improve on and these are the areas to focus on when we resume training. I believe Lemama and I can do great things at the championship," he said. Unlike most of his peers in the junior team, the African 1,500m junior champion has relative international experience having competed in several events overseas. In his latest international competition at the Folksam Grand Prix in Sollentuna, Sweden, Keter won the men's 1500m with a personal best of 3:35.21. He said his latest exploits on the track are motivated by his failure to secure a ticket to the Tokyo Olympics. "I was highly motivated to win this race and secure my ticket to the World Under-20 after missing out narrowly on Tokyo. So maybe we can say that the energy I had today was a leftover from the national trials. I have also had good fortunes at the international level so I am feeling confident heading to the World Under-20."