•Vlahovic will only consider joining if he is guaranteed to be in the first eleven but unless Manchester City can convince Spurs to let Harry Kane go, that is unlikely •Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola is anxious to put his new plans into operation by making an unexpected move for Barcelona striker Antoine Griezmann. Earlier this week, in complete secrecy, Tottenham checked with their new manager Nino Espirito Santo who agreed to offer Fiorentina star Dusan Vlahovic a contract to join them in time for the start of the new season. His current club have also been approached by AC Milan and Atletico Madrid. Vlahovic will only consider joining if he is guaranteed to be in the first eleven but unless Manchester City can convince Spurs to let Harry Kane go, that is unlikely. Harry won’t announce his intentions until after the Euros and that gives several European clubs an advantage to move in early. The forward has a contract with Fiorentina until 2023 and at 21 years-of-age is valued at around £50m. Dusan hit 21 goals last season and was named Seri ‘A’ Best Young Player for 2020-21. He is a quality player who can read a game and is technically excellent. In and out at Arsenal I can’t help feeling that time is getting seriously out. However, Arsenal are chasing several players and despite claiming shortage of funds because of Covid-19, I have been given the names of players on Mikel Arteta’s shopping list. A huge war chest of £250 million is said to be available but players will also have to leave. Lucas Torriera, Matteo Guendouzi, Joe Willock, Eddie Nketiah and Alexandre Lacazette could all be available if the right offers come in. Hector Bellerin says he is definitely leaving. Arsenal are looking at Brighton’s Ben White, who is No1 on the list, Leicester’s James Maddison, Brighton’s Yves Bissouma, Norwich full back Max Aarons, Sporting PC’s Pedro Gonclaves and Anderlecht’s Albert Sambi Lokonga. Arteta sees Ben White as a future captain of the Gunners and he is impressed with his technical qualities, speed, abilities on the ball and intelligent as he is able to read a game effectively. The player who has impressed me most at the Euros is 23-year-old Portugese international Renato Sanchez. His midfield displays have been excellent. Last season, he helped Lille win the French Ligue 1 title and Arsenal have made enquiries as to his availability but he is also on Liverpool’s radar as they search for a replacement for Georginio Wijnaldum. Raheem Sterling considering his future at City The possibility of Euros hero Raheem Sterling leaving Manchester City has surfaced again and he has been telling us how he is unhappy with his lack of playing time last season. Raheem was left on the bench in several games and was frustrated at being omitted from the Champions League quarter-final and semi-final matches. He has taken the opportunity to show football managers around the world his talent and has been a key player in matches in the Euros so far. I am told he is very angry at being one of the players Guardiola has considered offering for a cash plus players deal in order to sign Harry Kane. Raheem is deeply shocked. He will have talks with manager Pep Guardiola on his return for pre-season training before making any positive decisions about his future. City benefit from Sancho move to United Subject to a medical after the Euros, Jadon Sancho is now technically a Manchester United player. Ironically both Manchester clubs benefit from the move. Borussia Dortmund finally agreed to let Jadon go for £73million— a reduction from their original valuation of £108 million - but this figure includes 15 percent going to City from the deal which took him to Germany. When Jadon left City for Dortmund it was agreed that any future move would benefit City with a sell on clause in the contract. That, according to my calculations gives Pep Guardiola an extra £11million to spend. United change of mind about Jesse Lingard Last season, Jesse Lingard was surplus to requirements at Manchester United and sent out on loan to West Ham. For the latter part of the season,  Jesse was possibly the most in-form player in the league. Hammers manager David Moyes is desperate to sign him but are finding United’s valuation of £25million beyond their cash reserves. However, I have been informed from United that Ole Gunner Solskjaer and United have done a complete U-turn and put together a new contract for Jesse which amounts to £130k-a-week and a three-year deal. His current contract has one year to run with an optional 12 months. “After going on loan and getting a good run in the team, you started to see the real me, with the goals and the assists,” Jesse said.  “I’ve never doubted my ability, I’ve always believed in myself. Last year, I spoke to the manager in pre-season and said, “I need game time.” He replied, “We can discuss it December time”, and we spoke again and he agreed to let me go on loan. I had various conversations with him during my time at West Ham. He was very supportive and it was a great loan for me.” Both Everton and Palace gamble on new managers At last, Rafa Benitez has signed on the dotted line to take over at Everton. His talent and successes are first class but now both he and owner Farhad Moshiri have to convince the fans that the ex-Liverpool boss can cross the Mersey River and show new loyalty to the Blues after insulting them in the past when he managed hated rivals Liverpool and called Everton a “small” team. Already there have been hate signs and banners posted around the Everton stadium which leave no doubt that Rafa will not have an easy time winning over the fans. The one thing in his favour is that if he can bring success to the Toffees he will quickly become a god in the eyes of the fans because Evertonians love their club as much as life itself. Reports are reaching me that Arsenal legend Patrick Viera has reached a verbal agreement Ωwith Crystal Palace to take over as their new manager. Viera has experience in various roles at Manchester City and then moved on to City’s sister club New York for his first managerial job. Two years later he moved to the South of France to take over at Nice but after a tough time with little success, he left in December 2020. My suspicions were aroused when Patrick took time off from his TV pundit role covering the Euros met with Palace officials. I understand that a visa application has been made and if successful he could take over on Monday for the first day of pre-season training. The Palace job will be difficult because with the departure of manager Roy Hodgson several first team players have been released and the team now needs a complete rebuild. Guardiola working to sign Antoine Griezmann My Spanish contacts phoned this week to tell me that Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola is anxious to put his new plans into operation by making an unexpected move for Barcelona striker Antoine Griezmann. City, I understand, are confident they will sign a deal for Aston Villa’s Jack Grealish after the Euros and Griezmann would strengthen an already impressive striking line-up. The Frenchman would fit into Guardiola’s ‘false 9’ system and the manager  has been a long-time admirer. Guardiola knows that to replace Sergio Aguero is top priority. Griezmann has been impressive in the Euros whereas their other interest ,Harry Kane, has looked tired and out of sorts. City’s offer of £100million plus a pick of five players for Kane has been dismissed by Tottenham and Chairman Daniel Levy is notoriously tough to deal with and consequently City have cooled their interest. Trials of dramatic changes to offside laws Arsene Wenger (remember him) is set to be recognised for sorting out the current controversial offside laws which mystify players and anger managers every week. Fifa is going ahead with trials of what will be, if it is adopted, the biggest change to offside laws for 100 years. “Wenger’s Law” as it is referred to, will give strikers an advantage over defenders because an offside offence will only be called if there is clear “daylight” between the attacker and defender. The current offside law which penalises an attacker if a boot, an arm or even an elbow is nearest to the goalkeeper and this will disappear. Trials are set to go ahead in the Chinese league and also includes ending the law which means any handball – even accidental – that results in a teammate being given a goal-scoring opportunity is penalised. If a forward handles the ball accidentally in the build-up to a goal it will not be penalised. Cheisa tells Ramsey not to leave Juve Aaron Ramsey has been an outstanding success at the Euros playing for Wales. He has won man of the match and was involved in everything the Welsh national team achieved including qualification to the knockout stage. However, his club Juventus have not used him to his full potential since joining from Arsenal and he made just 13 league starts in Serie A last season. Ramsey hired his own medical and training staff because he felt the club were not looking after his interests properly. His close friend Federico Chiese has urged Aaron not to leave the club and said this week, “Aaron is a great friend of mine. He’s clever technically and strong and I appreciate him very much at Juventus. He had injuries so couldn’t help the team as much as he wanted but is always competitive and has so much more to offer.”