Police in Pangani, Nairobi are holding a man, after a 25 kilogram explosive consignment that had been concealed as spare parts was recovered in Nairobi’s Eastleigh area. The consignment which is usually used to blast stones had been sent from Migori County to Moyale through Eastleigh, according to police. But on reaching Eastleigh for transfer to a Moyale bound bus Saturday July 10, it was discovered, after the driver raised alarm. “We are holding the man for questioning. It is not yet clear why he concealed the explosives as spare parts,” Starehe Police boss Julius Kiragu said. According to detectives, the man said the explosives were to be used in a quarry, but he did not have a license. Police said one is not supposed to transport such explosives using public means. So far, police said there is no terror links to the incident, but said investigations were underway. “Those explosives can be used to manufacture anything. That is why we cannot just make conclusions without investigations,” Kiragu said. Police took interest in the issue following ongoing inter clan clashes that have so far claimed nine lives. Already, a team of General Service Unit officers has been deployed in the expansive County bordering Ethiopia, to restore peace. Among those killed was a class three pupil at little Angels academy, forcing the closure of several schools such as Saku High, Dibayu High and primary schools in Manyatta Jillo. Saku sub county police commander, Johnson Wachira confirmed the latest fighting which has halted transport along the busy Marsabit-Moyale road and led to the closure of various businesses within Saku town. As late as Friday morning, tribal clashes were still ongoing in Marsabit town, and it took the intervention of police to restore peace in the area. Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai condemned the week-long conflict calling for a lasting solution. “The government expresses dismay…over protracted animosity between communities in Marsabit county which has led to the loss of lives, destruction of property, cattle rustling and rising tension,” he said. He warned the perpetrators that their days are numbered as they had dispatched a, multi-agency team of highly specialized security officers led by the GSU with firm and uncompromising instructions to restore peace and order. Locals accuse the political class for being behind the fighting.