The new Kisii Sports Club management committee has begun revamping the crumbling sports facilities at the club. Interim secretary, Lawrence Nyangena, confirmed they had started working on the nine-hole golf course which is in a very bad state. “Already, we are working on the greens which were in a very bad shape. As you are aware, greens are very critical in a game of golf, so they must be in a good condition,” said Nyangena. He added: “We are also working on the fairways, tee boxes, and roughs. We want to ensure that the golf course is back to its perfect condition in the next two or three weeks. Nyangena said the club will roll out a number of tournaments once the suspension of sports in Nyanza and Western is lifted. The club has never hosted a tournament in close to two years. “We already have individuals and corporates who have agreed to sponsor tournaments once the government lifts the suspension of sports activities. I’m confident that this will happen soon because the Covid-19 numbers have gone down,” he revealed. He added that they are also keen on revamping squash, table tennis, lawn tennis, and snooker facilities. “Our immediate mandate when we took office three weeks ago was to stabilise the club which we have achieved. Our next target is sports facilities,” added Nyangena. On Sunday, 20 golfers met and unanimously elected Jared Mogeni as their captain with former captain George Mainye being brought on board as his assistant. Isaac Basweti was elected as the golf secretary. The three will serve on an interim basis. Mogeni who takes over from William Marita said: “It's a huge responsibility but I believe the team is up to the task. I want to thank members for electing me.” An interim committee chaired by the former secretary was appointed three weeks ago after a member’s Kamukunji resolved to send home the ‘dysfunctional’ management committee which was led by Andrew Kombo. Other members of the committee are former treasurer Jared Moenga and Anyoka Bosire. Club trustees John Kumenda and Nyagoto Charles will supervise the interim committee. Members also formed a committee of four to approach the county with a view of writing off the existing Sh14 million land rate arrears. The committee consists of Samuel Miruka, John Omboga, Samuel Nyagoto, and veteran advocate George Masese. 