Senators are investigating the delayed roll-out of the new generation motor vehicle number plates amid revelations of deal likely to cost taxpayers Sh1 billion loss. Vihiga Senator George Khaniri has petitioned the House through the National Security, Defence and Foreign Relation Committee to probe the inordinate delays to roll out the number plates. Khaniri wants the committee chaired by Kisumu Senator Fred Outa to establish the status of the project, explain whether tenders have been awarded and when the new plates will be introduced. “The committee should explain the status of procurement and installation of the laser marking or validation machines and outline the specific timelines within which Kenyans should expect a nationwide rollout as well as the expected cost,” Khaniri said. The legislator also seeks to know whether the government has awarded and duly signed all the contracts for the production of new number plates. He also wants to know when procurement, delivery and installation of production machines, equipment and raw material were done and whether the relevant and adequate personnel have been trained for the production of the said number plates. The committee, he said, should provide a comparative assessment between the new machines and the new number plates vis-à-vis the old machines and the old number plates. This should be in terms of production capacity, security features and aesthetic value. The probe happened soon after Auditor General Nancy Gathungu released an audit report revealing several lapses in the production of the plates. A court case has slammed brakes on the project. According to the 2019-20 report, a technology company contracted to supply and deliver motorised vehicle number plate blanks has sued Correctional Services PS, whose department is overseeing the roll-out. The contractor is seeking specific performance of the contract, or in the alternative, compensation for the full contract value of Sh1.05 billion. The firm had signed a three-year contract on November 7, 2017, and had already delivered the raw materials to the Kamiti Main prison for the production of new plates. “However, the raw materials (motorised vehicle number plate blanks) are still held at the Kamiti Main Prison Industry stores,” the report says. The report further reveals that machines for producing modern motorised vehicle number plates which were supplied and delivered to the prison industry in 2016 for Sh15.29 million have remained idle. “In the circumstances, the government may not obtain value for money in respect of the contracts for supply and delivery of machines for producing modern motorized vehicle number plates and related raw materials owing to the delay in implementing the project,” Gathungu said. In November last year, the High Court suspended the supply and installation of new high-tech vehicle number plates. Justice James Makau issued the order after activist Okiya Omtatah argued that it would lead to the loss of taxpayers’ money because there is machinery for the production of the number plates that were lying idle at Kamiti Prison. “I am aware that the decision to abandon the already procured equipment and materials, which are lying idle at Kamiti Prison, and to initiate the impugned procurement, follows the change of guard in the Ministry of Interior in July 2018,” Omtatah said. “The impugned tender is unreasonable and wasteful to the extent that it seeks to procure an entire production plan whose installed capacity will never be utilised,” he said. “The same is being done while a fully serviced new machinery is lying idle in a Kamiti prison and waiting to be rolled out. The machinery was acquired by the government between 2013 and 2015 at more than one billion shillings.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris