The Kenya Forest Service has condemned the killing of a vocal and influential environmentalist Joannah Stutchbury. Stutchbury, 67, was shot dead outside her Kiambu home near Windsor Country Club at around 10pm on Thursday night. She was shot four times, once in the head. Logs and branches were placed on the road near Mushroom Gardens, where she lived. Neighbours found her dead with the car engine still running. KFS Chief Conservator of Forests Julius Kamau in a statement on Friday called on security agencies to track down the perpetrators. "The service wishes to convey condolences to family, friends, relatives and the entire nation following her demise and joins in condemning this heinous act," he said. Kamau said Stutchbury's dedication, passion and selflessness to conserve and protect Kiambu Forest Reserve against grabbing and illegal activities was evident. She was a resident of Kiambu county, living around the vicinity of Kiambu Forest Reserve, he said. "She was instrumental in supporting the role of the Kenya Forest Service by advocating the protection of Kiambu Forest Reserve by notifying the service of illegal activities occurring within the forest. She also moved to court to report and condemn such activities," he said. Kamau promised to continue conserving, protecting and sustainably managing the Kiambu Forest Reserve. Stutchbury has been campaigning to save Kiambu Forest near Windsor, which has been invaded by squatters and elite people with land allocations. The forest belongs to KFS but has not been officially gazetted. Stutchbury was reportedly threatened by a developer at gunpoint earlier this year. She was one of the leaders of the permaculture movement in Kenya. Stutchbury also owned 10 acres there, worth at least Sh500 million. Stutchbury was a third-generation Kenyan. Her grandfather was one of the founders of the Muthaiga Club. In 2018, environmentalist Esmond Bradley Martin was murdered in Lang'ata amid speculations that developers wanted to take over his 27 acres. 