More than 100 aspirants from minority communities in Uasin Gishu County have committed to ensure peace in the region ahead of next year’s General Election. The aspirants are however demanding that the minority communities be included in the next county administration in the region where tens of aspirants have already hit the ground seeking to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago. Mandago is completing his second term next year and the minority groups who constitute more than 35 percent of the population in the region says they will negotiate for inclusion by his successor as required under the constitution. Representatives of the 'team diaspora' who spoke in Eldoret included Samson Wanjama also known as Samkiz, Andrew Sure and Kimani Wanjohi said the minority groups would vote as a block for a governor aspirant who will agree to recognize all communities in the county. “We will work for peace and unity in our county where we are residents and legally deserve to be included in the county administration”, said Wanjama. Sure said the minority communities will not accept to be used during voting only to be ignored after the polls. More than eight aspirants are already in the race seeking to replace Mandago next year. Soy MP Caleb Kositany is latest entrant in the race after he formally announced that he will be vying for the seat of governor in Uasin Gishu County where Jackson Mandago will be completing his second term next year. Kositany who is a close ally of DP William Ruto and former deputy secretary general of Jubilee announced in Eldoret at a church function on Sunday that he would be in the race to succeed Mandago. “My style will be as we haves said the bottom up approach so that we can work to uplift the lives of ordinary Kenyans”, said Kostany who indicated that he will run through the UDA parry which will also be Ruto’s vehicle in the race for presidency. Uasin Gishu is Ruto's home county. Mandago’s deputy Daniel Chemno who was present also appeared to indicate that he would vie to succeed his boss but said he would make the announcement at the right time. “Let those who have no job rush to make their announcements but as for me we still have a job to do and when time comes I will take my stand”, said Chemno. They were at the AIC Pioneer Church in Eldoret. Kositany’s entry complicates the race to succeed Mandago which has so far attracted bigwigs who are mainly Ruto’s allies. The MP comes from the same Soy constituency with Mandago and there has been debate in the county with some leaders indicating that they would rather support an aspirant from a different region and not Soy. Kenya’s envoy to Pakistan Professor Julius Bitok who comes from Kesses constituency has also announced his bid for the top seat in the county and another section of leaders and residents see him as the best bet because he vied against Mandago and was second in the primaries. But there are eight other aspirants interested in running on the ticket of the UDA Party linked to Ruto. They include Jonathan Bii who is also from Soy, Vesca Kangogo who is currently the Nairobi county executive for devolution, businessman Charles Kigen and Ngenyilel MCA David Singoei. Speaker of Uasin Gishu assembly David Kiplagat is yet to confirm his interest but he has been mobilizing residents for political interests in 2022. The eventual UDA candidate will face a tough opponent in businessman Bundotich Kiprop, known as Buzeki, who will announce his party in few months time. Buzeki is also a front runner for the seat and analysts say UDA should prepare to pick a formidable candidate who will be able to give Buzeki a run for his money. Buzeki enjoys wide support in the county that is largely cosmopolitan. Politician Jonathan Bii, who was a Kanu official but joined the hustlers, is among the entrants. He has already caused ripples in the county and demonstrated he can upset influential people. Bii hit the ground running to market himself three years ago and none of the other aspirants has covered ground as he has. Analysts say although Bii is not a big name in the region and is not monied, he is the man to watch. “Bii has made friends all over in the county and no one can ignore him now," Kanu official Paul Kibet said. Vesca Kangogo who vied in the jubilee primaries in 2013 and came third has also hit the groundf to mobilize support for her bid. So far she is the only woman in the race and her experience in managing Nairobi may be an added advantage. “I will be in the race and this time am better equipped with the managerial skills I have gained in Nairobi," Kangogo said. Buzeki quit the CCM party as secretary-general after CCM boss Isaac Rutto, former Bomet governor, declared support for DP Ruto. The businessman is at political loggerheads with DP Ruto and said he will stick to his principles and offer his manifesto, rather than be anyone's sycophant. Chemno is highly respected and would also be a strong candidate.