Nairobi county workers have threatened to take industrial action should City hall go ahead and forcefully enrol them into the National Hospital Insurance Fund scheme. The staff in a letter dated July 7, rejected a planned move to make NHIF their medical provider,  citing reduced benefits for members. Through the Kenya County Government Workers Union, the staff have accused the Ann Kananu-led administration of being behind the forceful enrollment without addressing their concerns. The letter was addressed to the county secretary and copied to the deputy governor and executive for public service. “The Union is perturbed by the recent developments in which there are machinations by a few individuals to forcefully enrol the staff into NHIF medical scheme without addressing all the pertinent issues raised by the Union,” the Union's Secretary Festus Ngari said. “The union has distanced itself from the NHIF medical scheme urging that the open tendering continues so that the best provider who will give value for money be selected.” Ngari said they condemn the convoluted scheme being played by individuals who are out to swindle public money and not for the welfare of county workers. The AAR Kenya medical scheme lapsed at the end of the last financial year dated June 30. The county government on July 1, advertised for open tendering of the medical scheme which the unions claim was in disregard of the workers’ concern. According to the Union, the NHIF proposed medical scheme will only cover 4,897 workers compared to about 12,000 staff who had been covered with AAR. Also, the NHIF cover is said to reduce the benefits the staff had been enjoying under AAR which provided Sh850 million annual cover to Sh737 million. Explaining the shortcomings under the NHIF cover, Ngari revealed that there was no mechanism for reimbursement in case of suspension of services for one reason or the other. The NHIF scheme has reduced Group Life Cover from Sh850,000 to Sh 700,000 that is received by the lowest-ranked member in the unfortunate event the member passes. “The NHIF Scheme does not give value for money and reeks of grand corruption and impunity as their quote is not objective but is done with the county's budget in mind,” Ngari said. “NHIF being a government institution, we expected that they would provide the best services with a value of money.” The proposed medical scheme also excludes cover for pandemic something that was being covered by AAR within the chronic ailments limit. Staff between job groups A and K who had enjoyed unlimited outpatient services under AAR has now been capped at Sh100,000 with limitations to the health facilities that they can visit. It was also said the NHIF pre-authorisation process is long and tedious and can lead to unnecessary loss of life. The Union also raised issues that with the NHIF scheme, members will not get services in the event the Exchequer delays monthly remittance to the county occasioning delays in remitting NHIF statutory deductions even if the premiums for the enhanced cover are fully paid. “The other concern is the reduction of inpatient limit for members in Job Groups G, H, J and K and there is also no mechanism for reimbursement in case of suspension of services for one reason or the other,” Ngari revealed. Currently, all seconded staff under the Nairobi Metropolitan Service have been placed under the NHIF cover. The union is now calling upon the immediate withdrawal of the cover and be replaced with a medical scheme agreed on by all stakeholders. Problems between medical cover started in February this year when AAR wrote to City Hall reminding the county government to settle the premium balance of Sh530 million. On March 9 having received no response, AAR managing director Nixon Shigoli said they won't continue offering uninterrupted services to the staff and their families. At this juncture, the county staff had threatened to down their tools if the county failed to pay the arrears. During this time, the union claimed they have lost at least 20 members between March 16 and April 8 with five of them dying on April 3. However, on April 9, City Hall paid Sh270.1 million to AAR, asking that the scheme be restored. In his letter, finance executive Allan Igambi said the unexpected delay in the settlement of the premium was occasioned by the late passage of the budget for the 2020-21 financial year. Igambi pledged to clear the outstanding arrears by April 23 but later sought an extension until May 7. Due to the above issues, Nairobi MCAs said they will investigate the AAR insurance for City Hall after it was alleged that the deal has become a cash cow for some county officials at staff expense. The county government had been put on the spot for paying more than Sh652 million over the medical scheme’s contract term of Sh1.07 billion. The county assembly said it would establish an ad hoc committee to investigate the AAR Insurance Kenya medical cover contract with City Hall. The probe decision comes as the county executive plans to shift medical cover for 12,000 City Hall staff to NHIF  Edited by Kiilu Damaris