Residents in Lamu's remote areas have asked the government to send medics door to door with Covid-19 jabs to reach everyone. Residents in villages on the Lamu-Somalia border and who are vulnerable to al Shabaab attacks have not received the jab. They say the three official centres are too far away. The villages include Kiunga, Ishakani, Madina, Mkokoni and Kiwayu and those inside the dense Boni forest such as Bar’goni, Baure, Milimani and Mangai. Other areas are Mararani, Basuba, Kiangwe, Bodhei, Pandanguo, Lumshi, Witu, Kakathe, Maleli, Nyongoro, Maisha Masha, Mavuno and Poromoko. Currently, residents must go to one of three hospitals to get the jab. Dispensaries in their areas were looted and vandalised by al Shabaab militants at the peak of attacks in Lamu between 2014 and 2017. They have not been rebuilt or restaffed. Their only option is to travel to hundreds of kilometres to the King Fahad Hospital on Lamu Island, or elsewhere. These residents want the government to introduce door-to-door vaccinations, as for polio and measles. Residents can also get jabs at Mpeketoni Subcounty Hospital in Lamu West and Faza Subcounty Hospital in Lamu East. Only the King Fahad vaccination centre is fully in operation, vaccinating those who turn up. Despite major sensitisation by county health office, only 880 people received the first dose and 329 have turned up for the second jab. Community leader Fatma Mussa of Milimani village in Basuba said most people can't cover the 300km to Lamu Island for the jab. “Normally our children have missed out on polio, measles and other vaccines because health workers are afraid of coming here, fearing they will be attacked by terrorists. "But we are asking the government to organise door-to-door campaigns so all Kenyans can get the Covid jab,” Mussa said. Elder Ali Sharuti said some people in interior villages of Lamu still had no idea what Covid-19 is and how to stay safe. “Let them bring sensitisation to our people and ensure the jab reaches them. If they go door-to-door, then definitely no one will be left out,” Sharuti said. Daniel Kaingu of Lamu town said even those in towns are unable to get clear communication on how, when and where the jab can be obtained. “When they started this thing, they said priority was being given to frontline health workers. They have not announced when the rest of the people should go for the jab. If they visit people where they are, many will receive the jab,” Kaingu said. Lamu Health executive Anne Gathoni admitted admitted uptake of the AstraZeneca vaccine has been slow since vaccinations started in March. She blamed the problem on negative portrayal of the vaccine on social media. “There is a lot of propaganda and we are asking you to avoid it. The vaccine doesn’t cause impotence or infertility or whatever other rumours you have heard. It’s absolutely safe. Stay woke and get your jab today,” Gathoni said. Lamu received 1,500 doses in the first consignment in March, while the second consignment of 100 doses came in last week. (Edited by V. Graham)