Kenya Lionesses will play their rescheduled World Cup repechage qualifier against Colombia at Nyayo Stadium on August 25. The match was initially slated for April but was postponed following President Uhuru Kenyatta’s directive on suspension of sports in the country, aimed at containing the spread of coronavirus. The winner will head to the repechage slated for early next year with the Women’s Rugby World Cup set for September 2022 in New Zealand. Speaking from Kurume City, Japan where he is handling the Sevens side ahead of the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games, head coach Felix Oloo said the girls have work to do after seeing them lose twice to Madagascar (27-15 and 10-0) in their latest matches. However, he expressed confidence that the girls will be in good shape to face the South Americans. “The girls have had a taste of elite rugby in the two games played last week and I am confident we can get a win,” said Oloo. Oloo, who doubles up as Nakuru RFC coach, said that from their anaylsis, the Colombians have very big forwards and thus are a physical side. He said they will try to nullify their strength by playing the game at pace and winning the collisions upfront. “Playing at home will be a massive advantage coupled with the fact that we intend to play the game at pace to tire them,” said Oloo. Colombia qualified by beating Brazil 23-19 last year while the Lionesses finished second during the Africa Cup in South Africa two years ago, beating both Uganda and Madagascar and 35 -5 and 33-5 respectively but losing 40-0 to South Africa in the final. Oloo was non-committal on the inclusion of Sevens players in the World Cup qualifier. “We have to wait and see what happens between now and August 25,” he said. “Once we are done with the Olympics, we will be in a better position to see what needs to be done.” Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla said the women’s game has grown with two separate squads in both 7s and 15s and is delighted with the progress over the last couple of years. “Our girls have made tremendous progress and we are looking forward to this qualifier and test ourselves accordingly. We have a lot of girls taking up the game which will aid our national team in future,” said Gangla The team is expected to resume training next week with assistant coach Mitch Ocholla training the team in the absence of Oloo