More than 300 cooperative societies that had collapsed have been revived through support from Uasin Gishu county over six years. The region through the County Enterprise Fund has lent more than Sh500 million to the societies. Governor Jackson Mandago has also spearheaded a new law approved by the county assembly to strengthen the societies. The Uasin Gishu County Cooperatives Societies Act provides structures for mergers as well as strict management of cooperatives. Mandago said the county had invested a lot in the cooperatives sector, having revamped the 300 cooperatives that had collapsed. “The societies collapsed because of mismanagement but with the new law we will strengthen the management systems and do away with corruption that has been the main problem, the governor said on Saturday. The new law on co-operatives mandates the county government to streamline management of the societies as well as sustain the Enterprise Development Fund initiated by Mandago to support the societies through loans. "Under the new law going forward, we shall be working with registered cooperatives with a view of merging in similar sectors," Mandago said at the county's World Co-Operatives Movement day in Eldoret. Mandago said the cooperative societies will also help unify farmers so they can jointly deal with challenges. "Through our new law, the county has been given the mandate to organise merger of cooperatives venturing into the same business like farming to build strength and capacity through diversification," he said. The governor said the county was already supporting groups from Moiben and Soy, Turbo and Kapseret, Kesses and Ainabkoi to join up and form one big co-operative. Cooperatives and enterprise development county executive Esther Mutai said, "The Act gives the county powers to run our cooperatives. It will spur their growth and make them more vibrant." Mary Njogu, who is the water and environment executive, called for a culture of saving. She said her department is working to ensure cooperators, especially in agriculture, get reliable water for irrigation and livestock. “We will ensure we train all managers so corruption does not thrive again to ruin the societies we have revived," Mandago said. (Edited by V. Graham) 