 Did Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho endorse Mvita MP Abdulswamad Nassir as his preferred successor? That is the question on the minds of those following the political developments in Mombasa after Joho made a vague statement about Nassir’s candidature. ODM party leader Raila Odinga steered away from local politics, resisting pressure from ODM leaders to endorse Nasir, saying he is a father to all. “The governorship [decision)] is yours. You will decide who will become governor,” Raila told a cheering crowd. Joho, while ending the function on Saturday at Treasury Square asked that the prayers of the leaders who spoke be heard. “Watu wote hapa wanakutakia kheri wewe. Sisi ni kuomba Mungu tu yaloombwa yakubaliwe… Sisi ni kuomba tu yaloombwa yafanye nini…? (Everyone here wishes you well. Ours is to pray that whatever they ask for is given),” Joho said as he ended the function by calling Nassir on stage so they could do a jig. Speaker after speaker including Mombasa Senator Mohamed Faki, Nominated Senator Agnes Zani, Kilifi Woman Representative Getrude Mbeyu, her Kwale counterpart Zulekha Hassan and Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire, supported Nassir’s bid. There are different interpretations to Joho’s statements, some saying it was an endorsement, others saying it was not, yet others say it was a non-committal statement. On Sunday, both Nassir and his opponent businessman Suleiman Shahbal delved into the matter. Shahbal, in a terse statement, said he is ready to fight it out with Nassir on the ground after Raila’s statement on Saturday. “Ahsante Baba. Tukutane Mashinani. (Thank you, Baba. Let us meet on the ground),” posted Shahbal accompanied by a photo of himself rolling his sleeves. However, Nassir said the Saturday function was not about the endorsement of anyone by anyone. “It was purely about my people getting NHIF cover. I know it is too early for any political endorsements,” Nassir said in a statement. “Let us focus on the bigger picture here which is service to the people who elected us to office. I appreciate the presence of my party leader Raila Odinga and my Governor Hassan Joho at the function,” Nassir said. Some 12,000 Mvita constituents got NHIF cover worth Sh18 million for the next year. Mwakuja Mrombo, a political analyst said, Joho’s statement was an attempt at pacifying Nassir after plans to have Raila endorse him failed. “Baba does not want to make the mistakes he made in the past, whereby he has been endorsing people who are not popular on the ground. That is why he resisted the push,” Mrombo said. Mrombo said Nassir and Shahbal have been making moves to endear themselves to Raila in the hope of an endorsement. However, Shahbal has on at least two occasions said he does not depend on anyone’s endorsement. Maimuna Mwidau, another political analyst at the Coast, said such statements have their effects and that opponents may take them and play around them. “In politics, nothing happens by default. Everything is always planned. In politics, you must realise there are repercussions when you make a statement, either positive or negative… Nassir used this opportunity to try and get an endorsement,” Mwidau said. She noted the support from other leaders that Nassir got shows that there are areas in which he has a better shot. “This shows they can form a team and work together,” Mwidau said. She said Joho’s statement was non-committal and cannot be taken to be an outright endorsement. Mwidau said the two protagonists, Nassir and Shahbal, will have to go back to square one and form teams that they can work with. “It is an endorsement that is not a commitment. Those were prayers, but to who? God or who? Those are two things,” she said. The analyst said that the prayers were specifically to the powers that be on that particular occasion. “‘Baba, listen to us, we want Abdulswamad. We are waiting for your rubber stamp’. But Baba did not commit himself,” Mwidau said. The non-endorsement by Raila, both Mrombo and Mwidau said, gives room for Shahbal to manoeuvre and make moves towards clinching the ODM ticket. Raila said the party will conduct free and fair nominations to get the best candidates to fly the ODM flag in all elective positions. Mwidau said endorsements in the current politics may not work because the Coast region is still undecided about their political alignment. This is despite Joho, Mwambire and several other Coast politicians assuring Raila on Saturday that the ground is still firmly in ODM. “The ground at the Coast is still ODM. We are in ODM. You might find me carrying the ODM flag and in the ballot,” Joho said. Mwambire said those making noises are doing so in an attempt to look for money. “Your soldiers are firm. Our standstill remains firm. We are waiting for the finals. We have done enough practice,” Mwambire said. There are voices from the Coast region that want it to go abandon the ODM ship and go it alone. Umoja Summit Party of Kenya has been at the forefront vouching for the region and its leaders to join a party based at the coast. Mwidau said should the ground shift politically in the region, all previous endorsements will have been nullified. “You will have to be endorsed from home. You will have to go back to the people,” Mwidau said. She noted every other region has organised itself in a particular alignment. Only the Coast remains. “It is good that Baba is being careful because people have said they want to choose their own leaders,” she noted.  