Socialite Amber Ray caused a furore at her Syokimau residence and woke up her neighbours on Tuesday night. Video footage shows Amber Ray and her friends hurling insults at Amira, her co-wife, and some of the neighbourhood women. The two women are allegedly married to businessman Jamal Rohosafi Amber Ray is heard shouting, "You are dealing with the wrong people. Go deal with your husband. The issue is those women trespassing at my house." Taunting the women further, she says, "So, you wanted a show? Here it is..." she then twerks in a dera. The face-off then continues, with both sides hurling insults at each other. At one point Amber Ray and her pals are asked to remove their car, which is blasting loud music, from the estate. They agree to turn off the music but refuse to leave the compound. An angry Amber Ray asks, "What are they doing in my house? This is my house. I did not go to anyone's house. This is my house. You will not evict anyone. Go look at the documents to find out who owns this house. Nonsense. He is my visitor and he is not leaving." One of Amber Ray's pals adds, "And if it is Jamal, let them go look for him at his house not here. He has already left." Amber Ray adds, "Just because I'm a second wife does not mean I should be harassed. I did not woo anyone's husband." According to videos shared online, Amira said Jamal had called her after a dead bird was dumped at Amber Ray's doorstep. In her Instagram stories, Amber Ray says her co-wife started it all on Tuesday night. She says Amira brought back a dead bird with her from Tanzania and dropped it at her doorstep. She wrote: "This is what escalated all the drama today. like you been preaching to people out here how wicked I'm and then I get this a present from you from Tanzania. Surely, as much as you want to be blind, who is the witch." In one video, Amira cries out saying it was disrespectful of Jamal to call her from Amber Ray's house and ask her about the dead bird. "This is disrespect. Do I walk around with dead birds? You call me here to this wicked woman to ask me such a question. I have been silent but this has become too much for me to bear. Leave me alone Jamal. nimekusitiri sana Jamal. Amenizidia sana huyu Jamal." At some point, Amira dares Amber Ray to come out and face her. After the dramatic scene, Amber Ray posted videos of Jamal in her house together with her friends. The two women do not see each other eye to eye after Jamal declared that the socialite is his second wife.