A report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu shows that several firms in the cement industry and the mining sector owe taxpayers Sh1.7 billion. Some firms, the report for the year to June 30, 2020, reveals, are operating without a licence. Rai Cement, East Africa Portland Cement Company and Savana Cement Company were found to be operating without licences. “The companies continued to undertake mining activities and deal in minerals without valid licences or permits contrary to Section 159 of the Mining Act, 2016,” Gathungu said. Of the Sh1.7 billion arrears, EAPCC owes Kenyans Sh280 million in cement levy accrued between 2014-15 and 2017-18. Savana Cement Company has arrears of Sh375.9 million and has attributed its non-payment to lack of a licence. ARM Cement Plc, the audit reveals, was yet to settle Sh255.5 million having accrued during the financial years 2014-15 to 2016-17. Magadi Soda had the highest portion of the unpaid levies at Sh622 million which has accrued since the financial year 2015-16. “Although the company undertook to settle the arrears with the State department, no significant progress was made in the year,” Gathungu said. EAPCC at the same time did not file self-declaration assessments and was, therefore, not assessed for cement levy in financial years to June 2019 and June 2020. “Management did not provide any explanation on why levies chargeable to the company were not assessed and reported in the financial statements,” Gathungu said. “In the circumstances, the recoverability of the long outstanding arrears of revenue and the accuracy of arrears of cement revenue due since 2017- 18 financial year could not be ascertained,” she added. The revelations have put the PS Peter Kaberia-led Mining department on the spot, with the auditor querying why the management has allowed the irregularity to continue unabated. In the prevailing circumstances, she said it could not be ascertained if taxpayers would recover the arrears of revenue in respect of the firms. For Savana Cement, a payment plan agreement was signed in August 2017 between the Mining department and the company requiring settlement of the arrears in 24 monthly instalments starting from September 2017. However, the company had reneged on the plan, stating that it did not hold a mineral licence from the state department. Its argument was that it was not liable to pay the levy and also moved to the High Court challenging a law that required payment of cement minerals levy by all cement producing companies in Kenya. “As a result, the recoverability of the long outstanding arrears of revenue and cement levy arrears accruing from Savana Cement Company since 2017/2018 financial year could not be confirmed,” Gathungu said. For ARM Cement Plc, the company was acquired by the National Cement Company Limited as a going concern at Sh5.2 billion. A distribution was thus made to all creditors in April 2020 as per the administrator records. However, the outstanding cement levy arrears of Sh255 million was not settled from net proceeds realised from the sale at the time of acquisition. The Mining department did not explain why outstanding levies were not settled after the sale of the ARM assets. Further to this, Gathungu revealed that no evidence was provided to show how the National Cement Company intends to settle the outstanding cement levies. “In the circumstances, recoverability of the outstanding arrears of Sh255,530,933 is in doubt,” the auditor said. Also queried is a long outstanding due from Carbacid Limited of Sh30.5 million, arrears relating to the financial year 2017-18 and 2018-19. A review of correspondences revealed that the company’s management had expressed their reservations regarding payment of the royalties before a consensus on payment rates was reached. Carbacid Limited did not file a self-declaration assessment and was, therefore, not assessed for royalties due in the year under review. Gathungu said the recoverability of the arrears of revenue could not, therefore, be confirmed under the prevailing circumstances. Several mineral explorers are also yet to settle royalties worth Sh43.9 million, being Sh28 million in respect of Kilimapesa Gold Pty Ltd, Sh14.9 million for Africa Diatomite Industries Limited, and Sh49,274 for Consol Limited. “Management did not provide evidence of any tangible steps being undertaken to recover the arrears of revenue.” “In addition, a review of records maintained by the Mining department revealed that declared and assessed sales records in respect of Kilimapesa Gold Pty Limited were not up to date and thus the royalty arrears could not be accurately estimated,” the audit reads. Gathungu reported that Rai Cement Company remitted cement levies totalling Sh44.7 million but had outstanding arrears of Sh25.8 million whose recoverability and regularity could not be confirmed. -Edited by SKanyara