The stiff competition witnessed among shooters during the International Defensive Pistol Association Tier 1 match at the Kirigiti Shooting Range, Kiambu a week ago bodes well for the country ahead of the IDPA Africa Championship at the same venue in September, according to the National Gun Owners' Association's Sammy Onyango. Onyango said the local tournament revealed that Kenya is more than ready to do battle against other seasoned shooters during the continental event, which will be held outside South Africa for the first time ever. "The overall performance was good and the match-ups were very tight. Most of the favourites who were expected to excel were upstaged. For example, in my category, I had a very tight run and stiff competition and came up tenth overall — which is an unusual position for me. So this is as a result of the tough competition and the level of performance exhibited," Onyango, also the match director during the event, said. Onyango revealed that over 260 Kenyans will be expected to participate in the September event in addition to other foreign shooters who have thus far registered for the competition. However, he explained that 60 of the local participants are currently being trained and classified to upgrade their skills from the novice to the marksman level — which is the minimum skills required to compete in the event. "The requirement by the world association is that the African championship should have a minimum of 200 participants. In Kenya, we have so far rolled out 240-260 participants. We are expecting around 30-40 participants from South Africa; we have one person from Switzerland who has registered and are expecting others from Hungary and Thailand," Onyango said. The event brought together approximately 50 shooters competing for top honours in the following categories: Law Enforcement; Military; Stock Service Pistol (SSP); Carry Optics (CO); Pistol Caliber Carbine (PCC); Military; Enhanced Service Pistol (ESP); Concealed Carry Pistol (CCP); Most Accurate and Most Improved. In some of the results, Daniel Mutiso won the Law Enforcement category ahead of Aden Barrow and Mike Kiptanui. Elizabeth Onyango beat Irene Ndunda and Agatha Muchiri to the top gong in the ladies category whereas Mahir Omar reigned supreme in the CCP category ahead of Thomas Kiilu. In the SSP novice division, Peter Odindo came first ahead of Agatha Muchiri and Brenda Ajiambo while Alex Onyapidi was the winner in the marksman division ahead of Irene Ndunda and Gikonyo Mwangi. The next local tournament — to be held in late July — will be used as a dry run for the continental championship. Onyango asked partners to come on board and support the preparations for the continental event, which will be a springboard to reviving the country's reputation as the hub of talented shooters.