Court has ordered the Inspector General of Police to produce Yassir Hemed, the Lamu ambulance driver who was allegedly abducted at gun point by police on June 19. Malindi High Court Justice Reuben Nyakundi gave the police up to July 2 to bring Hemed before the court of law as they were contravening his fundamental rights and freedoms. Nyakundi gave the orders after Muslim for Human Rights through the ambulance driver’s wife filed a petition in court seeking orders for the police to produce him whether dead or alive. In his ruling, the judge certified the application as urgent and directed the petitioners to serve the orders to the respondents. The respondents in the petition include the Director of Public Prosecutions, Inspector General of Police, OCS Lamu police station and his Mpeketoni counterpart and officer in charge of DCI Lamu county. “An order of Habeas Corpus is issued against the respondents to avail the applicant Yassir Hemed before the court on July 2 2021," said the order. Hemed was abducted on June 19 in Lamu at Mau Mkunubi area and is believed have been taken by security personnel as they had guns, handcuffs and jungle uniforms. On the material day, Hemed was reportedly driving with his family from Mpeketoni to Lamu when armed gunmen in jungle uniform cornered them at Mkunumbi, dragged him out at gunpoint and took him away without any explanation. Since that day family members together with Muhuri  have been looking for him in mortuaries, hospitals and police stations in vain. Yumna Ali Salim, the wife of the abducted driver in a written affidavit, stated that on the material day, three armed men wearing masks and security outfits alighted from a GK land cruiser after intercepting their vehicle a few Kilometres from Mkunubi township and abducted her husband. She said they then ordered her and her son, and a passenger to get out of the car before taking her husband’s driving license. Salim said the masked men then ordered them to walk ahead without looking back with a warning that they will shoot if they disobeyed. “We later turned to look back after walking for some distance only to find that the three-armed men with the GK land cruiser had disappeared with my husband leaving our car in the middle of the road,” she said. She said her son moved the car, parked it by the roadside and then they boarded a public service vehicle to complete their journey to Lamu. "Since then, I have not heard from my husband, his phone has been switched off and his whereabouts remain unknown,” she said. Her family and relatives reported the case at Lamu Police Station under OB NO 31/19/06/2021 and Mpeketoni Police Station under OB NO 16/20/06/2021 but they are still unable to locate him. Muhuri Rapid Response officer Francis Auma said they want Hemed to be produced whether dead or alive. He said Muhuri has been following this case since day he was abducted last month and have enough evidence that the abductors were police officers. Auma said their organisation is currently handling two 'habeas corpus' cases of people suspected to have been abducted by police in Lamu and Mombasa counties. The other case is for organisation Bakari Mwanyota Mbwana who was abducted in Likoni, Mombasa. The rapid response officer said such cases have been on the rise with police being accused of being behind the abductions. -Edited by SKanyara