An audit report has exposed how ministries have retained retirees in the civil service despite the country's soaring youth unemployment levels. The report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu for the 2019-20 financial year, shows that the Ministry of Health and the Department of Vocational Training have violated labour laws. For instance, the State Department of Vocational Training, which falls under George Magoha's Education Ministry, had illegally retained 41 officers who have attained the mandatory retirement age of 60 years. Furthermore, two of the 41 officers working beyond retirement age have had their contracts extended several times, lifting the lid off the staff mess at the Education department. The report shows that the officers have been retained in service despite having no certificates of registration as people living with disabilities. The law requires civil servants to retire at the age of 60 except for people living with disabilities whose retirement age is 65. “This is contrary to Section B.20(1) Subsection (ii) and (iv) of the Public Service Commission-Human Resource Policies and Procedures Manual, 2016, which outlines circumstances for appointment on contract terms,” the report reads. The auditor says the Public Service Commission while authorising contract extensions had advised the State Department to plan on building capacity by competitively filling the positions. “Although the management provided explanations for the extensions, the affected officers had been heading their respective departments for a significantly long duration before their retirement,” the report reads. According to the auditor, the multiple contract extensions might have resulted from poor or lack of succession planning on the key positions at the State Department. It was the same worrying situation at the Ministry of Health where some 26 employees are working beyond the retirement age. The ministry is also on the spot over the unauthorised establishment of illegal employment structures. The report shows that in the financial year 2019-20, the ministry employed 1009 staff in 28 departments/sections against an approved staff establishment of 361 vacancies. This illegal employment resulted in the over employment of 648 staff with the auditor, saying there was no explanation provided for the over establishment. At the same time, the ministry illegally overpaid salaries for some 26 staff amounting to sh2.6 million. The auditor questions why the ministry credited Sh1.6 million to the staff instead of the sh1 million that was due in salaries. Last year, the Employment and Labour Relations Court warned the PSC against failing to manage succession plans and instead opting for retention of civil servants who have attained the mandatory retirement age. Judge Maureen Onyango said although the law allows PSC to extend contracts to civil servants who have reached 60 years with specific skills, the window is prone to abuse and hinders upward mobility for junior officers. The Treasury has projected the pension department will require Sh153.64 billion in the financial year starting July to honour monthly pensions claims and gratuity pay by senior citizens. This underlines the burden of a fast-aging public service to taxpayers on the back of delays in implementing reforms in the past. Some 20,300 public servants were earlier projected to have retired in the year ended June 2020, up from 19,800 a year earlier, and 19,300 in 2017-18. At the same time, the auditor put the Ministry of Health on the spot over the purchase of 198 desktop computers, 50 laptops, 13 black and white printers at an inflated cost of 26.6 million. The reports reveals that the prevailing market price index for the items at the time was sh19 million, resulting in wastage of Sh7.5 million.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris