Manchester City coach Pep Guardiola has revealed his club prevented Rodri and Ferran Torres from representing Spain at the Olympics and said other clubs should do the same to prevent players over-exerting themselves. Six players in Spain’s Euro 2020 squad including Barcelona midfielder Pedri and defender Eric Garcia have been called up for the Olympics and are due to report for training on July 12, the day after the European Championship final. But while clubs outside Spain have the right to reject releasing players for the Games, Spanish clubs are obliged to let their players go and represent their country. “Ferran Torres and Rodri could have gone to the Olympics but they’re not going because they went to the Euros. It’s too much,” Guardiola told Catalan network TV3 on Monday. “One tournament in a summer is enough. The clubs are the ones who pay the players and they need to protect their assets. The current match calendar is brutal and yet new competitions and tournaments keep being created.” Meanwhile, Barcelona forwards Ousmane Dembele and Antoine Griezmann have apologised for a 2019 video appearing to mock hotel staff in Japan but denied their comments were racist. The video, recorded by Dembele during Barcelona’s pre-season tour of Japan ahead of the 2019-20 season, was leaked on social media and showed both players laughing at a group of hotel staff who were working to fix a television. “It all took place in Japan. It could’ve taken place anywhere on the planet and I would’ve used the same expression,” Dembele wrote on Instagram on Monday. “I was therefore not targeting any community. I just happened to use this type of expression with my friends regardless of their origins. “This video has since been made public. I appreciate therefore that it could’ve hurt the people present in these images. Because of this, I would like to sincerely apologise to them.” Griezmann said he was “completely against all forms of discrimination”. “For the past few days, certain people have wanted to paint me as someone that I am not,” he said on Twitter. “I firmly refute the accusations made against me and I’m sorry if I have offended any of my Japanese friends.” 