The Anglican Church is undertaking projects that have seen more than 1,000 households access water. Through its Enhanced Access to Reliable Water Supply and Sanitation for Economic Development programme, the church is transforming lives in one of the remote parts of Marsabit. It has experienced water crisis for many years. The church has partnered with National Water Management Authority for technical support. Residents of Nairibi in Laisamis have a reason to smile following successful implementation of water projects funded by Bread for the World and UKAid at a cost of Sh57.7 million. The Anglican Development Services of Mount Kenya East (ADS-Mt Kenya East) is the implementing agency and has done piping of more than three kilometres, besides providing livestock watering troughs to serve pastoralists. Programme coordinator for Marsabit region Dub Garbicha said the intervention was informed by the desire by the church to assist the community to access clean water and mitigate poverty. Garbicha said water is key to healthy living, adding that residents were overwhelmed by water-related diseases and conflict as the community members fought for the rare commodity, though saline. “This projects have had great impact on peacebuilding, as availability of adequate water promotes good co-existence among these pastoralist communities,” he said. Enhancement of food security and supporting a friendly learning environment for children, was also a key driving factor. Garbicha made the remarks during the commissioning and handover of the projects to the community at Nairibi. He pointed out that water scarcity in Marsabit was a big challenge because the largest portion of the county is arid. According to the coordinator, a study by the organisation established that most residents have to trek long distances in search of water, a process that is not only tiring but also time-consuming. He told KNA that high levels of illiteracy among women in the region, is linked to the water shortage problem as girls spend their valuable time fetching water and end up dropping out of school. Boys are also not safe as he has to undertake the chore of taking livestock to watering points situated far away from where they attend school. The story on how pupils at two local primary schools underwent agonies of  urinary tract and skin diseases owing to lack of safe water is at hand with virtually every resident. The nurse-in-charge of Nairibi dispensary, Joseph Lemong, narrated how the facility used to be flooded with cases of learners from Nairibi and Lontolio primary schools seeking treatment for uremia caused by contaminated water from saline wells. “We used to receive many pupils here with urinary infections, some urinating blood and stone like obstructs,” he said. The problem has been addressed following the rehabilitation of a borehole at Nairibi that had been in a state of disuse for several years after it broke down. Lemong also disclosed that skin infections, including scabies, were a bother not only to pupils but other residents as well. The intervention will also address malnutrition, especially among children, lactating and expectant mothers, as residents are now able to grow vegetables and fruits at their kitchen gardens, he said. He acknowledged that the availability of water through ADS was an effective intervention against the Covid-19 pandemic, residents are now able to maintain cleanliness and hygiene as advocated by the Ministry of Health. “Given that sanitisers are hardly available in these remote areas, members of this community can now comfortably wash their hands with soap because running water is readily available,” Lemong said. ACK Marsabit Diocese, Bishop Wario Qampicha, who graced the occasion called for partnership approach in addressing the water scarcity problem in the county. The Bishop was joyful that residents could now access water in 15 minutes and productively use their valuable time previously spent in walking long distances to better their lives. Households access water at a nominal fee of Sh100 per month irrespective of the amount of water one draws from the 2,800 litres per hour, yielding borehole. “Resources are limited and this calls for partnerships and fund raising by stakeholders in this sector, if the water problem is to be alleviated in this county,” he said. Warma was instrumental in the implementation of the programme, especially in capacity building and awareness of management and conservation of water resources and environment protection. Warma county coordinator Hussein Guyo lauded the project, saying innovations displayed by ADS when undertaking the projects would ensure its sustainability as there was community ownership. The organisation undertook more than 20 water restoration projects in Marsabit South, including construction of three check dams along the seasonal the Nairibi river, building of tanks and fitting of gutters in schools and health centres. Others include a water pan, kitchen gardening, promotion of integrated water management and hygiene, rehabilitation of water kiosks and setting up of solar power boosters. Gabions have been constructed on seasonal rivers for soil erosion control, land reclamation and ground water retention purposes. ADS aims to implement projects in many areas. Since it started in 2018, it has learnt never to spread resources thinly. The plan should always be to focus on one area and to entirely implement a project by taking into consideration all its components. A villager at Loripa, Naipiria Lenawalchiget praised the donor and the technical support given by the government, saying it was impressive. Lenawalchiget said residents were a happy lot for being provided with clean water as it had lessened the burden of walking to far places in search of the commodity which they could at times fail to get. “We now have unlimited access to safe water for domestic and livestock use,” she said, as she quenched her one year-old child's thirst with water brought to her doorstep through piping from 2.5km away. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)