A requiem mass was held on Wednesday for 11 Kenya Air Force soldiers who perished in a helicopter crash in Ole Tepesi area of Kajiado on June 24. The prayers were held at Moi Air Base in Eastleigh and attended by families and friends. Kenya Air Force commander Maj Gen Francis Ogolla was at the event where the soldiers were eulogised as brave. The soldiers were on a training mission when their Mi-171E chopper crashed several minutes after take-off from their base in Eastleigh, Nairobi. It crashed in Eremit Locat area. The chopper was carrying 23 soldiers who were to be dropped in Magadi for a 24km walk when it went down. Officials said 12 of those on board were rescued after apparently jumping out as the chopper crashed. Survivors were admitted to the Forces Memorial Hospital with multiple injuries. President Uhuru Kenyatta visited to wish them quick recovery. The dead were identified as Warrant Officer II Joshua Obare Odera, who joined the military in May 1990; Warrant Officer II Tarcisio Wandera Namboka, who enlisted in July 1994; Senior Sergeant Noah Wanyonyi Munialo, who joined in July 1994; and Senior Sergeant Bob Kipkemoi Aruasa, who enlisted in August 2002. Others were Senior Sergeant Anthony Simon Kamuti, who joined the military in September 2003; Senior Sergeant Irene Wanjiku Githinji, who enlisted in September 2008; Sergeant Josphat Muriuki Maingi, who joined February 2007; Sergeant Steve Ombuka Angwenyi, who joined October 2007; Sergeant Stephen Omarian Omale, who joined October 2007; Corporal Boniface Ogati Mocheche, who enlisted in October 2010; and Senior Private Thomas Shekeine, who joined in December 2014. All the deceased were honoured with Operation Linda Nchi medal and worked at MAB in various capacities. It is not yet clear what caused the accident. Air accident experts are still investigating the incident. Officials suspect whirlwind as one of the possible causes of the crash. A whirlwind is a weather phenomenon in which a vortex of wind forms due to instabilities and turbulence created by heating and flow gradient. Witnesses said the chopper dropped like a stone and burst into flames. This was after it had made a circle in the area. Videos captured by locals showed the chopper burning. The chopper had apparently dropped the first group for the training mission and was meant to drop the second lot when the incident happened. The chopper involved is an advanced, multipurpose helicopter produced by Ulan-Ude Aviation Plant, a part of Russian Helicopters. The Mi-171E helicopters can be deployed on search and rescue missions, disaster response, forest firefighting and medical assistance in the field. The helicopter is designed to fly in adverse weather conditions and is equipped for special operations during nighttime. The redundant flight controls and onboard equipment make them highly effective during missions in mountainous regions and in hot climates. Edited by Henry Makori