Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua has asked Kenyans to chose leaders with ideologies that match their desires. In a statement released after he paid a courtesy call to Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia, Mutua said Kenyans should put behind the culture of rallying behind parties because they represent their tribes. “Kenya has come of age and it's time we started interrogating ideologies politicians stand for,” he said. Mutua said his Maendeleo Chap Chap party believes in programmes that improve the lives of the people with visible results within the shortest time. “I am glad to have shared that with the governor whom I visited this morning. Governor Kimemia is my friend; we both worked together during retired President Mwai Kibaki's time- him as head of public service while I served as government spokesperson,” Mutua said. He said he was privileged to see first-hand projects that Kimemia has initiated and congratulated his colleague for putting people first. “By our positions, we discussed modalities to enhance inter-county trade, identification of priority projects of the blocs, marketing of the blocs as key investment zones and infrastructure development to expand rural road networks for ease of doing business and movement of people,” he said. Mutua is the chairman of the South-Eastern Economic Bloc caucus while Kimemia is the chair of the Central Region Economic Bloc. The governor said they have scheduled a meeting of executive members from both counties to sign a memorandum of understanding on areas of mutual partnership. “I am optimistic this will be a silver bullet to change the fortunes of our regions and turn around the lives of our people,” he said. Mutua, who is serving his second and last term as governor, has declared that he will be running for president next year. Last month, Mutua took his presidential campaign to Nyeri county where he told  residents that he will create more job opportunities and improve infrastructure if elected to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta. His tour of Nyeri came hot on the heels of a statement by President Kenyatta that he plans to endorse one of the Nasa co-principals as his successor. Mutua dismissed the plan.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris