Law Society of Kenya president Nelson Havi was picked up by police yesterday over claims he assaulted the organisation's CEO Mercy Wambua. LSK vice-president Carolyne Kamende said Havi was arrested at his office in Westlands, Nairobi, and whisked to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations offices. This was after the DCI began probing claims by Wambua that Havi assaulted her during a meeting at their Gitanga Road offices. Police said they had asked Havi to present himself for questioning but he did not honour the request. He was taken to the office of the director of Investigation Bureau, John Gachomo, for what officials described as processing ahead of a possible arraignment. Gachomo said they were still interrogating him before deciding on the way forward. The development is a blow to Havi who has political ambitions. The lawyer has declared an interest in the Westlands parliamentary seat. Dismissing the assault claim, Havi said Wambua forced her way into the boardroom, where they were having a meeting, with the intention of recording the proceedings. Wambua, who was accompanied by lawyer Steve Ogolla at the Muthangari police station, recorded a statement alleging that Havi accosted her in the boardroom. She said she suffered right-hand finger injuries during the scuffle that erupted when the meeting turned ugly. She said she heard that the LSK had a council meeting—conducted physically and virtually. Upon learning that Havi and his team had converged in the boardroom, she joined them but was only met by shouts that she was a stranger and had to leave. "He was there with legitimate council members allied to him, as well as a team calling themselves caretaker members. Other legitimate council members joined online," Wambua said. She added that when she sat down, opened her laptop, and refused to leave, Havi rose up and charged at her, slamming her laptop shut and shoving her. “It was embarrassing and I was assaulted. This is wrong,” she said. The meeting was stopped as she left to report the matter to the police. She also went to hospital for tests. "I have also filled the P3 form for further police action," Wambua said. Wambua and Havi have had a long-running tussle after Havi declared her sacked last October. He claims she was part of the team that embezzled LSK funds. However, in a vote of confidence, the council cleared her of any wrongdoing and reinstated her to office. Nine members against three voted in her favour. Meanwhile, a group of lawyers met to plan how to defend their president in case he is charged. 