The Narok county government has increased its assets that are now valued at more than Sh40.6 billion, making it the richest county in the Rift Valley. A report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu for the county during the year 2018-19 indicates the county increased its assets by more than Sh3 billion. Gathungu, however, faulted the county for lack of an assets register as required by law, hence she was unable to confirm the existence and ownership of the assets reflected in the county financial statements. As per the audit reports for counties in the region, Narok has assets more than the combined assets of counties in the North Rift region. The assets mainly include mainly land, buildings and machinery. The details on some of the assets and the value are contained in separate audit reports for the counties during the 2018-19 financial year. Gathungu faulted most of the counties for failing to keep updated asset registers and that many properties belonging to the county governments had not been listed. Uasin Gishu county headed by Governor Jackson Mandago had cumulative assets valued at Sh9.1 billion as at June 30, 2019. However, the auditor general says the assets do not include those inherited from the defunct local authorities in the county in 2013. The local authorities were Wareng County Council, Eldoret Municipal Council and the Burnt Forest Town Council. The assets missing in the county register included land, buildings, motor vehicles, computers and other equipment all of which are not included in the county executive’s fixed assets register. County officials have explained that the assets in question were verified, validated and forwarded to the Intergovernmental Technical Relations Committee and the Intergovernmental Budget and Economic Council for guidance and directions. The process is, however, yet to be completed for the assets to be included in the county assets register. “In the absence of information on the inherited assets, the accuracy of the summary of fixed assets register balance of Sh9.1 billion was not confirmed,” said Gathungu in her audit on Uasin Gishu. Trans Nzoia has assets valued at about Sh8.1 billion. According to Gathungu’s audit report for the county, the assets include directly owned assets valued at Sh4.3 billion and community assets valued at Sh3.3 billion. She said during the audit the county did not, however, provide title deeds for some of the land it owns. The county did not also provide details of new assets including specialised plants, equipment, machinery, office furniture and general equipment made during the year under review. In the audit for Nandi county, Gathungu says the region has fixed assets valued at about Sh6 billion as at June 30, 2019. The details are contained in the county statement on assets and liabilities but Gathungu says the register of fixed assets was not provided for audit during the year 2018-19. “As a result the accuracy, existence and ownership of the county assets valued at valued at Sh5.9 billion was not confirmed,” the audit report said. Elgeyo Marakwet county has fixed assets valued at Sh3.3 billion according to the county financial statements. However, the auditor general says the county's fixed assets register reflects an assets balance of Sh537 million resulting in a difference of Sh2.7 billion between the two sets of records. She says the variance was not explained by the county government. “In view of the anomalies the ownership, valuation and existence of assets shown in the fixed assets register was not confirmed,” Gathungu says. In the audit for Baringo county, financial details reflect an aggregate assets with historical costs of Sh2.6 billion. However, the county electronic database assets register reflects an amount of Sh1.8 billion causing a variance of more than Sh716.4 million. Gathungu says the accuracy of records on the assets owned by Baringo could not be confirmed. At the same time the auditor questioned irregular payments and expenditures that may have led Narok county to lose more than Sh2 billion in the year 2018-19 under the administration of Governor Samuel Ole Tunai. Gathungu in her latest audit report for Narok has detailed how Tunai’s administration engaged in questionable financial deals that cost residents money that would have changed their lives. The statement of receipts and payments reflects own generated revenue balance of Sh3.07 billion but the auditor says the amount includes Sh19.7 million which was not banked. It was used directly, contrary to the laws on public finance management. She says the county also lost millions of shillings through unexplained adjustment of rates payable on some plots. Edited by Henry Makori