Cancer prevalence is high in Nyeri's highly agricultural areas, Deputy Governor Caroline Karugu has said. Most cases have been reported in Kabaru and Endarasha in Kieni. Karugu said on Saturday the similarity between the two areas is their high agricultural productivity, though that has not been supported scientifically. She blamed the high cases on the application of poisonous chemicals on food crops by farmers and called on Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service to look at the quality of food in the markets. Karugu spoke during a free medical camp at Gatitu dispensary. The county government has been sensitising farmers to the application of herbicides and pesticides to minimise health risks. “But, of course, there is not very good enforcement on that. I call upon the county and national governments to have an enforcement programme on the issue of herbicides and pesticides to which our farmers are exposed,” she said. They should ensure agro-vets have no poisonous chemicals that cause cancers, she said. Karugu said farmers should only engage in activities recommended by experts so that they do not apply the wrong chemicals. There should be a proper application of the right chemicals and farmers must wear the right gear, she said. She said the cancer situation in Nyeri is worrying. The most prevalent are breast, cervix, prostate and stomach cancers. Most people seek medication when their condition is at an advanced stage and they are in need of palliative care. “This informed my campaign to go on an aggressive campaign for people to embrace the culture of routine screening so that we can arrest these cases early enough,” Karugu said. She has put in place a team of researchers to look into other areas grappling with the rising cancer burden. During the free medical camp, residents were screened for breast, cervical, prostate, bone, kidney, heart, spinal cancers, among other types. The event was sponsored by Kenya Pipeline Company, the Aga Khan University Hospital and Mediheal Hospital. Karugu regretted that only 20 per cent of men go for screening. She blamed this on the uncomfortable screening process, especially for prostate cancer. She, however, expressed hope that more men will turn out following the introduction of prostate-specific antigen to enhance comfort—only a blood sample is taken and tested. She called for more awareness campaigns to end fear. The deputy county chief said 10 more free medical camps will be organised in places with high prevalence. Aga Khan University Hospital director Pauline Ngatia concurred that many men shy away from cancer screening and only go to hospital when it is too late. “My appeal to everybody is that early detection saves lives. I would like to appeal, especially to the men, to come out and get the opportunity to be tested, get advice and treatment when the diagnosis can still be reversed and they can get well,” she said. Every year, the hospital reaches out to about 120,000 people through free medical camps. Karugu also decried poor hypertension management among residents. “We have a lot of hypertension cases that are turning into diabetes. That communicates to us that they are not managing hypertension very well,” she said. She appealed to residents to consistently take their anti-hypertensive medicine to help in the war on diabetes. KPC Foundation manager Bernice Lemedeket said they are targeting more than 12,000 patients in all the 12 medical camps to be held in the county.  Edited by F'Orieny 