This article is for those who overthink their plans, second guess their decisions, and are paralysed by analysis. If you know the next step to take towards your goal, and for some reason, you are not doing it, this is for you. Why is this important? It is because you have gone in circles long enough. It is time to make that move towards your dream; it is time to do it. Fear or Not: Stop waiting for the fear that you feel to fade away before you act. How you feel may not change. So, if you are waiting for the right emotional climate to pursue your goal, then you may have to wait for long. History proves that those who did great things moved despite their fears; they did not have it all together, but still moved forward. Days, weeks, months or years of thinking, planning, and analysing without action is a sign of fear. Stop waiting, move now! Do it afraid. Will you succeed at first? I don’t know. You may fail at the first try, but then, you would learn and be better poised for a good second, third, fourth, fifth, or nth try. Failure may occur or not, but if you do not try, failure is guaranteed. Your dream is worth a shot. Try. No More Excuses: No, you may not have to quit your current job to start. No, your child is not too young for you to commit a few hours to your goals. No, you are not too busy to start that business. No, you are not inexperienced – you can always learn as you go. You have no excuse. Where there is a will, there is a way. Stop talking yourself out of greatness; stop selling yourself short. You have all the resources that you need to take the next step right now. Yes, you may not be able to achieve your goals all at once, but you can take the next step. So, what is your next step? You can move forward step by step – nothing is stopping you. Make it Happen: Listen, it is time to move. It is time to make that vision, dream, or goal a reality. It is time to give your idea a chance. You have researched enough, you have planned enough, you have analysed enough, now step out and enjoy the adventure because your dream holds no reward for you in your comfort zone. Stop thinking it – enough; do it now! Email: smpamugo@gmail.com 