Other than glaring pockets of questionable officiating that blotted the match, the Betway Cup finals lived up to its billing. Both opponents were at their best but AFC Leopards looked poised to carry the day. They rattled the woodwork, slammed the side of the net and were denied what should have been a clear penalty. It was a bad hair day at the den. Leopards had come into the match with an impressive scorecard, but this was their best performance of the season. They appeared twice sharper than their opponents, both in individual brilliance and team organisation. They strung together well coordinated and crisp passes. They were purposeful on the pitch and had their minds firmly trained on the ultimate prize. Their adoring fans - donning their traditional blue and white replica T-shirts - lit up the stands, chanting and urging them on. Lady Luck beamed off a broad smile to Leopards but the felines chose to frown back. They should have won the match early in the day but failed miserably in all attempts to capitalise on the glorious opportunities that came knocking on their door. Their plan was well formulated but they just couldn't implement it. To cut the long story shot, Leopards failed to jut out their claws on a day they should have done so. But then, let's be rational enough. Leopards have recently been beset by inundated challenges that made them hit the headlines for all the wrong reasons. Perhaps that's what threw them off balance. Some disquiet had emerged at the club in recent months with sources privy to the ongoings pegging it all down to unpaid salaries. Just a couple of days heading into the match, the technical bench rung a change that spoke volumes when long serving skipper Robinson Kamura was replaced by Isaac Kipyegon. Kamura's tribulations are attributed to his relentless player rights advocacy. On Sunday, the playing unit seemed to have brushed aside all those challenges in an effort to appease their listless set of fans whose distraught faces are yet to break into smiles since 1998 when the club last won their top tier title. However, Leopards fumbled once again in the face of adversity, and right in front of their few ardent supporters who were allowed to access the stands. Perhaps, the players woke up on the wrong side of the bed. And if Leopards players indeed woke up on the wrong side of the bed, the centre referee must have spent his night on a cold floor. His questionable officiating sealed the team's fate. All said and done, Gor deserve a pat on the back for the hard-fought conquest. Gad Mathew was particularly impressive, his exceptional goalkeeping prowess denying Leopards two post-match penalties. They came out of the tournament Sh2 million richer and with a lifeline to represent the country in the Caf Confederations Cup. Hopefully, they will find ways of plugging their financial woes before the continental showpiece. Last but not least, both Kenneth Muguna (Gor Mahia) and John Oyemba (Leopards) deserve commendation for bagging the Most Valuable Player and Golden Glove awards respectively.