A study has revealed that 22 per cent of teenagers in Kiambu county are actively engaging in sexual activity. The study was conducted by Performance Monitoring for Action through the International Center for Reproductive Health-Kenya between November and December 2020. It shows that 57 per cent of teenage girls engage in sexual activities for the first time out of curiosity. The survey further indicates that 55.7 per cent of girls were carried away by emotions, while 18.5 per cent were raped. Some 12.6 per cent of teenagers said they were engaging in sex because they felt they were doing what was expected of them, while six per cent were under the influence of substance when they first had sex. Peter Gichangi, the lead researcher in the survey, said on Monday that the issue of adolescents engaging in sexual activities is a matter of national concern that should be dealt with in a multi-sectoral approach. He spoke while releasing research findings on the modern methods of contraceptive prevalence in Kiambu. Gichangi said the rate of teenagers engaging in sex in Kiambu is low compared to other counties. The survey indicated that 81.9 per cent of adolescents who have engaged in sex desired to prevent pregnancies, while 77.8 per cent used contraceptives to prevent a pregnancy. Nine per cent of the teenagers have ever given birth while three per cent were married or living with a man as if married, the survey shows. On the use of contraceptives among married women in Kiambu, the study indicates a slight increase from 67 per cent in 2014 to 69 per cent in 2020. The increase was attributed to the availability of modern methods, including intrauterine devices, pills, injectables and implants. This is unlike in other counties where the survey has been conducted, where women mostly use implants and injectables and little or no IUDs. The other counties include Nairobi, West Pokot, Kakamega, Bungoma, Nandi, Kericho, Kitui, Nyamira and Siaya. “Women in Kiambu have more choices because the methods are available in almost all health facilities within the county. However, there’s still work to be done because about 47 per cent of the women were not given comprehensive counselling or information while receiving family planning services," Gichangi said. Among those not using the methods, according to the report, 64.3 per cent perceived not to be at risk of conceiving or didn’t need the contraceptives, 31.2 per cent have health-related concerns, 22.8 per cent are not married and 65.9 per cent oppose the use of contraceptives. Only 1.9 per cent lack access or knowledge about contraceptives, the study shows. Gichangi said Covid-19 had less impact on contraceptives use in the region, indicating that only 2.2 per cent of those using the methods stopped due to the pandemic. “Only 2.7 per cent of health facilities in Kiambu (public and private) were completely closed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, while 5.4 per cent of them suspended family planning services during the period,” the report indicated. County reproductive health services coordinator Davis Kamondo said they will work closely with all stakeholders, including the church, to reach out to many residents and educate them on modern methods of contraceptives. “We will be working on modalities to maintain the high percentage rate, including stocking the methods in all the health facilities. We are giving a good method mix to residents so they can have a wide range of choices,” Kamondo said. Edited by A.N 