A widow from Mbee village in Machakos county is under pressure to settle a Sh8 million medical bill incurred by her son so the hospital can release a well-wisher's title deed. Grace Mutua, 64, has never had peace of mind since her son, Alex Wambua, died at Machakos Level 5 Hospital on September 25, 2020. This was a day after he was transferred from Aga Khan University Hospital in Nairobi. Documents seen by the Star indicate that Wambua was admitted to Aga Khan University on August 16, 2020 and discharged on September 24, 2020. He incurred a bill of Sh9,810,602.15. Part of the bill was paid by insurance. The outstanding bill is Sh8,752,072. Mutua had used a title deed belonging to well-wisher Samwel Mutei as a guarantee to secure her son's transfer to Machakos hospital. Mutei now wants the title deed released so he can use it as collateral to secure a bank loan for his personal use. “I am a retired teacher and only survive through farming. I need the title deed to secure a bank loan,” Mutei said. He said he wasn’t related to the widow’s family and only helped her out of goodwill. Mutei said the Covid-19 pandemic also hit him hard, hence the need for loans. The widow said she does not know what to do to offset the bill so the hospital can release Mutei's title deed. She said the situation is threatening to create enmity between the two families – her's and Mutei's. Mutua said she had done everything, including selling her parcel of land and cattle, but she has not been able to raise the amount required. “My son died, I am looking for the money, but I don’t know where and when I will get it. I don’t have any more children left since all three have died,” Mutua said. She is pleading with the hospital management to waive the bill and return the title deed to Mutei. When reached by the Star for comment on the matter, a debt officer at Aga Khan University Hospital said they were aware of the woman’s plight and the title deed issue. “The said patient was admitted here. He left behind a medical bill and a land title deed was issued by the family’s guarantor to allow his discharge. They haven’t cleared the bill despite promising to sort it in three months’ time, which is long gone,” the officer said. He said the family should write to the hospital detailing on the widow’s plight and the amount they can raise. The officer, however, said the family should raise at least Sh5 million out of the pending bill. “The patient was admitted to the ICU, treated, medication issued and bills incurred, hence the need for the bill payments,” the officer told the Star on the phone on Monday. Mutua is urging well-wishers to help her raise the money through M-Pesa Paybill number 247247; account number 854220. Edited by A.N