The Kisumu county government has disbursed bursaries and scholarships worth Sh250 million to students in the 2020-21 financial year. Governor Anyang Nyong’o said the funds were given to needy bright students in universities, tertiary colleges and secondary schools. The beneficiaries are drawn from the 35 wards of the county. More than 28,000 students from the county, including those joining Marine School in Kisumu, are beneficiaries. The governor spoke on Wednesday during the handing over of a Sh44.2 million cheque to the Kisumu Education Fund, which marked the final batch of bursaries and scholarships to needy students for the last financial year. The county has picked two students, male and female, from the 35 wards to be sponsored to the marine school. Nyong’o said plans are underway to ensure the bursary and scholarship process is automated for efficiency. He was accompanied by Deputy Governor Mathews Owili and education executive John Awiti among other executive members. Awiti said the selection process was fair and transparent. Last month, the county government released Sh45 million bursary cash to benefit 9,772 needy students in high school. Owili said the selection of beneficiaries was above-board. "Applicants are diligently scrutinised by non-partisan ward bursary committees, who in turn send the evaluation forms to the county’s department of education," he said. Owili said the county has put in place committees to look into any complaints or grievances. He appealed to beneficiaries to study hard, pass their exams and fulfil their dreams. In January, the county disbursed Sh57 million as scholarships to 1,260 beneficiaries in universities and driving schools. Owili said the bursaries and scholarships have changed the lives of many needy students who have been desperately seeking assistance to enable them pursue education. "But we are not stopping here, because our children must go to school and become the cornerstone of this great county. As our governor has always said, every student in this county must be helped to cherish and realise his or her dream," he said. Last year, the county launched the disbursement of Sh68.4 million for bursaries and scholarships to 9,629 beneficiaries. The fund benefited secondary, university and driving school students across the county with Sh12.6 million going towards scholarships and Sh14.8 million for university fees. Nyong'o appealed to the beneficiaries to work hard in their studies, saying it was the only way to express gratitude to the county government. Additionally, 350 students who had been selected to join Form 1 benefited from the funds and another 16,694 students were awarded bursaries. Out of these 5,296 are girls. The bursary targets bright and vulnerable children with 350 marks and above. Edited by Henry Makori