Agricultural officers and farmers in Nakuru are warning of a looming maize shortage in parts of the county due to failed rain and invasion of the fall armyworm. Farmers also expressed concern over the high number of uncertified seeds in the market, which were affecting production. The most affected regions are Subukia, Gilgil, Lanet, Ndondori, Naivasha and Mai Mahiu where farmers planted late due to delayed rain. According to John Kamanja, a senior officer from the Ministry of Agriculture, poor rain patterns were to blame for the current crisis. Speaking during a field visit to various farms, the agricultural officer from Ndondori noted that many farmers planted late as they waited for the rain. “There will be a maize shortage this season due to the harsh weather that has hit the country, forcing farmers to plant late,” he said. Kamanja attributed the poor rain to deforestation, adding that the lasting solution lay in planting more trees in the forests and catchment areas. At the same time, he advised farmers to uproot maize stalks that had been affected by the fall armyworm to prevent the pest from spreading to other crops in the farm. “Maize production has also been affected by this worm and the only solution lies in uprooting the stalks and feeding them to livestock,” he advised. Farmer Ann Wangui from Lanet admitted that they planted late due to the delayed rain, unlike in the past seasons. “This is one of the worst seasons for maize farmers as we planted late and just as our produce was maturing, the cold weather hit us,” she said. Wangui warned that prices of maize flour would rise in the coming months as the current crisis would lead to a shortage of the grain in the market. “One of the biggest challenges currently facing us is uncertified seeds in the market and it's time the ministry intervened as many farmers don’t know the certified ones,” she said. Paul Kamau called on the state to support farmers with subsidised fertiliser to meet the high maize demand. “Currently, farm inputs are very expensive and, coupled with the harsh weather, the country could suffer from maize shortage in the coming months,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori