Deputy President William Ruto has hit out at the National Super Alliance leaders, asking them to give President Uhuru Kenyatta time to work for Kenyans. Speaking in Huruma where he attended a church service at the African Holy Ghost Christian Church on Sunday, Ruto said that the President was elected to serve more than 45 million Kenyans and not just a few individuals. "Haiwezekani kwa miaka nne watu watano wanasumbua Rais tubadilishe katiba kwa sababu ya tama yao ya kupata vyeo," the DP said, which loosely translates to "There's no way five people can disturb the President to change the constitution for four years because of greed to have power." He added, "Viongozi wenzangu tuwache kusumbua rais amechaguliwa kupanga maendeleo ya wakenya zaidi ya milioni arobaini na tano hajachaguliwa kuhudumia watu watano wa upande hio ingine." Ruto called out the Nasa leaders accusing them of shifting the Head of State's focus to uniting them because they cannot agree among themselves, after efforts to change the constitution were derailed. Nasa is made up of ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC's Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetangula. The Court of Appeal is yet to make a ruling on the Building Bridges Initiative appeal that was heard by a seven judge bench. The ruling is due on August 20, 2021. Ruto stated that Uhuru was not elected to work for Nasa and as they continue with their confusion, Kenyans are ready and are waiting for them in 2022. "Instead of the President working for Kenyans he's dealing with the five trying to organise them with their greed, arrogance and ego, and now the country is stuck," Ruto said. Speaking earlier on Sunday, the DP told off critics of his church donations saying that he will not stop. Ruto said that he has been accused of many things and some people don't like the way he worships. "Some have a problem about how often we go to church, others have accused us of carrying money to church but we will not stop." "We are looking forward to the day when we will not be taking thousands, when we will not be taking millions but when we will be taking billions to church," Ruto said. He went on to say that without God, he would not be where he is today and he should be allowed to worship God the way he feels right.