In 2016, Parliament called on the government to clean, protect and rehabilitate polluted River Athi. Nothing was done. On Sunday former Yatta MP Francis Mwangangi told reporters millions of residents were exposed to health risks and economic turmoil. “I am calling on the government to look into the last parliamentary report on River Athi pollution from Nairobi through Ukambani to Lamu county. We did a comprehensive report,” Mwangangi told a press conference. Speaking at a Machakos hotel, he said implementing the report will also protect the ongoing Thwake Dam project, if it is completed. Mwangangi said the Ministry of Environment had promised to implement the report in at most four years. It was never fulfilled five years later. “The report states clearly what needs to be done and how it is supposed to be done,” he said. “So, I am surprised that the same arm of government is telling us that, what they are doing in Thwake dam is an extension of sewerage from Nairobi to Ukambani.” Mwangangi was referring to Auditor General Nancy Gathungu's recent report that indicated the Sh82 billion Thwake Dam may turn out to e a white elephant over water quality problems. Gathungu said the Water ministry had not taken corrective measures to ensure water draining into the dam was safe. She said the dam’s main supply will be Athi River whose main tributary is the Nairobi River. Studies have shown the Nairobi River is badly polluted and contains heavy metals. About two million people from Lower Eastern are gearing up to use the dam to end their water shortage dating to pre-Independence. The auditor is concerned that several studies have concluded Nairobi river Water is unfit for human consumption and should not be used to irrigat crops. "We urge the Ministry of Environment through CS Keriako Tobiko to intervene so they start cleaning River Athi,” Mwangangi said. “We are suffering economically, socially and environmentally as a region because of their inability to implement that report.” He said counties like Nairobi, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos and Makueni should also jointly implement the report. “I don’t know why if it comes to development projects that need to be implemented in certain parts of the country, they are delayed. But, in other regions, they are implemented faster,” Mwangangi said. He said the auditor’s report on Thwake dam should be a wake-up call not only to the government but also to residents. “The auditor general’s report is important as one of the Vision 2030 projects that need to be completed,” Mwangangi said. Edited by Kiilu Damaris