As Nairobians begin a new week, it is evident that the chilly weather has left a few people on the streets of Nairobi. Greetings have now shifted to 'how are you doing in this chilly weather' with others seen wrapped in heavy clothes as they cross the roads. But this is just a fraction of Nairobians. Some have taken to Twitter to complain about the rain and yet it is already chilly with others confessing how the cold weather has kept them away from the shower for days. In Kenya, July is the coldest month of the year and according to the Kenya Meteorological Department, the cold season normally extends through the month of August and partly September. Last Thursday, the Met weather forecast indicated that rainfall is expected in most parts of the country over the next five days. The rain will be experienced in parts of Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Kisii, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo-Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Kericho and Bomet. The June-July-August season will be characterised by rainfall concentrated over the western region while the Coastal Strip and the rest of the country will remain generally dry. But how can one survive the July weather? Extra layer In this case, you could add a heavy sweater probably one that has a turtle-neck, scarf or jacket on top of your outfit. But if you are a lady you could also do a warm sweater and don it with a matching scarf to prevent the cold weather from hitting your chest. If you are planning to leave the house, it is advised that you arm yourself with woollen scarves, gloves, warm socks and boots Stay Dry You need to invest in synthetic, wicker based layers that pull the sweat right off your skin. During this period some people tend to sweat over wearing heavy layers. If you happen to get wet externally, get inside and dry off as soon as possible. Food This is not the time to eat cold food that you carried to the office or that you have bought in a supermarket. Warm your food and eat it hot. However, it is advised that you take more spicy food e.g the chilli peppers and spicy seasonings which contain a compound called capsaicin which increases the body temperature, creating a warming effect. Water This is the time to drink hot water all the time. If not hot then warm enough to keep your body steady and warm. Stay active Keep yourself as active as possible to boost your circulation. Move around the house if you are working at home at least once an hour and avoid sitting still for long periods. Even light exercise will help keep you warm. When you do sit down, put your feet up as it’s coldest nearest the ground. Heater If the house is too cold you could invest in a heater and use it when needed. If you don't have a heater, don't use a jiko in a closed room as inhaling carbon monoxide can lead to death.