A Nakuru court has set aside a life sentence imposed on a 15-year-old boy convicted of gang-raping a girl his age in 2018 at Kapno in Kuresoi. Justice Joel Ngugi said many things went wrong considering the manner in which the case against the teenager was handled. The judge observed that the arresting officer did not detect that Ruto was a minor at the time the offence was committed. The Directorate of Public Prosecutions officer, who signed the charge sheet, also failed to detect the same as did the magistrate who took the plea and conducted the trial. As a result, the boy was treated as an adult and tried. He was placed in an adult remand home and was later imprisoned in an adult prison. The judge said none of the agencies and public officers who dealt with the case realised he was a minor. While quashing the conviction, Justice Ngugi said the trial fell afoul of the fair standards guaranteed in the Constitution. The Children’s Act contains certain guarantees for children who are alleged to be in conflict with the law. Section 186 of the Act provides that every child accused of having infringed any law shall not be compelled to give testimony or confess guilt, shall be provided by the government with assistance in the preparation and presentation of his defence, among many others. The teen was, however, not afforded legal representation or any other assistance in his defence. He was also held in detention at an adult facility despite the fact that he was a minor. “The failures of the system have also been quite consequential on [the teen]-he having irreversibly spent more than three years in adult facilities, the very consequences the law was attempting to shield him from,” Ngugi said. The judge said the only a fair outcome is to end the ordeal and hope that everyone involved, including the teen, learnt lifelong lessons in the process. The boy was on April 2019 sentenced to life imprisonment by resident magistrate Rita Amwayi at a court in Molo. He was accused of gang raping a 15-year-old girl with another person not before court. The offence is said to have occurred on January 9, 2018. The boy faced another count of committing an indecent act with a child. He was unrepresented at the trial. He pleaded not guilty. The state called four witnesses and at conclusion of the case, he was sentenced to life imprisonment. Aggrieved with the decision, the teenager appealed. He cited myriad issues, among them failure by court to consider he was a minor. His birth certificate was adduced in court to prove his claim. The certificate showed that he was born on November 13, 2002. He was barely 16 years at the time the offence was committed. He is now 18. During hearing of the appeal, Ruto admitted that he committed the offence and blamed his childishness and the influence of wrong company. “He expressed deep remorse for his actions and claimed that he has ‘grown up’ in the three or so years he has been in custody,” judge Ngugi said. Edited by Henry Makori