The proposed 70 extra constituencies contained in the constitutional amendment bill 2020 is not feasible as poll body is time barred, Garissa Township MP Aden Duale has said. Duale, who has been a harsh critic of the Building Bridges Initiative since it started said the delimitation of the constituency can only be done one year before the general election. Citing Article 89 and sub-article three of the constitution, the MP said by the time the judges at the Court of Appeal give their verdict on  August 20, there will be no time to delimit the constituencies. Duale was speaking on Sunday at the North Eastern National polytechnic in Garissa town where he issued cheques worth Sh1.12 million from the constituency kitty to students from poor background pursuing various courses in colleges across the country. “It’s a happy day for me because the 70 constituencies in the BBI draft were not delimited in accordance with Article 10 of the constitution on the values and principal of the governance,” he said. He said the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has a tight schedule among them voter registration and education hence is not allowed to conduct the delimitation one year to the general election.  The legislator said there was no public participation done in the proposed extra constituencies as proposed by the BBI. He claimed that a certain political class in discriminatory manner, decided to distribute the 70 constituencies leaving  out other large deserving areas among them North Eastern region. On Friday, parties involved in the BBI case made their final submissions, each side trying to convince the court to rule in its favour. The plaintiffs want the court to overturn the ruling made by the High Court which termed the BBI process was unconstitutional, null, and void. On the other hand, respondents want the court to uphold the ruling. Both President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga who are proponents of the BBI have expressed optimism that the Court of Appeal will overturn the High Court ruling. -Edited by SKanyara