Campaigns for the Muguga ward seat came to an end on Monday even as United Democratic Alliance expressed confidence that it will once again 'whitewash' the ruling Jubilee Party. Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau who has been leading the UDA campaigns said their candidate will capture the seat “to cement the growing popularity of the outfit believed to the Deputy President William Ruto’s vehicle to State House in the 2022 presidential race.” Speaking to the Star on phone, the close confidant of the Deputy President said President Uhuru’s Jubilee Party has lost touch with its supporters hence they have decamped to UDA. “We have done very successful campaigns marketing our development agenda to the people of Muguga. From the reception we got from the people, we are looking forward to another sweet victory,” Gitau said. She said the campaigns were peaceful and devoid of interference from the state pointing out that the attention of the government was in Kiambaa constituency where there is another election set for Thursday. Gitau- the combative yet so soft in demeanour who has been leading the campaigns with Kabete MP James Wamacukuru rallied the voters behind the 'hustler's movement' with a promise that the political future of the county was in the party whose symbol is the wheelbarrow. “UDA will form the next government. I have seen some people in the Jubilee Party telling the electorates not to vote for UDA candidates but they are not telling them that Jubilee is headed to opposition the just-announced merger with ODM,” she said. She added, “I appeal to supporters of UDA to turn out in large numbers and vote for our candidates. They should not be scared of any state-sponsored intimidation or violence. IEBC should ensure that elections are conducted in line with the law.” Kamau Thumbi is flying the UDA ticket while Mung'ara Joseph Githinji is running on Jubilee Party. The ward in Kabete constituency, Kiambu county, fell vacant after the area MCA Eliud Ngugi, alias Thithia, died on March 16. In May, Gitau led charged campaigns against Uhuru’s key men such as Majority Leader in the National Assembly Amos Kimunya and Nyandarua governor Francis Kimemia where UDA won in the Rurii ward by-election. Francis Muraya of UDA emerged victorious after he garnered 4,178 votes beating his close opponent Peter Thinji of the Jubilee Party who came second with 3,051 votes.