The school-calendar is on a short term break. We are witnessing alot of movements with learners and parents criss-crossing the country for the short holidays. This is bound to continue in the forthcoming weeks as form one admissions take-off in the Month of August. Many schools have raised concerns over the inability to absorb and handle the huge numbers of form one students.Of concern is the continued Covid-19 delta variant surge in most parts of the country. The reality has now dawned in the majority of the counties such as Kisumu, Busia, Kakamega, Vihiga , Siaya and Kisii where residents initially took for granted the government containment measures such as the wearing of masks, social and physical distancing, washing of hands and laxity in getting the covid-19 vaccine. In these regions medical facilities have been overstretched with covid-19 patients; lack of beds and oxygen in place. The morgues have no space to handle numbers and each day families are burying many of their loved ones as a result of the virus. The medical practitioners and other front-line service providers are equally facing the effects, including deaths. The World Health Organization in its latest report indicates the mortality rates in Africa have spiked from 30% to 40% as a result of the fast-spreading Covid-19 delta variant, slow rate of vaccination rollout and relaxation of safety measures. The positivity rate in Kenya is on an upward trend. The report further stresses that ”only a complete dose of the COVID-19 vaccine can protect against this dangerous variant” As countries struggle to secure vaccines, public health experts are concerned that the Delta variant; the most dangerous and transmissible form of the corona-virus to date; will trigger dramatic surges in cases and deaths around the world. The Delta variant is 60% more transmissible than the Alpha variant; first identified in the U.K; which in turn was about 50 percent more transmissible than the ancestral Wuhan strain. Delta has features that allow it to evade some of the body’s immune system defenses and has the highest transmissibility. As we accept and ponder over the harsh reality that Covid-19 is wreaking havoc to our families, communities and the nation, let us remain cautious, guard against the spread of the virus by getting vaccinated and adhering to the safety measures, as the learners holiday at home awaiting schools to reopen. Dennis Wendo is the founder- Integrated Development Network Email; dambehi@gmail.com