A former governor from Rift Valley region has unsettled his successor with his closeness to Deputy President William Ruto (pictured). The ex-county chief has accompanied the DP whenever he visits the region and has been seen close to him on the DP’s numerous tours around the country. Though the former governor has not announced plans to run for the seat in the 2022 General Election, the sitting governor is said to be unsettled the DP may endorse the man to unseat him in next year's elections. The governor and the ex-county boss don't see eye to eye. The county chief is now seeking to meet the DP. He has reached out to his handlers to meet him and get reassurance he won't be dumped for the former county chief. *** The family of a senior politician is said to be divided over whom to back for a parliamentary seat in next year's election, following the death of a politician identified for the seat. Two of the family members are said to be keen on ensuring the incumbent is retained, while another wants a relative of deceased politician backed for the position. The falling out is said to be so bad that a section fronting the incumbent has threatened unspecified action if their candidate does not carry the day. Pundits say it's just a matter of time till constituents know who will fly the flag. Don't they get a say? *** The relationship between an MP from Western and his party leader appears to be on the rocks. The two seem to be drifting apart following the party leader’s opposition to the MP’s governor bid. The argument is that should the lawmaker vie, the county will be headed by leaders from one clan. The man, unsettled by the prevailing events, has embarked on horse-trading with his party leader, whom Corridors is told, is not taking the tantrums lightly. The boss has sent messages to the lawmaker that he should stop his attacks or kiss goodbye to any seat in the region, including the one he currently occupies. *** When news broke that a leader of a respected professional body had been involved in an alleged criminal activity that drew police attention, a presidential hopeful was rattled by the news. He wanted to know how and why. Corridors is told the candidate directed his handlers to get more information on the matter to enable him to make some decisions he will keep to himself. It is not clear what he will do about the developments but those close to him said “some people don’t learn things even when it’s obvious." (Edited by V. Graham)