Youth applying for IDs should be given the option of registering as voters at the same time, the selection panel for the appointment of commissioners to the IEBC was told. The panel, which was conducting oral interviews on Thursday, heard that registering people as voters when they are applying for IDs would enhance participation in democratic processes. Caroline Njeri, who is seeking to fill one of the four vacant positions at the electoral agency, said mass registration of voters should be conducted at several intervals within the election cycle, not just before general elections. “Young people applying for IDs should be given the option of registering as voters without having to go to another office. They should pick their polling stations at the spot,” she proposed. Njeri said the move would save on time and money and curb instances where so many youths acquire IDs but are not registered voters. The IEBC last month announced that it is seeking to register over four million voters. Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission chairman Wafula Chebukati said the youth being targeted in the latest registration campaign were not eligible to vote during the 2017 General Election. As of May 2021, the number of registered voters was 19,687,885. Of the number, only 149,600 Kenyans enlisted as voters across the country after the last election. The commission launched continuous voter registration on October 15, 2015, but due to financial constraints, the exercise has been confined to constituency offices. Cecilia Ngoyoni told the panel that IEBC's trust could be restored if the electoral agency engaged voters and other stakeholders in all its processes, all the way. She said voters and other stakeholders are always in the dark, yet they are key partners. “Also, the electoral body does not communicate well and in advance in case there are any hitches or probable shortcomings,” she explained. Ngoyoni said, "We need to restore that trust or else anything we do will be seen as not credible”. She said the media is also critical in restoring trust, since they act as a link between the electoral agency and voters. “The role of the media is not only critical but very necessary,” she said. Catherine Kamindo said the IEBC should consider having multiple servers, some to act as back up. “We need them at different sites. This will boost the trust people have in the process,” she explained. Kamindo told the panel the electoral agency needs to engage politicians for  successful polls. “Enforcing the Campaign Financing Act 2013 cannot be possible if the IEBC does not have a conversation with politicians. You need to engage the very people you are supposed to check,” she said. The panel is keen to get candidates who will inspire public confidence in the country’s electoral system. IEBC’s integrity was dented heavily by the Supreme Court’s nullification of the August 8, 2017 presidential election results and Opposition's boycott of the October 26, 2017 repeat poll. Thursday was the second day of the interviews. Thirty-six applicants were shortlisted to fill four positions that were left vacant following the exit of Roselyne Akombe, Paul Kurgat, Connie Maina and Margaret Mwachanya after the 2017 General Election. So far, five shortlisted candidates have taken oral interviews. One withdrew after questions were raised over his academic qualifications. Last month, all the 36 shortlisted applicants were subjected to a psychometric test, which was followed by a case study. Psychometric assessment is a standardised, validated test that enables the measurement of aspects of an individual such as their ability, behavioural traits, interests and certain attitudes. Edited by A.N