Rising javelin star Meshack Kipkogei will miss the World Under 20 Trials starting   Thursday morning at the Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani. The rising star, who has been nursing the ambition of  representing the country at the World Under 20 Championships set for August 17-22 in Nairobi, was involved in a road accident on Wednesday morning along Eldoret-Kapsabet Road. The accident occurred when the motorcycle he was riding ploughed into a herd of cattle near Mosoriot Centre. Kipkogei, who was traveling from home to collect his birth certificate from school, said he found himself between a heard of cattle crossing the road, and rammed into two of them. He was rushed to Kapkibimbir Dispensary for treatment. “I was riding a motorcycle when a man suddenly directed his herd of cattle on to the road. This happened abruptly and before I applied emergency brakes, It was too late. I have body bruises all over my body and I can't compete," said Kipkogei after being discharged from hospital on Wednesday evening. The 18- year-old athlete said he has been training hard to ensure he makes the Kenya team cut for the World U-20 Championships after being inspired by former world javelin champion Julius Yego. “I was so fit and in top shape for the trials. My intention has always been to compete for the country and this was the right time to throw it at home,” added Kipkogei. The accident, which left him with bruised hands is bound to keep the Form Four student at the ACK St. Thomas Secondary School at home for some time. After the accident, Kipkogei said he had shared his predicament with Athletics Kenya officials and hoped he will recover early enough for another assignment. “We were to travel today (Wednesday) to Nairobi and once I was caught up in the crash, I had to inform the federation of what had occurred and they responded positively,” he added. “I really wanted to win a medal for Kenya at the World Under-20 Championships because I have what it takes,” said Kipkogei. He was to start the javelin event on Friday.