President Uhuru Kenyatta has grown to become an expert in the power games and is no longer the political novice, popularly known as Kamwana, who lost the 2002 election. The President has focused on politics and performed poorly on the economy, casting him differently from his predecessor Mwai Kibaki. This is according to Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi in his book Beyond Politics: A Conversation with Kiraitu Murungi, which was launched on Monday. Kiraitu says since no one ‘not even the Devil’ knows the intentions of man, it is hard to tell if the President would be interested in playing a major role in the country’s administration after 2022. The governor says being a young man, the President could still serve the country as a statesman in other capacities. “But from where I sit, I don’t see him answering questions in Parliament as Prime Minister,” Kiraitu said in response to insinuations that Uhuru could take another post after 2022. The conversation was ignited by the proposed expansion of the Executive under the BBI which is before the Appeal court. Kiraitu, in his appraisal of the President, says Uhuru’s style of leadership and approach to issues of governance and politics is way different from Kibaki. He says that while Kibaki had a hands-off approach to power, “ruled like a pope, giving power to others”, Uhuru is much hands-on. “Kibaki was distant, aloof and discreet. Uhuru is warm, pleasant, and connects easily with the masses,” Kiraitu says in the book authored by veteran journalist Njeri Rugene. In his views on the president’s political leadership, the governor says the president is living by the first commandment of politics–survival at all costs. He holds that the president has survived so many political storms, having come out on top of the crises and uncertainties that have dogged the Jubilee administration. “Uhuru has become the new professor of politics after Moi. He has outfoxed, outmanoeuvred, co-opted or sidelined all his political competitors,” the governor says. He adds in the book that owing to the tactics, Uhuru has become the most sought-after political leader in Kenya today. The President once said he’d have a say in the next election and has been a centre of focus for bigwigs said to be positioning for his blessings ahead of the 2022 duel. Uhuru, through his handshake with ODM leader Raila Odinga in March 2018, contained the upheavals staged by the National Super Alliance. When the other NASA leaders, Kalonzo Musyoka of Wiper and Musalia Mudavadi of ANC cried foul they were sidelined in the deal, the president reached out to them. “Uhuru is the master of the game. He is shrouded by such mystery and mysticism, almost bordering on boss worship,” Kiraitu said. The governor says the head of state has been able to pull the forces together because of his personality and has managed to make his partners stay competing to be close to him. Kiraitu pens that the President “charms and disarms with his warmth, firm handshake, simplicity and emotional appeal.” “His strategy of seeking dialogue and compromise with his political opponents, discreetly playing his cards very close to his chest, has put all of them in a race of proximity to him,” the county boss said. “It is very difficult to say ‘no’ to him.” Uhuru, he adds, has a way of connecting with Kenyans at the grassroots directly. On whether BBI, for which Uhuru is a key campaigner, is crafted to take Raila to State House, the governor says the drive would lose its acceptance if it became a means of carrying people to power. “BBI had to serve the best interests of all Kenyans. As Meru governor, I said my litmus test would be whether the BBI will transfer more resources to counties or not.” He holds that those who oppose BBI because they are either pro-Ruto or anti-Raila would be politically naive and ignorant. “Who says Ruto’s presidential bid cannot benefit from BBI? We should support BBI purely in our people’s interests – not in the interests of Ruto or Raila.” The governor has also spoken of his track record in Meru and views on religion as well as life after death.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris