Lawmakers have embarked on a fresh bid to be supplied with laptops for their virtual committee meetings. A select committee of the National Assembly wants management to consider buying laptops for MPs. The committee on Broadcasting and Library further wants the assembly leadership to complete an upgrade of the House’s ICT infrastructure by October. “Members preferred laptops to iPads for the virtual meetings,” the committee chaired by Sinyalu MP Justus Kizito said. By prevailing market prices for the desired specifications, the machines would cost taxpayers more than Sh100 million. The committee made the call in a report on assessment of progress made by the Parliamentary Service Commission to set up virtual meetings platform for committees and plenary. MPs further want to be trained on the new system and the virtual meetings' etiquette before the ICT platform is commissioned. Lawmakers also want committee rooms upgraded to allow easy media access and live coverage of virtual meetings – observing there is a need to create rules for such coverage. Parliament had already advertised for the installation of a conferencing system that can host 500 users to facilitate virtual sittings both at the chamber and committee rooms. The system’s concept was borrowed from Brazil, Spain, UK, and Australian Parliament which have developed virtual sitting platforms. MPs were also told that committee clerks had been provided laptops, which they use to host virtual sittings of the committees. An ICT officer is quoted saying a contract implementation committee has been put in place to oversee the installation of the virtual sittings system. “The solution will provide video feed to the Parliamentary Broadcasting Unit and streamline sessions or sittings to official social media channels,” the report reads. For this reason, the committee wants MPs to be furnished with the equipment, citing orders suspending physical sittings except with the Speaker's permission. Lawmakers hit the headlines in 2015 with their call for tablet computers, which PSC said was to help reduce the legislator’s paper work. The 450 iPads were to cost taxpayers Sh37 million and were aimed at cutting back on the thousands of sheets of paper used when the House is in session. In March 2020, Parliament instigated restrictions to contain Covid-19 spread, affecting physical sittings to take statements from witnesses reporting matters to the August House. The Joe Mucheru-led ICT ministry, in its response to Parliament on the bid for a virtual meetings platform, reported that there was no readily available ICT platform to facilitate virtual sittings of the House. The ministry said there is no available ICT platform that can record attendance of MPs, with a secure voting system, and one that can integrate with Parliament’s existing system. “The proposed use of Cisco Webex, Zoom or Microsoft Teams by the National Assembly as an interim measure would not meet the requirements of critical features of an appropriate ICT solution,” the report reads. The Broadcasting committee last December recommended that Parliament sets up a broadcasting channel at over Sh1 billion, to help live stream sittings and committee sessions. Over and above the bill, taxpayers would fork Sh25 million monthly in cost of operating the TV channel, which will run on a 24-hour basis. The committee said the work would be done in phases, with the initial investment taking up Sh600 million, Sh383 million for equipment and Sh212 million as recurrent cost for daily operations. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)