A Baringo retired police officer whose body was exhumed by court order four months ago is still in the mortuary due to a land feud. The body of Paul Kipchabas, 65, was buried on March 27 in disputed land occupied by Koroto Secondary School in Baringo North subcounty. On April 9, after a contentious court ruling, the body was exhumed and returned to the county referral hospital morgue in Kabarnet, where it remains. “We have since been denied court appeal to return the body of our loved one to his grave,” family spokesman David Rutto said on Tuesday. Before he fell ill, Kipchabas had a pending land case against Koroto Primary and Secondary School management. Rutto said his brother had been making frantic efforts in court, claiming his land has been encroached, but he hasn’t received justice. “Before he died he pleaded to us, his family, from his hospital bed to bury him here in his ancestral land, where his umbilical cord was buried and where now the school sits," he said. Rutto said the family had not been heard before Kabarnet senior principal magistrate Paul Biwott ordered the exhumation on April 9. “Only the other interested parties were heard while we, the family, were locked outside until the exhumation order was made,” the brother said. The family wants to know how and why Kipchabas' case became an issue while in the past they buried quite a number of their members in the ancestral land. They accused professionals of "bulldozing" to have the school constructed on the disputed land without consulting the family, a move he claimed contributed to his brother's premature death. Furthermore, he said, the same professionals took advantage of the low-income family and persuaded the judge to rule in their favour. In his ruling, Kabarnet senior principal magistrate Paul Biwott said the body would disturb the students in the school, hence, it should be exhumed immediately. It took enforcement officers and public health officials three hours to exhume the body and return it to the Kabarnet hospital mortuary. Public health officials earlier suggested disposing of the body in a public cemetery, but the family refused and ordered it preserved in the mortuary while they seek justice. Earlier in April, Kipchabas' 85-year-old mother, Targok Kipchabas, joined family members to protest and demand back the body of her son. “When my son fell sick and died, I thought he should have rested peacefully in his grave, only to be exhumed suddenly. I don’t know exactly his mistake but I feel like collapsing and dying,” Targok said. Targok said since his childhood, her son never wronged anyone and served the government as a police officer diligently until his retirement. She appealed to the government and humanitarian agencies to intervene urgently and help return the body of her son back to his grave “so that I can also be at peace", she said. Josephine Talam, Kipchabas’s sister, said her brother did not deserve  inhumane treatment. “While he was alive, no one listened to him when the school broke his fence. Then upon his death he is exhumed, an act that is so disheartening,” Talam said. Elder Benjamin Kiptosok said as a family they were not ready to dig another grave for their loved one. “Even our own culture doesn’t allow that. He should be buried in the grave of his choice,” he said. Others elders who condemned the incident are Jacob Cherop, Haron Kipomoo, John Chelimo and Edna Chebon. Moses Kwonyike, a retired soldier who hails from the area, denied claims Kipchabas owned land in the school compound. He said when the man heard a school was about to be erected, he left their home four kilometres away to build a temporary structure on the school land. Baringo North MP William Cheptumo condemned the exhumation, saying the elders, stakeholders and the family should sit down and resolve the issue once and for all. (Edited by V. Graham)