Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti has shuffled top cops in the country and named new commanders to improve operations ahead of 2022 polls. The new changes made on July 5 were prompted by retirement of some senior officers within the unit. The new Nairobi regional criminal investigations officer Paul Wachira was moved from Rift Valley. Wachira was replaced by Isaac Meeme. Nairobi RCIO Bernard Nyakwaka has been moved to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport as head of DCI Kenya Airports Police Unit. He replaces Joseph Mugwanja who has transferred to DCI headquarters as director of planning. The new director of Investigations Bureau is the outgoing head of Anti-Terrorism Police Unit John Gachomo. Mombasa head of ATPU Martin Otieno replaces Gachomo at the headquarters. Carrey Nyawinda will head the Banking Fraud Investigations Unit. Nyawinda replaced Abdallah Komesha who was moved to regional counter-terrorism centre of excellence. Kilimani head of DCI Fatuma Hadi who was sent to Rwanda for a senior officers’ training course was replaced by Stephene ole Tanki . Peter Kiboro is the new DCIO for Gigiri, Nairobi, while Laikipia head of DCI Francis Wanjau was moved to Kisumu in the same capacity. Bernard Gicheru is the director of operations at DCI, Pius Gitari will head the Special Service Unit while Eliud Lagat is the director of reforms. Kisii county criminal investigations officer (CCIO) Adan Guyo was moved to Nyandarua in same capacity while Kitui’s Samuel Kobina is the deputy director DCI academy. Lawrence Okoth was moved to Kitui as the CCIO, Johnston Kola (North Eastern), Stephen Chacha (Western region) and Johna Kirui (DCI headquarters). Amos Teben is the director of complaints while Kasarani’s Jackson Owino was sent to Garissa as the head of personnel. Others include Gatiri Mboroki (OC DCI academy), David Chebii (Fichua Complaints Unit), Vincent Korir (Kasarani), Stephene Mutua (Makadara) and Festus Nyamai (Embakasi). The DCI is a key pillar in policing as they detect and tame crimes. It has several units that enables it work with other agencies. ATPU prevents, detects, disrupts and interdicts terrorist activities within the country. They conduct investigation of terrorism and terror-related cases and secure evidence related to terror activities. The unit also conducts maintenance of profiles for suspected terrorists and establishment of a data-bank, shares intelligence with other security-related agencies and reviews and monitors security of foreign missions accredited to Kenya. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)