Kangema MP Muturi Kigano has suggested that a road in Nairobi be named after ODM leader Raila Odinga. The Justice and Legal Affairs Committee chairman on Tuesday said it was better to recognise leaders' contributions to nation building when still alive. The MP cited Mbagathi Road - whose stability is credited to Raila, be named after the former Prime Minister.His Narok North counterpart Moitalel Kenta backed the proposal saying Raila is an icon in the country who deserves recognition. They made the sentiments when giving their views on a petition filed at the House seeking the renaming of Karura Forest after the late Nobel Laurette Wangari Maathai. Kigano is not the first to call for renaming of the road after Raila; the same was done four days ago by a Nyanza politician. Lake Basin Development Authority chairman Odoyo Owidi asked the government to consider renaming the road after the former Prime Minister. The thoroughfare was constructed when Raila was Roads minister, with its concrete technology admired by its regular users. Owidi's argument was that Raila has become a notable household name in the Kenyan political space. Meanwhile, Kabuchai MP Majimbo Kalasinga said he will name a rock in Kabuchai Hills after National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi for allowing Dini Ya Msambwa believers to continue with their religion when he was a magistrate. Last month, Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said he does not have to lobby for his name to appear on a ‘small’ road. This was after the sign post for a road in Kileleshwa renamed in his honour was vandalised multiple times. “I don’t need to lobby for such a small road. I need a bigger road than that… Jogoo road should have been named after me,” he said. “I was told that I was going to be honored. I did not lobby for that. I can’t lobby for a small road.. its just being envious for nothing,” he said. Atwoli said that roads should not be named after the dead. In June 2017, the National Addressing System Strategy Development and Implementation Committee prohibited changing street names to those of living persons. “Let heroes be celebrated when they are alive. Do anything when I am still alive not to come to my funeral and praise me. I will curse you!” Atwoli said.