Lamu leaders want fishermen and coxswains from the region given priority in the Sh10 billion Kenya Marine Fisheries Socio-Economic Development project recently unveiled by President Uhuru Kenyatta in Mombasa. They want part of the funds for the project to go into marine training and also purchase of modern fishing gear to benefit the groups. The project which is supported by the World Bank, is an initiative of the national government, aimed at uplifting the income of fishing communities along the Kenyan Coast. It is expected to benefit 19 subcounties from five counties of Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Tana River and Lamu. Speaking when he unveiled the project last Saturday, the President said the immense opportunity provided by the initiative must be exploited to generate investments, create jobs, increase tax revenues and sustainably improve residents' livelihoods. The project is part of the government’s post Covid-19 recovery efforts and will be rolled out in five years. Major fishing areas in Lamu include Kiunga, Kizingitini, Mkokoni, Kiwayu, Ndau, Faza, Mtangawanda, Pate, Kililana, Kipungani, Matondoni and Lamu town. Speaking in Lamu on Thursday, Lamu East MP Athman Sharif and MCAs Abdalla Baabad (Kiunga ward) and Fahad Dini (Faza) commended the project saying it comes at the perfect time when the fishing sector continues to face immense challenges occasioned by the establishment of the new Lamu port-LAPSSET. Shariff expressed confidence that once empowered through provision of modern gear, entrepreneurial fishing will be made possible thus helping the sector to attain international recognition. “Our appeal is that our fishermen and coxswains will benefit from those funds. For our fishermen especially,  deep sea fishing can only be possible through provision of modern equipment,” said Sharif. Baabad said fishermen from key fishing hubs in Lamu like Kiunga and Ishakani on the Kenya-Somalia border have been forced into subsistence fishing due to lack of proper gear to enable them explore the deep sea. He said the establishment of the Lamu port compounded matters for the fishing sector as most productive fishing routes were closed off through dredging. “We expect the government to direct part of the money towards purchasing fiber boats and bigger fishing vessels and tools conducive for the deep sea fishing,” said Baabad. Dini called for the establishment of fish processing industries in Lamu that will offer a ready fish market for local fishermen and create jobs for youth in Lamu. “The government’s 2021/22 budget allocated some funds for the establishment of a fish processing industry in Lamu but that isn’t enough. We need more and that’s why we propose that part of the Sh10 billion Blue Economy cash to be used to establish additional processor,”said Dini. Lamu elder Khaldun Vae proposed that part of Sh10 billion should also go towards reclaiming grabbed fish landing sites in the region. Lamu has at least 40 fish landing sites all located in respective fisher villages and adjacent to the marine environment where the fishing takes place. Most have been grabbed by private developers. -Edited by SKanyara