An anti-corruption court has ordered the forfeiture of Sh62 million held in two bank accounts by a couple, which is believed to be proceeds of crime. The money belongs to Abdi Mohammed Ali and Saadia Sheikh Osman. Ali works for Mandera county. He said he is a livestock trader, beekeeper and cereal agent while his wife sells clothes in Garissa. The woman is also a livestock trader and is an agent for export butchers in Nairobi and Mombasa. Justice Mumbi Ngugi on Tuesday noted that the couple was not able to show the legitimate source of the large sums of money held in their accounts, which led to the conclusion that it was proceeds of crimes. “The respondents have large sums of money deposited in their accounts, which they have not been able to show a legitimate source in respect of. The only conclusion that can be arrived at is that the funds are proceeds of crime as defined in POCAMLA and are therefore liable to forfeiture to the state,” the judge ruled. Justice Ngugi said such funds are not protected under the constitutional guarantee in Article 40. Their forfeiture to the state, she said, does not therefore violate the constitutionally guaranteed protection of property. The couple had argued that the forfeiture order would violate their right to presumption of innocence, which the judge said is not applicable in civil proceedings. “This right, however, like the other rights guaranteed under Article 50 (2) relates to a criminal trial. It has no application in civil proceedings such as are currently before me, which are civil in nature,” the judge said. She observed that even though the couple said they engaged in business the scrutiny of their accounts revealed that there have been no withdrawals from the accounts since it was opened, which begged the question of how the two purchased the goods they alleged to trade in. “Having considered all the evidence and submissions on this issue, I am satisfied that the applicant established on a balance of probabilities that the funds in the respondents' accounts are proceeds of crime. The respondents have not placed any evidence before me that would show that the funds have a legitimate source.” Her judgment arose out of an application filed by the Asset Recovery Agency, which sought forfeiture orders saying it suspected the money in question was proceeds of crime. The agency in its investigations discovered a cash deposit totalling Sh21.4 million was made to one of the accounts held at Equity Bank Mandera within 19 months. The deposits were made between July 27, 2018 and February 8, 2020. On the day it was opened the account received three deposits of Sh2 million. Not a single withdrawal was made since the deposits were made. However the couple in support of their contention said they are livestock dealers and annexed letters from county governments of Mandera and Garissa as well as livestock movement permits. Edited by Henry Makori