Today's much-anticipated Kiambaa poll is not your ordinary by-election. It's a big political fight between President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee and his deputy William Ruto's UDA. While some may say the by-election results do not signify what the political future holds for the two, the outcome will be a major statement on the Kenyatta versus Ruto succession duel. Jubilee has pulled out every stop to retain the seat that was held by Uhuru's relative Paul Koinange, but UDA is using the by-election to make a point that its popularity is growing in Kenyatta's Kiambu home county and by extension Central region. Last month’s by-elections in Bonchari and Juja constituencies, as well as in Rurii ward, saw the ruling Jubilee Party suffer defeats in all three. Two of the upsets happened in areas considered to be its strongholds. The Kiambaa by-election appears to be a two-horse race between Jubilee's Kariri Njama and UDA's John Njuguna Wanjiku. To prove their political strength, Ruto and his team have staged a fierce contest to make Jubilee appear powerless politically in Kiambaa and Muguga wards. On Wednesday, the IEBC said it was ready to conduct the by-election and warned candidates they could be disqualified if they break election rules. The provincial administration also deployed hundreds of police officers in the densely populated constituency to ensure voting goes peacefully. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kindiki Kithure said the outcome of the two by-elections will be an indicator of who will control the Mt Kenya counties in the general election. The law professor said the margin between the two parties will foretell how the two outfits will perform in the next poll. “…the margin of the victory or loss between the two protagonists will accurately project the voting pattern in the 11 larger Mt Kenya region counties in next year’s presidential election,” he predicted. There are eight candidates in the Kiambaa by-election but the contest has narrowed down to Jubilee’s Njama and  UDA’s Njuguna. The constituency has slightly more than 96,000 registered voters, 154 polling stations and five wards. Political analyst Macharia Munene said the election “is so serious for the President and it will have a direct impact on his political grip of the Mt Kenya politics”. Speaking to the Star, the university don said for the DP, a win will cement his growing influence in the vote-rich region. “These two by-elections are extremely important to the President, that is why he has taken it seriously. For the President and his team, they have to win, failure to which, they will have no face,” he said. He added, “The DP, on the other hand, only needs to do well. Not much pressure for him. A good show is sufficient for him but a victory will embolden his support base in the region. "A victory for UDA will force Jubilee back to the drawing board and some of the MPs currently on Kieleweke could switch to Ruto camp after the elections.” On Tuesday, the DP in an exclusive interview on Radio Jambo, disclosed for the first time that he will be quitting the "dying" Jubilee Party for UDA. Ruto went ahead to predict an exodus of disgruntled Jubilee members to UDA in "a stampede" by November. UDA has put up a spirited fight, threatening to neutralise the ruling Jubilee Party in its strongholds. The party recently won its first two seats in London ward, Nakuru county, and in Rurii ward, Nyandarua county. However, Ruto backed away from a head-on contest with Uhuru in the May Juja parliamentary by-election. He instead supported a rival candidate — George Koimburi of PEP, an outfit led by Gatundu North MP Moses Kuria. Koimburi won, defeating Jubilee's Susan Njeri after he garnered 12,159 votes against her 5,746 votes. Both Uhuru and Ruto avoided direct campaigns in Kiambaa but instead dispatched their battalions who traversed the constituency in search of votes. It is understood the DP made a phone call address on Monday, calling on the electorate to vote for John Njuguna Wanjiku. The President, on the other hand, hosted Jubilee candidate Kariri Njama at State House, Nairobi, and photos of the meeting were widely shared. The Kiambaa parliamentary seat fell vacant with the death of Paul Koinange who succumbed to Covid-19-related complications in March. Koinange who was key in the campaigns for the Building Bridges Initiative in Kiambu county was chairman of the Departmental Committee on Administration and National Security and a critic of the Deputy President. In Muguga ward, Kamau Thumbi is flying the UDA flag while Mung'ara Joseph Githinji is running on the Jubilee ticket The ward in Kabete constituency, Kiambu county, fell vacant after the MCA Eliud Ngugi, known as Thithia, died on March 16. In the last 48 hours, UDA and Jubilee have been trading accusations and counter-accusations over claims that each of the parties was planning to rig the elections. UDA accused the state of harassment, using the local administration to campaign and expressed fears police could be used to intimidate their supporters. On the other hand, Jubilee alleged UDA had planned to pre-mark fake ballot papers for the Jubilee candidate to whip up emotions. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kangata who has been leading the UDA campaigns expressed confidence their candidates will win. The former majority whip in the Senate said UDA will carry the day if the IEBC will provide a conducive voting environment by ensuring police are not misused to manage elections in favour of Jubilee. “If elections are free and fair, we shall win. Jubilee is illegally campaigning in Mucatha and Karuri where it fears it will lose heavily. We trust IEBC but we hope the police will remain fair and non-partisan,” he told the Star in a phone interview. Allies of the President equally expressed confidence that their candidates will. They said a victory for Jubilee is an affirmation the party still enjoy support in the region and that Uhuru is still in control. Kieni MP Kanini Kega said Jubilee will bag at least 70 per cent of the votes in Kiambaa, dismissing UDA as inconsequential. The legislator who has been one of the leading lights in the Jubilee campaigns said they will not allow UDA to make inroads in Mt Kenya. “We hope the elections will be free and fair. We have conducted peaceful campaigns. However, our competitors who have sensed defeat are trying to play dirty tricks to cause panic. We will not allow that,” he told the Star on the phone. “A win for Jubilee will affirm that our party is still a force to reckon with. It will be a statement that the President is in charge. Those who want to invade Central should know that there is a route. We are very regimental in how we do things,” he said. Nyandarua Woman Representative Faith Gitau, who has been leading the UDA campaigns in Muguga ward, said their candidate will capture the seat “to cement the growing popularity of the outfit. “The tables have turned against Jubilee. Supporters that Jubilee once had have moved to UDA because of the mismanagement of the party. It is a protest vote that we are not happy with how the party we loved was taken hostage by outsiders for selfish interests,” she told the Star. Murang'a Woman Representative Sabina Chege said the candidates flying the Jubilee flag were the choices of the people, unlike in previous by-elections where the process of picking them was opaque. “In politics, there are many dynamics. We have done our best in the campaigns. We now leave the rest to God and the people of Kiambaa and Muguga,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)