Governors, lawmakers and church leaders in North Rift have joined efforts to restore peace in Kerio Valley where seven people were killed in renewed banditry attacks in the last one week. Tension remained high in the region as governors John Lonyangapuo (West Pokot), Alex Tolgos (Elgeyo Marakwet) and Stanley Kiptis of Baringo said they would not allow resurgence of violence in the region. “I have already visited the area and urged residents to live in peace as they have been doing in the recent past,” Lonyangapuo said. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who is also the chairman of the North Rift Economic Bloc said they will hold joint peace meetings to re-unite communities in the region. “Without peace we can not achieve anything else and we will, as leaders, be on the forefront to ensure our people in Kerio Valley enjoy peace,” Mandago said. Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich was the first to hold a meeting with residents. He urged them to coexist harmoniously. More than 300 families have been displaced in the region following retaliatory attacks along the border between West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties. Among those killed are two school children and an elder. The elder, Benjamin Kipkore, who was a well known peace crusader. He was shot dead near his home while a Standard 4 pupil was killed in a hail of more than 30 bullets as he walked to their home. Raiders attacked villages in Elgeyo Marakwet and stole hundreds of livestock leading to revenge attacks. Rotich described the situation in the region as heartbreaking and urged the  communities to end the violence and dialogue for peace. “I urge the Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet communities to volunteer information on the criminals perpetrating the resurgence of attacks that we have witnessed in the last few days, leading to unfortunate deaths of our people,” Rotich said. Marakwet East MP Kangogo Bowen whose area is the most affected said they were also liaising with Interior CS Fred Matiang'i to deploy adequate security. “We are pleading with our communities to keep peace and help in identifying those fanning the violence so that action is taken against them,” Bowen said. The MP said the violence should not be allowed to escalate and affect learning in the region. Four years ago, the Marakwet and Pokot communities signed a peace accord at Chesogon vowing not to engage in banditry again. The event was witnessed by Deputy President William Ruto and all leaders from the region including governors from the three counties. Kiptis blamed the latest attacks on criminal elements in the region. Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Omar Hassan said security teams including GSU personnel had already been deployed in the valley to end the attacks. He said they were working with communities, especially elders, to recover the stolen animals and restore peace.  -Edited by SKanyara