A city dweller has petitioned the county assembly to pass a vote of no confidence in county attorney Lydia Kwamboka over "incompetency and irregularity". The unnamed resident has alleged that Kwamboka’s conduct does not meet the provisions of Article 10 and Chapter Six of the Constitution, hence she is unfit to hold office. In a petition tabled in the House last week by Mowlem MCA Benson Mwangi, Kwamboka’s appointment to the county attorney’s office was for a one-year contract that elapsed while she was on suspension. “The said contract elapsed while the officer was under suspension and upon her return to the office six months later. “Her contract was renewed without vetting, which is a requisite requirement for the award of a new contract vetting by the county assembly, considering that this office is equivalent to that of a County Executive Committee member,” he said. Section Four of the Office of the County Attorney’s Act, 2020, provides for the office of the county attorney and requires that the officeholder be appointed by the governor, with the approval of the county assembly. Kwamboka was vetted and her name was approved by the assembly in April 2018. Five months later on September 19, 2018, Kwamboka, alongside three county officials, was suspended by former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko, who accused them of insubordination over the Pumwani Maternity Hospital saga. This was after the officials contradicted his assertion of negligence in the death of 11 infants whose bodies were found stuffed in paper bags at the facility. Months later, the county attorney made a comeback at City Hall and according to the petition, her contract was renewed without vetting, a requisite requirement for the award of a new contract. “The humble petitioners, as Nairobians, pray that the county assembly of Nairobi intervene and resolve the issue,” Mwangi said. The petitioners have also accused the county attorney of neglecting to have a practice certificate last year. The Advocate Act requires that every advocate gets a practice certificate at the beginning of each year. “Failure to do so deems an advocate unqualified to practise as an advocate of the High Court. Through legal instruments, I am pleading are set out under Section 34 (a & b) of the Advocates Act,” Mwangi said. The Mowlem ward representative highlighted that Kwamboka went ahead to draw and execute legal instruments despite lacking that certificate, thus exposing the county to unwarranted legal actions. Despite the claim, however, the Star confirmed through the Law Society of Kenya website that Kwamboka is compliant and certified to practise. The petitioner claims that the attorney violated Article 10 of the Constitution in that the national values and principles of governance set have not been observed and her continued stay in the office causes the taxpayer unnecessary cost. Kwamboka was also accused of single-sourcing a law firm to take up over 60 matters in which the county had been sued, yet the firm is said not to be prequalified or qualified to offer legal services to the county. The petitioner has recommended that the assembly and other investigative agencies ascertain how and why public funds were paid to the law firm. The house has also been told to compel the firm to refund the money as it was "irregularly" allocated. “The petition stands committed to the Committee on Justice and Legal Affairs,” speaker Benson Mutura said. In April, another resident had petitioned the anti-graft agency to probe Kwamboka for abuse of office, conflict of interest and professional misconduct. However, she distanced herself from the claims, terming them malicious allegations meant to tarnish her name. She said city cartels threatened by her refusal to allow irregular payment of legal fees to corrupt networks were fighting back. "All these are cartels out to fleece legal fees and I have tried to block them so they are fighting back," she said.