President Uhuru Kenyatta has embarked on the last leg of his foreign trips 13 months before his second and last term comes to and end in August next year. In just a span of three months, the President has made close to 10 foreign trips lifting the lid on how he is keen to maximise his remaining months in office to lobby for projects and position Kenya in the international community. Foreign affairs expert have said this is the critical point for the President to bag both government and private deals noting that from January next year, “international community will shy away from an outgoing President”. Macharia Munene said the trips are beneficial to the country and the President at a personal level. The history and international relations lecturer who spoke to the Star on phone said Uhuru is the most traveled President compared to his predecessors. “The President likes jet flights if you compare with the former Presidents, you will see that he has even traveled more than President Daniel Moi who was in power for 24 years,” he said. “The President has few months in office and he has to maximise them before the onset of 2022 campaigns. As early as December this year, the President is likely to slow down as the country will set on campaign mode,” he said. Munene said  foreign trips  are part and parcel of the president’s job,saying in most cases they are meant to  advance Kenya’s agenda internationally. Uhuru took a break from his numerous foreign travels after the outbreak of coronavirus across the world last year. He has however started increasing travel across the globe making him one of the most traveled Head of sState in the wake to the coronavirus pandemic. Uhuru's first foreign trip was in October last year when he flew to France where he negotiated and oversaw signing of some deals. In March this year, he was  in Dodoma, Tanzania attending the funeral mass of President John Magufuli. In April, slightly one year after the government had imposed a ban on travels due to coronavirus, Uhuru who is also the chairman of the East Africa Community, made a trip to Congo. The three-day visit to Kinshasa saw Kenya and DR Congo sign four framework cooperation agreements covering several economic sectors, security and defence as well as maritime transport. Uhuru and his Congolese host Felix Tshisekedi also witnessed the signing of a partnership agreement between Kenya Airways and Congo Airways as well as the official inauguration of Equity bank office block in Central Kinshasa. On May, he visited Uganda to grace the inauguration of President Yoweri Museveni and two days later, he flew to Djibouti to attend the inauguration ceremony of President Ismail Omar Guelleh. On June 9, the President was in Ethiopia to witness the issuance of a telecommunications licence to Safaricom. Ten days later, the President flew to Turkey where he joined other Heads of State and Government at the Antalya Diplomacy Forum in Turkey. The President, who was on a two-day visit at the invitation of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and accompanied by Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo also held several other bilateral meetings. On June 21, the President yet again made a two-day official visit to the Kingdom of Belgium and the European Union. Uhuru held talks with President of the European Council Charles Michel on the Kenya-EU relations and also addressed Kenya-Belgium business forum. On Wednesday he left the country for a two-day official visit to France where on Thursday he met his French host Emmanuel Macron at Elysee Palace in Paris. From France, he landed in Lusaka on Friday morning for the state funeral of former Zambia President Kenneth Kaunda. Uhuru was also in France in October last year where he witnessed the signing of loan agreements worth Sh17.91 billion with France and the European Union. Key in Uhuru’s frequent visits to Paris is to ink a financing deal for the construction of the Nairobi-Nakuru-Mau Summit highway through public-private partnership. The 233-kilometre road contract that was awarded to a French consortium made up of Vinci Highways SAS, Meridian Infrastructure Africa Fund, and Vinci Concessions SAS last year will see the road expanded into a four-lane dual carriageway. The consortium is expected to design, finance, construct, operate and maintain the express. Other agreements that were signed in the October trip were the development of the Nairobi Central Business District to Jomo Kenyatta International Airport  commuter railway line and the 400KV Menengai-Rongai electricity transmission line. On Thursday, a press statement from State House said Uhuru and Macron discussed the progress of projects funded by the French government. “President Kenyatta and his French host discussed the progress of key France supported infrastructure projects in Kenya including the expansion of the 233-kilometre Rironi-Nakuru-Mau Summit Road whose construction is set to kick-off in September this year,” State House said. Besides infrastructure, State House said Uhuru and Macron discussed enhanced cooperation in the health sector particularly in building Kenya's capacity to manufacture vaccines locally. “On the multilateral front, the two leaders spoke about the forthcoming Global Partnership for Education  Summit in London to be co-hosted by President Kenyatta and UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson,” it said. “The summit is set for July 28 and 29, and aims at raising $5 billion in five years for investment in the education of 175 million children in low income countries across the world,” it added. Before Covid-19 outbreak, Uhuru had made 31 foreign trips since he was sworn in for his second term, a move that had raised questions about value for taxpayers money. The trips that earned Uhuru the visiting president saw him fly to more than 30 countries including Russia, Japan, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Uganda, Tanzania, South Africa, South Sudan and the United Kingdom. During the first term alone, he traveled to 86 capital cities with 2015 being his busiest as he made made 26 trips. Belgut MP Nelson Koech said it is time the international community slowed down signing multi-billion projects with an outgoing President. In a phone interview, Koech said Uhuru is committing the country to more loans and deals that the next government will find it difficult to implement. “We are concern as a nation on the rate at which the President, who has one year left in office, is committing the country to contracts that are expensive. The international community should stop and wait until after 2022 elections. We know some tenderprenuers want to make a kill in some of these massive contracts,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara