Only his leg was found. It was spotted hanging on the jaws of a crocodile. The rest of Douglas Keitany's body was eaten by crocodiles in Lake 94 in Baringo. The 42-year-old fisherman was attacked on the shores of the flooded lake near the remote Sintaan village in Baringo South subcounty on Sunday. “The victim was alone doing hook-fishing at the time, so no one was around to rescue him,” Marigat police boss Bonjolive Munuve said on Thursday. Munuve said after a thorough search lasting four days by police officers with the help of local divers and a Kenya Red Cross team, only one leg of the deceased was retrieved. “Family members identified the remains of the person through his clothes and pair of shoes found abandoned on the shores of the lake,” Munuve said. Keitany's leg was taken to the Kabarnet County Referral Hospital mortuary as a further search was conducted for other body parts. At least 10 people including children have been killed by crocodiles and hippos in Lake Baringo since 2014. Last year, a family at Loruk near Lake Baringo was forced to bury the hand of a 10-year-old boy killed and eaten up by crocodiles. The current flooding has caused the fresh water Lake Baringo and Lake 94 to merge. The saline Lake Bogoria is barely 10km away. Munuve urged fishermen to desist from going fishing alone, saying the victim could have been rescued if he had been accompanied by colleagues. “Crocodiles always fear noises and so if someone was around the scene to shout then the person could have been saved,” Munuve said. He further warned over increased human-wildlife conflict along the shores of the flooded lakes Baringo, Bogoria and 94. The officer appealed to residents to be careful of deadly crocodiles and hippos while fishing or walking idly around the lakes. He said the risen water volumes due to ongoing heavy rains has pushed the deadly beasts closer to the local public facilities, trading centres and homesteads. Apart from taking human lives, the marine beasts also feast on people’s livestock. “In a day we lose up to 70 animals - goats, sheep and calves - to the jaws of crocodiles,” Marigat resident Bernard Ole Lelebo said on Thursday. He called upon the government through Kenya Wildlife Service to provide security and compensation to the victims. The volatile shores of the lakes are inhabited by the Tugen, Pokot and Ilchamus pastoral communities bordering Baringo North, Baringo South and Tiaty subcounties. County KWS warden Peter Lekeren warned the locals to be careful, saying they should stay away from the lake shores inhabited by the water beasts. He said government plans are under way to move the water supply closer to the people to stop residents from walking to the lakes. Lekeren urged residents to raise alarm or report rogue animals immediately before or after an incident occurs. The official said Sh29 million budget was announced last week to compensate the victims of wild animal attacks in Baringo.  Edited by Henry Makori