The anti-Building Bridges Initiative team now says President Uhuru Kenyatta cannot initiate popular initiative while still in office. Lawyer Elias Mutuma for Thirdway Alliance says Uhuru should have relinquished power before initiating the process. “When the President was going to the Hague in 2014, he stripped himself of power and appointed his deputy as the acting President. He was not received at The Hague as president, he was received as a normal citizen. He should do the same if he wants to initiate popular initiative,” he said. Mutuma dismissed the submissions by lawyer Otiende Amollo that Junet Mohamed and Dennis Waweru are the promoters of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. “The appellants claim that this was an initiative by Dennis Waweru and Junet Mohamed; I find that to be taking us for a ride, instead of them coming here and owning up, they told us that these two initiated the process,” he said. Mutuma said they believe and have evidence that the BBI initiative was engineered by Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga through the famous handshake. “The impugned amendment must be viewed as direct product of the handshake between the President and Raila in his official capacity,” Mutuma said. "Waweru and Junet were sued in their capacity as officials of BBI National Secretariat and they never signed a single notice of protest to that description. They in fact confirmed our position by way of an affidavit." A popular initiative can only be enacted by the people, proposed to the IEBC by the people and approved as referendum by the people. The Executive and Parliament have not been given legislative authority, thus cannot initiate or legislate under Article 257. “The promoters at the end is BBI, it is an outright lie for the appellant to say Waweru and Junet were the promoters,” Mutuma said. “The handshake was a Trojan horse packed as national unity by the state to execute power to amend the Constitution." He argued that according to court documents, the secretariat is a business entity owned by Junet and Waweru. “Waweru and Junet cannot be said to be the initiators of the process; it must be seen as the BBI Secretariat, which is an initiative of the BBI steering committee,” he said. He further argued that as petitioners, they felt there was a threat to the Constitution. Tharaka Nithi Senator Kindiki Kithure reiterated that at no point did Uhuru relinquish official functions before he initiated the BBI. "At no point did the President relinquish official functions. In 2014, the President downed the tools of power publicly, appointing his deputy as president so that he could attend the ICC case, terming it a personal matter,” Kindiki said. He said the President has no right to initiate a popular initiative because this avenue of popular initiative is reserved for private citizens, including civil society, and isn't available for state officers or state organs. “The people are the creators of the Constitution, so the Constitution cannot be superior to the people. The supremacy of the Constitution ends where the power of the people starts,” he argued. Kindiki further claimed that the BBI proponents marshalled millions of signatures in seven days mirroring the sad story of Simon Makonde. On the issue of absolute immunity for the President, Kindiki said the old idea of absolute immunity of the head of state has been abandoned in all the constitutions of the world and under international law. LSK president Nelson Havi urged the court to dismiss the four appeals and uphold the judgment by the High Court that nullified the BBI. Havi, who represents economist David Ndii and four others, has told the seven-judge bench that they should affirm the decision of the High Court. “You owe this to the people of Kenya in accordance with the oath you took,” he said. Havi further said the moment one becomes President, they cease to be a person and become a state officer arguing that if the President wants to engage in the affairs of other lesser mortals, he must abdicate power. “If he wants to engage in affairs of lesser mortals, he must abdicate. The President is not a mere mortal, but a superior. The President cannot make a direct appeal to the people and join them in petitioning Parliament,” he said. Havi also said the President has to safeguard the Constitution. He said the BBI Bill destroys the basic structure of the Constitution, arguing that it has created an impure, hybrid presidential and parliamentary system. “It has created impure hybrid of presidential and parliamentary system, this bill has domiciled the cabinet legislature, abdicating the functions of Executive and the Legislature,” he said. Havi said the Constitution is supposed to be a permanent structure to endure for ages to come and not to be lightly altered to meet the temporary experience of political parties. Justice Patrick Kiage what happens if Parliament does not listen to the President. "Are you saying the President cannot join the people to picket?” he asked. Have responded, “No, he should abdicate and marry an American divorcee.” Havi said the BBI bill has sought to interfere with the independent of the Judiciary with the installation of an ombudsman to perform functions allocated to the Judicial Service Commision. “The culture of impunity in Kenya needs a fix tool. The IEBC must do its job and Parliament and the courts do theirs. I plead [with you] to dismiss the four appeals and affirm the decision made by the High Court,” Havi said. He said Justice Aaron Ringera had ruled at one point that if there is no referendum in the law, it is important out of abundant caution that it be included. On the issue of lack of quorum at the IEBC, lawyer Esther Ang’awa said in their opinion, the current commission lacks quorum. Ang’awa said just because the court allowed the current commission to conduct by-elections does not mean the commission is quorate. On verification of signatures by the IEBC, Ang’awa argues that the poll body should have verified the signatures submitted by the BBI team. “We urge this court to uphold the finding of the High Court and be persuaded by what this court held in James Omingo Magara case that the verification of voters is not simply a matter of maths or votes that were obtained. It is not a basic exercise,” she said. She argues that the yardstick applied in the Omigo Magara, should be the same if not higher, in the verification of voters. Ang’awa said the IEBC has biometric system of voter registration and one of the unique identifiers are signatures so they can’t claim they lack a database of signatures. She also dismissed the allegations by the IEBC that they have been conducting continuous voter registration since 2017. “No evidence that the voter registration has been going on beyond December 2019, It is a matter of public notoriety that there has been no voter registration,” she said. She also argued that each referendum proposal in the bill should have to be reduced to a referendum question. “In conclusion, we submit that the finding of the High Court based on our constitution and supported by the elections Act, demand that each amendment proposal must be in a separate referendum question,” she said. Lawyer Caroline Jerono told the court that the IEBC should have carried out public participation on the initiative. "This country consists of 7.8 million illiterate adults so why would it be that the IEBC will carry out voter education at the referendum as opposed to when they are endorsing a document they have not read," Jerono said. She argued that referendum is a process as opposed to an event, hence there are parameters that have to be complied with. “Even if the promoters had rightfully started the process, there was a complete violation of Article 10 and 33 of the Constitution,” she said. -Edited by SKanyara