We will not tolerate a woman Chief Kadhi, it's unIslamic and women are not allowed, a vocal section of Coast scholars and clerics has said. Muslim women scholars are pushing for a woman to occupy the position as the tenure of incumbent Chief Kadhi Sheikh Mudharis comes to an end. The elevation of Martha Koome as Chief Justice and president of the Kenyan Supreme Court has inspired many Muslim women. Muslim women activists in Mombasa say the issue is very sensitive and many won't talk about it. Muslim women elsewhere are bolder. The men on Monday asked Muslim women scholars to immediately stop agitating for a woman to occupy the position as doing so violates their religious beliefs and technicalities. Led by the Coast Interfaith Council of Clerics (CICC) chairman Mohamed Abdulkadir of the Lamu branch, the Muslim leaders said it was wrong on all fronts for women scholars to treat the Chief Kadhi's position as they do secular courts. Incumbent Muhdhar has said women are also entitled to the position as long as they are qualified. Islamic law scholar Fatuma Juma said if women are not disqualified they will bring an enlightened perspective to women's issues. Muslim scholar and Imam Mahmoud Ahmed Mau said the matter needs further consultations as scholars worldwide haven’t reached a consensus. He admitted, however, that no law in Islam prevents a woman from becoming a Kadhi. “The law is silent on this question. But for everyone’s comfort, it would be prudent to only appoint women as advisers to the Kadhis' courts and [not] the top position itself. The issue is still up for debate though,” Mau said. Speaking in Lamu Island, Abdulkadir said that women cannot be appointed to such a position as the Islam has clearly defined roles for each gender. The Kadhi's position has not been allocated to women. “People need to tread carefully when dealing with religious issues. There is need to know the difference between the Kadhis court and other secular courts. "No way can we ever accept a woman to such a position. It has never been done. Even the Koran is very clear about what a woman can do,” Abdulkadir said. He said it was wrong to treat religious issues like normal matters, especially where historical steps are to be made. “This is not like the BBI where a referendum is required. Let us not be swayed, there has never been a woman Kadhi. Don't be lied to by people claiming that countries like Egypt, Malaysia, Jordan and so forth have done it. The Council of Imams and Preachers of Kenya (CIPK) chairman Noordin Saney said the Islamic religion has clearly defined roles and boundaries for men and women and that one cannot go beyond what is prescribed for them. He said it is a misleading lie for those claiming that anyone that has studied Shariah law can become Kadhi, irrespective of gender. The Kadhi's office handles three major issues: marriage, divorce and inheritance. “Such issues are sensitive and cannot be handled by a woman. First of all, Islam doesn’t allow women and men to mingle freely like other religions. But the position of Kadhi requires he interacts with the the opposite sex when conducting marriages, divorces and so forth. "Appointing a woman to such a position will be the biggest mistake in the history of Islam,” Saney said. Lamu women activist Raya Famau said it was wrong for a woman to seek the Kadhi's position as the religious pillars forbid it. “I agitate for women rights and empowerment but when it comes to religion, it can’t be changed. The Chief Kadhi's position belongs to the men, we know our place us women and it’s not that,” she said. Some Muslim scholars in the country are pushing to have a woman appointed to replace outgoing Muhdhar. The women are using the appointment of Koome as a morale booster and many said the current set up of representation doesn't do justice to women's issues.  (Edited by V. Graham)