Embrace the culture of mutual bargaining to seek a win-win situation in labour matters during this Covid-19 times, Labour CS Simon Chelugui has said. “Having a good skill is good for the employer and employee as well. I encourage all employees to upgrade skills to improve employability,” he said. Speaking during the Employee of the Year Awards ceremony at Work Pay on Friday night, Chelugui said Kenya has more labourers than opportunities. "There is no permanent job. Things change at times with the pandemic at play," he added. “Employees are not just tools of the trade in an organization but individuals that appreciate being recognized for their hard work." During the ceremony, the Employee of the Year Award 2021 went to real estate agent Njambi Muchiri. Muchiri was part of the top five employees who were nominated by different organisations and emerged as the winner. She was given a trophy, offered three days and two nights in Mombasa and a Sh1m insurance from Lami companies. "I am humbled to be here. Don’t work for your pay go the extra mile, people are watching," Muchiri said. The inaugural Employee of the Year Awards in Kenya (EYTA) is a robust cloud-based employee management solution for SMEs in Africa. EYTA seeks to identify and honour employee excellence at their respective organizations including SMEs. Nominees were judged by a panel through a rigorous process and the public was given an opportunity to vote for their preferred "Employee of the Year" from 4th July 2021. Recipients of the award were recognized for their commitment, dedication, and exceptional involvement in growth in the workplace. Workpay Technologies' Paul Kimani said this was a first of its kind. "We are excited to be hosting over 20 companies to participate for the first time in this unique and long-awaited event. Kenya has a very vibrant workforce and a strong work culture, and we want to tap into the same to recognise the best of the best,” he said. The initiative provides a platform for Human Resource managers and leaders to recognize employee efforts on a day-to-day basis ensuring that companies run smoothly by fostering best practices. These best practices increase strong teamwork dynamics and form effective relations with clients which increases their level of satisfaction. “Workpay through the Employee of The Year Awards (ETYA) has created a platform for regional recognition of outstanding employees cutting across various sectors of the economy," Kimani said. "We strongly believe that this has been a long time coming and wish to fill a gap that has existed for a long time through the ETYA awards."