Kakamega county has opened a Sh120 million fish processing plant to diversify from over-reliance on sugarcane farming. The factory is expected to attract more residents to fish farming as an alternative to sugarcane and maize. Those crops are not doing well as outcomes are dictated by the weather. Opening the factory at Lutonyi area on Monday, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said earlier efforts by the national government to promote fish farming collapsed due to problems relating to markets. The Sh60 million factory was started by the national government in 2009 in the economic stimulus programme. The county government has spent another Sh20m. The investor running the factory, DAS Limited, has invested Sh40 million. “With high population density, most farmers have small parcels, meaning agriculture can only be at subsistence level. Fish farming offers the best alternative as it requires less space with high returns,” Oparanya said. During the launch, Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa asked the Western region to stop relying on cane farming and explore new frontiers. The factory, which is already operational, will not only provide a market for fish harvested by farmers in Kakamega and Western counties but also the entire Lake Region Economic Bloc. Present at the opening were Swedish Ambassador to Kenya Carolyn Vacini, Governors  Anyang' Nyong’o (Kisumu), James Ongwae (Kisii), Patrick Khaemba (Trans Nzoia), Patrick Wangamati (Bungoma), Wilber Ottichilo (Vihiga) and Lurambi MP Titus Khamala and LREB Chief Executive Officer Abala Wanga. Kenya has 6,976 fish farmers and 9,988 fish ponds, with the potential to produce 1,798 metric tonnes of fish in a seven-month production cycle. That translates to Sh539 million. Kakamega is one of the counties with the highest potential for aquaculture. Fish farming was introduced in the county in the early 1970s. It accelerated with economic stimulus programmes between 2009 and 2012 and enactment of the Constitution that created two levels of government. “My government has promoted fish farming since the inception of devolution through increased financial allocation to the Fisheries Directorate," Oparanya said. He cited the introduction of Farm Input Regulations to incorporate all agricultural inputs and introduction of the  county fish feed subsidy programme. It operates on a 50-50 cost-sharing basis where fish farmers pay for half the cost of feed, he said. The country collaborated with FAO, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the Aquaculture Business Development Programme (ABDP). They established and registered 30 Aquaculture Field Schools and supply of all male Nile tilapia fingerlings to farmers. Oparanya said the programmes aim to enable the lake region counties to export their catch to the European Market. Swedish Ambassador Vacini said the factory will provide a fish market for other counties in the region. “The lake region has immense potential for fish production. The support the Swedish government is offering will go a long way in creating jobs for youths and women,” she said. Oparanya said opening of the factory comes barely four weeks after the Aquaculture Academy awarded Kakamega a certificate for the best aquaculture county four weeks ago. “This was because the county put in place structures aimed at developing the fisheries and aquaculture sub-sector to improve the economy and uplift livelihoods," he said.  (Edited by V. Graham)