A significant percent of the Kenyan population considers having a referendum before the next election as “not likely at all”, a poll has found. The TIFA poll released on Thursday shows that 34 percent Kenyans believe the referendum will not happen this year. This is followed by 20 percent who are not sure. However, 12 percent of the population say the referendum is likely to occur before 2022. While another eight percent are certain it will happen before the elections. Among the various reasons as to why the BBI referendum might not be held before the next election, the judicial process was the most frequently mentioned at (29 percent). This was followed by a lack of sufficient time (12 percent) and insufficient funds at eight percent. However, a plurality of respondents (35 percent) were not certain about this. At the same, some (6%) are certain that it will, in fact, take place. The research was done on 1,500 respondents on June 24 to 28, 2021. This was done through telephonic Interviews conducted (with respondents whose contacts were collected through face-to-face (i.e., household-based interviews). The study had a margin error of +/- 2.53 percent. Last week, Cotu Secretary General Francis Atwoli said If Kenya does not have BBI before Elections, they will push for the polls to be postponed by one year. “BBI will be there if there will be no BBI then we will make sure we have it before going to the elections,” he said. “If there's is no BBI we will postpone elections. It will not be the leaders.. it is us who got problems. No BBI no election and that I can tell you for free.” He said that they shall move to Supreme Court and if they don’t make it, they will start the process afresh. Last month, the Service Party leader Mwangi Kiunjuri said no amount of confusion in the country will force Kenya to postpone the 2022 general elections. Kiunjuri said some leaders were coming up with issues meant to put the country in a confused state so that they get an excuse to postpone the next general elections scheduled for August 9, 2022. According to the Constitution, 1) The President shall be elected by registered voters in a national election conducted in accordance with this Constitution and any Act of Parliament regulating presidential elections. (2) An election of the President shall be held-- (a) on the same day as a general election of Members of Parliament, being the second Tuesday in August, in every fifth year; or (b) in the circumstances contemplated in Article 146.