The United Nations has lauded the government’s efforts of turning around a once illegal dumpsite into a green space of choice for Nairobi residence. UN General Assembly President Volkan Bozkir was particularly impressed by the removal of over 20,000 tonnes of waste that had been dumped at the site before the facelift was done. “I commended the multi-sectoral efforts spearheaded by the Ministry of Environment and Forestry in reclaiming, restoring and rehabilitating the Nairobi River from a dumpsite to a recreational facility,” he said. Present during the occasion were Environment CS Keriako Tobiko, Housing PS Charles Hinga and Nairobi Metropolitan director general Mohammed Badi. Others were UN-Habitat Ambassador and Permanent representative Jean Kimani, Kenya Forest Chief Conservator Julius Kamau and National Environment Management Authority director general Mamo Mamo. Bozkir was happy about restoration efforts taking place in some of the green spaces in the city such as the Michuki Memorial Park and the Karura forest. He said the clean up at the Nairobi River was important as communities living near the basin are set to benefit. He lauded the government’s move of banning single-use plastics. Kenya banned the use of single-use carrier bags in February 2017, the ban went into effect on August 28 that year. Being found with plastics in Kenya attracts a fine of Sh2 million to Sh4 million or a jail term of one to two years, or both. The President said the ban on plastics shows the seriousness the government attaches to the environment. Tobiko said over 84 different tree species are now in Michuki Park and another 25 different migratory birds have taken refuge at the park following rehabilitation. The CS said other recreational facilities are set to get a similar facelift across the country. Hinga said young people have taken an active role in tree planting initiatives. The PS said over seven million tree seedlings have since been planted while another 14 million are ready for planting. Badi said revitalising the park was one of his first main assignments when he assumed office in March 2020. He said NMS collaborated with other government agencies such as the Ministry of Environment, Kenya Forest Service, National Environment Management Authority, Kenya Forest Research Institute, Water Resource Authority among others. The DG said they have managed to clear off unwanted vegetation, collected solid waste from land and water, stopped effluent discharge into the river and planted trees among other work. Badi said NMS has purposed to revitalise public open green spaces, public recreation areas such as Jeevanjee Gardens, Uhuru Park, Central Park and Kamukunji grounds, clean waterways, create neighbourhood parks and increase greenery within the city. “We are almost finalising on partnership with the UN on cleaning our rivers, waste management framework on awareness creation of solid waste management, sustaining the city the bamboo way, greening riparian areas and creation of liveable green spaces. “We firmly believe that the best way to educate and to develop best practices is to start with children and the youth as they are the drivers of change in habits and to also synergise our efforts and learn the best practices from each other,” Badi said. He said NMS sees the Nairobi Rivers Regeneration initiative as an integrated urban regeneration project that covers slum transformation, solid waste management, water and sanitation, creation of green and public spaces, and connecting neighbourhoods and informal settlements through walking and cycling infrastructure. Badi said NMS is committed to transforming Nairobi rivers into new retail, development, and recreation frontiers in the city. He said the collaboration with UN-Habitat focuses on technical support to develop a holistic and integrated vision for the river, and on legacy projects that can catalyse longer-term action. “Indeed, NMS is partnering with UN-Habitat in improving Solid Waste Management through the construction of Material Recovery Facilities. These facilities will be key in reducing waste dumping in rivers and improving air quality by ensuring organic components of the waste responsible for greenhouse gases emissions are diverted from disposal at the final disposal site.” Badi said NMS remain committed to embracing innovative partnerships with different actors including community groups, youth groups, civil society organisations, the private sector, international development partners and other government agencies. “The Nairobi River Regeneration initiative shall be implemented as an all-of-Government approach, and the NMS is ready to convene all the key ministries and state departments to realise the vision of the Green City in the Sun,” he said. Badi said he hopes the visit by the UN President will serve as a platform where actions can be proposed at the National level for sustainable livable spaces, waste management systems, whilst considering the uniqueness of each county. -Edited by SKanyara