Education stakeholders are worried about the future of learning due to the increasing cases of Covid-19. Their concern follows the government's warning last week that the fourth wave of the pandemic could be worse than previous ones. Tawheed Academy director Amir Ahmed who owns a school in Malindi on Tuesday said there is a lot of uncertainty following reports of increased cases of Covid-19. He expressed fears that learning could once again be suspended and schools closed like was the case when the pandemic first struck last year. Ahmed who spoke at the school located in Maziwani on the outskirts of Malindi town said they are worried because they do not know the future of learning institutions. He said many parents were already confused by the academic calendar which now shows July 26 will be the beginning of the 2021 academic year. The academic calendar often starts in January. The new changes were occasioned by last year's seven-month closure of schools. “We are afraid that learning may be suspended, already the academic year is not going the normal way, for example July 26 is supposed to be Form 1 reporting day,” Ahmed said. Form 1 students are expected to report to school on August 2, Education CS George Magoha announced last month. Ahmed said there have been low enrolments following the disruptions caused by the Covid-19 crisis. Generally, the pandemic has had serious effects on the economy leading to massive job losses and financial constraints in many institutions. Private schools were not left out and the situation is worse for new institutions which opened during the pandemic. Tawheed Academy begun operations in May this year and can accommodate over 400 students from Form 1 to Form 4. It has however only registered 58 learners. Ahmed said some parents have not taken their children to school because they lost their jobs and cannot afford to pay fees. The director said parents should not fear taking children to school because of lack of fees as they are denying them their right to education. He said at his institution no one is sent back home for failure to pay fees as their “We first ensure academic excellence so that students perform well and have good discipline," he said. The proprietor said they have ensured high standards of adherence to Covid-19 protocols including providing hand washing facilities, thermo guns and social distancing. Principal Neima Hashim said enrolment has also gone down and it was worse because the school is new. She said some parents were having financial challenges and opted to take their children to public schools. “We expected to have a big number of students but the current number is not satisfactory so the pandemic has affected us a lot on that side,” she said. Job Ogoti, the deputy principal, said they have been following the Ministry of Health guidelines including washing hands, checking temperatures and mandating masks for all students.  (Edited by Bilha Makokha)