Deputy President William Ruto on Saturday morning began a three-day tour of the Coast region as he intensifies his 2022 campaigns. The DP will visit Mombasa, Kilifi and Kwale counties in a 72-hour packed programme. He has sustained a charm offensive to dislodge ODM leader Raila Odinga from the grip of the critical region. ODM has enjoyed massive support from the region since the 2007 elections. Ruto is expected to commission development projects undertaken by allied lawmakers, grace church functions and raise money for several beneficiaries as he tries to cement his 'Hustler movement' slogan of the bottom-up economy. Saturday morning, the DP was hosted by MPs Aisha Jumwa and Owen Baya among other leaders in Kilifi county. Later in the afternoon, Ruto is expected to pitch camp in Mombasa county, Nyali constituency hosted by area MP Mohammed Ali and former Senator Hassan Omar. In Nyali, the DP will commission some development projects and later hold a meeting with grassroots leaders. On Sunday morning, Ruto will be back in Kilifi county to grace a church fundraiser and later in the afternoon, he will attend another church function in Lunga Lunga hosted by area MP Khatib Mwashetani. Ruto was last in the region on May 22 where he attended a Coast Economic Regeneration Forum that brought together leaders from six Coastal counties. Ruto said that the bottom-up economic approach is the new plan touching on all the wards in the region that will generate more jobs, cut poverty levels and move up the socioeconomic ladder of many ordinary people. The DP’s extensive tour of the Coast is coming weeks after his friend turn foe-Raila visited the region three times last month. The former Prime Minister was the chief guest during an event for the renewal of Mvita’s National Hospital Insurance Fund issuance of cards to more than 3,000 vulnerable families. Four weeks ago, he was also the chief guest during the launch of the Catheterisation Laboratory (Cath Lab) at the Coast General Teaching and Referral Hospital. It was launched by Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho. For the last four years, Ruto has unleashed a high octane charm offensive campaigns to the region that has for a long time been regarded to be Raila's stronghold. In his frequent political missions to the region, Ruto has managed to woo some of Raila’s allies who now back the DP’s 2022 State House bid.