Traders in Kisumu have complained about the 7pm to 4am curfew imposed by the government saying it is affecting their livelihoods and businesses. They now want the government to review the hours within the city. Kisumu is among the 13 counties designated by government as Covid- 19 hostspots. Those affected most by this are small scale traders, eateries, fish mongers, supermarkets and the transport industry. Businessman Joseph Onyango said the curfew is affecting their businesses and it should be reviewed. "We are barely making any money due to the 7 pm curfew, life is getting harder by the day, putting food on the table, sending our children to school and hospital is becoming a challenge," said Onyango. He added "I think this curfew imposed in the LREB region was political and is now hurting us a great deal." According to a bar owner Bernard Odinga, they are unable to make sales within the hours given for operation. “Bars are only allowed to open from 5pm and the curfew begins at 7pm which means we only have about an hour and thirty minutes to operate, what do you even sell at that time and how many food/orders do you take to prepare within the same period,” Odinga questioned. He said the curfew has killed the bar and restaurant business and some consideration should be given when such containment measures are being issued. “We have to pay for various licenses including to the county government, we have rent and employees to pay, this means people will continue closing their business and more employees will be rendered jobless.” Odinga noted that the government should look into the matter and review the time for the bars and restaurants to either 9pm or 10 or waive the licences. Fish mongers said the curfew has affected them because they make good sales from 6.30 pm to 8pm. “This revised hours are affecting us because we end up not making sales despite ordering fish for sale. Some of us are not able to pay our weekly loans and if this continues, we will soon be out of business,” said Mary Akoth. Jackline Apiyo a fish traders from Kano but sells her fish at the Kisumu market, said normally after getting from from the lake, she prepares everything and at around 6pm, she boards a vehicles to Kisumu where she starts selling the fish at around 6.30 and by around 8 or 9 pm, she starts her journey back to her home. “It has become a challenge for us. This matter should be looked into.” The case is the same for fruits and vegetable sellers who say they have to throw away some of the produce because residents  no longer stop to shop as they are always rushing home to beat the curfew. Lucy Ocholla who owns an Mpesa shops says this has also affected the business because most people used to withdraw money while at the market in the evening to buy foodstuffs no longer come to the market. Matatu operators have also reduced the numbers of trips they take either from Kiusmu, to Migori, Kisii and even Homa Bay. Trader Mathew Onyango who owns a shop at the Kisumu bus park, noted that the government ought to have looked at the economic implication that the curfew would cause to the residents. "We know that people must be kept safe, but consultation with the various business officials on the same  was necessary." County chambers of commerce chairman Israel Agina noted measures to contain Covid-19 spread are complex because on one end, people are dying because of the virus, on the other end people are disobeying the rules and lastly business people are also making loses. Agina however said they support the government directives given the number of deaths reported and the rate of infection that has been witnessed within the region recently. “We know its obvious if the numbers and rate go down the containment measures will be relaxed,” he told the Star. -Edited by SKanyara 