Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has rejected Kericho's financial records after the county government failed to account for Sh8.4 billion allocated for 2018-19. Gathungu has issued an adverse opinion on the county financial records, saying the financial statements do not present fairly the financial position of the county as at June 30, 2019. “The financial statements do not comply with the County Governments Act and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012,” Gathungu said in a report. Governor Paul Chepkwony's administration transferred Sh205.5 million to its department on June 30, 2019, but no records were provided to indicate how the money was used. The county could not also account for more than Sh10 million paid out to staff as imprests. The county collection account also reflected a nil balance at the end of June 2019, but confirmation certificates from banks indicate the account held Sh51.4 million, resulting in an unexplained variance in the accounts. Bank records presented for audit indicated that the county operated 11 bank accounts with the Central Bank of Kenya but it only disclosed to auditors four accounts. A review of records revealed that seven accounts that were not disclosed had balances totalling Sh338.9 million. “The management did not give any reasons for excluding the balances from its financial statements,” the report says. Also, net overdraft balances of Sh11.8 million were not disclosed in the county financial statements. Gathungu says the county operated seven subcounty hospitals and 111 health centres and dispensaries, and each of them has bank accounts but details of the bank balances were not provided. “In view of these discrepancies, the completeness, accuracy and the existence of cash and cash equivalents, balances totalling Sh1.4 billion reflected in the statements of assets and liabilities as at June 30, 2019, was not confirmed,” Gathungu says. Under grants and transfers totalling Sh503 million, the county reported that it transferred Sh57 million to the County Staff Mortgage Fund. However, a review of statements indicated that the fund received Sh114.9 million, resulting in an unexplained variance of Sh57.9 million. The county could also not explain a variance of Sh22.1 million in its records for own generated revenue. The auditor also questioned another variance of Sh30.9 million in statements for the returned county revenue fund. Financial statements for the county indicated pending bills amounting to Sh711.6 million, but schedules produced for audit indicated pending bills to be Sh594.8 million at the end of the year under review. The county did not also account for Sh13.6 million allegedly spent on training the youth. It failed to utilise more than Sh1.9 billion budgeted for the year under review and failed to implement road projects valued at Sh193 million that year. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)