Soy MP Caleb Kositany is running to be Uasin Gishu governor next year. Kositany will seek to succeed Governor Jackson Mandago, who is serving his second and last term, on the UDA ticket. The party is associated with Deputy President William Ruto. Uasin Gishu is Ruto's home county. The DP ally and former Jubilee Party deputy secretary general announced he is running on Sunday at a function at the AIC Pioneer Church in Eldoret “My style will be, as we have said, the bottom up approach so that we can work to uplift the lives of ordinary Kenyans,” Kositany said. Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno, who was present at the function, also signalled interest in succeeding his boss, but said he would make the announcement at the right time. “Let those who have no job rush to make their announcements but as for me, we still have a job to do and when time comes, I will take my stand,” said Chemno. Kositany’s entry into the race complicates Mandago's succession, which has so far attracted political bigwigs, many of them  Ruto’s allies. The Soy MP comes from the same constituency with Mandago. There is a push in the county for the next governor to be from a different constituency. Kenya’s envoy to Pakistan Julius Bitok who comes from Kesses has also announced his bid for the top county seat. He vied against Mandago and was second in the primaries. Other aspirants interested in running on UDA include Jonathan Bii, also from Soy, Nairobi executive for Devolution Vesca Kangogo, businessman Charles Kigen and Ngenyilel MCA David Singoei. Uasin Gishu speaker David Kiplagat is yet to confirm his interest but has been mobilising residents for 2022. The eventual UDA candidate will face a tough opponent in businessman Bundotich Kiprop, known as Buzeki, who has yet to announce his party of choice. He decamped from CCM, after party leader Isaac Rutto backed the DP. The businessman is at political loggerheads with DP Ruto. Bii, who was a Kanu official but has joined Ruto's camp, was among the early entrants in the race. He hit the ground running to market himself three years ago and none of the other aspirants has covered ground as he has. Analysts say although Bii is not a big name in the region and is not monied, he is the man to watch. “Bii has made friends all over in the county and no one can ignore him now," Kanu official Paul Kibet said. Kangogo, who vied in the Jubilee primaries in 2013 and came third, has also started campaigns to seek support for her bid. She is the only woman in the race so far. “I will be in the race and this time, I am better equipped with the managerial skills I have gained in Nairobi," Kangogo said.