 The welfare of the police officers fighting crime and maintaining law and order must be looked into broadly. Welfare has to be looked at against the quality of service, accountability and public participation of the citizens they serve. The function of the police is to prevent crime, a role that requires that they are integrated and trusted by their community. The only difference between me and the police should be the uniform. If they understand my life as a civilian, they will be able to dispense their duties accordingly, fairly and satisfactorily. Numerous police stations do not have a Community Policing Authority committee representative as is required by law. In some stations, there are community policing authority representatives and they are really helping. But in some, they are there but not functional at all and that defeats the very objective of having them. Having the representative helps in fostering good relationships with the community with which they are tasked to serve. Article 244 of the Constitution, which mandates the National Police Service to foster and promote relationships with the broader society, enforces community policing. The National Police Service Act Sections 86 to 100 also indicate the establishment and the role of County Policing Authority in community policing. Addressing police welfare leads to police transformation, that the Independent Medico-Legal Unit and other organisations working with the police have been calling and lobbying to have implemented. President Uhuru Kenyatta in September 2018 did away with provision-based housing which was replaced with allowance-based housing. This was well intended and if the allowance is sufficient, it will help police officers afford to live with the people. The country has a long way to go with regard to handling complaints against the police. The main hindrance to handling complaints is the culture of impunity that is deeply engrained in the service. That is why we continue to deal with the ever-increasing extra-judicial killings, police brutality and harassment, deaths in custody and unreported injustices. The lack of proper supervision and interrogation by the police bosses or the Inspector General is a major factor. There are no police parades as is required and if you walk into any of the police stations, the book that the OCPD should sign after every inspection of stations within their jurisdiction, you will see the true picture.  The executive director at the Independent Medico-Legal Unit spoke to the Star.