Five men who allegedly attempted to drill a wall to get into Prime Bank OTC branch, in Kamukunji, were on Monday charged with breaking into a building and preparing to commit a felony. Reuben Njukia, Charles Mugo, Jesse Muruiki, Fredrick Muderwa and Gabriel Mungai appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku and denied two counts of committing a felony and breaking into a building to commit a felony. The five were found in four lodging rooms preparing to break into Prime Bank. The charge sheet says they had with them articles for use in shop breaking namely: five hacksaws, five metal bars, sisal rope, manual driller, briefcase, iron sheet cutter which led to the conclusion that they were there for illegal purposes of shop breaking. They allegedly committed the offence on July 2 at around 12.30am at Angle Kenda House Bar and Restaurant along Ukwala lane in Nairobi. In the second count, the five are charged that on the same dates and place, with intent to commit a felony, they broke and entered the ceiling of Angle Kenda building. Prosecution counsel Anderson Gikunda objected the release of the accused on bail or bond pending trial, saying the first accused, Njukia, has a similar case before the court where he was charged and released on a cash bail in 2020. The prosecutor told magistrate Mutuku that to release the suspects to society, especially the first accused, will give them a chance to continue with criminal activities. He urged the court to detain Njukia and his co-accused pending hearing of the case. The court released four of the accused on a Sh300,000 cash bail or a Sh1 million bond each with a surety of two contact persons who have been verified by the DCI. Njukia was denied bond over his other case. He has been directed to apply for bail after six months. According to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations, the suspects had rented a room next to the bank where they were drilling the wall before their arrest. The five who were arrested last Friday were paraded at Kamukunji police station. The case will be mentioned after two weeks. -Edited by SKanyara 