Kenya’s plan to import its first consignment of the Johnson and Johnson vaccine from South Africa is in limbo after the country went into another lockdown. Kenya was expected to receive the first batch of 13 million Covid-19 vaccine shots from Johnson and Johnson in August to help accelerate the country's vaccination drive. But South Africa President Cyril Ramaphosa announced level 4 lockdown restrictions on June 27 after the country suffered another resurgence of Covid-19. The restrictions might impact the capacity to produce the vaccines for domestic use and export. “Initial discussions we have had is that we are going to get our Johnson & Johnson from South Africa but of course, vaccine availability depends on the manufacturing capacity and it also depends on what is happening in the country of origin,” acting Health director-general Dr Patrick Amoth said. “South Africa has gone again to full lockdown level 4 so if that affects capacity to produce,  we could get it from somewhere else. We are open to receiving vaccines from anywhere so long as they have gone through the necessary stringent regulatory approval process,” Amoth added. As of Monday, 1,477,916 AstraZeneca vaccines had been administered across the country. Data from the Health ministry shows that of these, 1,018,147 are first doses and 459,773 are second jabs. “The uptake of the second dose among those who received their first dose is at 45.2 per cent with the majority being males at 55 per cent while females are at 45 per cent,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The proportion of adults fully vaccinated in the country now stands at 1.77 per cent. In terms of the uptake of the second dose by priority groups, 142,676 are people aged 58 years and above, 90,945 are healthcare workers, 62,724 are teachers, 35,415 are security officers, while 128,004 are other members of the public. It has become difficult to acquire the AstraZeneca vaccine, despite Kenya ordering 24 million doses, after India banned exports. Johnson & Johnson locked up a deal to provide the African Union with up to 400 million doses through 2022, to be rolled out as is approved by the continent's 55 states. AU's African Vaccine Acquisition Trust signed an agreement with Johnson & Johnson to acquire 220 million doses of its single-shot vaccine, with the potential to order an additional 180 million doses. Avat is a 10-member team drawn from across the continent and was established in August 2020 to ensure Africa would secure sufficient vaccine doses to achieve herd immunity. “[On] whether you can get a different vaccine from the first one, [the answer is] yes. In some countries like Spain and Germany, those who received their first dose of Pfizer vaccine or AZ vaccine have gotten the reverse,” Amoth said. “Most of them got Pfizer and they have been given a different vaccine for the second jab. So again data will emerge from that particular platform to be able to advise us. And that is why it is also important for us to get other vaccines so that we can try out those in our own local setting.”