Sheila Chepkosgei, who won the women's 800m at the national trials for the World Under-20 Championships, hopes her debut at the international stage will reap dividends as it did for her role model, 2008 Olympics gold medalist Pamela Jelimo. Chepkosgei was overjoyed after clinching the ticket to represent Kenya at the junior event to be held on August 17-22 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani and vowed to make the opportunity count. "I am happy to have made the team in what will be my first ever international competition. I expect the competition will be tough especially when the other competitors have participated at the international level before. However, my ultimate aim remains to win a medal for my country. I look up to Jelimo a lot and hope to succeed like she did at a very young age," Chepkosgei said. Jelimo, nicknamed Kapsabet Express, enjoyed a colourful career in the junior ranks before she transitioned to the senior level. Her decorated CV at the junior level includes a gold and  bronze medal at the 2007 African Junior Championships in Ouagadougou in 400m and 200m respectively. At the senior level, Jelimo won gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics at the young age of 18, following it up with a bronze medal at the 2012 London Olympics. In addition, she clinched gold at the 2008 African Championships in Addis Ababa and at the  2008 World Athletics Final in Stuttgart as well as a World Indoor Championship title in Istanbul in 2012. Nonetheless, Chepkosgei admits her work is cut out if she is to match the achievements of her role model. The 19-year old clocked 2:03.76 on her way to victory at the trials whereas Brenda Jebet and Nelly Jepchirchir timed 2:05.08 and 2:06.28 to finish second and third respectively. "After today, I know I have to intensify my training and improve on my speed. My target is to at least shave two seconds from the time I set here today. My training has been somewhat affected in the run-up to these championship because I have been busy with my studies," the form three student said.