Football Kenya Federation Premier League leaders, Tusker, are undoubtedly hot under the collar, as pressure for the title piles and struggles in the battlefield intensify by the day. However, the brewers are fancied to make light work of struggling Mathare United when the two sides lock horns in round of 27 fixture at Ruaraka grounds on Tuesday. With Caf Champions League slot already safe in the bag, the coach Robert Matano-led charges continue to enjoy a blossoming season and a second silverware in the cabinet seems most likely. Their powerful campaign in the top tier has left them sitting pretty at the summit of the log with 54 points, six clear of second-placed, KCB. With only nine rounds left to complete the season's fixtures, a win could propel the brewers closer to their first title since 2016. They must, however, keep looking over their shoulders with the bankers still breathing heavily down their neck. The brewers head into Tuesday's match as favourites, considering Mathare United's unimpressive spell this season. The Slum Boys have fumbled along the way, only managing three wins from all their 24 matches. A spate of consecutive losses leave them with the minnow's tag, as they battle for survival at the tail-end of the table with a paltry 14 points. 13-time Kenyan champions AFC Leopards have a date with Western Stima at ASK Nakuru. Ingwe's hope of a first title since 1998 is increasingly getting remote given they are a distant third with 43 points. A possible win over Stima could only do best to narrow the gap between them and KCB who are five points clear. On the other hand, Stima are treading precariously in 15th with 18 points, just a spot above the relegation zone. Surprise package, Bidco United, host Bandari at Thika Stadium on Tuesday. The dockers are eighth with 36 points and are likely to ascend to sixth if they manage maximum points. The top tier debutantes are eleventh with 31 points and could dislodge Ulinzi from 10th if they overcome the coastal lads. Defending champions, Gor Mahia, will flex muscles with Kariobangi Sharks at Thika Stadium on Wednesday. K'Ogalo are currently fifth on the log with 40 points and could scale to third if they manage a win over Sharks who are one spot above them with 41 points. Sharks have a chance to dislodge Leopards from third if they surmount Gor. KCB will seek to close gap on Tusker as they host Ulinzi Stars at Ruaraka grounds on Wednesday. A win for the bankers will reignite their dreams of a maiden top-flight title. Ulinzi, who have been blowing hot and cold this season are currently 10th with 34 points. Posta Rangers will battle it out with Nzoia Sugar in the second match of the day at the same venue. The mailmen are rooted in 13th with 27 points  while the millers are a spot below with 21 points. Kakamega Homeboyz will square it out with Wazito at ASK Grounds. Homeboyz are in sixth with 37 points while Wazito are ninth with 35. It will be interesting to see how Nairobi City Stars perform after the departure of their head coach, Sanjin Alagic on Saturday. City travel all the way to ASK Nakuru where they will flex muscles with struggling Vihiga United. Stars are in seventh with  37 points while Vihiga are second-last with 16.