The Registrar of Political Parties has told political outfits that they must hold internal elections before the 2022 General Elections. All political parties due to hold grassroots and national elections had last year postponed their polls due to tough Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the government. However, other parties are said to have taken advantage of the pandemic to dodge the law that requires them to hold regular elections in line with their constitutions. Most party constitutions mandate party elections within five years. Major political parties like ODM and Jubilee had sought the permission of Registrar Ann Nderitu to be allowed to hold the polls later after the Covid-19 pandemic eases. The Star has established that the parties had sought permission for a period of between six months to a year, a time frame that has lapsed. The parties are yet to plan for elections. The parties face legal challenges for failure to hold elections. The registrar says parties have no option but to comply with their own constitutions. “The parties must hold elections before the next elections to comply with the law,” she told the Star. The official admitted that some parties had requested the office to allow the extension of office bearers for a certain period awaiting the polls. However, the term of most officials of the parties have expired. There are concerns that some parties are not keen on holding grassroots elections for fear of triggering division among members. Others want to avoid the huge costs involved with election to invest in the 2022 nominations and campaigns that usually consume millions of shillings. Raila Odinga's ODM party is said to be mulling going for harmonisation instead of holding competitive elections to fill vacant positions, fearing cracks in the aftermath of polls. The party's secretariat has said the elections will happen after the ongoing campaign to recruit more members across the country concludes in the next three months. Secretary general Edwin Sifuna said the membership registration process would be key for the party as it prepares for grassroots elections for party officials and nominations for 2022 aspirants. “We urge our supporters to use this three-month window to enlist as members of the party to be eligible to participate in the grassroots elections and nominations,"he said. The ruling Jubilee party which is plagued by internal strife is yet to announce when it will hold grassroots elections even as it battles factional wars that threaten to sink the ship. A section of its MPs have called for a snap election and change in the party's leadership to reenergise the outfit ahead of the next general elections. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)