Quins’ play-maker Eden Agero is the notable inclusion in the Kenya Sevens squad for the Tokyo Olympics slated for later this month. The fly-half makes the cut alongside teammate Herman Humwa, Daniel Taabu and rising stars Johnstone Olindi and Vincent Onyala. There are also four survivors from the Rio Olympics team including skipper Andrew Amonde, talisman Collins Injera, Billy Odhiambo and Jeffrey Oluoch. Announcing the squad, head coach Innocent Simiyu termed the selection tough with the squad putting up their hand in training. “The boys have worked their socks off in training for the past two months and we have a very formidable squad to take on the rest of the world in Tokyo,” said Simiyu. Shujaa face Olympic Games bronze medallists, South Africa, USA and Ireland in a tricky Pool ‘C’. Simiyu said they intend to take one game at a time as they seek to go past quarters in the summer games. “There are no easy pools and we want to do better than Rio. Our preparations have gone well and we are relishing the challenge of competing against the world’s best teams,” observed Simiyu. The team played in six build-up tournaments—two each in Madrid, Dubai and Stellenbosch—and the former skipper termed them as building blocks for the games. “We looked at all aspects of our game from the kickoff, reception attack, defence and set piece. Remember the team did not play for the better part of last year due to the pandemic so the players have to get back to playing at that elite level,” he added. Simiyu termed the squad a blend of youth and experience which will serve them well in the Tokyo showpiece. “We have players who played at the last Olympic Games as well as World Championships and Commonwealth Games. We also have some young players who are on the rise and are learning from the best,” noted Simiyu Squad: Andrew Amonde, Alvin Otieno, Vincent Onyaka, Herman Humwa, Collins Injera, Daniel Taabu, Willy Ambaka, Johnstone Olindi, Eden Agero, Jeff Oluoch, Nelson Oyoo, Jacob Ojee and Billy Odhiambo; Lioneses: Philadelphia Olando, Sheila Chajira, Sheila Wafula, Christabel Lindo, Leah Wambui, Judith Auma, Vivian Akumu, Sarah Oluche, Grace Adhiambo, Cynthia Atieno, Janet Okello and Diana Awino. 