Debt owned to Lapfund and Laptrust by City hall has attracted monthly penalties accruing to Sh28.22 billion which is more than three times the principal amount of Sh8.83 billion. This comes as the County Government is looking into renegotiating its Sh37.07 billion pension debt owed to Lapfund and Laptrust as penalties on the arrears continue to accumulate. Laptrust’s principal amount stands at Sh6 million but has been accruing interest of about Sh200 million. The rest is owed to Lapfund. Nairobi County Assembly Budget and Appropriations committee chairperson Robert Mbatia on Monday explained  that the county will embark on negotiations once Treasury releases funds to counties. “The Executive were awaiting county funds to be released by the Treasury. They wanted to negotiate when they have funds in the account; something tangible,” he said. The negotiations include the possibility of waiving interest and coming up with a repayment plan. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani last Friday confirmed the release of the last batch of counties’ allocation of Sh26.9 billion for the financial year ended June 30, 2021. With the arrears, Mbatia noted that it could only be solved through renegotiation of the penalty. “There is a law that stipulates that interest on debt should not surpass the principal amount but when you are in debt you have no voice. However with money from the treasury, I believe negotiations can be done,” he added. To avoid such situations in future, the budget chair noted that the County assembly will play its role and ensure the executive. “ To be more keen the assembly will ensure that the law is followed so that interest doesn't surpass the principal amount,”Mbatia added. The defunct Nairobi City Council surrendered Mariakani estate to Lapfund in 2012 in a debt-swap. Lapfund has had full possession of the property since then. However, reports were that the county government after devolution was still claiming ownership of the estate. The Auditor General on financial statements of the county for the period ended June 30, 2017 revealed that City Hall was still collecting rent from tenants. “The county government should immediately stop collecting rent from the estate tenants and instead allow Lapfund to collect the rent to forestall unnecessary litigation and to safeguard the retirement benefits of county employees. Tenants should be informed on the same,” the report reads. In June 2019, Laptrust Chief Executive Hosea Kili suggested a property swap deal with City Hall to offset the debt. By then, City Hall owed Laptrust Sh15 billion with some Sh600 million having accrued since January that year. Kili had in the past asked the county government to cede a piece of land on which Laptrust can build a modern parking ground and market.