Alcohol and drug addicts seeking rehabilitation in Nyeri will have to pay more for the services. This is after the county government increased the fee fourfold, from Sh15,000 to Sh60,000. The rehabilitation period is three months. A Health Rights Advocacy Forum official has termed the increment prohibitive. Heraf project officer Jemimah Muthoni said the rehab is a government facility and its charges should be affordable. She said Sh60,000 is the standard rate for private rehabilitation centres and will shut out a lot of people in need of the intervention. Heraf is a non-governmental organisation that promotes a human rights-based approach to healthcare delivery. “This, by and large, puts it beyond the level of so many people who need the services,” she said. Muthoni said the facility should consider the fact that most addicts take cheap alcohol, meaning they have no money. “This is the person you expect that somewhere along the way will raise Sh60,000 and pay for rehabilitation services?” She said many addicts will have to live with the problem as not many families can meet the cost. But the county chief officer for health Newton Wambugu defended the increment, saying the rehabilitation facility has been draining the department of its resources, especially given that more than 50 per cent of patients are from other counties. The county, as a result, resolved to increase the charges to make the facility self-sustaining, he said. Wambugu argued that the rate is still fairer than that in private facilities that charge up to Sh120,000. According to the National Authority for the Campaign Against Alcohol and Drug Abuse, 95 per cent of rehabilitation centres in Kenya are run privately, and are, therefore, very costly to most Kenyans. Nyeri government-owned Karia Drug Rehabilitation Centre has been in existence for more than six years and provided free services when it was first started. However, at some point, it became unbearable for the county to allocate the facility resources to take care of the inpatient population. As such, a fee of Sh5,000 per month was introduced, totalling 15,000 for the three months rehabilitative period. Those who could afford to supply food and other supplies for their clients did not need to pay the fee. “This (provision of free rehabilitation services) made sense because this is a government facility just like any other dispensary and health centre as the staff is on payroll,” Muthoni said. “It should have had a budget to provide for the rations for inpatient care.” Muthoni also decried the lack of a women's rehabilitating centre as Karia is a male-only facility. But Wambugu said the county is in the process of constructing Ihururu Treatment and Rehabilitation Centre to take care of men so that Karia is turned into a centre for female addicts. Ihururu, which is being constructed by the county government in partnership with Nacada at a cost of Sh20 million in Dedan Kimathi ward, Tetu subcounty, is to be commissioned later in the year. The construction works started in mid-2019. The facility will allow a maximum of 100 patients at any given time. Nyeri is ranked sixth in the country in alcohol abuse. Mombasa leads.  Edited by F'Orieny