Deputy President William Ruto's alleged alliance with Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula will have no significant impact on the Western Kenya politics. The alliance could be good but inconsequential, and just a paper tiger. Western Kenya politics is predominantly controlled by the Orange Democratic Movement. The ODM party has built a strong support base in the region for over a decade. That support cannot be wiped away through a mere Ruto-Wetang'ula alliance. We are cognizant of the fact that the region has overwhelmingly voted for the ODM leader in the last three general elections. Remember in 2013 when Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi stood for election as president, the prime minister trounced him in the total number votes from the region. This speaks to the very fate that awaits the so-called Ruto-Wetang'ula alliance. It will be of no political consequence, especially for the ODM party that is planning to form the government next year. For the deputy president, Wetang'ula may seem as a big political catch, especially as he battles to make inroads in the region. But it may not significantly shore up his support in the region ahead of the polls. This is because the ODM party, the bigger brother, still calls the shots in the region despite the presence of Musalia and Wetang'ula. The Orange Party will not be scared by such alliances built on quicksand as we move to 2022. Watch this space. Let those who are longing for the crossover do so quickly but as a party, being grounded firmly, we shall pursue alliances that we believe will add value to our quest for the leadership of this country. It is within the democratic right of those who are scheming to deliver Western Kenya to Ruto's camp but I want to warn them that the ODM tide will sweep them by the wayside in next year's polls. If Wetang'ula decided to join Ruto, then he would be joining a sinking ship. The Tangatanga movement cannot threaten ODM's popularity in Western Kenya. The country's single largest political party that is ODM is firmly in control of Western Kenya.  The Busia Woman Representative spoke to the Star