Lawyer Elias Mutuma caught the eye of Kenyans with the submissions he made at the Building Bridges Initiative appeal hearing last week. Mutuma represented Miruru Waweru alongside Senator Kithure Kindiki. The lawyer who has less than 10 years of legal practice says he is passionate about public interest litigation and constitutional law. “I am an avid reader, jurist and ferocious legal practitioner who has won several historic cases in the last five years,” he said. Mutuma says he comes from a humble background in Meru, Buuri subcounty. His major break into the national limelight came during the 2017 presidential petition. He represented Thirdway Alliance Kenya and their case was a key factor in the election's nullification. While this was the most prominent legal victory during this period, he also won the Al Ghurair ballot printing tender case for Thirdway. They joined the case an interested party, and a three-judge bench ruled in their favour that there was no public participation. The 39-year-old is also the founding partner of Mutuma Gichuru and Associates with offices in Nairobi, Isiolo and Meru. Mutuma also says that in 2017 while representing Thirdway, he secured orders compelling the IEBC to gazette Ekuru Aukot as a candidate for the repeat presidential election. During the BBI proceedings at the High Court, Mutuma applied for and secured conservatory orders barring IEBC from holding a referendum until the case was heard and determined. The courts also stopped the speakers of the National Assembly and Senate from submitting the BBI Bill to the President for assent or onward transmission to IEBC. His submission last Thursday at the court of appeal caused public excitement and social media buzz as the suave and calm advocate referred to the BBI process as a Trojan horse — a tool to advance undeclared intentions. “Though the handshake was packaged as a national unity drive, it was a Trojan horse packed as a unity package by the state to use executive power to amend the constitution,” Mutuma submitted on Thursday. Attention and excitement over Mutuma's performance extended from both the ordinary, scholars to the political class, with a prominent Eastern politician offering him bundles of miraa as a token of appreciation. Another referred to him as the exterminator, ostensibly because his submissions convinced the netizens that he had driven the last nail into the BBI’s coffin. Mutuma had also argued that when the President was going to The Hague in 2014 he stripped himself of power and appointed his deputy as the acting President, saying he should do the same if he wants to initiate popular initiative. Mutuma says he is very passionate about the law and every submission in court he makes it for the public good, not for publicity. “I have nothing but faith in the law and take every case with the seriousness it deserves, and not for the camera,” Mutuma said. Asked what his experience was appearing with senior lawyers, Mutuma said that it is definitely a huge honour for any advocate to appear in the same forum with them.  The chance to argue such a serious case before a seven-judge bench of the Court of Appeal was more humbling, he said. To young advocates, Mutuma says, “Do not shy away from taking serious briefs especially those that touch on public interest; just make sure you undertake extensive research and take time to understand your case. Do not also hesitate to consult widely on any area of law that you feel you need help with.” Mutuma said he is amazed and inspired by veterans like John Khaminwa who despite being 85 years old is still as articulate,  consistent and passionate as he was decades ago. On the challenges of handling a high profile case like the BBI appeal, Mutuma says they had to be on their toes every day to trace the process and make a determination on how each happening would affect the case. “The other challenge especially with the appeal was the lack of adequate time to prepare thoroughly for the same especially with over 26,000 pages of records of appeal not to mention the various submissions and research materials,” he said. On what sets him apart from others, the lawyer says it's resilience, patience and the passion to deliver. “It is for this reason that I try to avoid cases that I don’t believe in because I can’t put my best foot forward in a case I don’t have passion for,” Mutuma said. “Our future is safe with the young crop of lawyers who are picking the baton from our seniors,” that's his parting shot.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris