Wanted policewoman Caroline Kangogo has shot herself dead at her parents home in Elgeyo Marakwet County, police said. Police said they narrowed down on her on Thursday and have been there all night. "She shot herself in their bathroom using a pistol she had," police told the Star on Friday. The incident happened at about 7.30 am Friday at Nyawa village, Tambach division in Keiyo. Her parents called police who found the body in a pool of blood in the bathroom. Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya confirmed the incident. “We are told the mother found her holding a pistol which she used to commit suicide in the bathroom in their rural home,” he said. She still wore her yellow hood at the time of the incident. These are the same clothes she wore when she killed two men on July 5, 2021. This marked the end of her hunt, which had been ongoing for two weeks. Elgeyo Marakwet county commander Patrick Lumumba says according to initial investigations that she is thought to have arrived home at about 7.30 am and went straight to to the bathroom. She had one bullet shot on the front head. "Not even the parents who were in the home about 30 meters from the bathroom had the gunshot," Lumumba said. He said they had been searching for her and no one new how she got to the home and entered the bathroom through a fence. Lumumba said no one saw her enter the bathroom. Her mother who was going to shower early in the morning found the body and raised alarm. Family members wailed as the body was removed. Lumumba also declined to confirm if the home was under guard as the officer was being sought. "That is our work and we know how we were searching for her. It's unfortunate it's ended this way," he said. Kangogo is a suspect in the killing of two people, including police Constable John Ogweno, in Nakuru on Monday, July 5. She later allegedly shot dead Peter Ndwiga Njiru, 32, in a lodging in Juja, Kiambu county, about 200km from where the police officer died. An autopsy showed Ogweno died of a haemorrhage. Njiru's autopsy said he died out of bleeding from the head. Ogweno’s firearm with 15 bullets is yet to be recovered but police said they found some of his clothes in Kangogo’s house. Police have recovered one of her phones, which was dumped in Nakuru. One officer revealed Kangogo and Njiru met at the station when he went to report about an incident in which a female worker had apparently stolen from him about Sh100,000. In the course of the investigation by Kangogo, they fell in love. The case went cold after the said staff swore to reveal why she took the money. The two have since been lovers until she killed him in a lodging. Police say Kangogo had apparently taken a loan of about Sh500,00 together with Ogweno which could be a factor in her actions. DCI boss George Kinoti appealed to the public to help arrest Corporal Caroline Kangogo whom he termed rogue, armed and dangerous.