Kenya Railways golfer John Lejirma became the first golfer to qualify for the 2022 Kenya Open Championships that will tee 0ff at the Karen Country Club next year. Lejirma defeated Vet lab’s golfer Ebill Omollo to win the 36-hole final play at the Kenya Amateur Golf Championships (KAGC) matchplay that teed off on  Sunday at the par 71 Muthaiga Golf Club. Lejirma won the first 18 holes with 6-up heading into the last 18, where he won the title with four holes to go after 32. He won in holes 4 and 5 to claim the title after leading 6-up after 18 holes. He said it was the best experience to win the tournament. “This will be the great opportunity to play at the Kenya Open. It is a chance that I have been waiting for long,” said Lejirma. On his way to the finals, Lejirma was too good for N. Chandaria in the semifinals on Saturday after overpowering N. Koech at the quarters. His final opponent Omollo defeated Muthaiga’s N. Kibugu in the opening round on Saturday. Omollo had beaten KAGC series leader Michael Karanga as well as then defending champion and only Kenyan deaf golfer Isaac Makokha in the qualifying round on Friday evening. At Machakos Club, top junior faced off as Junior Golf Foundation (JGF) teed off on Saturday that attracted 42 junior golfers. In the handicap category, ten year old Mwathi Gicheru fired 94 gross to win the 12 years and below title ahead of Hetansh Shah with 102 before Leon Mutindia completed the podium after losing to Shah on county back. 13 years, the title was won by 15 year old Ryan Mutinda after firing 82 gross edging out 18 year old Elvis Muigua (85) and 21 year old Kelvin Maina completing the podium with 88 gross. For non-handicap golfers, eight year old Jordy Okal was the winner in the eight years and below category beating Mathew Kibet who scored 72 and 86 gross who played 9 nines. Eleven year old Ishaq Taher was the 9-11 years winner with 56 gross ahead of 11 year old Ryan Kirui (60) and ten year old Jayden Okal with 62. Those with handicaps covered the 18 holes while none-handicap aged 12 years and above will also played 18 holes while the non-handicap juniors aged 11 years and under played nine holes.