Lobby groups have launched a project to promote sexual health rights among children and the youth, including access to legal abortion. The project is being supported by the Ministry of Health. The five-year programme will help adolescents make informed decisions about their sexuality, as well as claim their right to relevant health services. The groups complained that the ministries of Health and Education have for long resisted laws and policies that promote sexual health services and rights for adolescents. The programme, called Right Here Right Now II (RHRN II), is led by six local NGOs and is funded by the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mary Magubo, coordinator for adolescent sexual and reproductive health at the Ministry of Health, said the ministry is developing a guideline for service delivery among marginalised adolescents, such as those living with disabilities. “Different adolescent populations have different health needs. This is why my ministry also disseminates reproductive health information targeting different youth age groups and tackling various issues such as teen pregnancy and HIV,” she said on Wednesday during the launch in Nairobi. Backers said the project will work closely with the government, teacher unions, parents' associations and county health management teams in Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu counties. The groups involved are the Centre for the Study of Adolescence, the Network of Adolescent and Youth of Africa, Love Matters Kenya, Nairobits Trust, Sexual and Reproductive Health and Rights Alliance secretariat, Dream Achievers Youth Organisation and the National Gay and Lesbian Human Rights Commission. “The Ministry of Health and the Education ministry have severally resisted implementing policies approved and passed by relevant legislators and this continues to directly impact the reproductive health and rights of young people in Kenya,” Dream Achievers Youth Organisation programme manager Gaetano Muganda said. Mwikali Kivuvani, the national coordinator at the Sexual Reproductive Health and Rights Alliance, said the programme will directly target young people aged 10-24, especially girls and marginalised groups, such as individuals with disabilities and those living with HIV-Aids. “These groups experience poor SRHR outcomes and are vulnerable to HIV, sexual violence, unintended pregnancies and unsafe abortions,” she said. The launch comes a day after the government released a report showing that last year, 328,000 girls below 19 years got pregnant. The report, Impact of Covid-19 on Adolescents in Kenya, was released by the office of the President and the Population Council. The figures were mined from the Kenya Health Information System. Ruth Kagia, deputy chief of staff in the Office of the President, said this is still a large number, despite the drop. “This has implications not just for the adolescents but also for the nation’s effectiveness in preparing the next generation for the future,” she said in Nairobi on Tuesday during the launch of Impact of Covid-19 on Adolescents in Kenya. Teen pregnancies in Kenya have been dropping since 1989 with small increases in some years. In 2019, at least 379,573 girls below 19 years became pregnant, according to the National Council on Population and Development. Between July 2016 and June 2017, the number of pregnant girls was 378,397, according to the United Nations Population Fund. Edited by A.N