Clinicians have threatened to stop attending to all NHIF accredited patients in the country over what they termed discrimination by the national health insurer. Speaking in Nairobi on Tuesday the union officials issued a seven-day ultimatum to NHIF to among others amend the application forms in the ongoing biometric registration and facility accreditation online site to allow Clinical Officers Council registration numbers. Failure to act, they have threatened to hold peaceful demonstrations to the NHIF headquarters located in Upper Hill until their demands are met. "We have received numerous complaints from our members on the ongoing nationwide biometric registration that has put discriminative and unrealistic demands for clinical officers’ facilities to be registered on the Electronic Claims Management System,” Kenya Union of Clinical Officers secretary general George Gibore said. “While the union applauds the initiate, we are however concerned that the exercise has sidelined medical facilities operated by clinical officers licensed by their regulator, the Clinical Officers Council,” he added. According to the SG, the exercise demands an extra mandatory registration by the Kenya Medical Practitioners and Dentists Council. The demand for double registration of facilities run by clinical officers by COC and KMPDC for accreditation according to Gibore is discriminative in nature and overstretches the regulatory mandate of KMPD while overlooking the self-regulation of clinical officers Act No 20 of 2017. A letter from the Health Ministry dated January 30, 2019 stipulated that healthcare facilities operated by clinicians be recognised for accreditation by NHIF once they have fulfilled all the necessary requirements. The letter also stated that clinicians should be allowed to prescribe advanced diagnostics as per their scope of training and specialty. “It is worth noting that despite the above explicit directive and other numerous correspondences from the ministry on the above issues, NHIF has declined to implement the above directive which amounts to insubordination.” NHIF is conducting a nationwide biometric registration and migration of claims to an electronic system to among others help weed out fraud and speed up the service delivery time to patients in terms of payment of claims.