Former world marathon champion Catherine Ndereba will chair a Ministerial Committee on Gender Welfare in Sports tasked with ensuring women’s inclusion in teams and federations management. The committee, constituted by Sports CS Amina Mohammed also includes Rose Wasike (committee administrator), Kizzie Shako (Secretary), Hibo Hussein (joint secretary), Prof. Paul Ochieng, Catherine Mabwi, Ibrahim Hussein, Linda Ndiwa, and Ted Kwaka. In a statement released on Friday evening, CS Amina raised the red flag on rising cases of flagrant “indecent treatment of women in sports. “I am very disappointed and saddened by information in the public domain concerning the indecent treatment of women in sports, especially in basketball,” said Amina. “I hereby appoint the following persons to constitute a Ministerial Committee on Gender Welfare in Sports with the mandate of conducting an urgent analysis of women inclusion in teams and federations management, existing challenges and opportunities for corrective improvement, a status of discrimination and abuse in the sports ecosystem in the country and recommendations within the next 30 days effective 10th July 2021: Amina hoped that the necessary investigations will be conducted and concluded speedily. “We are proud of our female athletes and officials who have worked tirelessly to secure the future of sports for women and girls, increasing the number of women teams and individuals participating in regional and international competitions,” said Amina. The CS said she was delighted that for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, Kenya had surpassed the IOC guidelines and affirmative considerations by presenting an equal number of men-to-women athletes. “In fact, Kenya entered more women Olympians compared to many other countries,” she said “As a nation, we must take cognizance of the barriers that still exist in various facets of our society hindering the expression of the full potential of women and girls.” That is why said the CS, the Ministry has made a deliberate effort to ensure that management and representation in various projects and committees, including traditional men-dominated events such as motorsports, meet the one-third prerequisite of gender representation. “This approach has greatly inspired and supported the excellence of women teams, inspiring better performance of Team Kenya, collectively.” “While this policy has been implemented at the Ministerial and associated Agencies level, most Sports Federations still have some work to do.” The CS said the ministry had set new guidelines following the directives issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta during the official flag handover ceremony to Kenyan Olympic and Paralympic Team on July 8, 2021. “No women teams will leave the country for any competition or participate in internal competitions without being accompanied by at least two (2) women officials, a doctor, and a team welfare officer. “All teams will ensure that the number of women to men officials is in keeping with the constitutional threshold of two-thirds gender representation. As a matter of practice, they shall also endeavour to equal the numbers going forward. “All sports organizations and federations registered with the Ministry shall ensure that women are represented in management and, that the constitutional threshold of two-thirds gender representation is upheld,” said Amina. “As a matter of Practice, they shall also endeavour to maintain a 50:50 men-to-women representation in Management and all other administrative operations.” “The release of resources in the form of technical and financial support to teams, federations or sports organizations shall be dependent on compliance with the 2010 Constitution of Kenya and all other relevant laws and Policies.” The CS issued a stern warning to those who shall be found to have flouted the new directives. “Moving forward anyone implicated in any verified case of harassment, sexual or otherwise, should be excluded fromFederation and Team affairs with immediate effect and a report bythe concerned Federation/sports organisation be availed to myoffice. “Failure to which, the Registrar shall degazette the concernedSports Organisation/Federation.” She urged athletes who may be affected to report incidents of abuse or harassment to the above-listed Committee who will be housed atthe Moi International Sports Centre, Kasarani, VIP Boardroom premises for the duration of their work. “Director General, Sports Kenya is hereby notified to facilitate working space for the team for the duration of their work,” she said. “The Ministry’s report resulting from the Committee’s work, will form the basis of the reforms that the Ministry will carry out to support all our athletes and continuously improve the sporting environment in our country.” 