 Angry senators on Wednesday resolved to summon Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho after he snubbed a virtual meeting with the lawmakers. Joho was expected to shed light on the Buxton estate demolitions after residents petitioned the Senate to look into the matter. The Wednesday meeting was an opportunity for county government to respond and clear the air on issues raised by the residents. The county evicted residents and demolished their houses to pave way for an affordable housing project. However, the no show by the county government angered the Senators who declared the snub contemptuous. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang, who chaired the meeting on behalf of Kimani Wamatangi, said the county government’s executive committee had earlier confirmed attendance via a letter dated June 29 following an invitation from the Senate. As the meeting went on, the county government posted a letter on the committee’s WhatsApp group requesting a postponement of the meeting. Committee clerk Charles Ngatia announced the development to the chair. “We find it contemptuous to Parliament,” Kajwang’ said. Nyamira Senator Okong’o Omogeni said the executive disrespected the committee and called for strong action to be taken. “It is not decent,” he said of the manner in which the county executive handled their no-show. Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua said the meeting was an opportunity for the county government to clear the air on allegations of misconduct and unfair treatment of the Buxton residents. “I don’t know why a county government has issues appearing for a meeting in which they would clear issues touching on them,”  Wambua said. He urged the committee to summon the county government to appear before it in a sitting that he said should be held in Mombasa. The committee members also suggested that they tour the Buxton affordable housing project. Mombasa Senator Mohammed Faki said firm action should be taken against the county government for showing disrespect. “The earlier we solve this issue the better,” Faki said. “The committee will within seven days summon Governor Joho to appear before members in a meeting that will be held in Mombasa,” Kajwang’ said. “We will determine the date for the next meeting.” Buxton Residents Association secretary John Tsuma had stated that the developer, Buxton Point Ltd, never conducted any public participation before the demolitions. Tsuma said they were called to a meeting at Tononoka Hall ostensibly for an Environmental Impact Assessment report only to be told later that, that was a public participation forum. “They had brought non-residents, with some coming from Bamburi, King’orani and Majengo, so they could pass the project and give it the green light,” Tsuma said. He said the developer has no agreement with any financial institution over loan and mortgage arrangements yet they were encouraged to take loans and have some mortgage arrangements. He said most of the residents do not qualify for a mortgage because they are over age and earn too little. This is why, he said, the residents cannot afford the new units being put up. “Buxton estate residents are low-income earners who were paying rent of between Sh2,800 and Sh3,700‚” Tsuma said. “Now they are being told to pay Sh1.8 million, Sh3 million and Sh4.2 million for one, two and three-bedroom units respectively.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris