The lengths to which a first-term governor can go to stem criticism has shocked residents of a county in Western Kenya. So averse is he to being criticised that he has no qualms about going physical with those who dare to question him or his regime. A female MCA is the latest victim of the wayward behaviour of the governor and his team, after goons were unleashed on her during a public function. It took the efforts of police officers to save the her from some supporters of the county chief who were baying for her blood after she made unflattering remarks about his administration. *** A senior official of a lucrative parastatal is in trouble. The man is said to have influenced the award of a prime parking lot tender to two influential businessmen. The tender was not advertised to the public and it remains unclear how the two Somali businessmen landed the contract. Sources said they were arrested at one point and released under unclear circumstances. However, it is said the matter is with EACC (headquarters pictured) and arrest could be in the offing. There is email and message evidence of communication between the parastatal insider and the businessmen to 'fix' the deals. One involved the parking tender while the other involved the supply of laptops. Meanwhile, the parastatal official has been sent on compulsory leave to pave way for investigations. The official is said to have engaged in many dirty deals and his assets are under scrutiny. Corridors will keep following up. *** A chief officer in a Nyanza county is in trouble over his extramarital affairs. The man is staring at possible axing from a lucrative county docket where he is said to have minted millions since he was appointed to the plum office. The besieged top official found himself in trouble over his alleged relationship with the wives of various staff in the county. The governor is said to be contemplating his transfer from the department or sacking him altogether. *** Trouble is brewing in a new political formation in the country after one principal insisted that the team must embrace other national leaders or risk going to political oblivion. The man, said to be the sponsor of the team, is said to have threatened to withdraw his financial assistance to the team if they continued to attack other opponents. A small bird whispers to Corridors of Power that the politico has instructed close aides to monitor the political altercations among members of the outfit and report to him for swift action. (Edited by V. Graham) 