An administrator has rescued a newborn baby boy that was dumped near a stream in Ithanga area of Gatanga in Murang’a. Acting Ithanga chief Benson Makau rescued the baby at around 10am on Wednesday. Speaking to the Star, Ithanga assistant county commissioner Chrispine Otieno said the baby appeared to have been delivered late Tuesday night and thrown into the stream. With the help of members of the public, the administrator rescued the child before taking him to Ithanga health centre where first aid was administered. “The baby was still attached to its umbilical cord when it was found. It is, however, in good condition,” he said The police had yet to establish who dumped the child and the matter was reported to Ithanga police station. The baby was then taken to Maragua hospital's newborn unit. The children’s department will then make arrangements to have him taken to a children’s home. Otieno appealed to young adults to desist from engaging in irresponsible and premature sex leads to unwanted pregnancies and mistreatment of newborns “If they cannot control themselves and a child is sired, then they should equally take responsibility for their actions,” Otieno said. “Two wrongs cannot make a right. Throwing away a child will not reverse the fact that the baby has been delivered.” He also urged parents to counsel their daughters once they discover that they are expectant to avoid such incidents. The area has been dealing with teen pregnancies suspected to have been occasioned by high poverty levels. Murang'a county records between 4,000 and 6,000 teenage pregnancies annually, according to Health executive Joseph Mbai. Last year, Mbai established Okoa Teenagers Initiative to fight teenage pregnancies and ensure the men responsible are punished. “Unfortunately, teen pregnancies have become a norm, yet the girls are too young to responsibly bring up their young ones,” Mbai had said. Through the initiative, tens of men have been taken to court and charged with defilement. Mbai reiterated the need for the community to ensure girls are well educated so that they become responsible parents in future. Woman Representative Sabina Chege pledged to support teenage mothers' education through her Sabina Chege Foundation. Chege organised forums with the teenage mothers and their guardians in December last year and was shocked when a 12-year-old girl turned up in a meeting in Ithanga in school uniform heavily pregnant. In partnership with Safaricom Foundation, a teenagers' mentorship programme dubbed the Eagles Movement was started. “We realised that some of the girls fell pregnant after being lured with easy money to buy sanitary towels and we wrote to Safaricom Foundation for funding,” she said. Through the programme, over 15,000 boys and girls received a dignity pack containing sanitary towels and underwear for girls, while boys received underwear and soap after undergoing mentorship. The teens could use their parents' mobile phones to text a certain code that allowed them to access counselling services and information on reproductive health.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris