The national government will no longer take over any function from a county government without the approval of MCAs from that county and the Senate if a new bill is enacted. The Intergovernmental Relations (Amendment) Bill, 2021 also want any function transferred to the counties to get the approval of the National Assembly. The bill is sponsored by Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang. Kajwang also chairs the Senate Devolution Committee. He said his bill seeks to streamline the transfer of functions between the two levels of government. “The principal objective of this bill is to amend the provisions of the Intergovernmental Relations Act, 2012 to provide a comprehensive framework on the transfer of powers, functions or competences by either national or county governments,” the proposals read. The government that transfers power, function or competency shall appropriate such monies as are necessary for the execution of the transferred function. The bill which comes up for the first reading next week, seeks to cure some of the gaps that were exposed when former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko signed away the city’s four devolved functions to the national government. Sonko surrendered health, transport, public works, utilities and ancillary, planning and development services to the management of the state. Kajwang' said Sonko's transfer of functions exposed certain gaps in the manner in which the transfer was effected and oversight mechanisms of the transferred functions. “The transfer of functions from one level of government to the other should be so elaborate, and one that respects and recognises the important role of the county assembly and the Senate,” he said. According to the bill, the county executive committee member shall submit an agreement under section 26 of the principal act, to the clerk of the respective county assembly for tabling before the county assembly. “The county assembly shall, within a period of thirty days from the date of tabling, consider the agreement and may, by resolution supported by a majority of the members of the county assembly, approve, with or without amendment or reject the agreement,” the bill says. Where a county assembly resolves to approve the agreement, the speaker of the county assembly shall inform the speaker of the Senate, in writing, of that resolution within seven days. A county assembly shall exercise oversight over a power, function or competency transferred or delegated by a county government. The Senate speaker upon receipt of notification of the approval of any such resolution shall then convene Senate session to consider the bill within 30 days. The county assembly and Senate shall retain oversight role of the transferred function (s). For a function of the national government to be transferred to the county, the Cabinet Secretary shall submit an agreement to transfer a power, function or competency of the national government to a county government to the speaker of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall consider the request within 30 days. The House retains the oversight role over the function (s) transferred. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen faulted the handovcer of Nairobi function to the state saying there was no public participation. He said the county assembly and the Senate were not involved. Article 187 of the Constitution provides for the transfer of functions between levels of governments upon an agreement. It states that such functions, power or competency may be transferred if they would be effectively performed or exercised by the receiving government.  Edited by P.O