Human activities are causing the increased risk of infectious diseases from animals and are also major factors in the decline of wild species of animals, including migratory species. Experts made this observation during the ongoing online meeting of the Sessional Committee of the Convention on Migratory Species Scientific Council. “These include the direct use of wildlife species as a source of food or income, use of animal parts for other commercial purposes, recreational hunting, and traditional healing practices. Others include the destruction of natural habitat and the encroachment of activities that bring humans and their livestock in close proximity to wild species, increasing the risk of spillovers of pathogens to humans,” experts said in papers shared. The Convention on Migratory Species, also known as the Bonn Convention, is an environmental treaty of the UN that provides a global platform for the conservation and sustainable use of terrestrial, aquatic and avian migratory animals and their habitats. Experts during the deliberations noted that while some migratory species have been associated with the spread of zoonoses, migration has also been shown to reduce transmission in some species. In particular, reduction of length or suppression of migration has been associated with increased load in pathogens. “As pressures on migratory species and their habitats are expected to continue growing over the coming decades—including effects on migratory behaviour— there is an urgent need to further investigate links between animal migration and disease infection dynamics.” The experts said literature exists on the subject, but a recent review of scientific knowledge is currently not available. Such a review could inform the work of relevant Convention on Migratory Species mechanisms. The Covid-19 pandemic has focused attention on wildlife diseases and the risks they pose to human health. It has also raised awareness about the linkages between the increased frequency of emerging infectious diseases in wildlife and their spillover to humans, and exploitation of wildlife and habitat destruction and fragmentation. The Scientific Task Force on Wildlife and Ecosystem Health was created in 2011 and co-convened by FAO and CMS, with the membership consisting of relevant science-based organisations, associations or experts in the field of human, wildlife, livestock and ecosystem health. The taskforce aimed to coordinate, share science-based information and raise awareness on prioritised diseases as well as biodiversity and ecosystem health concerns within the context of relevant multilateral agreements, to support decision-making processes. The Scientific Taskforce on Avian Influenza and Wild Birds was established in 2005 by the CMS and AEWA secretariats in response to concerns about the role of migratory birds as potential vectors of Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza virus subtype H5N1. Since June 2007, the taskforce has been co-convened by FAO and the CMS secretariat. The taskforce aims to bring together scientific advice on the conservation impact of the spread of avian influenza, and the role of migratory birds as vectors of the virus. It is also intended to issue advice on the root causes of avian influenza as well as on technically sound measures to combat it and to develop early warning systems. The warning from experts comes at a time when poaching for bushmeat in the country has increased. Already, Kenya Wildlife Service has been tasked with developing a strategy to end rising cases of bushmeat that endangers wildlife and can cause deadly human diseases. Uninspected meat threatens the existence of wildlife and can carry disease. Zoonotic diseases include Covid-19 and variants, Ebola, SARS, MERS, HIV, Lyme disease, Rift Valley Fever and Lassa fever, among other infections. Poachers target animals such as gazelles, giraffes, dik-diks and guinea fowls for meat. The animals are killed by the hunters for commercial interests. The Covid-19 pandemic means more people without money go poaching. The Conservation Alliance of Kenya warned that the rising cases of bushmeat risk spreading the worst zoonotic diseases. The alliance CEO Steve Itela said the rise in bushmeat was anticipated following the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. "The government had announced the Sh1 billion towards paying salaries of rangers. Poachers are, however, cleverer and smarter than security as they keep beating them all the time," Itela said. The Conservation Alliance of Kenya is a limited liability membership organisation registered in Kenya as the umbrella body to advance the preservation, protection and management of wildlife and its habitats. CAK also preserves and protects places of natural beauty; locations of zoological, botanical, geographical, scientific interest, features of the landscape with geological and physiographical value in Kenya. As a long term strategy, Itela said there is a need to raise awareness among Kenyans on the risks involved in eating uninspected meat. "The meat acquired is sold to communities cheaply. People need to know that they could be jeopardising their health by eating such meat," he said. Conservation is seen to belong to elites, communities need to be engaged for them to know that it is their resource," he said. The United Nation Environment Programme has also warned about the spread of zoonotic diseases. The report UNEP jointly wrote with the International Livestock Research Institute talks about the wider issue of zoonotic diseases, such as Covid-19, and how to minimise them. The report said there have been six major outbreaks of novel coronaviruses in the last century. "Sixty per cent of known infectious diseases and 75 per cent of emerging infectious diseases are zoonotic. Over the last two decades and before Covid-19, zoonotic diseases caused economic damage of $100 billion (Sh1077 trillion) Two million people in low- and middle-income countries die each year from neglected endemic zoonotic diseases such as anthrax, bovine tuberculosis and rabies. -Edited by SKanyara