 ODM leader Raila Odinga on Saturday resisted pressure from party supporters to endorse Mvita MP Abdulswamad Shariff Nassir for the Mombasa governorship. Governor Hassan Joho is serving his final term that ends in August next year. Both Nassir and businessman Suleiman Shahbal have declared interest in suceeding Joho. They are both angling for Raila's blessings as they seek to run on the ODM party ticket. Nassir is banking on his loyalty to the party to receive Raila’s blessings while Shahbal is hoping his friendship with the former Prime Minister and his financial muscle will endear him to the ODM leadership. On Saturday, Raila presided over a ceremony at Treasury Square for the renewal of the NHIF cover for 12,000 Mvita residents at a cost of Sh18 million. He had been invited by Nassir. Most speakers said the lawmaker had done well and should be rewarded with the backing for the governorship for his loyalty to the ODM party. As Raila was about to conclude his speech, supporters asked him to endorse Nassir. “I am a father to all,” Raila told the crowd. He said the ODM party will conduct free and fair nominations to determine who will fly its flag in the race to succeed Joho. “The governorship decision is yours. You will decide who will become governor,” Raila told the cheering crowd. Earlier, Nassir said loyalty is an expensive virtue. “Do not expect it from cheap people,” he said. “We will remain loyal. We welcome people to the party but they have to subscribe to the party ideals, which includes loyalty,” the Mvita lawmaker added in an apparent attack on Shahbal. Shahbal ran against Joho on the Wiper party ticket in 2013 and again vied in 2017 on the Jubilee party ticket. He lost on both occasions. He has said he does not need anyone's endorsement to become governor. The businessman was instrumental in the fight against Covid-19 in Mombasa, working together with Joho and the county government to ensure residents were sensitised and provided with face masks. He also helped install sanitising booths in different parts of Mombasa, bought food and medication for the needy, provided small scale and part-time jobs for those who lost theirs and helped youth engage in economic activities during the onset of the pandemic. “I do not need endorsement from leaders. I just need endorsement from the people of Mombasa who I will serve diligently,” Shahbal said during a tour of the coastal city. Shahbal was first an ODM when he joined active politics. He lost to Joho in the party primaries in 2012 before decamping to Wiper.  Edited by P.O