A businessman accused of shooting two police officers and a woman at a club in Nairobi was on Thursday charged with attempted murder. Dickson Njanja Mararo appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Martha Mutuku and denied three charges of attempting to kill three people at the club. According to the charge sheet, Mararo is accused that on July 2, 2021 at about 10pm at Quiver Lounge, Nairobi, he attempted to cause the death of policemen Fetus Musyoka and Lawrence Muturi and waitress Felistas Nzisa by shooting them at close range. The move to charge the businessman came after the Directorate of Criminal Investigations concluded its investigations on the matter. However, the prosecution at a different court before Milimani senior principal magistrate Esther Kimilu, said it intended to oppose the release of Mararo on bail. They are seeking his detention until Tuesday next week to file an affidavit detailing the grounds to have him denied bail. The court heard that officer Musyoka of Starehe police division, who was shot in the neck is still admitted to Nairobi Hospital in critical condition despite undergoing a surgery. The court heard that the prosecutor in the case Everline Onunga, was out on another matter and was not able to file an affidavit with the investigating officer. “The state in opposing bail terms for the accused, needs to give sufficient grounds by having dispositions before court. Onunga is praying for time,” the court was told. The DPP said the victim is still in critical condition and has not spoken to the investigating officer to record a statement despite having undergone surgery. He said, “Waiting till Tuesday will not breach his constitutional rights and further it will not be prejudicial.” The prosecution wants Mararo detained at Muthaiga police station. According to lawyer Dan Maanzo, who represents Musyoka, his client was shot and injured by the accused. “On July 6, he was still unconscious and did not speak to anyone. He spent 13 hours at Nairobi Hospital during surgery. Parents of the accused visited him,” Maanzo told court. He added that nothing has changed and he is still in ICU. If the worst happens the charges will change. However, lawyer Cliff Ombeta for Mararo opposed the DPPs application saying the prosecution already opposed the application on bail without the affidavit. Ombeta claims the DPP is a team which has a lot of lawyers where if one is not present, it does not stop the work process. "It's a whole team in the office. It's unfair to the accused for the state to detain him when they are not ready with the affidavit,” he said. He added that the accused cannot speak for the victim who is still in ICU and keeping him will not help. The magistrate however ruled that the prosecution's application is merited. "The application to adjourn the bail term application is merited as the first complainant in this case is in critical condition. There is need to give prosecution time for the prosecutor to make her application on opposing bail," the magistrate ruled. The case will be mentioned on July 20. Last week, Mararo was detained after Chief Inspector Geoffrey Ndatho attached at DCI sought more time to conclude the investigations in the matter. Ndatho had informed the court that on July 2, 2021 the suspect, armed with a firearm, shot three people at a club within Kasarani in Nairobi county. "That two of the victims were identified as police Constable Lawrence Mururi from Kasarani police station and police Constable Festus Musyoka from Starehe and Nzisa who was shot in line of duty," said Ndatho The victims were rushed to hospital where police Muturi who was shot on his arm was treated and discharged while the waitress Nzisa and the other officer were admitted. Ndatho said Mararo fled the scene of crime and had been in hiding until July 5, 2021 and never reported to any station as required for every licensed firearm holder. The court heard that a Glock semi-automatic pistol and 38 rounds of 9mm ammunition were recovered from the suspect. -Edited by SKanyara