A Nairobi Court has allowed police to continue holding a Nigerian and three Kenyans linked to the killing of a man during a house party in Kilimani, Nairobi, for 10 days to allow for completion of investigations. In a ruling delivered by Milimani Magistrate Jane Kamau, she granted  police the 10 days to detain Nigerian Kabir Kamara, Vera Osebe Omari, Diana Moraa and Annestine Mamuji Helmut at Kilimani police station. The court was informed that the second suspect Osebe is a stripper. She informed the court that she is also a victim of what happened as she was also drugged but rushed to hospital where she was admitted for two days before her arrest. The four are alleged to have drugged the deceased with an unknown substance during a house party held at Kings Distinction Apartment where the deceased was last seen partying last Thursday night. "A proper case has been made by the Investigating officer Philip Kibet to detain the four suspects and despite the charges being serious, the 14-day period earlier sought by police was too long. l therefore allow a period of 10 days," ruled Kamau. She said concurred with the prosecution that the investigations into the matter are complex as the officers need to liaise with other government agencies including the Nigeria High commission. The death was reported by a security guard at the apartments. The court heard that upon receiving the report of a body within the premises on Friday morning, officers from Kilimani police station rushed to the building but the majority of the revelers had fled from the scene except for the suspects who were apprehended. "That body of the deceased was moved to City Mortuary by police officers from Kilimani awaiting identification, informing the deceased's family of the death and conducting a postmortem to establish the cause of death," said the investigating officer. He said that Kamara upon being interrogated, introduced himself as a Nigerian but did not produce any identifying document but the Nigeria High commission has been contracted and is yet to authenticate his claims. DCI Kilimani officers secured the house for investigations and documentation. The court further heard that the revelers who fled from the scene of crime left behind two Mercedes Benzs, registration number KCZ 002C and  KBT 333S and a Lexus, registration number KDB 900B, whose owners have to be identified from the National Transport and Safety Authority. The vehicles were towed to Kilimani police station and have not been claimed to date. Kibet said officers need time to retrieve CCTV footage. "That the associates of the respondents are still at large and witnesses to the house party are yet to participate in an identification parade, should the suspects be released on bail terms before completion of investigations, they are likely to interfere with investigations and are a flight risk," he added.