Kenyans will soon know the outcome of talks of a coalition between ODM and Jubilee,  party leader Raila Odinga  has said. Speaking during an interview on Citizen TV on Thursday, Raila said the taskforce appointed to oversee the talks will soon make its conclusion. When asked whether he could support any other candidate at the fate of his party, Raila said, " Why not. It does not have to be myself." Last week, Jubilee Party Secretary-General Raphael Tuju said  President Uhuru Kenyatta's Party and ODM will field one presidential candidate in next year's polls. "If we reach an agreement in terms of coming up with alliance, which is on the table, then we should have one presidential candidate," Tuju said. Tuju said the two parties are keen to formalize their handshake relationship in a coalition deal. For the first time on Tuesday, Raila gave out bits and pieces of his political blueprint making national stability, the war against corruption, job creation, industrialisation and support for small business the centre of his presidential run. “All Kenyans have great aspirations and expectations amidst struggles to make ends meet. Our youth are struggling to clear school fees, secure good jobs, stop depending on parents, start families and, save for the future,” Raila said on Wednesday. “It starts with building an economy that works for all. It comes down to the promotion of SMEs, realistic taxation and encouraging innovation. It’s possible. It’s doable.” This was the closest Raila has come to declaring that he is in the race to State House next year. “I am persuaded beyond reasonable doubt that Raila will be a presidential candidate in 2022,” former Cabinet Minister Franklin Bett said. “From what has been happening in recent months, the former Prime Minister is preparing to run. You can take that to the bank.” In the last one month, the ODM boss has held meetings with his allies from the Coast, Nyanza, Central, Western and Rift Valley regions as he gears up for a fifth stab at the presidency.