The Kirinyaga county government is constructing four additional markets to meet  the growing demand by farmers selling  fresh produce. That will bring to 15 modern markets Governor Anne Waiguru’s administration has constructed since 2018. Avocado and tomato farmers will be the the main beneficiaries of the new markets under construction in Githure, Gathoge, Karumandi and Makutano. Other markets that are already in use are Kagio cereals market, Kagio clothes market, Kutus, Kerugoya, Makutano, Wang’uru, Kagumo, Kianyaga, Kiamutugu, Sagana and Kibingoti. The new markets are meant to enable farmers sell their produce in a conducive environment. They currently sell in open-air markets thereby exposing their produce to harsh weather conditions that may lead to some of it getting spoilt and depreciating in value. The markets have come at a time when the county government through ‘Wezesha Kirinyaga’ economic empowerment programme is supporting farmers' groups to increase production to improve their livelihoods. The county government is supporting farmers to undertake projects in poultry, avocado, tomato and dairy farming. Bancy Waithira, a trader in Githure market, says she looks forward to the completion of the market which will be a great relief to them since they have been selling their produce under very harsh conditions. “We are forced to spend money to bring produce to the market and we have to take the surplus back home since we have nowhere to keep them,” she said. The new market will allow them to store their produce there overnight. Trader Elizabeth Njoki said Githure trading centre has not had a conducive environment for farmers to sell. They have been selling on the roadside under makeshift shelters covered with polythene sheets. Njoki thanked Governor Waiguru for the initiative. Waiguru has announced plans to establish an avocado collection and packaging centre, where the county’s produce will be processed, packaged and branded in readiness for local and export markets. A tomato factory will be constructed to enable processing for the local and export markets. Waiguru said the factory will enable farmers earn more money from tomato products and save them post-harvest loses. To boost production, farmers have been supported to establish nurseries where they are propagating quality tomato and avocado seedlings for sale to other farmers within and outside the county.  Edited by Henry Makori