Kenya’s vaccination effort has received a major boost after another batch of 182,400 doses of AstraZeneca arrived in the country on Thursday. The vaccines donated by France to the Covax facility and transported by Unicef arrived at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport at 7.45am. Among officials who received the consignment at the airport were vaccines deployment task force chairman Dr Willis Akhwale, political counsellor at the French embassy Emmanuel Dagron and Unicef representative Maniza Zaman. This is a boost to Kenya that has been struggling to get enough doses to administer the second jab to those who have already received their first dose. As at Wednesday, 489,711 Kenyans had received their second dose while 1,021,982 had received the first dose. In terms of priority groups, 94,978 are healthcare workers, 67,376 are teachers, 38,382 are security officers, 151,806 are people aged 58 and above while 137, 169 are members of the public. The proportion of adults fully vaccinated is now at 1.88 per cent. “We have recently embarked on vaccinating our people for the second dose, so this comes at a critical time. It will ensure our health workers, teachers and other essential workers are protected, and that our health centres countrywide can continue providing vital care to people affected by Covid-19,” Akhwale said. French President Emmanuel Macron has pledged to donate 60 million doses of vaccine to countries in need around the world, including Kenya, before the end of 2021 and at least 2.6 million doses have already been distributed. “France, EU and Covax are keen to work with the Kenyan government in its effort to tackle Covid-19. We hope that these 182,400 doses of vaccine will help to give access to a second dose to many at-risk Kenyans,” Dagron said. The roll out of the national vaccination campaign is being led by the Ministry of Health with support from WHO, Unicef, Gavi and other partners. The government is currently prioritising second doses for health workers, teachers, other essential workers and people aged 58 and above. “Covid-19 vaccines save lives, keep health and other essential services running, and support the recovery from the pandemic. That’s why Unicef is pleased to once again be supporting the government of Kenya in procuring and transporting these vital vaccines,” Zaman said.  Edited by Henry Makori