Kisumu county government has warned residents riding on walkways and destroying trees planted towards greening the city. Speaking during a tree planting drive at the City Hall, city manager Abala Wanga said those found flouting the directive must prepare to face the law. Wanga was accompanied by the city head of Environment Bernard Ojwang and other officials. He also said those destroying trees will instantly be fined Sh500 daily to help in conservation. Wanga called on residents to be responsible in conserving their environment saying they will not tolerate the destruction of trees and walkways. He also urged those with plots for development to ensure they allocate 25 per cent to afforestation as part of the effort to curb environmental degradation. “We are appealing to our people to embrace tree planting to make our homes more habitable,” Wanga said. The manager also flagged off tree-planting drives within the city’s institutions, churches, homes and schools. “We are launching and spearheading the campaign by planting trees to increase the tree cover and green the city,” he said. Wanga said the initiative targets to plant 10 million tree seedlings by 2025 in a bid to increase its forest cover and make the city green. More than 300,000 trees have so far been planted in collaboration with various institutions. On Monday Equity bank in Kisumu donated 30,000 tree seedlings to be planted at public institutions aimed at beautifying major roads. In May, the bank’s Kisii branch also donated 35,000 tree seedlings. The trees were planted along the Kicomi, Kenya breweries corridor along Pamba road. They also donated 25,000 tree seedlings which were planted at Songor in Muhoroni in April. Wanga emphasised the importance of environment conservation which is a crucial development issue that must be given priority. “There is no development project that can thrive in a poorly conserved and a broken-down eco-system. Conserving our environment requires a collective responsibility,” he said. The city in partnership with various institutions is committed to planting more than 1 million trees yearly. Currently, the forest cover in the city is estimated at one per cent and the initiative aims at reaching the required 10 per cent. Wanga appealed to individuals, corporate entities, and NGOs to join in the campaign. “We are targeting schools, churches, mosques, temples, and colleges in this campaign,” he said. Wanga also said they are also committed to conserve various rivers and reclaim swampy areas of the land. He cited rivers such as Auji, Kisat and Nyamthoi. He also warned factories against discharging raw effluents into rivers and the lake. Two months ago, Governor Anyang Nyong’o called for urgent gazettement of Kajulu, Nyatigo and Koru forests. Kisumu has five forests, two of which are gazetted – Koguta and Karateng’. Nyong’o also warned charcoal merchants who carelessly cut down trees to stop the practice and seek an alternative business. He encouraged households to shift from using charcoal fuel to liquid gas, which is eco-friendly. Nyong’o said the initiative was in line with his manifesto, where he pledged to have at least 1 million trees planted yearly. The governor said environmental conservation was a crucial development issue that must be given priority. “No development project can flourish in a poorly conserved and broken-down ecosystem,” he said. Nyong’o said it was for this reason that the Department of Water, Environment and Climate Change has been running a well-coordinated tree planting campaign. “We are racing against time to increase our forest cover from the estimated one per cent to the required 10 per cent,” he said. “Environment degradation is a grave matter, not only in Kisumu but across the globe.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris