The National Hospital Insurance Fund will fully migrate to an electronic claims system by next Monday. This is part of the key reforms the insurer is undertaking to ensure the attainment of the Universal Health Coverage by making it easy to interact with members, be able to pay the hospitals in good time and ensure fraud cases are eliminated. NHIF chief executive officer Peter Kamunyo said 19 fraud cases have been detected this year and are already in court. The exercise has already been completed in four regions. “Last week, we were in the Rift region, this week the team is in Embu, next week in Nyandarua. We have already finished the southern region which is the Coast and Nairobi,” Kamunyo said. “We also have to ensure that all facilities are compliant and they have all the machines to capture fingerprints biometrically and be able to submit electronic claims.” NHIF  has been battling medical fraud, with Kamunyo acknowledging that the practice is estimated globally to be between 10 to 30 per cent with Kenya ranging at around 20 per cent. The commonest way of medical fraud is impersonation whereby an active member allows their sick neighbour who is not a member to use their card to go to the hospital. This is expected to be addressed by the ongoing biometric registration that will ensure only beneficiaries are present at a health facility. NHIF data shows that 10.4 million households are registered for the cover but those who are currently active are 5.1 million. This means almost half of those registered are not active. This makes it hard for NHIF to pay claims. “This is an exercise we are doing for all Kenyans for principal members including dependents so that when you go to hospital we ensure that it is you the individual who is there and not impersonation so that we can minimize on that,” Kamunyo said. Another area of medical fraud is where some health facilities manufacture claims and forward them to NHIF for reimbursement. “Medical fraud is key in increasing wastage in the healthcare so we want to reduce that medical fraud so that we can have surplus to increase the benefits as we cover more Kenyans,” he said. The e-claim system combined with the biometric identification is expected to ease access by members without delay, increase the efficiency and the turn-around time for claims payment where hospitals will be able to submit their claims in real-time and payment done within the stipulated turnaround time for reimbursement of claims. On Monday, the insurer brought on board 800,000 boda boda riders and owners through the Boda Boda Association of Kenya. This will see members of the association benefit from insurance cover to cater for among other services, emergency road evacuations, oncology package and dialysis by contributing Sh500 monthly to the scheme. Research conducted by Moi Teaching and Referral Hospital found that 61 per cent of abdominal injuries were as a result of accidents, 15 per cent of which were due to motorcycle accidents yet only 11 per cent of boda bodas in the country have a medical insurance cover.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris