The Council of Governors has developed a bill that proposes the establishment of a pension scheme for top county government officers. The bill was drafted by the County Assemblies Forum in consultation with Attorney General Kihara Kariuki. If approved, governors, their deputies, speakers of county assemblies and MCAs will be put on pension like their National Assembly and Senate counterparts. Under the bill, MCAs will qualify for a pension after serving two consecutive terms. Most governors are serving their second and final terms in office. Kakamega Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said on Saturday that CoG authorised CAF to draft the bill. He was speaking to MCAs from Kakamega during a meeting in Eldoret town. "We consulted the AG on modalities of coming up with a pension scheme and he instructed us to develop a bill that should be tabled in the respective county assemblies for passing," he said. Oparanya said CAF has already presented the draft bill to CoG for further deliberations before taking it to county assemblies for debating and passing. The Kakamega governor said the bill authorises county governments to be remitting money for the pension scheme to a fund. Kakamega county assembly speaker Morris Buluma said the bill borrows heavily from the Pension Act of the National Assembly. "This is not anything new. We borrowed from the one on National Assembly and modified it to suit county government needs. It’s not that each county government will be generating its own bill. The draft bill recommends a uniformed pension scheme for us that will be implemented by respective county governments,” he said. Oparanya said the pension will cushion MCAs from financial distress after exiting politics. Previously, politicians who served as councillors left the office empty-handed. Their efforts to get their retirement benefits from the national government are yet to bear fruit. "We established that many politicians who either lose their seats or retire are living in a deplorable state. They are very broke and are the subject of ridicule in the village by the same people whom they served," the governor said. MCAs, led by deputy speaker Soita Kasaya, welcomed the move, saying that the setting up of the pension scheme was long overdue. Kasaya said county assemblies will move with speed to pass the bill when it is tabled in the assemblies. "We have been discriminated against in benefitting from the pension scheme and CoG’s initiative has come at the right time," he added. Edited by A.N