Tanzanian singer Harmonize is asking his ex-wife Sarah Michelloti for forgiveness. She left him days after he publicly declared he sired a child with another woman. This was in a lengthy post on Instagram, where Harmonize first apologised to his loved ones, his wife, but most especially his daughter, Zulekha, whom he felt compelled to conceal from the rest of the world for fear of being scolded. Harmonize has now decided to ask for forgiveness by dedicating a song, 'Sorry', to Sarah. In the live performance on 'Ceek', the Bongo star says he is human and is prone to making mistakes. He says he has been away from home, not answering his lover's calls, but she was patient with him. "I am sorry, I am lonely, I worry for you." He also expresses that he misses his daughter. "I'm sorry is the only Word I can use to the beautiful woman who gave me four years of her life, not to mention I was the problem. God brought me my firstborn and that was the end of our union," he says. "Yes, I slid and I asked for forgiveness but it would be foolish of me if I went on to hide my child. Love and respect, this one is for you." The union of Harmonize and Sarah hit the rocks in December 2020 after the singer had a romantic relationship with his recent ex-girlfriend actress Fridah Kajala, whom he had introduced to Sarah as his relative. He later embraced her after his marriage failed. Harmonize had also not told Sarah he had a child with another woman. Harmonize and Sarah wedded a year before their breakup. It was then reported that divorce was being considered. Sarah then later revealed that after the divorce, she would get half of Harmonize's wealth, saying they built it together. The two have not come out to clear things on whether they have finalised the divorce. Since their breakup, Harmonize, who is currently single, has been in a dramatic relationship with Tanzanian actress Frida Kajala. It ended after three months. Sarah on the other hand has moved back to Italy and has been flaunting her new man.