The Kakamega county social and health protection programme launched three years ago to enlist vulnerable households under NHIF is no longer benefiting residents. The programme involves some 8,840 poor and vulnerable beneficiaries who were recruited by the county government in 2018. Under the programme, the beneficiaries' monthly NHIF premium was to be paid by the county government to ensure access to health services. But reports have emerged that those who were enrolled in the programme can no longer access medical services using their NHIF cards because the cards are dormant. Cards become dormant when monthly contributions are not remitted to the National Hospital Insurance Fund. County health executive Collins Matemba on Wednesday admitted that the county government did not remit premiums to NHIF in the last financial year. He attributed the failure to financial difficulties caused by the erratic disbursement of revenue by the National Treasury. “We set aside money in previous years, and the irregular release of funds by the National Treasury slowed down things. The little that was released went towards the recurrent expenditure,” Matemba said. The executive said the county government, in collaboration with development partners, decided to pay full remittances to NHIF for beneficiaries enlisted under the social protection scheme at the start and have recipients pay half of the contributions in subsequent years, but most defaulted. He said development partners including Amref and i-Push were recruiting more beneficiaries in Navakholo under the programme. “Their target was poor and vulnerable women of reproductive age,” Matemba said. He said that beneficiaries were being introduced to income generating activities that would enable them to save at least Sh20 every day, translating to Sh600 a month to pay NHIF. Matemba said the county has concentrated on equipping health facilities to guarantee quality services “since it is not possible to sustain the social programme”. Kakamega county started the social and health protection programme to complement the national government’s universal health coverage. The national government has allocated Sh47.7 billion to the UHC this financial year to expand the programme to all counties. The Kakamega county government allocated Sh53 million to the programme in its 2018-19 and 2019-20 financial years. The programme has been allocated Sh57 million this financial year. In May, Governor Wycliffe Oparanya said his administration was set to enrol more vulnerable families to the programme under UHC this year. He said though the county has 213,686 poor households, the national government was only taking care if 42,737 under UHC.  Edited by A.N