President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday commissioned two key projects at the Konza Technopolis. This was during his Ukambani trip accompanied by ODM party leader Raila Odinga. According to State House communication, the commissioning signals Government’s commitment to the completion of the country’s first smart city. The President, was on an inspection tour of infrastructure projects implemented by the Government and partners at the technopolis. He inaugurated an eight-storey headquarters of Konza Technopolis Development Authority (KoTDA). President Uhuru also opened the National Data Centre located at the Konza Technopolis. The ultra-modern office block is hoped to provide KoTDA staff and partners a conducive on-site working environment to support accelerated roll-out of the techno city. The data centre is hoped to provide reliable infrastructure and business-friendly services through a superior ICT backbone. "Our quest is to be a technology disrupter, M-Pesa set the pace; may the centre that we commission today be an incubator for the next big-global technology disruption. Right here, made in Kenya for the World," Uhuru said. When complete, the expansive Konza technology city which traverses three neighboring counties of Machakos, Makueni and Kajiado will occupy 5,000-acres of land. The President also announced that he will soon preside over the ground breaking for the construction of Africa's most modern science and technology university. "Upon completion of the project in the next few years, Kenya’s position as a global hub for science, technology and innovation will be entrenched further. We have the chance, right now, in the global race to create high-tech jobs in the digital space," he said. The Head of State reassured that Kenya’s journey towards becoming an industrialised middle-income country was on course, saying the projects being implemented across the country will not only bring development closer to the people but also build a robust foundation to catapult the country into the league of modern and prosperous nations in years to come. "The challenge to each one of us is to continue doing our very best to bring Kenya's great destiny into reality. This requires that we come together as one nation and one people, putting aside partisan interests and divides by building bridges between our communities," he said.