Interior CS Fred Matiang'i and Inspector General of Police Hilary Mutyambai on Tuesday met with leaders from three North Rift counties to discuss the regional security situation. Matiang'i met leaders from Baringo, Marakwet and West Pokot counties at Tot AIC church. At least 12 people have been attacked and killed in the past two weeks in the area. Matiang’i told residents the government is committed to containing insecurity in the region. Local leaders and security agencies were urged to work together to restore peace and security. Officials said the meeting resolved to address local security and administrative challenges. Governors John Longanyapuo (West Pokot), Stanley Kiptis (Baringo) and Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet were present. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen also attended. Last weekend, five people were killed in Elgeyo Marakwet and animals stolen. Residents said the first incident took place in Kaben after raiders suspected to be from Tiaty struck in the Kerio Valley and launched an attack before making away with an unknown number of livestock. They are said to have been on a revenge mission after people from Elgeyo Marakwet on Friday descended on Kolowa in Baringo and killed residents. Another seven people were killed in the Kerio Valley across Tiaty, Marakwet East and Marakwet West areas. Security personnel deployed in the region are pursuing the stolen livestock believed to have been driven towards Cheptulel in Pokot Central, West Pokot and Ng’oron in Tiaty, Baringo county. Among those killed in the conflict are two members of peace committees at the border of West Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet counties. The leaders asked the government to reverse a decision to disarm Kenya Police Reservists. They said the KPR's disarmament has exposed residents to armed bandits. The government made the move after it emerged that some of them were misusing firearms by colluding with criminals. Killings take place despite ongoing intensive security operations in Tiaty subcounty to seize illegal guns and flush out armed criminals. The operation followed the killing of a GSU operation commander in Ameyan, while two other officers were seriously injured near Kapedo. In June this year, the Kenya Red Cross Society suspended operations and withdrew all its staff from Baringo county because of security concerns. The decision came after a confrontation at Kampi ya Samaki where relief food was stolen and volunteers harassed. Edited by A.N