Thousands of inmates who  filed for review of their sentences using the famous Muruatetu case have been dealt a blow by the Supreme Court. The seven-judge bench on Tuesday unanimously issued new guidelines, saying the convicts cannot rely on the Muruatetu case to get lesser sentences. Chief Justice Martha Koome read directions on behalf of her six colleagues, holding the Muruatetu ruling can only be applied to murder cases, not to other offences such as robbery with violence. In her inaugural sitting since being appointed Chief Justice, Koome said the Muruatetu judgment has created a lot of confusion in its application. The court's directions will give guidelines on application. In the Francis Muruatetu case, the Supreme Court in 2017 declared the mandatory death sentence unconstitutional in murder cases. However, in 2017, the court only nullified the mandatory aspect, meaning the judges have discretion to determine whether they will sentence the accused to death or not. No executions have been carried out in Kenya since 1987, though capital punishment continues to be imposed. Since December 2017 when the Muruatetu judgment was delivered, thousands of inmates have had their sentences reduced and others have been released from jail using that ruling. However, Justice Koome ruled the Muruatetu case does not apply to any other crimes except murder. “To clear the confusion in regard to mandatory death sentence in offences other than murder, we direct in respect of other capital offences such as treason and robbery with violence, that a challenge of those sentences should be properly filed in court,” the court ruled. The court further said the cases filed should be presented and fully argued before the High Court and escalated to the Court of Appeal if necessary at which a similar outcome as in Muruatetu may be reached. “Muruatetu cannot be the authority for stating that all the provisions of the law prescribing mandatory or minimum sentences are inconsistent with the Constitution,” Justice Koome ruled. The court held  the decision of Muruatetu and the guidelines apply only to sentences of murder under Sections 203 and 204 of the Penal Code. Justice Koome directed the Judiciary sentencing policy guidelines to be revised in tandem with the new jurisprudence in the Muruatetu case The court further ruled that all offenders who have been subjected to the mandatory death sentence and desire to be heard on sentencing will be entitled to resentencing hearing. When an appeal is pending at the Court of Appeal or High Court, they will entertain an application for resentencing upon being satisfied the appeal has been withdrawn. Koome also ruled  the application for resentencing arising from a trial before a High Court can only be heard by a High Court not a lower court. In guiding the courts on how to resentence, the Supreme Court said the courts should consider several factors, including if they are first offenders, whether they pleaded guilty, the character and record of the offender. Koome further said the court should also consider the commission of the offence in response to gender-based violence, the manner in which the offence was committed against the victim and the psychological effect of the offence on the victim’s family. Speaking to the Star, lawyer Danstan Omari said the new guidelines by the apex court are discriminatory and have segmented different types of accused people who are convicted. “There is no justification to limit a decision of a superior court to only one case or one type of offence. It's discriminatory against all accused people under Article 27, having a right to equal protection of the law," Omari said. Omari said Parliament should amend the law to remove the discriminatory approach of the Act. Lawyer Dudley Ochiel agrees with Omari Parliament should reexamine the issue of mandatory minimum sentences in sexual offences. Ochiel says he does not know what will happen to those inmates who have already benefited from the sentencing in sexual offenses and robbery with violence. “I still think the principle will be the same because minimum mandatory sentences take away judicial discretion,” Ochiel said. Lawyer Omayio Arang’a is also of the opinion that the new guidelines are discriminatory. “The principles set out in the Muruatetu case with regard to the mandatory nature of the death sentence being unconstitutional ought to and should indeed be applied to offences whose penalties are specific and mandatory as they deprive discretion while sentencing,” Omayio said. (Edited by V. Graham)