Dishing out county tenders to cronies could soon end if a Senate bill that compels governors to publicise all tenders is enacted. The County Oversight and Accountability Bill, 2021, seeks to enhance oversight, promote accountability and transparency, and fight graft in the counties through involvement of the people. It compels governors, through their Finance executives, to publish annual reports on all procurements for services or works undertaken by the county governments. “The officers shall prepare an annual report on the status of public finances in the respective county,” the bill reads in part. It states that the report shall then be published and publicised by the senator to ensure it reaches as many residents as possible. “The senator shall carry out the required evaluation and may prepare for circulation within the county, a report on the public finances of the county and the participation of residents in the decision making process with respect to the public finances in the county,” it says. The proposed law is sponsored by Narok Senator Ledama Olekina. It is coming up for First Reading on Tuesday. Procurement has been cited by the investigative agencies and the auditor general as the main conduit for syphoning public money as officers inflate project costs and dish out tenders to cronies. According to the bill, the report shall also contain a schedule of works required to be undertaken by the county and status of the implementation of the projects. It shall also state the timelines for completion of specific phases of the works to curb white elephants projects that have sank millions of money. The bill also mandates the county executives to give a description of the assets acquired during the year to prevent them from theft and liabilities incurred in the respective financial year. “[The report shall give] a description of the progress made by the County Government on the projects and programmes initiated with the use of public money allocated by the National Government,” it states. The report shall also entail the views of the county residents on the effectiveness of the use of the projects and the programmes initiated by the county during the year. In addition, the bill obligates counties to establish or maintain public participation facilities (social halls) in every wards to enable members of the public participate in the county affairs. “Pursuant to Article 174 of the Constitution, each county government shall carry out infrastructural development programmes for the development of public participation facilities within the respective county,” it states. Further, the bill employers the senator to oversight the respective county government. The senator, shall, in the bill, establish public participation and oversight programmes for the respective county, hold public hearings on matters of public interest and facilitate access to information held by the county government. The lawmaker shall also engage the communities and interest groups on the formulation of plans for the economic development of the county. “Senator shall, in carrying out the oversight role over public participation and oversight role over the collection, use and management of finances in the respective county, establish an oversight office in the county,” the bill states. However, the bill is silence on how the office shall be funded to effectively perform the oversight roles. “Any cost relating to Senatorial oversight is already provided for in the institutional budgets and therefor there are no new structures that are set to be established,” Olekina said in the bill. Previously, senators pushed for a Sh2 billion kitty to enable them oversight the counties but the same was rejected after the National Assembly deemed a bill that provided for the funds a money bill.