A fresh Sh62 million scandal has rocked the Kenya Ports Authority in what is threatening to destroy the careers of top officials of the troubled state corporation. The details emerged months after DPP Noordin Haji approved the prosecution of former KPA managing director Daniel Manduku over Sh244 procurement irregularities. Manduku was charged alongside KPA works officer Juma Chigulu. The Star has established that in the new scandal, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption unearthed irregular awarding of a Sh40 million tender given to the mother of a senior KPA clerical officer. The mother of the KPA official was allegedly awarded the tender through her firm, Chemiso East Africa. Although the tender was for Sh40 million, EACC says KPA paid out Sh62.7 million. “Investigations established that the procurement was irregular, which resulted in unlawful payments amounting to Sh62,732,772.74 to the proprietors of Chemiso East Africa,” EACC said. “Investigations further established the evaluation committee didn't conduct proper technical evaluation and there was conflict of interest.” The Star has established that on January 4, the EACC forwarded the investigations file to the DDP’s office recommending high-profile prosecutions, including the senior clerical officer and the head of procurement and supplies. Also recommended for prosecution are head of civil engineering, all members of the tender evaluation committee and the proprietor and signatory of Chemiso East Africa. EACC is still waiting for the EACC response. However, the anti-graft agency wants the officials charged with, among others, conflict of interest, fraudulent acquisition of public property, wilful failure to comply with the law relating to procurement, money laundering and obtaining a contract from a public institution by false pretence. KPA, one of the most moneyed state corporations, has been hit by several scandals in recent years. At the moment, there are multiple graft investigations ongoing at the parastatal involving billions of shillings.