Police have formed a special squad to investigate and solve cases of abduction in the country which they say are a threat to national security. A meeting held among senior police officers concluded kidnapping incidents are some of the issues that pose a major threat ahead of the 2022 polls. They said child abduction is also a major issue but promised a robust solution. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i on Monday revealed the squad had been given special resources to act and solve the problem. He however downplayed the veracity of the problem, terming it a small issue. “We have agreed that we will deploy special and aggressive resources to deal with this issue. It is a very small matter, as already the he DCI has made great strides in tracking these gangs behind the same,” he said. He said some of the reported issues are out of illegal business dealings which backfire and lead to abductions and killings. “Some of these incidents involve criminal business attitudes, some of our people have a predatory attitude. People get into informal but criminal business arrangements but when they go south they now resort to murdering each other. We are however sorting it,” he said. When the issues get out of hand, the parties involved tend to create an impression that police have a challenge in solving it, he said. His remarks come in the wake of reports of many abduction incidents being reported in the country. They involve both children and adults. The meeting was informed some of these incidents are linked to human smuggling and trafficking. The DCI was directed to step up their efforts in tracing the gangs behind the trend and tame them. Officials at the meeting revealed some of the abductions which pend under investigations were linked to past criminal activities. A number of cases involving children have been solved so far while some are pending under probe. For instance, officials believe the incident that happened on June 29 where a Nyeri businessman was kidnapped by a four-man gang is linked to his past criminal activities where he was linked to poaching. Gerald Guandaru was abducted a few meters from his barber shop by men who were waiting for him to arrive at the establishment. He and his workers are yet to be found since then. He is yet to be found but police and the family said there have been calls made to the family with no demands. The gang, which was in facemasks knocked on the car window and ordered him to step out of his vehicle. Security commentator and former soldier Mwenda Mbijiwe is yet to be seen since June 12 when he went missing as he drove to his Meru home. A car that he was using was found vandalized in a coffee farm in Ruiru a day after he went missing. Police said investigations are still ongoing into the kidnapping of businessman Dafton Mwitiki, who went missing on March 11, 2020. He had been linked to criminal activities including to the gang of five that kidnapped the grandchild to the late politician Mark Too in early 2020. His car was later found abandoned next to a dam in Kiambu. The 38-year-old father of two was reported missing at Kilimani after he failed to return home on the night of March 11. On April 19, 2021, four friends were kidnapped from Kitengela area before bodies of some of them were later found in a river in Muranga. Jack Ochieng, 37, alongside Elijah Obuong, 35, Benjamin Imbayi, 30, Brian Oduor, 36, went missing on April 19 from Enkare Nightclub in Kitengela, Kajiado county, where they had stopped to have lunch. The case is still pending. Police say they have dozens of pending cases of kidnapping and they are still under investigations. According to the National Crime Research Centre, most prominent factors encouraging the crime include unemployment, high incidences of poverty, existence of gangs and militia, retrogressive cultural practices, instability and conflicts in some regions, inefficiency and/or corruption among some members of the security system, political competition and rivalry. Other factors are marginalisation of some areas, proliferation of illegal small arms and light weapons and competition for control of resources. Among others, the centre wants the National Intelligence Service and the National Police Service to improve their intelligence gathering and sharing, detection and investigative capacities with regard to the crime of kidnapping.