Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui has called for a fresh audit of the ownership of the vast ADC land in Ndabibi in Naivasha. The governor attributed perennial clashes in the area to failure to resolve the row over sub-division of the land and double allocation by Agricultural Development Corporation officials. For years, land owners have clashed over the former government land that is located in Ndabibi due to double allocation and lack of legal ownership documents. Kinyanjui termed the dispute thorny, controversial and emotional due to confusion and double allocation. He said the county will hold a land clinic with the National Land Commission and the land registrar to resolve the dispute. “The only solution in resolving this protracted dispute in the ADC farm where over 20 people share the same allotment letter lies in a fresh audit,” he said. Kinyanjui expressed optimism that the dispute would be resolved within six months so that legal landowners can get their title deeds. The governor spoke in Ndabibi centre when he issued 110 title deeds to farmers under the ongoing titling programme that has seen over 80,000 residents benefit. On the Kongoni-Maella road, the governor said plans for the key road to be rehabilitated were under way, with tendering slated for next month. “This is a critical road that leads to the food basket of this country and once it's rehabilitated we expect farmers to reap from their products,” he said on Wednesday. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mutua Kisilu noted that rising land disputes in the area were affecting development. He identified Maella, Ndabibi, Moi Ndabi and Mai Mahiu as the most affected with tens of land cases pending in courts. “We fully welcome the ongoing titling programme in the county as it will help reduce cases of land conflict in Naivasha,” he said. Maella MCA Gathariki Kamanu welcomed the fresh audit of the ADC land, noting that it would help resolve the disputes. “Hundreds of people bought the land from ADC offices over 15 years ago but they are yet to get title deeds, further worsening the situation,” Kamanu said. Edited by Henry Makori