How much can you make from growing vegetables on a quarter of an acre? Martin Karani, a 31-year-old farmer from Embu, says he can raise Sh50,000 on a good month if he sells all his produce. He has organised the small piece of land in Kiringa, Embu East subcounty, so well that it now accommodates spinach, sukuma wiki, tomatoes, cabbage and capsicums. Karani says diversified farming is a move from the dependency on common crops such as maize, beans, coffee and tea, which have not been doing well in recent years. “Different growing span of some plants like kales and capsicums helps me in maintaining continuous production,” Karani said. He makes an average of Sh30,000 to Sh40,000 a month because not all the crops are harvested at the same time. However, Karani says he can easily raise up to Sh50,000 if he sells every mature crop on the farm. “If urgently asked to raise Sh50,000, I would ask to be given time to sell all the produce in the farm," he said. He sells his produce in the nearby markets of Runyenjes and Embu town. Karani says this mode of farming has changed his life because he is now able to feed his family freely and to meet his personal responsibilities. He has gathered more harvest for a longer time, compared to when he used to plant only maize or beans on his farm. Different growth span of the crops enables a continuous yielding making it easy to feed his growing range of customers. He is one of the young famers in Embu engaged in diversified farming to fight against food insecurity and the growing rate of unemployment. The trend is a direct call by chairman of the Council of Governors Martin Wambora. The Embu governor has for a long time urged farmers to practice diversified farming for sustainability. “Agriculture is our number one pillar, the bread that feeds the nation and brings in foreign exchange,” Wambora said. It is the backbone of the economy as it contributes about 25 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product. As of the year 2020, the unemployment rate among the youths stood at 39 per cent and thus they are encouraged to venture into agriculture for income.  (Edited by Bilha Makokha)