Gor Mahia assistant coach Sammy ‘Pamzo’ Omollo has described their Football Kenya Federation Premier League encounter against Tusker as “a big match” that could go either way. Omollo, however, warned their opponents to brace up for an abrasive duel, taking into account his charges have just come from a morale-boosting win over traditional arch-rivals AFC Leopards. Gor and Tusker have the title to fight for when they face off in a mouthwatering round of 21 top-tier encounter scheduled for Ruaraka this afternoon. The 18-time Kenyan champions surmounted Leopards on post-match penalties to clinch the Betway Cup and secure a CAF Confederations Cup slot. Tusker, on the other hand, booked the CAF Champions League berth after emerging top of the table by June 30, the deadline set by the continental football governing body for member associations to submit names of representatives. “We are up against a well-organised side who will also proceed into the match with an edge over us, given they'll have the home advantage,” said Omollo. “However, the morale in the camp is very high especially after we clinched the Betway Cup and Tusker won't find it any easier,” said Omollo. “We are currently behind Tusker and a win over them will help us cap the gap at three points,” he added. Meanwhile, Tusker head coach Robert Matano said they will be eager to collect maximum points from the encounter as they eye their first league title since 2016. The brewers resumed training on Friday morning to sharpen claws ahead of the Gor assignment this afternoon. Matano said booking a continental showpiece slot was just one of the targets they had set for the season, although it came earlier than expected. “This is a dream come true for the team. It has always been our target to book a continental slot right from the start of the season. Finally, we have made it and I thank the players for their commitment and effort,” said Matano. “I am elated with how it all turned out. After suffering two consecutive losses, we bounced back and put in more effort because everyone knew what was at stake. Eventually we got what we were yearning for,” he said. He, however, cautioned his charges not to bask too much in glory to an extent of forgetting they still have the title to play for. “However, there is still a lot more to work for. We still have the title to fight for. The fight for a Champions League berth is now behind us and the focus now is on the remaining FKF-PL fixtures,” said Matano. Tusker are currently at the summit of the log with 47 points, one above second-placed KCB. Gor are fourth with 39 points and a win will put them above arch-rivals AFC Leopards who are currently third with 40 points.   