Tokyo Olympics-bound heavyweight boxer, Elly Ajowi says he is convinced his opponents are trembling at the mere thought of his name. The National Police Service Corporal’s curve has been on the rise since his exceptional exploits in the ring during the Africa Zone 3 Boxing Championships in Kinshasa, where he outclassed Cameroonian Maxime Yegnong Njieyo to lay claim to the heavyweight title. During an exclusive interview with the Star on Wednesday, the pugilist called the bluff and asked his opponents to prepare for tough battles in Tokyo, reminding them he has been punching furiously on the bag in anticipation. And asked to single out any opponent that probably gave him sleepless nights, Ajowi said there was none, adding he was actually the man to beat in his category. “What I know is that my opponents are scared of me because they already know what I'm capable of achieving in the ring. The boxer said he had tied up all the loose ends that caused him nightmares both in Kinshasa and Russia. “I've been working day and night to improve my speed and defence and I believe I've gained some significant ground,” said Ajowi. Ajowi, bowed out of the Konstantin Korotkov Memorial International Boxing Championships in Russia in the quarter-finals stage where he was beaten on a unanimous points decision by Madiyar Saidrahimov of Uzbekistan. As Ajowi took to the podium to dare his opponents to an abrasive duel, Hit Squad head gaffer Benjamin Musa echoed the boxer's sentiments, saying the coaching staff had noted tremendous improvement in the boxer's skills. “We have noted marked improvement in him since he clinched the African Zone 3 Boxing Championship in Kinshasa,” said Musa. “Initially he had an issue with speed and balance,” he added. Musa said they had considered it prudent enough to invite two boxers to the team's bubble training camp as Ajowi's sparring partners. Heavyweight boxers Joshua Wasike and Hezron Maganga are among the eight sparring partners that accompanied Olympics-bound quartet into the bubble camp. “To sharpen him well enough for the task ahead, we incorporated two sparring partners, Maganga and Wasike who have different styles. “The idea was to provide him with more sparring partners who would present a different set of challenges, the type he would most likely face in Tokyo,” said Musa. “Given we don't have local south pole boxers in the heavyweight category, sometimes we would improvise bout situation by asking either Wasike or Maganga to act as south pole opponents,” he said. “We have done our best to perfect our squad but there are still a number of challenges rocking the boat. For instance, we lack a van to take us for aerobic training. “If it had been our wish, we would have preferred to participate in at least two more tournaments to refine ourselves ahead of the games,” said Musa. The squad leaves for Japan alongside the larger Team Kenya contingent on July 18. 