Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has said there were talks to bring more political leaders to restructured NASA. The ODM leader said they were going to invite President Uhuru Kenyatta to become a member of NASA. "We are talking and we are going to come together your excellency, and we are going to invite you to become a NASA member," Raila said. He spoke during the president's tour of Ukambani region at Konza City on Friday. The President was accompanied with the ODM leader alongside his Wiper counterpart Kalonzo Musyoka and Ukambani counties governors Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni), Charity Ngilu (Kitui) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos). Raila said, "I feel very proud to be here today. Kalonzo has said that Professor Kibwana was a member of Wiper, but I want to remind him that Charity, Professor and himself are part of NASA." He said Kalonzo was an ODM member among others. Raila said leaders should work together to achieve development as it has been proved during Uhuru's leadership. "This is a great day because dreaming is a good idea. The dream of Vision 2030 flagship projects, Lapset, SGR, Konza City, etc projects are now coming to reality. State of the art ICT Centre is coming to reality at Konza City," Raila said. He added, "It's a good thing that we should be proud of. It's a proof that if we are determined, united and we work together, it can be achieved. This is going to take Kenya into another level. " He said the government will establish an international airport at Konza City. Raila said the Jubilee administration's development projects if effectively implemented will improve Kenyans' lives and place the country into a middle income status by the year 2030. "It can be done, but only if we are working together," Raila said. Uhuru called for unity and cooperation among all Kenyans and leaders across the country to ease implementation of development projects thereby improving living standards. "Because we have united and cooperated, I want to thank MPs who supported us and ensured we allocated funds needed alongside local leaders who saw the dreams that we work together," Uhuru said. "If not all of us working together, Thwake could have just been a dream. But because we have all worked together, the dream has become a reality, that's the way to move our country forward and that's my prayer that we continue with development."