Police are searching for a GSU armoury officer who has been missing since July 9. Corporal Joseph Otieno, attached to the GSU headquarters, had hired a vehicle for personal use. It was found abandoned within Mwiki the following day. He had also served in the VIP protection unit. Officials said he had no disciplinary issues. Detectives said the officer's phone signals were last traced to the area around Naivas Ruaraka along Outering Road on July 9 at 11.13am. Otieno’s wife, Carolyne Adhiambo, said her husband had not communicated since then and his phone has been switched off. Otieno was to travel to his rural home in Maseno, Kisumu county, to discuss marital problems, a family member said. “We know he did not have money then but was slated to travel," the relative said. A joint team of officers are searching for him. On Monday they revisited the Mwiki Gituamba Farm where his car was last seen. Nothing was found in the abandoned car. Forensics experts went over the vehicle for clues. It was towed to the police station. Kasarani subcounty police commander Peter Mwazo said a multi-agency team from the GSU, the DCI and regular police had extended the search to other parts of the city. "The search mission was conducted around Mwiki Gituamba Farm where the last car track signal was traced," he said. The family has visited mortuaries and hospitals in the city in search of Otieno. “We are urging more efforts be made to find out where he is," his wife said. It was not clear where she was speaking from. Some security officers and members of the public have recently disappeared without a trace. Among the missing persons are security analyst and former military officer Mwenda Mbijiwe who went missing on June 17 and has yet to be found. Another man missing without a trace is businessman Dafton Mwitiki who went missing on March 11 last year. Two days later, his car was found on the Kimbo-Kiganjo Road in Juja, Kiambu county. Investigations into his disappearance are ongoing. Police say they are pursuing dozens of missing persons cases.  (Edited by V. Graham)