A Kajiado student who was rescued from forced marriage says she has forgiven her father for his “backwardness and blindness”. “I am also pleading with the state not to jail him because I want to prove to him and all others in the family that I will go back to school, complete my education and make a difference in our poverty-stricken home,” she said. She wants her father to witness her academic success. The Form 3 student spoke at Ngong police station on Wednesday after travelling for close to seven hours from Ilturot Barrikon village in Mosiro, Kajiado West subcounty. Ngong OCS Philip Olekidi had ordered her repatriation from Mosiro after being rescued by game rangers. The decision was reached by the Office of the President after it was alleged that Kiserian police, a politician and a provincial administrator colluded with the father of the student. Her father married her off on the night of June 9 and her husband, who has three other wives, took her to his Ewuaso Kedong home. But after learning that he was being tracked by police he took the girl further to the boundary of Kajiado and Narok. The student, who was in the company of an anti-Female Genital Mutilation activist Beatrice Mayuote, said she would like to study psychology upon completion of high school. “The reason why I want to study psychology is that I want to help many Maasai girls and women who have undergone trauma because of these early marriages and FGM forced on them by their parents who have stuck to the past and outdated traditions,” the student said. She said that many women in her community are slaves of their traditional cultures that views women as children and people “who cannot think for themselves”. “I have learnt a lot during the time I was in incarceration after my father forced me to marry a man of his age. It pained me a lot that I was placed under strict observation and could not be allowed to make any call as if I was in prison,” the student said. Kajiado Woman Representative Janet Teyiaa assured her that she will meet her fees and financial needs. The student promised not to let down those who will help her get out of the current “mess”. “I am also pleading with my principal to accept me back to complete my studies and promise that I will not let her and the school down,” she said. She thanked all the people, chiefs and the KWS rangers who put aside all that they were doing to rescue her. The student, who appeared disturbed but steady in her reasoning, also took a swipe at Kajiado politicians who have remained silent on child marriages and FGM. “When I was forced into marriage, I am told that a prominent politician ensured my father was released from the Kiserian police station after talking to the local deputy county commissioner. This is wrong,”she said. Mayuote said the student is bright and understands current affairs like a grown-up and is optimistic she will excel in her education. “I am in agreement with her that the politician worked with the local provincial administrator, who is taking credit for her rescue. "Some of our chiefs were even threatened by the administrator that he would take stern action if they arrest the father of the girl,” Mayuote said. Edited by Henry Makori