City Hall is seeking to implement an e-procurement system to improve performance of key departments. The move is in line with the government policy on e-procurement to be undertaken in the county. Finance executive Allan Igambi said the implementation of various programmes and projects will require an efficient procurement system. E-procurement is the procurement and disposal of goods and services through information and networking systems such as enterprise resource planning and electronic data interchange or the internet. “To this end and in line with the government policy on e-procurement, the county will undertake the implementation of e-procurement in line with the national government policy. This will not only enhance efficiency but will also ensure the county gets the best services,” Igambi said. He said the county will get the best services at the best prices possible due to increased competition. Implementation of the e-procurement system will be part of the ICT infrastructure development at City Hall. County assembly finance, budget and appropriations committee chairman Robert Mbatia said the e-procurement will be a major boost to the various departments of the executive. He noted that most problems across the departments are mostly procurement-related. “The use of the e-procurement will come in handy. People have been complaining of delays, pending bills, project rollout which in most cases are problems involved with procurement,” Mbatia said. With e-procurement, the Kariobangi South MCA said, the county will be able to track, look into the system and know where the delay and problem starts. Mbatia noted that e-procurement was developed by the National Treasury to be used by all the 47 counties, only that City Hall had not activated it. “The shift from manual to e-procurement makes public procurement more efficient. The benefits include process efficiency and costs associated with procurement activities,” the MCA said. Departments at City Hall will advertise for tenders online using e-procurement.  Edited by P.O