Police have accused leaders in Kilifi of sponsoring goons and engaging in reckless and inciting activities as the country heads to the 2022 General Election. Last Wednesday’s incident, in which three people were lynched on suspicion of engaging in child trafficking, was a cover up for the heinous murders, according to police. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai, in a terse statement issued on Sunday, said they will take action against unnamed politicians in the area. He accused them of inciting residents. However, some leaders in Kilifi termed the IG's statement reckless. Those lynched have since been identified as Sidik Anwarali Sumra, Rahil Mohamed Kasmani and James Kazungu. They were killed in Junju village in Kilifi South over a suspected land tussle. Sumra and Kasmani are Kenyans of Indian descent. According to residents, Sumra has a dairy farm in Junju village while Kasmani was his driver. Kazungu on the other hand was a land agent in the area. At least 13 people have been arrested in connection to the killings. Mutyambai said police have since met with the families of the victims in a bid to get to the bottom of what transpired. He said the information provided will be used to investigate and bring the perpetrators to justice. “We are warning leaders suspected to be involved in sponsoring goons and engaging in reckless and inciteful activities around the area, that they will face the law,” he said. Ganze MP Teddy Mwambire urged the police boss to investigate the matter and refrain from accusing leaders of inciting residents against non-locals. “The IG should stop making such reckless statements. We have had cases of people being hijacked and children being kidnapped. We have also seen cases of land grabbing,” Mwambire said. “Instead of making such statements, he should sit with the area leaders to find a solution. Kilifi residents are friendly and have lived with the non-locals and investors without any conflict,” he said The MP questioned the motive of the IG’s statement wondering why cases of residents being hacked to death have never attracted the attention of the police boss. “On Sunday someone was killed in Bale, Vitengeni but the IG has not issued a statement. He should look at the bigger picture and look for possible solutions,” the lawmaker said. Kilifi South MP Ken Chonga said the local leadership cannot be blamed for incitement, saying the murder of the trio should be treated as any other criminal activity. “These people were not killed by residents, but criminals. Before the car was set ablaze they stole the engine, gear box and doors. If it was related to the land, they would not have gone ahead to vandalise the vehicle,” he said. According to Chonga, the parcel of land which spans from Bodoi, Junju to Kidogo has been marred by controversy for over 30 years. “I have not heard of any political meeting to discuss this issue. I am the one who has been following up on the matter and I even requested for a statement on the land issue,” he said. Chonga said four people who own the 1,700 acres are currently being investigated. He said it was not true that leaders were inciting residents. The MP said it was wrong for the trio to visit the land late in the evening, in such a time when people are living in fear. Shimo la Tewa MCA Sammy Ndago challenged Mutyambai to be specific on the leaders he thinks are inciting residents. Ndago said the IG is being dishonest by giving a blanket condemnation of the leaders. “The IG is a senior person, and at his level he should know the leaders inciting residents and go for them. Some of us were shocked to learn of the killing of the three people whom we know as our investors,” he said. The MCA called on the IG to investigate Team Mashamba, a group that he claims has been going round claiming to liberate the area from land problems. “All senior police officers in Kilifi South subcounty know about Team Mashamba. They know their leaders and their activities, but the OCPD, OCS and DCIO have done nothing about it,” Ndago said. According to the preliminary police investigations, the trio were killed with sharp and blunt objects as they surveyed the land Sumra wanted to buy. Other unconfirmed reports indicate that Sumra had already bought the 90-acre parcel, but there was resistance from residents. It is reported that he was forced to subdivide 20-acres, which were allocated to the squatters, just some few weeks ago. On the fateful evening, the trio had gone to survey the land at around 5pm, when they were cornered and attacked by unknown people.  -Edited  by SKanyara