Thirty people died with Covid-19 in Malindi in June, while 100 others are receiving treatment at home. Medics are worried. The Malindi Interfaith Covid-19 Response Committee said all isolation wards in the subcounty are full. Many people are sick at home. The team said more than 10 people contract the virus daily. The interfaith committee has intensified the education of residents on the need to follow the Health ministry protocols. On Saturday, the committee organised a procession within Malindi town and distributed 5,000 face masks for free. Christians, Muslims, Hindu, Kaya elders, police officers, and the business community and health workers joined in the procession. The marchers went from the Sindbad recreational centre in the outskirts of Malindi town to the Central Business District and back. Residents were urged to properly use face masks, wash hands and use hand sanitisers. Malindi Deputy subcounty police commander Simon Muli said they reminded the public that Covid-19 was real and they should take precaution. “We shall however not relent to enforce law and order in the fight against the spread of the virus," he said. Bishop James Njiha from the Worldwide Hospit Church of Kenya said it has come to their attention that people only wear masks for fear of law enforcement officers. “We are reminding residents to observe the Covid-19 protocols, most people only put on masks for fear of arrest by police,” he said. Dr Godfrey Njoroge from Malindi Subcounty hospital said the awareness campaign was important because of the rising Covid-19 deaths. Malindi Muslims Covid-19 committee secretary Abbas Sharif Ali,  said they came together as religious leaders, police, county inspectorate, and health officers to sensitise residents and distribute the masks donated by  Mombasa Cement. “We have taken the initiative after realising the isolation facilities at Malindi and Gede are full,” he said. He said they will distribute face masks to churches, mosques, temples and urged people to maintain social distance, wash hands and wear masks always. -Edited by SKanyara