Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has said the county will support students with special needs. He spoke on Saturday when he opened a new classroom at Kadimu school for the deaf in Lunga-Lunga. “Orphans and PWDs children would be prioritised in the bursary kitty for them to equally benefit in learning programmes,” he said. Mvurya said through the Elimu Ni Sasa bursary programme, his government will change the county educational narrative and make it the home of professionals. “We will offer them 100 per cent sponsorship from primary to university because we intend to produce a high quality skilled workforce at all levels,” he said. The county normally allocates over Sh400 million through the bursary programme to assist bright and needy children. The governor said with education being the utmost priority, the county will beat poverty and permanently eliminate illiteracy. Before the devolution government, the region was languishing in poverty with teen marriages and pregnancies destroying the dreams of many school girls who were taken advantage of for lacking tuition fees. In terms of national performance, Kwale used to be one of the counties that led from the bottom. Currently, thousands of children have been sponsored and managed to turn the wheel of fate and establish standard lives. In the 2020 national examinations, Kwale was among the regions that produced the best students at the Coast. Mvurya said he will continue to promote and elevate the county educational level to greater heights. “We are determined to fairly empower every child so that no one is left behind in development,” he said. The county chief urged parents to embrace education and take advantage of the bursary programme to educate their children. He warned them against denying children with special needs equal learning opportunities. Deputy Governor Fatuma Achani also urged students to work hard to continue registering good results so that county efforts won’t go in vain. “I challenge all students to struggle to get the pass mark for you to extensively enjoy the bursary program,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris