BY ALICE WAITHERA Young people relocating to urban centres for work should not leave their children at home with aging parents. Ahadi Kenya CEO Stanley Kamau said leaving the young ones with the aging parents was like subjecting them to untold suffering because their were already too frail to take care of the children. Kamau said many young parents in Murang'a county have been abandoning their parental responsibilities by leaving their young children with their aging parents as they seek employment in towns. Such acts subject the elderly people to untold suffering. "At a time when parents should be enjoying the fruits of their struggles, they are taken back to struggling for survival," Kamau said. He said the Sh2,000 that many poor elderly persons receive from the government is barely enough to sustain them and their grandchildren. “It is such a shame that youths leave their young ones with their parents despite being brought up to maturity. Elderly people should be left to enjoy their cash transfer money in peace,” Kamau said. He said those who must leave their children in their rural homes should ensure they hire maids to help their parents. Kamau spoke on Friday at Gatheru shopping centre in Kiharu constituency where distributed blankets and foodstuff to elderly people. Beneficiary Catherine Mwangi shed tears as she narrated her struggles to support her five grandchildren. One of the grandchildren was orphaned after her mother died. The rest belong to Catherine's son who was abandoned by the wife due to alcoholism. The 70-year-old granny from Kahuhia village said she has no source of income. She said she is often forced to take up casual jobs to support the grandchildren. Her husband suffers from acute arthritis. He is unable to support the family. Mwangi said an occasional visit from the children’s parents would lighten the burden of those in situations similar to hers. “They (the parents) do not even visit. If they did at least once in a while, it would make us very happy,” she said. The elderly woman also challenged the government to relentlessly fight illicit brews to save the families in rural areas. She said most young families break up as young men become alcoholic and their wives leave. The children are often abandoned with the father. This, she said, causes elderly parents to take up the responsibility of raising the kids. “I am pleading with the government to fight this menace. Our sons drink the entire day and forget that they are even parents,” she said. Another parent, Naomi Wangari, said her daughter who is a single mother of three, left for Nairobi to seek employment. Though the daughter sends some money home to support the children, the money is not enough and the hardships of bringing up three grandchildren wears her down. Wangari said the burden of supporting the children is often left on the shoulders of grandmothers, most of whom suffer from chronic health conditions and are unable to work. “It is very difficult to bring up children in old age. My appeal would be to young mothers to persevere in their homes and support their children,” Wangari said.  Edited by P.O