The alleged merger between Jubilee and ODM is a mirage, Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja has said. He faulted Jubilee vice chairman David Murathe and secretary general Raphael Tuju for claiming that the two political parties would merge without consulting members. Speaking in Nakuru on Sunday,  Sakaja said he was among Jubilee founding members but does not support the alleged merger. The senator spoke when he joined ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi at a meeting with communities residing in Nakuru county. Mudavadi who has declared interest in the presidency next year, was on a two-day tour of the county to champion his economic blueprint for the region. During his visit, he held close to 10 meetings with different groups and leaders among them Governor Lee Kinyanjui, county assembly speaker Joel Kairu and the leadership of Nakuru Catholic Diocese. Sakaja said it was wrong for the two Jubilee party officials to be making public announcement about purported mergers without going through the proper channels that include consultations. “Murathe and Tuju can go and join ODM and leave Jubilee alone, if there is any possible merger, then it is with ANC and other parties but not the Orange party,” he said. The senator said many Jubilee MPs and supporters across the country would back a merger with ANC compared to ODM. “We are also in talks with more than 10 political parties which are all willing to merge with Jubilee ahead of 2022,” he said. Sakaja dismissed the perception that Deputy President William Ruto was already ahead of his competitors for the presidency. He said the real game had just started with the commencement of Mudavadi’s campaign in Nakuru. “The United Democratic Movement campaigns are similar to a team playing a football match alone and scoring useless goals, the real game has just started and we chose to commence it in Nakuru,” he said. Nakuru is a symbolic centre of many things in Kenya including political declarations and the country’s general mood. But it must be noted that Musalia had a similar campaign tour in Mombasa. Sakaja said he has never been part of a losing team since he joined politics and claimed that Mudavadi was going to be the next President of Kenya. “Many people have claimed he is too humble and diplomatic to be president, but what is perceived to be one’s weakness is at times their strength because right now Kenya needs a uniting presidency to help recover from divisions and economic destruction,” he said. The Nairobi senator said Mudavadi did not want to be handed the presidency by anyone.  -Edited by SKanyara