Kiandutu dwellers in Thika are all smiles after the Kiambu government revealed plans to upgrade the slums. Governor James Nyoro said plans to conduct a massive facelift of the 100-acre area are at an advanced stage. The projects will include the construction of toilets, access roads, and a drainage system to end flooding and the launch of garbage collection schedules. Speaking in Thika town, Nyoro said his administration is mobilising resources from development partners so that the projects can begin next month. If things go according to plan, they will be completed by year-end. "We are determined to give Kiandutu slums a new look and we are optimistic that by mid next year this village won’t be the same again. We are rolling out a programme that will see roads, drainage and sanitation services improved for the benefit of our people,” Nyoro said. Plans are also underway to have residents issued with title deeds to end decades-old ownership wrangles. “We are in talks with community leaders from Kiandutu to lay down a proper plan that will see the land subdivided and all residents are given title deeds. Once the plan is complete, we will convene a meeting with all residents so that the process can be expedited in an orderly manner,” Nyoro said. “It’s a relief for residents of the informal settlements who have lacked proper documents for their land parcels. It will also go a long way in ending the longstanding land disputes in the areas." The county boss noted that he has received numerous petitions from residents demanding the county government’s attention to the deplorable state of the village. Residents—led by Stanley Njuguna, popularly known as Stano Ezi—had indicated in their petition that they have been grappling with a myriad of problems, citing dilapidated access roads, grimy sanitation amenities, uncollected garbage, lack of clean water for domestic use, and high rates of unemployment, especially among the youth. He also noted health risks due to poor drainage, saying there could be an outbreak of waterborne diseases such as cholera and typhoid. “There’s no existing drainage system in Kiandutu slums. Currently, almost the entire village is flooded. The situation has been worsened by the toilets, which are full to the brim, some are overflowing. It won't be long before we hear of an outbreak of diseases. We plead for help,” Njuguna said. “We have children in this village and they are at grave risk of contracting diseases because they are playing and wading through dirty and contaminated water." Nyoro, however, said the county government has taken note of the challenges and county engineers will soon be deployed to map and identify sites for the projects. "As we seek to pool resources together with our development partners, we will have our engineers work on the roads, drainage, and lavatories. I will see to it that in six months' time Kiandutu will have a new look,” he said. He said most jobless youths in the slums will be considered for menial jobs by the county government to help reduce alcohol and drug abuse, and crime. Residents welcomed the decision to issue them with title deeds, saying lack of requisite land ownership documents has escalated land rows and created a loophole exploited by frauds to grab their parcels. “God has finally answered our prayers. We have suffered long enough at the hands of land cartels who have been encroaching on our land parcels. We are sure that all unscrupulous grabbers will be kicked out of this area,” John Mugo said.  Edited by F'Orieny