Kenya Morans tactician Liz Mills is expected in the country on July 17 ahead of the FIBA Afro-Basket 2021 Championships in Kigali, Rwanda. Kenya Basketball Federation (KBF) treasurer, Peter Orero, confirmed the arrival date of the Australian coach, saying she will have a month to put the team through their paces ahead of the continental show slated for August 24 to September 5. “Coach Liz arrives in the country on July 17 and will embark on preparations straight away. We are aware of the task ahead in Rwanda and we do not want to take any chances,” said Orero. He revealed that they are making arrangements for all diaspora players to be in Nairobi early enough so that they can gel in time for the two-week festival that has attracted 16 teams at the Kigali Arena. “We are determined to assemble a team that will make a mark in the championships and as a result, we plan to have all our diaspora- based players home in good time. If we prepare well, we will surely do well,” he said. Kenya is returning to the continental show for the first time in nearly three decades and will face off against Ivory Coast in their FIBA Afro-Basket 2021 Group ‘C’ opener on August 25. They meet Nigeria two days later before winding up their three-game group stage fixtures against the fast- rising Mali side on August 29. Nigeria, who are the tournament’s top seeds and Africa’s top side, are being touted as firm favourites Morans’ assistant coach Sadat Gaya yesterday said he will set off the programme with the team assembling two days before coach Mills’ arrival. KBF have added Storms’ coach Abel Nson to the technical bench. “I will talk to the players through the group forum and chart the way forward before the head coach arrives. A month’s strict training will do for us as we want to make a mark in the tournament,” said Gaya. The Group Phase games will run from August 29 with each group winner advancing automatically to the quarter-finals with the eight teams that finish second and third in four groups competing for the remaining last spots. 