More than seven people have been murdered in renewed banditry attacks in Kerio Valley, disrupting calm in areas where peace had prevailed for more than two years. Another 300 families were displaced following retaliatory attacks along the borders of West Pokot, Elgeyo Marakwet and Baringo counties in two days. Panic spread. The elder Benjamin Kipkore, a well-known peace worker, was shot dead near his home on Saturday while a Standard 4 pupil Samwel Kiptoo was killed in a hail of more than 30 bullets as he walked home in the same area. Suspected East Pokot raiders attacked villages in Elgeyo Marakwet and stole hundreds of heads of livestock, leading to revenge attacks. Elgeyo Marakwet Deputy Governor Wesley Rotich called the situation heartbreaking and urged communities to end the violence and dialogue for peace. He said the latest attacks were not the work of communities but criminal elements. Rotich said they would host a major peace rally to be attended by all leaders in the region in order to restore the peace. “I urge the Pokot and Elgeyo Marakwet communities to volunteer information on the criminals perpetrating the resurgence of attacks and death," he said in a statement. Marakwet East MP Bowen Kangogo whose areas is most affected said they were also liaising with interior CS Fred Matiang'i to deploy adequate security where residents have panicked. “We are pleading with our communities to keep peace and help in identifying those fanning the violence so action is taken against them," Kangogo said. He said the violence should not be allowed to escalate and affect learning. Four years ago, the Marakwet and Pokot communities signed a peace accord at Chesogon pledging not to engage in banditry again. The event was witnessed by DP William Ruto and all leaders from the region including Governors John Lonyangapuo of West Pokot and his Elgeyo Marakwet counterpart Alex Tolgos. Elgeyo Marakwet county commissioner Omar Hassan said security teams had already been deployed in the valley to stop the attacks. He said they were working with communities especially elders to recover the stolen animals. “The security teams have instructions not to tolerate those causing the violence," Omar said. He said they were liaising with security counterparts in West Pokot. Many residents could be seen carrying their belongings as they fled from villages along the border between the two counties. (Edited by V. Graham)