A man arrested in connection with the kidnapping and murder of two minor boys has claimed he killed 12 in what police suspect are witchcraft rituals. Two bodies were recovered on Tuesday in a thicket in the Kabete area near Kabete Approved School in Nairobi. One was found Wednesday afternoon in the Kabete area from a river bank. Police were searching for a fourth body in the Pumwani area. The search was also underway in Machakos. The suspect, Masten Milimu Wanjala, 20, led police to the bodies. He was arrested on Monday in Kitengela. Nairobi police boss Augustine Nthumbi said they are yet to establish the motive behind the murders but suspect witchcraft rituals. Police first found the bodies of two boys, 12 and 13. They were strangled, mutilated and their ears were cut off, witnesses said. They were identified as Charles Opindo Bala, 13, who went missing on June 30, and Junior Mutuku Musyoka, 12, who went missing on July 7. They went missing from Shauri Moyo. Police said the suspect led them to scenes where he claimed he had killed and dumped the children. A team investigating the murders said they are looking for a second suspect in the macabre killings. Officers who spoke in confidence said the suspect had confessed to the killings, adding his targets had all been his playmates. He lured them with promises to "show them some good things," then drove them to the scenes where he killed them and dumped their bodies. Investigators said the man told them he had been stalking his victims as they played. The suspect was arrested in Kitengela where he was hiding after the children went missing. He was picked up after investigations showed he was at the scenes from where the children went missing. A missing child report had been made at the Biafra police patrol base. Missing Child Kenya, a leading agency for searching, tracing and reunification of missing children had run an appeal for Mutuku. The alert said Mutuku was last seen on July 7 in Biafra and was a pupil at Sidarec Primary School in Majengo, Pumwani. Detectives from Buruburu DCI took the bodies to a mortuary. Police boss Nthumbi said police are pursuing good leads indicating the man was acting with another suspect who is at large. “We are investigating murder incidents and have leads showing there was another player in these,” he told the Star. “Even though he is 20 years old, all indications show he targeted minors who played with him at the places from where they went missing.” Police on Wednesday were trying to recover more bodies. Kidnappings have been increasing but police say they are on top of the situation. In some cases, victims have been killed, in others they have been rescued by police. Private agencies and police say as many as 61 children were reported missing countrywide between March and May this year and most of them are yet to be found. Most of the children are kidnapped by people known to them for money, trafficking or rituals. A special police squad has been formed to investigate and solve these cases, which they call a threat to national security. Two weeks ago, a meeting by senior police officials concluded kidnappings are among the issues posing threats ahead of the 2022 polls. They promised a robust solution. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said the squad had been given special resources. He however downplayed the problem. “We have agreed we will deploy special and aggressive resources to deal with this issue. It is a very small matter, as already the DCI has made great strides in tracking the gangs behind the same,” Matiang'i said. The CS said when illegal business deals backfire, they may lead to abductions and killings. “Some of these incidents involve criminal business attitudes, some of our people have predatory attitudes. People get into informal but criminal business arrangements but when they go south they resort to murdering each other. We are, however, sorting it,” he said. When the issues get out of hand, the parties involved tend to create an impression that police have a challenge in solving it, he said. His remarks followed reports of many abductions in the country. They involve both children and adults. The meeting was informed some kidnappings are linked to human smuggling and trafficking. The DCI was directed to step up efforts to track abduction gangs. According to the National Crime Research Centre, major factors behind abductions include a high rate of poverty, gangs and militias and backward cultural practices. Others are instability and conflict in some regions, inefficiency and/or corruption among some members of the security system, political competition and rivalry. Other factors are marginalisation of some areas, proliferation of illegal small arms and light weapons and competition for control of resources. The National Crime Research Centre wants the NIS and the National Police Service to improve intelligence gathering and sharing and detection and investigative capacities in regard to kidnapping. (Edited by V. Graham)