President Uhuru Kenyatta will have a scaled down tour of the Ukambani region due to Covid-19. The date for the tour will be announced later, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said in a statement. "It is notified that whereas His Excellency the President remains keen to assess the impact of his administration’s transformative projects and programmes across the country, in this instance, he will make a scaled down inspection of identified projects in the Lower Eastern Region," Kanze said. During the tour to inspect projects, Uhuru will be accompanied by leaders from the region. The statement came shortly after a meeting between the President and a delegation of Ukambani leaders led by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jr, Kitui’s Enoch Wambua, and their Machakos counterpart Agnes Kavindu. Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau, Machakos Deputy Governor Francis Maliti and other legislators were also present. Uhuru cancelled his planned two-day tour of Ukambani region on Monday. The President was to visit the region from Tuesday. The President was expected to visit Machakos and Makueni counties. He was to begin his tour at the Konza Technopolis in Machakos before proceeding to inspect the Thwake Dam project and later launch Kibwezi-Kitui road. Kitui county Hustler Nation coordinator Moses Banda, however, claimed the cancellation of the visit left local leaders with an egg on their face. “What a big shame for the President to cancel the Ukambani development tour! The real reason [behind the cancellation] is the wrangles between the pro-handshake leaders namely governors Charity Ngilu, Kivutha Kibwana and Alfred  Mutua on one side and the fast-fading so-called Ukambani kingpin Kalonzo Musyoka,” Banda said in a statement on Tuesday. Banda termed the reason given by State House — to curb Covid-19 spread — as a big lie. He said that each of the two competing camps wanted to own the President’s itinerary to dictate the entire visit to the region. “We hear one of them wanted to host the President for lunch at his rural home, while another was pushing for launching of county government projects that were faced with unresolved legal rows on ownership,” Banda said. Banda added that the parties could not reach a compromise on stalled or rehabilitated and new projects that were to be showcased to the President during the visit. “The biggest undoing for Ukambani region is lack of leadership. This group sidelined other leaders who are deemed anti-handshake and BBI to make the visit an exclusive forum for certain leaders to hob nob with the President as opposed to a visit that benefits ordinary hustlers,” he said. “They instead lost the opportunity for the President to bring development to Ukambani as they fought for their selfish egos. When the history of Ukambani development will be re-written, they will be judged harshly,” he added. 