Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has declared that she will defend her seat, dismissing talks that she was gearing to be a presidential running mate in the 2022 elections. The governor told journalists on Wednesday that she has not sat with any of the presidential hopefuls to discuss the running mate question in the President Uhuru Kenyatta succession race. Waiguru further said that she has no problem with persons from the Mt Kenya region declaring their ambitions to succeed Kenyatta saying what they rejected was the purported post of spokesman. This was in reference to the bid by National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi who has declared interest in the race after his crowning as the spokesman of the president’s backyard. “For now, my plan is to defend my seat…that is my plan until there would be a different move,” Waiguru said. “I have not sat with anyone to discuss the running mate question.” She said the conversations around her being wooed for a running mate post is a talk by people testing the ground. “It is not a bad thing. It shows that people believe in you. I see it as respect for the Kirinyaga people,” she said adding that such push and pull is normal in politics. On the Muturi case, she said all Kenyans have a right to vie for the respective positions that will be up for grabs in the election. “What we refused was the way someone was crowned spokesman but that has now changed since we see the person wants to be president,” Waiguru said. Waiguru announced that farmers from four wards in Kirinyaga central will benefit from agricultural projects worth Sh25.8 million under the Wezesha Kirinyaga Empowerment Programme. Under the second phase of the programme, the beneficiaries will engage in poultry, dairy, tomato, avocado, pig and beekeeping activities. While issuing the cheque on Wednesday in Kirinyaga central, Waiguru noted that the projects will help empower the farmers by financially transforming their lives. The beneficiaries were drawn from Mutira ward (Sh5.95 million), Inoi (Sh6.45 million), Kerugoya (Sh6.45 million)and Kanyeki ini (Sh6.95 million). Waiguru urged the farmers to work hard in their respective projects so that they would be assisted further through financial means. “I challenge you to work hard on these projects so that when we see the value for the money we will be able to pump in more in order to continue supporting you,” she said. Out of the eight chicken groups in the four wards, each group will receive 1,250 improved Kienyeji chicken breeds. In addition, some other groups will receive Hass avocado seedlings while others will farm tomatoes. She also encouraged local dairy farmers to take advantage of the free artificial insemination services being offered by the county government so as to help improve the local dairy breeds. “Through the AI services, it will improve our breeds and ultimately milk production from the current 5 litres per cow to 15 litres per cow,” Waiguru said. The governor further enumerated other projects that her administration is undertaking across the county. These are among others; the upgrading of the Kimbimbi and Kianyaga hospitals from level 3 to level 4 . She said that the upgrade which is in the last phase will enable the facilities to provide improved health services to all county residents. Further, she noted that the ongoing construction of the Kerugoya level 5 hospital is due for completion before Mashujaa Day. “We are hopeful that in the next three months the hospital will be complete and launched latest by Mashujaa day. No one in our county will be going to a private facility to seek medical services as the standard of Kerugoya Hospital will be equal to the top prestigious hospitals in the country,” the governor said. Waiguru said that the hospital will be a high-class medical facility offering the best medical services and treating simple to complex ailments. “Under the second phase, we have embarked on processing the UHC programme so as to enable the financially constrained county residents to get quality services free of charge. We intend to allocate a substantial amount towards overseeing that,” she said.