Suba South MP John Mbadi has criticised politicians mobilising clans to influence 2022 voting patterns in Homa Bay, saying the schemes will not stop his election as governor. Mbadi called on Homa Bay residents to go for nothing less than a development-oriented leader for governor during the 2022 election. He said the politics of clans and regions is unhealthy in Homa Bay and cannot help in transforming the county. “Homa Bay residents should vote for a person who has their interest at heart as governor. Don’t be duped by electing a person from your clan and then you continue suffering,” Mbadi said. The lawmaker comes from Suba, a minority community in Homa Bay. It has Suba South and Suba North constituencies with 97,953 registered voters. Mbadi who has served as MP since 2017, says he has constructed water pans, opened-up and improved access roads and built more schools. Prior to the 2013 General Election, leaders including Governor Cyprian Awiti and former Senator Otieno Kajwang allegedly shared power among the regions. Awiti from Rachuonyo took the governor seat, Kajwang from Suba took the senator position while the Homa Bay region had Woman Representative Gladys Wanga. Deputy Governor Hamilton Orata is also from Homa Bay region. According to the 2017 IEBC register, the Rachuonyo region has 190,780 voters while Homa Bay has 188,142 voters. Both Rachuonyo and Homa Bay regions have three constituencies each. Speaking at Magunga market when he inspected the ongoing construction of Mbita-Sindo-Magunga-Sori road on Saturday, Mbadi said he will not abandon the Homa Bay governor seat aspirations because of his small clan. He said his interest to become Homa Bay governor is driven by the development agenda he has for the people. The ODM party national chairman was accompanied by former Homa Bay West MCA Isaac Nyandege. “I have traversed Homa Bay and I actually know where the problem lies. We must first fix the leadership problem and the rest will follow,” Mbadi said. Apart from Mbadi, other aspirants include Orata, former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, former Kasipul MP Oyugi Magwanga and Wanga. Others are businessman Louis Ogingo, Kuppet secretary general Akelo Misori, businessman Jared Kiasa, county secretary Isaiah Ogwe and Finance executive Nicholas K’Oriko. Governor Awiti is serving his second and last term in office. On Saturday, Mbadi cautioned residents against being hoodwinked by populist politics. He said many residents have decried the poor service delivery but 2022 will provide them with an opportunity to make a change. “Homa Bay people must no longer gamble with the leadership if they want real transformation,” he added. Nyandege told Homa Bay residents to support Mbadi’s candidature due to his experience in leadership. “Mbadi is the senior-most leader in Homa Bay and his development track record speaks for itself,” Nyandege said.  (edited by o. owino)