Contractors handling two mega national government water projects in Kirinyaga risk losing their contracts over slow progress. This is after the government for the second time expressed its dissatisfaction with the progress of the works on the Kerugoya–Kutus bulk water supply project in Gichugu and Kerugoya-Kutus sewer treatment plant project in Kutus. Both projects are scheduled for completion by the end of the year but are barely 50 per cent done. On Wednesday, during a  supervision tour of the projects by the county inspection team, led by county commissioner Jim Njoka, it was revealed that the Kerugoya–Kutus bulk water supply project is 22 per cent done and the sewerage system plant is at 48 per cent. The contractor cited shortage of casual labour, insufficient working machines and lack of electricity for lighting purposes during night working hours as some of the reasons for the delays. In response, the committee directed him to hasten casuals' recruitment and leasing of equipment, and further gave him two weeks to make substantial progress. “We are disappointed by the progress made so far and more so in light of the support that the government has accorded him. The contractor is not exposed to financial challenges and any other major challenges and so we are not convinced why he is behind schedule,” Njoka said. Tana Water Works Development Agency CEO Philip Gichuki said they have since served him a notice to rectify the problems, or his contract will be terminated and awarded to another company capable of delivering to government's satisfaction. “We have taken steps to ensure the project is on course. First, we have issued a notice to the contractor to hastily remedy all the challenges bedevilling the project, failing which we will be forced to terminate the contract,” he said. “However, on a positive note, he has made some remarkable progress since the last visit by Water CS Sicily Kariuki early last month. We will continue putting him on his toes.” Gichuki further intimated that Gichugu residents will be factored in in a different water project as it would be impossible to incorporate them in the ongoing one given what he termed as technical and hydraulic pressure-related challenges. This he said after area MP Gichimu Githinji expressed concerns that his constituency was left out in the project much as it is established there. Once complete, the Sh1.2 billion project, which commenced late last year, is slated to distribute clean water to over 350,000 households across the county. During her visit, CS Kariuki described  the project as a game-changer to the economy of the county and the health and well-being of residents. About the Kerugoya-Kutus sewerage treatment plant, Gichuki noted that the project is due for completion by October 31. The project—started  in 2018—is set to serve 10,000 households in Kerugoya and Kutus. He noted that with the availability of the materials and proper equipment, the Sh500 million project is on course. “The major problem we have had is access to private land where the project has been earmarked to pass through. However, the county commissioner has ordered Kirinyaga Central deputy county commissioner to convene a public participation forum with the owners. This will enable a smooth continuation.” The facility will help in the treatment of dirty water, which will be released to the river as clean water for reuse. County commissioner Njoka noted the government was willing to negotiate with the owners over the compensation of their crops as the land is in a riparian zone. “We want to have fruitful negotiations with them so that we can have a smooth continuation of the project. We don’t want to have push and pull with them since they are settling on riparian ground, which is public land,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara 