Deputy President William Ruto has said mini polls in Kiambu county have signalled that Kenya does not need to change its Constitution. He said the country is at a maturing stage and instabilities occasioned during elections were a thing of the past. Speaking in Mathioya, Murang’a on Friday, during the burial of Buku Munyori, father to his staffer Munyori Buku, Ruto said the only problem facing the country are leaders who refuse to accept elections outcome. “We are keen on abandoning politics of division and building a united country. That way, we can move our country forward,” he said. Ruto said gone were the days of “us-versus-them”. “I am glad we are now moving to issue-based politics where we can converse as leaders on the platform of transforming the lives of ordinary Kenyans,” he added. Kandara MP Alice Wahome lauded the people of Kiambu for engaging in peaceful elections in Kiambaa Constituency and Muguga Ward. She called on increased funding of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission “so that it can be efficient at their work”. “Now, it is time we have real-time transmission of election results. This will tame cases of fabrications and anxiety. But leaders must also learn to accept defeat.” she said. On his part, Murang’a Senator Irungu Kang’ata insisted that their support for millions of Kenyans living in poverty was unstoppable. “This bottom-up, middle-out economic model will better the standards of living of many Kenyans. In this era, even ordinary people will have the chance to lead our country,” he said. The United Democratic Alliance party candidate had a narrow victory in the Kiambaa by-election. Njuguna Wanjiku won against rival Kariri Njama of Jubilee. According to IEBC, Njuguna received 21,773 votes while Njama followed closely with 21,263 votes. Although there were eight aspirants, the contest narrowed down to a two-horse race pitting Jubilee and UDA. However, Joseph Githinji of the Jubilee Party won the Muguga Ward seat, the IEBC announced after tallying all 29 polling stations. Githinji narrowly won with 4,089 votes against his closest rival, Peter Kamau of UDA who garnered 4,062 votes - a difference of 27 votes. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)