It might seem like a small thing. After a long day's work, a police officer went for a quick haircut but parked his car blocking other vehicles. When he was asked to move it, he became furious and violent. He fired in the air. So did his police colleague. No one was injured. It was a road rage confrontation in Buruburu on Tuesday night. Police are investigating what calls for not only disciplinary measures but also mental health intervention for officers under stress. The incident occurred after staff working for a government agency were being dropped home in Hamza area under police escort, police said. Then one officer decided to have a fast haircut but parked improperly. Witnesses said there was a confrontation when he was asked to move his car. Both he and his escort colleague fired in the air. The situation calmed down. No one was injured. Nairobi police boss Augustine Nthumbi said the two officers were disarmed for ballistic testing of their weapons as part of the probe into the incident. “Action will be taken after the probe is complete,” Nthumbi said. Cases of misuse of guns both by civilians and police are raising concerns among both civilians and police. In the police service, such incidents are linked to mental issues stemming from work conditions and stress. Police IG Hillary Mutyambai launched a programme to provide police officers with psychological assistance. Known as Muamko Mpya-Healing the Uniform, the programme aims to create and maintain safe spaces in police stations, offices, camps, colleges and communities. The aim is to enhance peer support so officers can feel safe and respected, thus able to share their stories and experiences of stress, anguish and trauma in a confidential and non-judgemental environment. Mutyambai said he is passionate about healing the police of stress and trauma they regularly experience in the course of their duty. He said while every person experiences stress and trauma, the disciplined service is unique in that whenever officers go out on their day-to-day activities, they encounter dangerous and distressing situations. They see horrific things that are traumatic, leaving wounds in their hearts as they continue providing safety and security for citizens. Kenyatta University research in 2012 said factors contributing to stress, suicide and murder among police officers are their exhausting, dangerous and traumatic work. Police are generally at the receiving end of all community problems, it said. They are expected to maintain law and order in very difficult situations besides putting their lives at risk as soon as they leave home every day.  (Edited by V. Graham)