 Jason Maobe, 67, woke up with as a sore throat on Monday in Kisii's Masaba South subcounty. By Friday, he had trouble breathing. Villagers contacted the chief, who found an ambulance to transfer him to hospital. It was too late. Half an hour later, the Seventh-day Adventist Church elder had died of Covid-19. Early tests had shown he was Covid positive and he was told to isolate, but his health deteriorated and he didn't seek help in time. The ambulance had to travel 45km to pick him up, as he gasped for air. Also in Masaba South, diabetic Jackline Omwoyo was taken ill as she worked in her shop in Masimba Town. The diabetes made it worse; her husband and three staff members are now ill. Jackline spent a week on oxygen at Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital but died. Her husband is still on oxygen. Officials have ordered closure of offices and shops, but infections continue to spiral. The highly infectious Delta variant is the cause of the havoc. At least 110 people have died with Covid-19 in Kisii county. More than 2,000 people have contracted the disease since March 2020 when the disease spread to the region. "It's a race against time," MP Ezekiel Machogu said. His constituency is on edge following the surge in infections. "Our people are dying and more will die if we continue with this reckless abandon," he told mourners at Jackline's funeral on Monday. The MP has had his own brush with death with Covid. Today he spends much of his time educating people about the scourge. In his constituency, the disease is sweeping through villages where most of the community's elderly people live. He attended more than 10 burials in a week, mostly for Covid victims. "We have already ordered churches and markets closed as we assess the situation," county public health director Richard Onkware said. 'They may appear isolated, but more infections are on the way in coming months," he said. Everyone must observe Ministry of Health guidelines, he said. "There's a dropping of guard in keeping social distance. Some people, especially in the villages, are greeting each other with their hands, pouring fuel on an already bad situation," he told the Star at his office. MP Machogu wants vaccinations speeded up, especially for the elderly. "We are not helping if we keep vaccinations at referral hospitals. They should be cascaded," he said. Infections among the elderly are growing fast across the county. At least 15 seniors, including a Catholic priest, have died. County health executive Sarah Omache told the Star they may send staff to vernacular media stations to education residents. "Our people are quickly forgetting that we are in the midst of a pandemic. Some are only jolted when someone near them dies," Omache aid. Public health director Richard Onkware says by Tuesday, 36 people were admitted at the main Covid wards at the Kisii Teaching and Referral Hospital. Sixteen other patients are on oxygen. "There is no stampede yet, but this does not mean we should not be careful," he said. He spoke of the "virus now ravaging the villages". "We are anticipating bad news going forward if our people won't observe the guidelines," he told journalists on Saturday. More men than women are infected, and the Delta variant is making it worse. "This one is deadly. We tell our people not to take it as normal," he stated. The youth have been described as the weak link in rolling back infections. Kitutu Chache Central subcounty is suffering the worst, the rate is past 20 per cent. "We are on a do-or-die stretch," county commissioner Allan Machari said. By last week, Kisii prisons had six cases. Across the county, security agencies are instructed to arrest anyone not wearing a mask. By Monday, hundreds had been taken in for failing to wear masks. County police commander Francis Kooli said police are ensuring people observe health protocols. "There had been protests in some quarters regarding the arrests, but this is not just a matter of personal health, but also the nation's. Nobody deserves to die because of the ignorance of others," he said. Kisii Governor James Ongwae says the county has received the second batch of vaccines, but the primary prevention efforts are in educating people. "We must tell our people either they observe the health protocols or we perish with ignorance, there is no middle ground," he told the Star by phone. The governor said it's time regional governments are allowed to shop for vaccines. 'We are in the middle of a pandemic, we must be open and welcome any effort by counties to leverage the fight against this disease," he said. Some people are reading malice and greed among governors, Ongwae said. He said governors had met and identified serious gaps that must be addressed, otherwise, governors should do their own shopping. "People are dying, I have lost friends, every death to Covid must jolt all of us; the earlier people get the vaccine the better," Ongwae said. Last week, the association of evangelical clerics urged quick disbursement of vaccines to counties, especially villages where the most vulnerable live. "Let health officers walk from house to house in villages and vaccinate the most vulnerable," group leader Nyanuga Omambia said. The clerics are offended that churches have been ordered to close while bars reman open. "We need research on how better bars fare in managing revellers than churches in managing their members," he told a press conference in Suneka. "Someone explain how the government is managing to control the virus spread in those roadside political rallies we are seeing all over, as compared to churches. We need a conscientious debate so we don't punish churches unfairly," Omambia said.  (Edited by V. Graham)