 Succession politics have started playing out, with numerous figures jostling for the chance to occupy the presidential office in 2022. There is also a renewed clamour for constitutional reform through the Building Bridges Initiative (BBI). However, in spite of all these political developments, the reforms in the Agricultural sector under CS Peter Munya cannot go unnoticed. However hard it has been to rein sanity into this sector, it has not deterred the efforts of CS Peter Munya. He has been on a constant wedge of war with cartels and powerful individuals frustrating any new changes in this sector. He has drawn up radical reforms aimed at transforming various sectors within the agricultural framework. The CS has been on an upward trajectory due to the overwhelming and loyal support from both President Uhuru Kenyatta and the farmer – who are major stakeholders in this sector. These reforms have been made possible because of political goodwill from the government and the private sector. President Uhuru pronounced his unwavering support for reforms in this sector, especially coffee and tea. Some of the significant reforms include the revamp of the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union (KPCU) in 2019. The government dissolved the old board running this cooperative and came up with a new board that was set to run the newly rolled-out cooperative. This new board has hit the ground running by starting with purchasing coffee from farmers and scanning for direct markets for the products on behalf of the farmers. It has awarded farmers with Cherry Advance Funds (CAF) which is to act as loans to assist them in the daily activities of production and processing their crops. This move did not fall shy of controversy as it was blocked by a select few who obtained injunctions to stop the new board from issuing the farmers with CAF. Nevertheless, the government stood its ground and argued that the funds go a long way in reducing the cost of processing and milling as well as transaction costs in the auction market. The tea sector has seen the ascension into law of the Tea Bill 2020 passed by the Senate. This sector has been under the dominion of traders at the costly expense of the farmers who strive to make it stay afloat. These reforms have a far-reaching effect especially on the Kenya Tea Development Agency (KTDA) for they aim at cutting down the margins of this service provider which controls 60% of the Kenyan market while on the other hand increasing the earnings of the farmers. The CS pointed out the governance failure in this agency being fuelled by the conflict of interest in its operations and its subsidiaries. The regulations stated that KTDA will cede one percent point of the management fee that it charges factories which translates into billions of shillings that it will be forced to forfeit. It has also granted all farmers equal voting right changing the previous format where the directors would be elected based on the shares they hold and the volume of tea they bring to the table. This reform faced opposition with KTDA arguing that it was a private company owned by farmers and not a parastatal and thus government intervention can only gain traction if they bought shares from the farmers and as such that using regulations to curtail its operations is wrong. The National Cereal and Produce Board (NCPB) has always been on the receiving end for being a den of corruption. There has been theft of fertilizers, irregular purchase of maze, among that has seen farmers miss out on subsidized fertilizers and failing to sell their crops to NCPB, among others. In a bid to curtail these vices, the CS put together a task force that would see the fresh vetting and recruiting of employees of NCPB to ensure credibility and efficiency in service delivery. The ministry went forward to also disband the Strategic Food Reserve (SFR) leaving the function of purchasing maize in the hands of the private sector. SFR moved to court to block this reform and it is awaiting the outcome however still the ministry considers it an illegal entity. The CS also released five agricultural bills for public participation. These bills were to see the disbandment of the Agricultural and Food Authority (AFA). They included Coffee Bill, Fibre Bill, Food Crops Development Bill, Horticultural Crops Authority Bill, and Miraa, Pyrethrum and Industrial Crops Bill. He alluded that in order for growth and development in agriculture to be accelerated, the government saw it fit to prioritize the review, development and consolidation of the legal framework governing it. This was in effect to avoid contradictory and overlapping legislations through enacting an all-purpose bill. The reforms in the Agricultural Sectors cannot end without mentioning the Sugar Sector. Companies like Mumias and Sony Sugar are on their death beds. However, there have been plans by the government to lease out five state owned sugar mills – Chemili, Miwani, South Nyanza, Muhoroni, and Nzoia to private companies for a period of 2 years in a bid to revive their operations and to offload some of the debts burdening the mills. It is only through reforms that the sugar cartels will end, and local companies will thrive. The Agricultural Sector has without a doubt for a long time been beholden to entrenched interests by powerful cartels and individuals who hold key positions in most of the agricultural boards. They have made it their mandate to ensure that new policies implemented do not take effect. The result has been hurt to the farmers who are the major stakeholders and entrenchment of status quo, rule of the thumb, and underperformance by the Agricultural Sector. We must therefore give credit to CS Peter Munya for making the bold steps to rid this sector of corruption and cartels. Al Hajj Amin is a university lecturer.