Streaming platform, Showmax has announced that it will live stream the 2020 Olympic games which will be held in Tokyo, Japan. In the announcement, Showmax Pro subscribers in over 50 African countries will be able to enjoy the sporting event that was postponed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. "We are thrilled to bring all the action to our Showmax Pro subscribers to stream wherever they are, and we’ll be backing our African athletes every step of the way," MultiChoice Connected Video CEO Yolisa Phahle said. Showmax subscribers will have access to all events that will be available on SuperSport from the Olympic Broadcast Services, including the opening and closing ceremonies, and every medal event. SuperSport CEO Marc Jury, Olympic games come at a time people need to be entertained more and he looks forward to the best broadcast offering ever. "There is no bigger or better celebration of sport than the Olympic Games," he said. The Olympic events on the streaming service will begin from July 23 to August 8, 2021. This comes a few weeks after Showmax added UEFA Euro 2020 into its Showmax Pro sports package. The addition has enable football fans in the African continent to live stream all matches in the competition that is headed to its quarter final stage. The UEFA Euro 2020 ends in  July 11, 2021. The Tokyo Olympic 2020 event will be different from previous editions, due to the strict rules in place over the covid-19 pandemic. "Mask wearing, social distancing and the number of fans who may attend events. There will be no public viewing areas in the host city, and international spectators are not allowed," the statement said. The crowds may not be cheering the athletes from the grandstands but millions around the globe will be watching as stars like Wayde van Niekerk, Blessing Okagbare, Almaz Ayana and the Ivorian men’s football team. Showmax Pro bundles offer music channels, news and live sports streaming from SuperSport. While only Showmax Pro subscribers will have access to live streams of every available event, all Showmax subscribers will be able to stream exclusive Olympics coverage including talk shows, highlights, and documentaries.