Laikipia Woman Representative Catherine Waruguru has come out to clear the air after public speculation that she has joined Deputy President William Ruto’s UDAParty. The MP said she has been away from the media for a while, revealing that she has been busy in the ground working for her people. Addressing the media Wednesday, the MP said that the ruling Jubilee Party is in limbo, and much needs to be done to restore the public confidence in the party. She also wished the best candidate in the ongoing Kiambaa Constituency by-elections, saying that she does not have a vote in Kiambaa. “There has been a massive exodus from the Jubilee Party and I have seen speculations from the members of the public asking whether Waruguru has moved to the ‘wheelbarrow’ side. My answer to their speculations is relative, every serious politician, you listen to your electorates. I am on my own. My bosses are the voters and the people of Laikipia,” Waruguru said. “Very soon, I will be making an announcement telling the country and even my party and the voters in Laikipia County who are residing in diaspora what my decision is, but I will say this, I do not want to be right or wrong, but I want to be on the side of God, and the side of God is where the people are. The voice of the people is the voice of God.” The MP added that the people will be the ones to decide as to which side they would like to vote in terms of the parties. “In Mt Kenya, people make their decisions very early. I would tell you that Jubilee is in limbo. We have been having our own problems, and those problems are dusted. They have not been addressed or articulated.” Waruguru reiterated that currently, she is still a member of the Jubilee party, where she pays her dues and asked the Jubilee leadership to put their house in order. “I am calling upon the Jubilee party leadership, that if you still intend to use Jubilee as one of the major parties that will be used particularly in this region, then something must be done. The majority of the people still believe that Jubilee has been overtaken by a number of problems.”