The multi-agency approach in managing the borders in the country is bearing fruit and should be supported. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said since the approach was adopted, different forms of crimes, including terrorism, human trafficking, smuggling cross border crimes, have reduced. He added there is coordinated sharing of intelligence among agencies involved in the management, hence a stable country. He said border management is sensitive and will be handled carefully as he ordered that all agencies involved be trained. Matiang’i said the issue will be escalated to the Cabinet to make it mandatory for all managers in government to undergo training in border management. He made the remarks in a speech read by Interior Chief Administrative Secretary Hussein Dado during the unveiling of the Kenya Coordinated Border Management Programme and Facilitator’s Manual. The CS said there should be free and safe movements of people and goods at borders for growth of all. He reminded the managers that they are the first in line of defence, hence must get everything right. Present were officials from Kenya Revenue Authority, Immigration, Kenya Airports Authority, National Police Service and the Interior ministry. Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai concurred, saying ongoing multi-agency partnership has stopped major crimes and sharing of intelligence had enhanced many issues. “We have had increased consultations, information sharing and increased utilisation of resources, hence a secure system,” he said. Director of immigration services Alex Muteshi said they have come up with many border stations that have enhanced movements and hence rooted out criminals. KRA commissioner general Githii Mburu said strategy where border control and enforcement operations were undertaken by different organisations became inefficient over time because of multiple threats like transnational organised crimes. These crimes include trafficking of wildlife species, especially those listed under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, economic threats (through illicit trade) and terrorism exacerbated by corruption. He said the role of border control has come a long way and is presently to enhance national security, public safety, economic security, environmental and revenue protection. “The inception of the coordinated border management approach after the establishment of the Border Control and Operations Coordination Committee through the Security Laws (Amendment) Act, 2014, was a major milestone in the Kenya’s border management strategy," said Mburu. He said a study conducted between October 2019 and February 2020 by the Anti-Counterfeit Authority, the government revenue lost through illicit trade in 2018 stood at Sh102.99 billion up from Sh101.23 billion in 2017. “The illicit flows were a threat to the Big 4 agenda, protection of our local industries as well as protection of Kenyans from harmful and counterfeit products,” he added. But through the multi-agency framework, KRA, jointly under the multi-agency taskforce, conducted operations to curtail illicit trade inflows. The move has borne fruit. The taskforce set up multi-agency patrols; continuously mounted roadblocks; carried out joint verifications at various customs entry points, impromptu raids on shops and factories suspected to produce or stock substandard goods; and patrolled porous borders. In 2018, goods worth Sh7.5 billion were confiscated by the taskforce, most of which have been destroyed, he added. He said the development of the curriculum is, therefore, another landmark in enhancing efficiency of border control officers from all the agencies. “Officers will get an in-depth understanding of their roles in managing the borders, as well as appreciate the roles undertaken by other officials from other border agencies.” -Edited by SKanyara