 It is good to know that Deputy President William Ruto has finally decided to say what he has always done. I believe that he left us. He abandoned those of us who were looking at him as the deputy party leader. He abandoned us long ago, and we have felt it. If he has chosen to completely go, we can only wish him well. I joined Jubilee at Ruto’s invitation. He called me when I was in the Party of National Unity and asked me if I would run on the Jubilee ticket. I told him it was so. For him to have called us to Jubilee and abandon us, we are, actually, feeling betrayed. Why invite us to a house you are planning to quit? I feel betrayed by him because he was the one who invited us to the ruling party and left us. He started selling other ideologies before he could even explain to those of us, who were not the initial founders of Jubilee, what the party stood for. I don’t think it is a good thing to abandon the people you have invited to your house. I am perplexed to hear the DP saying he is being humiliated. Like now, for instance, we have a by-election in Kiambaa on Thursday and he has been campaigning for the opponent of Jubilee. Who is, therefore, humiliating the other? He is the one who is humiliating us. He invited us to a house that he now wants to bring down. We are the ones feeling abandoned, worried about why all these, why has he decided to berate us in this house. I don’t understand. It cannot be that he is feeling humiliated. He is actually the one humiliating us. In the Juja by-election, he went to the extent of sponsoring a candidate against the party. Jubilee did not put up a fight. We are the ones fighting humiliation. These events are denting the ability of the Jubilee Party to deliver on its promises to the people. The integrity of the promises we made as Jubilee and imprints on the minds of Kenyans is in doubt. Why is it that President Uhuru Kenyatta and Ruto are not working together to deliver on the promises? Why do you abandon the house that promised to deliver? Why not deliver first, then go to the other house you want? There is an aspect of honesty and integrity that is lacking in that process.  The Ndaragwa MP spoke to the Star