Multi-agency teams have split and moved to Nakuru and Eldoret and its environs where they believe their wanted colleague corporal Caroline Kangogo might be hiding. The officers however said there was no sure indication that she is in these places. “She could still be in Nairobi but we are spreading the search in case she moves to these other places. We still want her to surrender and end this drama,”  an officer in the search team said. The officers said they want to apprehend her to face charges but they fear a physical confrontation may lead to deaths on both sides. This is because she is a sharpshooter and may decide to go down with those out to get her if it reaches that level. The saga surrounding her has now become an excuse or a source of fear among some. This is after a licensed gun holder shot and wounded a woman in Kiminini on fears she was Kangogo. The man was disarmed and arrested after he shot Phanice Chemutai in the stomach. The man claimed the woman had persistently called him for an unknown mission that prompted him to shoot her when they met. He is expected in court to face charges including attempted murder. Police fear similar incidents may happen if Kangogo is not arrested soon. Kangogo is a suspect in the killing of two people, including police Constable John Ogweno, in Nakuru on July 5. She later allegedly shot dead Peter Ndwiga Njiru, 32, in lodging in Juja, Kiambu, about 200km from where the police officer died. An autopsy showed Ogweno died of a haemorrhage while Njiru died out of bleeding from the head. Ogweno’s firearm with 15 bullets is yet to be recovered but police said they found some of his clothes in Kangogo’s house. Police have recovered one of her phones, which was dumped in Nakuru. Detectives were deployed to her rural home to protect her parents in case she turns up there and becomes violent. Her colleagues said she is a sharpshooter, most of her friends are police officers and they don't know who her next target could be. Officers in her Nakuru workstation are nervous. One officer revealed Kangogo and Njiru met at the station two years ago when he went to report an incident in which a female worker had apparently stolen about Sh100,000 from him. In the course of the investigation by Kangogo, they fell in love. The case went cold after the said staff swore to reveal why she took the money. The two have since been lovers until she killed him in a lodging. It has also emerged that Kangogo withdrew Sh40,000 from a bank in Juja on July 5. Detectives have established that the money was withdrawn to enable her to move around. Sources privy to the investigations also said they were pursuing revenge as the possible motive for the attacks, which have left two suspected lovers, police constable Ogweno and Juja businessman. Police say Kangogo had apparently taken a loan of about Sh500,000 together with Ogweno which could be a factor in her actions. That notwithstanding, the hunt for her is ongoing, as the police pursue several leads. The police warn that she is armed, dangerous and lethal and wants the public to be on the lookout even as they intensify efforts to finally apprehend her. DCI boss George Kinoti appealed to the public to help arrest Kangogo whom he termed rogue, armed and dangerous. “We are cautioning members of the public, especially men, to be on the lookout for the rogue officer, who is luring men to her trap before executing them in cold blood,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris