A push within the One Kenya Alliance to formally ditch the National Super Alliance or Nasa was abandoned after a day-long  meeting of OKA chiefs on Wednesday. It has emerged that fear of losing crucial leadership and committee positions in Parliament forced Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper) and Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya) to abandon the idea. The meeting also attended by Kanu party boss Gideon Moi. They resolved to remain in the Opposition coalition, even as they strengthen the One Kenya Alliance. After the Wednesday meeting, Moi reiterated his commitment to OKA as the outfit seeks to strengthen itself ahead of the 2022 General Election. "If we dissolve Nasa now, it will mean rearranging so many things, including committees of Parliament because we are operating under the Opposition coalition,” ANC deputy party leader Ayub Savula said. “Dissolution is not for now. Pulling out of Nasa is not a quick thing to do. The coalition is dead, but pulling out is a bit difficult." Currently, Wiper members hold the influential positions of minority whip in the Senate and deputy minority leader in the National Assembly, courtesy of the coalition. They are held by Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Jnr and Kathiani MP Robert Mbui. Mutula is Wiper party national vice chairman. ANC member George Khaniri sits in the powerful Parliamentary Service Commission, a position he would lose if Nasa disintegrates. Ford Kenya's Wafula Wamunyinyi is the chairman of the National Government-Constituency Development Fund committee, which oversees the CDF funds. According to the coalition agreement, Nasa would stand dissolved if three affiliates ditch the marriage. Nasa affiliates ODM, ANC, Wiper and Ford Kenya have all been insisting that the coalition is dead and only exists on paper. Savula told the Star on Thursday Nasa would persist until just before the 2022 General Election. “Eventually, the meetings of One Kenya Alliance principals will culminate in a coalition, but we are not dissolving Nasa now,” he said. Wetang’ula rejected reports President Uhuru Kenyatta had told OKA principals to disband Nasa and sign a formal agreement with him. “No such thing has been told of us. And for ODM, even now, legally, they cannot belong to two coalitions. They can only engage in some relationships and not be coalition with any other formation,” he explained. “In law, there is something we call de  jure and de facto. De jure is what you negotiate, sign and seal as an agreement. De facto comes with circumstance. So if we are in a de facto relationship (in OKA), then that is good enough for the time being.” Wiper national vice chair Kilonzo Jnr said Wednesday’s meeting was just a chat “A detailed meeting will be held in a week or so. We were just putting heads together but no big details,” he added. On disbanding Nasa, Mutula said it was too early. “A pre-election agreement is required to be filed with the Registrar of Political Parties three months to the elections. So, there will be no reason to wind up the coalition now. It will serve no purpose. We have enough time to complete the term and register another coalition towards the end,” he said. He stated that they only had general discussions on Nasa. “The issue of forming another coalition means the three principals leave the coalition. And the question is, of what value is disbanding Nasa to us?” he asked. Mudavadi had earlier cautioned that for a member of Nasa to walk out, other partners, the Registrar of Political Parties as well as the leadership of the two Houses of Parliament must be notified because of the composition of committees. He explained that partners used the coalition to distribute positions in the House. In attendance were MPs William Kamket (Tiaty) and Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, his Kitui counterpart Enock Wambua and Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Makueni), among others. Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula have openly declared that they will not support ODM leader Raila Odinga’s presidential bid again. Raila and the other Nasa principals have been pulling in different directions since 2018 following the handshake between President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former prime minister. “If we dissolve Nasa now, it will mean rearranging so many things including committees of Parliament because we are operating under the opposition coalition,” Savula revealed. The division has rocked the coalition, with the three leaders accusing ODM leader Raila Odinga of disrespect. ODM dominates the coalition. They assailed the former prime minister as untrustworthy and dishonest. Mudavadi, Kalonzo and Musyoka has particularly accused ODM of refusing to share with the coalition partners political party funds. “As long as legally Nasa is in existence, then one cannot sign another coalition,” Wetang'ula told the Star. Wiper national vice chair Mutula Kilonzo Jnr said disbanding Nasa is not an emergency, adding the principals have many months to put their house in order. “The issue of forming another coalition means the three principals leave the coalition. And the question is, of what value is disbanding Nasa to us?” he said. (Edited by V. Graham)