Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru has assured medical practitioners of her support to deliver services to the people. She said apart from improving their working conditions, her administration has at all times ensured its staff are paid on time and their deductions remitted promptly. Waiguru spoke at her residence in Kagio when the newly elected Kenya Medical Practitioners, Pharmacists and Dentists Union Central Branch officials paid her a courtesy call. The governor said she was committed to transforming the health sector through the building of new medical facilities, upgrading the existing ones and addressing the welfare of workers. She said her administrations would employ more medical workers to work in the newly constructed medical complex at the Kerugoya Level Five Hospital and the upgraded Kimbimbi and Kianyaga hospitals. The county chief said the upgrading of the two hospitals to Level Four will be done this year as she had already allocated funds. “The infrastructural development will be complemented by an expanded workforce which will create room for absorption of more medics and also enhance service delivery,” she said. Waiguru said that even though the two parties may have differing opinions, many issues can be resolved through dialogue as it has taken a lot of effort from her government to ensure that despite constrained resources, the provision of healthcare services is always prioritized. She urged the officials to ensure that their union looks out for the common good of the residents as opposed to leaning towards activism which may lead to disruption of services. “All that the residents care about is good service delivery, let’s all strive to achieve that,” she said. On their part, the KPMDU officials pledged to forge a harmonious working relationship with the governor to help in the delivery of quality healthcare. They said that good working relations will go a long way in enhancing service delivery to the residents. Union’s Chairman James Maina Githinji expressed satisfaction with the massive infrastructural and service delivery reforms that the county government has implemented in the health sector. “We have seen the new hospital complex coming up at Kerugoya, which demonstrates your commitment to improving the health sector,” Githinji said. “Kirinyaga is also one of the counties where the workers are paid on time and their deductions remitted promptly.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris