The National Cohesion and Integration Commission will lead peace dialogues to quell ethnic violence in Marsabit and bring "mongers of hate crimes to book". The NCIC announced that it will spearhead the inter-community peace dialogues in partnership with other stakeholders. The Borana, Gabra and Rendille communities have been fighting over land, water and pasture. Five people have died in the last week alone and more than 100 have been killed since January, Kobia said. “We assure the people of Marsabit and the nation we shall continue to discharge our mandate without fear or favour. We will  bring all wrongdoers and mongers of hate crimes to book,” NCIC chair Samuel Kobia said in a statement. Kobia called on Marsabit residents, especially those from Saku constituency to cease firing and adopt dialogue. “We warn individuals to refrain from using inflammatory language and making inflammatory statements contributing to further polarisation of the communities and escalation of conflict,” he said. Kobia said thousands of residents have been displaced since the beginning of the year. “Thousands of livestock have been stolen and several hundred houses torched. We condole with the bereaved and those who have lost livelihoods in this senseless violence,” he said. Kobia said schools have been shut down at a time when learners are sitting for their end-of-term examinations. “This is a sad moment, especially for residents of Saku constituency, the epicentre of the violence,” he said A multi-agency team of specialised security officers led by the GSU has been deployed to quell the ethnic violence that erupted last week. Police IG Hillary Mutyambai said the officers have uncompromising instructions to restore peace and order. “This action has staved off further loss of lives and destruction of property," Kobia said of the deployment. "We urge the security team to bring to book the perpetrators, financiers, schemers and executors of these savage acts of violence,” he said. He further called on the county, national government and humanitarian agencies to support the internally displaced families. The violence has terrified residents who have called on the government to act quickly and restore peace. Edited by Kiilu Damaris