He was sentenced to serve 20 years in jail for defilement even when a DNA result absolved him. However, WLN is now a happy man after the High Court quashed his conviction and set him free. Judge Francis Gikonyo held that the testimonies made before trial court, which sentenced the man, were contradictory and the DNA result cast doubt on evidence given by the victim. “I have found that the fact that the DNA report excluded the appellant (WLN) as the father of the child routs the core of the testimony by PW1, the victim child, which was to the effect that she had sex once with the appellant which resulted in the pregnancy. In addition, there was no other cogent and strong evidence which proved any other penetration of the victim by the appellant. I wonder why no efforts were made to establish the person who impregnated the victim herein,” Justice Gikonyo said. The DNA result showed that the child born out the defilement was not fathered by WLN. The judge also wondered why the first report to the police did not contain the name of WLN as the suspect. “These matters cast doubt on whether the appellant defiled the complainant. It also casts doubt on the credibility of the evidence by the complainant. Such is reasonable doubt which should be resolved in favour of the appellant. Accordingly, the appeal succeeds. I allow the appeal. The conviction against the appellant is hereby quashed and sentence of 20 years imprisonment is set aside. The appellant is hereby set free unless lawfully held.” WLN was convicted of the charge of defilement and sentenced to serve 20 years in jail. The man was charged for defiling a 13-year-old girl between December 2013 and August 2014 in Narok. Aggrieved by the sentence of the lower court, WLN filed an appeal raising five grounds. He said the trial court misdirected itself in law and fact by convicting him yet a DNA report exonerated him. WLN said that the magistrate wrote a speculative judgment that was not premised on the analysis of evidence. He also said the mandatory ingredients of the offence of defilement had not been proved beyond reasonable doubt and the court was wrong in convicting him. A total of seven witnesses had testified against WLN. Edited by Henry Makori