Kenyans are worried after multiple media reports show that murders, shootings and muggings are on the rise in the country. Some of the incidents are attributed to police officers, others to civilians. The latest incident is that of a female police officer, who is being sought on suspicion of the killing of two people, including a cop. Corporal Caroline Kangogo is wanted over the death of constable John Ogweno in Nakuru on Monday. She later allegedly shot and killed Peter Ndwiga Njiru, 32, in a lodging in Juja, Kiambu county. “Detectives have established that she lured the man to the room after paying for it, before shooting him in the head at point-blank. She later told an attendant working at the guest house that she had gone to buy toothpaste, before making her escape,” DCI said. The DCI reported that the officer is on the run with a loaded Ceska pistol belonging to the officer she allegedly killed. Still, on Tuesday, a KMCT clinical medicine student was killed in Homa Bay by someone suspected to be her lover. Emily Chepkemoi's body was found with multiple stab wounds to the head and arms. A post-mortem showed that she had been suffocated while she earnestly fought off her attacker or attackers. Suspect Eli Odoyo, 37, was arrested by the police in connection with the killing. Homa Bay town chief detective Monica Berege said the suspect is likely to have crucial information over the murder. In another case, a police officer identified as Kelvin Amwayi is suspected to have killed his lover Jackline Muthoni on Saturday in Ngumba estate, Nairobi, by pushing her off the balcony. Joshua Owiti, a security guard at an apartment building called Kwea House, called the police at 4 am when the incident happened. Amwayi and Muthoni are said to have had domestic quarrels for some time. When Muthoni was pushed, she fell on the windscreen of a car packed at the compound. “There was a heated argument and commotion, which led to the fall of the woman from the fourth-floor balcony,” the police report read in part. The woman was rushed to Kenyatta National Hospital, where she was pronounced dead on arrival. Amwayi fled. Police are investigating. Further, a 27-year-old man surrendered himself to police in Iten after he confessed to killing his 23-year-old wife for cheating on him. Solomon Kiplimo is said to have been working in Nairobi and his wife upcountry. On Sunday, June 13, he travelled home after multiple reports by neighbours reached him that the wife was living with the alleged lover in his house. In the wee hours of June 14, he broke into the house of the alleged lover and found his wife in bed with him. He allegedly beat up the two before using a kitchen knife to stab his wife several times. The man managed to escape. The case of Dickson Njanja Mararo, who is accused of shooting two police officers and a woman at a club along Thika Road, is being treated as attempted murder. Mararo resurfaced on Monday and surrendered at DCI headquarters. He was arraigned on Tuesday. Milimani principal magistrate Zainab Abdul allowed police to detain him for 14 days to complete investigations. On Wednesday, a video surfaced on Twitter showing three people riding on a motorbike snatching a phone from a traffic police officer in Nairobi. The officer was talking on his phone while the motorbike slowed down close to him and a third man snatched the phone. The motorbike sped off, leaving the officer perplexed. Edited by A.N