Two police officers were Friday night injured after a shooting incident following an argument over a woman at a popular club on Thika Road, Nairobi. The first officer, a Constable who is attached to Starehe Directorate of Criminal Investigation (DCI) and another one from Kasarani Petty Crime Unit, met and an argument ensued between them and another man over a woman. The officer from Starehe is then said to have gone for his pistol and shot his colleague on the hand. Witnesses said both were in civilian clothes at the time of the incident. In retaliation, the officer from Kasarani also took out his firearm and shot his colleague on the left part of the neck, and also accidentally hit the woman in the abdomen. But other witnesses said the woman had come with another man who was said to be armed and was behind the shooting. “The man shot and injured the woman and the other officer in the neck as he aimed his weapon to the officer from Starehe,” said a witness at the club. Police were on Saturday reviewing CCTV footage at the club which captured the drama to confirm the claims. One of the officers - the one injured in the neck - said he did not fire. Both firearms were confiscated by the DCI for ballistics analysis to tell whose was used even as the hunt for the said armed man goes on. Police officers from Kasarani were alerted about the incident by an anonymous caller at around 9:30pm and rushed to the scene. One of the officers and the woman were rushed to Neema Uhai Hospital for first aid, after which the officer was transferred to the Nairobi Hospital for further treatment. The other officer checked himself into Radiant Hospital in Pangani where he was treated and discharged. They are expected to be questioned and later charged with various counts when they recover and once the probe into the incident is complete. Nairobi police boss Augustine Nthumbi said they will take action on all those who were involved in the drama. “The law will be followed to the end,” he said. He said they are investigating claims there was another man involved in the shooting. Meanwhile, two suspected thugs were on Friday night lynched by a mob in Kibra in a botched robbery. Police condemned the incident. The men were accused of mugging and snatching valuables from locals before an alarm was raised, prompting a mob to stone them to death. The bodies were moved to the mortuary. Nthumbi termed the incident criminal and urged the public not to lynch suspects. In Dandora, a suspect was shot dead in a botched robbery. The suspect is said to have been in the company of three others and had been attacking and robbing locals when police were alerted and acted, killing him as his accomplices escaped. The body was moved to the mortuary.