The government through the Office of its Spokesperson has urged Kenyans to be alert over the people who are luring them to pay in order to be issued with Huduma Cards. Government Spokesperson Cyrus Oguna said on Thursday that the process of distribution of Huduma Card has continued countrywide. Oguna said that the cards that are ready for collection are being dispatched for collection at National Registration Bureau (NRB) offices or ID Offices at the local level. “We wish to remind Kenyans that the issuance of Huduma Card is free. Nobody should be conned to giving out any money to anyone. Any message purporting to be coming from the government and asking the recipient for any money is fake and should be treated as so,” Oguna said. He has also urged Kenyans to respond to notification messages once they receive them on their phones, adding that notification that the Huduma Card is ready for collection will be forwarded to the phones. “The message will also inform you where your card will be dispatched to. This location is the default information on your ID Card. The notification, however, has the provision to change the preferred pick-up locations. One can therefore change the stated location.” Oguna added that if the card happens to be dispatched to a wrong location due to a system error, corrective measures can be taken to address the issue, and NRB officers have been trained to assist with such occurrences. The spokesperson said the Phase II of the registration is set to start soon. “Phase II registration is set to start soon. All logistical preparations have been completed, and once rolled out, the exercise shall be carried out at NRB offices in the whole country.” He also said that the government is developing Status Tracker, a user-friendly portal with all necessary information. The portal will allow everyone to check the stage that their Huduma Card has reached “Further, an Interactive Voice Recording (IVR) system is also being developed. This will help to assist callers with a variety of information on Huduma Namba.”