Uasin Gishu county has for the first time surpassed its annual revenue target after it collected Sh1.2 billion in the just ended financial year. Governor Jackson Mandago had targeted about Sh900 million but the administration exceeded that due to tough measures in collection of land rates. More than 35 per cent of the revenue was from pending land rates “We are very excited with the new record in revenue collections and also the good response from residents in paying what is due to the county especially land rates,” Deputy Governor Daniel Chemno said. All other counties in the North Rift collect less than Sh600 million in internal revenue annually. Uasin Gishu has so far registered more than 100,000 landowners in a renewed plan to clean the lands register in the region and streamline payment of rates. Chemno said the county had automated its lands registry to ensure that all sub-divided land is registered in the names of the new owners. The county has also extended its waiver of interest on pending land rates to allow residents clear arrears by Thursday. “This is to give a chance to all residents to take advantage of the waiver period and pay up,” he said. The Uasin Gishu government is threatening to seize and sell off plots in Eldoret town and other parts of the county whose owners have not paid accumulated land rates amounting to more than Sh1.2 billion. Chemno said they will be forced to take the severe action against residents who have defaulted in paying the land rates for many years despite constant reminders. County executive for lands Nelson Maritim said although Mandago had offered 100 per cent waiver on interest and charges on land rates, some defaulters had failed to turn up and clear the pending rates. Maritim said at the expiry of the waiver period on Thursday, the county will move to enforce the law against the defaulters. The county had issued demand notices to landowners within the Eldoret municipality to pay up the pending rates before the expiry of the waiver period. Speaking at the county headquarters, Maritim noted that since the announcement of the waiver by Governor Mandago, some residents had not heeded to calls to turn up and pay so that they benefit from the waiver. "As soon as we are done with the municipality, we will visit other townships because we want landowners in all areas to comply," Maritim said. He warned that upon expiry of the waiver period, all outstanding penalties and interest will be reinstated. "If you cannot pay your rates before July 15, we will come for you and the consequences will be dire," he added. The county will not issue business permits for plots whose owners have not cleared pending rates. “We also will clamp the buildings and sell the property as per the law,” he said. A section of the business community sued the county government to stop its plan to review the land rates upwards. Mandago has directed that those who sued the county should not benefit from the waiver offer. Residents led by Kipkorir Menjo argued that the county did not carry out public participation before the plan to increase the land rates by more than 300 per cent. Director of revenue management Jonah Lamai said they are projecting to collect more than Sh700 million from the land rates by the end of the waiver period. Edited by Henry Makori