The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has made the commitment to work closely with the media in the upcoming general elections, IEBC chairperson Wafula Chebukati has said. The same commitment has been made by the Director of Public Prosecution Noordin Haji and EACC CEO Twalib Mbarak. They said working with the media will help in disseminating accurate information to the citizens. They made the remarks on Saturday during the ongoing Media Sector Working Group conference in Diani, Kwale County. “The commission will work with the media to enhance the transparency of electoral processes and ensure accountability of election results from polling stations,” Chebukati said. Chebukati added that the media has to be part and parcel of the entire election process, where he emphasised that planning is everything. “The media must be part and parcel of the electoral process all through.” The three leaders added that the media should play a critical role in ensuring voter registration and voter education by offering cheaper advertising rates to IEBC. Also, they said the media is the eye and the ear of the public and should work closely with the Commission in the dissemination of electoral-related information. EACC boss Twalib said media should contribute vet candidates for various positions, similar to what government agencies do ahead of general elections. On his side, Haji called for efficacy and integrity in elections, adding that there is need to keep refining our legislation to ensure accountability during elections. He asked the media to join ODPP in sensitising the public on election offences. “Most election offences are committed before elections, so let us prevent & not to wait until they happen during & after elections", Haji said. Haji added that his office has put in place measures to handle election offences, saying ODPP has a specialised Division on Election and Hate Speech cases, and jointly with IPOA, NPS developed and is implementing Standard Operating Procedures on offences committed by police.