Rival politicians on Saturday set aside their political differences and shared the same podium to help raise funds for Kongowea market traders after their stalls were razed last Monday. Businessman Suleiman Shahbal and former Mombasa Senator Hassan Omar, who are both candidates to succeed Governor Hassan Joho, carefully chose their words. Nyali MP Mohammed Ali, KCC director Yassir Noor and new entrant Japheth Marine, all eyeing the Nyali MP seat, tried to hide their political messages. “It is the third time in four years that the Kongowea market is razed,” Ali said. “We have the solution if God grants us life. It seems there is a game being played all the time.” He said the fires are meant to reduce the number of traders in the market for whatever reasons. On his part, Omar said any government that cares about people’s affairs should have deployed emergency funds right away and started construction when the fire razed the stalls. “That is why we want to bring a government for the people where the people have the right to punish the leaders when they do wrong,” Omar said. He said a government, cannot run people’s affairs haphazardly. “You must have emergency funds, not only to put out fires but also see how to improve the livelihoods of those who put out the fire,”  Omar said. However, Shahbal, in a bid to cool the tension raised by Ali and Omar, called for calm, saying the focus should be on rebuilding the stalls. There is a general feeling among the traders that the fire was an arson attack by people linked to the authorities. The feeling was amplified after Saturday evening’s fire at the Markiti market which razed several buildings. In the Markiti fire, the response by the county fire brigade was quick, while in the Kongowea fire, the response dragged, with fire engines arriving at the scene at around 8 am, more than eight hours later. Shahbal, who also rushed to the scene at Markiti, said there is a need for fire engines to be deployed near all markets to respond to occasional fire disasters. While welcoming Noor who is eyeing his sit to speak, Ali said he welcomes competition for his seat. Noor vied for the seat on a Jubilee ticket in 2017. Ali, an independent, trounced him. The MP said mature politics is not about hatred but love. “Even if you want my seat, just come,” Ali said Noor said the market is laced with politics but the focus should be helping the traders. “We are here to wipe your tears with our contributions,” he said. However, he also could not resist a cheeky jab at Ali likening him to a Toyota Paso. “Where did you see a Paso competing with a bulldozer?” he joked. Ali and Shahbal said politics should be about caring for the people one serves. “We have different political ideologies but for the love of our people, we should be one,” Ali said. Shahbal gave the traders a message of hope saying all is not lost. “If you believe in God, don’t despair,” Shahbal said. He said leaders, in most cases, are people who know each other and relate well outside the public eye. “We are together. But when the electioneering period comes, do not be divided because of leaders. Let us stop that kind of politics where we fight and insult each other,” Shahbal said. He said that leaders always agree to work together after elections. “Before then we are in different camps in ODM, Hustler, Wiper or any other. But at the end of the day, we are all Mombasa people. Our problems are the same and we should work together,”  Shahbal said. To show there is no enmity between them despite belonging to rival political camps, Shahbal publicly apologized to Ali for organizing the Harambee in his backyard without involving him. “I ask for forgiveness and I will bring you a goat at your house tomorrow,” Shahbal told Ali. Ali said a day is coming when the Kongowea market problems will be solved once and for all. “In 2022, we will form the government and this nonsense will be over,”  Ali said. He said Kongowea traders have the right to be given emergency funds on the spot. “If they come here, tell your Governor Ali Hassan Joho, that this is your democratic right. You should be served and be given what is yours because the money belongs to the people,” Ali said. Omar, in a naughty statement, said he will bring Deputy President William Ruto to Kongowea and asked Shahbal to bring ODM leader Raila Odinga to the market so that Kongowea people can benefit from their presence there. “We don’t want to make Mombasa be Singapore of Dubai. We want to make it a Mombasa where everybody is respected and able to live decent lives,” Omar said in a thinly veiled jibe at Shahbal. Shahbal, in his campaigns, says he will turn Mombasa into a Dubai or Singapore, through investment. The career banker however said those with experience can achieve dreams that seem impossible. “Others, who don’t know anything, cannot achieve such,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris