The government through the Ministry of Interior has announced 1,870 short-term administrative vacancies. Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said the state is looking to hire 1,200 Clerical Officers II, 205 office administrative assistants III, 109 drivers III, and 356 support staff. The PS said applications are invited from suitably qualified candidates for the announced positions in the Department of National Registration Bureau in all 47 counties. Applications are to be sent by August 2, 2021. Interested and qualified persons have been asked to make their application by completing one of the application forms PSC2 (Revised 2016). The form can be downloaded from the PSC website www.publicservice.go.ke and completed application forms are submitted to the respective County Commissioner’s office. Clerical Officers II positions are short-term contracts for six months with a basic salary of Sh16,890, varying house allowance depending on the location, and a commuter allowance of Sh3,000 per month. The requirements for Clerical Officers applicants are a mean grade of C- in KCSE and proficiency in computer applications from the recognised institutions. Duties in this category include data entry and verification, as well as other duties that maybe assigned by the supervisors. Successful applicants for the Office Administrative Assistant will earn a basic salary of Sh22,270, Sh3,000 commuter allowances, house allowance, and medical benefits. Those who will be picked for 109 posts advertised for drivers will earn a basic salary of Sh14,610 plus Sh3,000 commuter allowance as well as house allowance, and medical benefits. The drivers applying must have a mean grade of D in KCSE, valid driving licence free from any current endorsement for the class of vehicles, attended a First Aid Certificate Course lasting not less than a week at St John’s Ambulance or Kenya Institute of Highway and Building  Technology (KIHBT) or any other recognized institution. Drivers must have also passed the suitability test for Driver Grade III from KIHBT, passed the Practical Test for Drivers conducted by the respective department, a valid Police Clearance Certificate, and at least two years of driving experience. The successful support staff will earn a basic salary of Sh13,280, Sh3,000 commuter allowance, and house allowances depending on their areas. They must possess a KCPE certificate as a minimum requirement and will be doing general messenger duties as well as office cleaning.