Kenya's sole representative in the women's 400m at the World Athletics Under-20, Sylvia Chelangat has credited her great fortunes to the influence of former 800m world champion and Olympics silver medalist Janeth Jepkosgei. Chelangat said Jepkosgei — nicknamed Eldoret Express — has been actively involved in her athletics career so far by virtue of training at the latter's Kamoiywo Camp. "She is like a mother to me and I really admire her for what she has achieved in her life. She has been encouraging me, pushing me to be the best that I can be throughout my career. Alongside my parents, my teachers and my coach, they have been very helpful and have allowed me to juggle between academics and athletics," Chelangat said. The 17-year-old clocked 55.21 to finish first in the women's 400m final, ahead of  Mercy Oketch (55.69) and Ann Mbatha (55.75) who finished second and third respectively. "When the race started, I was a bit tense because I knew the competition would not be easy. However, I gained belief as the race went on and decided to push all the way to the finish line. I am glad to make the team," the Form 4 student at Lelu Secondary School in Kericho County said. Chelangat hopes to transition to 800m in a year's time and is looking up to Jepkosgei as her source of inspiration. "Once I finish school, I want to eventually compete in the 800m just like Janeth. She also began by competing in the 400m and was not successful at that level compared to my current situation. So I am confident I can replicate her success in the 800m," she said. She will be among the 46 athletes expected to report for residential training in a fortnight after going back to their respective schools to clear up on any issues to do with their studies. "Balancing school and training has been a bit tricky but thank God for my teachers who have been understanding and allowed me some time to continue training. I will now go back to school to continue with my studies because that is also quite important for me," Chelangat said.