Anyone who wants to open a business at the new Green Park Bus Terminus should apply now. Friday is the deadline for expressions of interest. The terminus, said to have cost about Sh250 million, will open for full operation when most new tenants set up. The date has not been set. On Monday, Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohammed Badi invited expressions of interest to lease space at the former Lunar Park. NMS wants to lease space for commercial offices, shops, supermarkets, eateries, ablution, cleaning and management services. It will also lease space for vehicle cleaning services, vehicle fuelling and servicing, advertising, financial services and terminal cleaning services. "Complementary services to enhance the commuter experience, safety and security will be in all terminals,” Badi said. They could include hair salons, wellness centres, chemists and a range of other enterprises. Green Park already has a police post and operating dispensary and an ablution block. The terminus at Railways Club will be the drop-off and pick-up point for  matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes. Termini are being built to reduce crowding and traffic jams in the CBD and to reduce the use of private vehicles. Those interested should drop their EOI in a plain sealed envelope at the office of the deputy director general by Friday, July 16. Exempted from applying are traders previously operating from Lunar Park and people and firms that expressed interest earlier. Sixty per cent of the leased space will be for the general public, 35 per cent will be reserved for women and youth. Five per cent of space will be reserved for people living with disabilities.  Green Park is among six termini NMS is setting up for Sh350 million in the plan to decongest the CBD. Green Park alone has cost about Sh250 million and so far is the biggest NMS has conducted three test runs to ensure the terminal is safe, works well and addresses the concern of matatu operators as well as commuters. All the test runs although officially termed successful, drew mixed reactions from commuters and matatu operators. People complained about poor communication and traffic snarl-ups in and around the terminal. Commuters and matatus operators questioned whether the terminus will have the capacity to accommodate all matatus on the Ngong route. NMS officials said the concerns were being addressed.  (Edited by V. Graham) 