Tusker head coach Robert Matano has lashed out at his goalkeeper Robert Mboya for gifting their opponents easy goals that cost them an opportunity to extend their advantage at the apex of the Football Kenya federation Premier League. "I had a serious discussion with Mboya and told him to avoid silly mistakes that only serve to discourage the rest of the team. He is a senior player and so he should be in a position to know better," said Matano. "We gifted them two easy goals. We should have won this match but we were punished because of silly mistakes," said an aggravated Matano. On the other hand, KCB assistant coach Godfrey Oduor said they lost the match due to a controversial goal scored from an offside position. "We strongly feel the referee should have adjudged Macharia offside. I also believe our goalkeeper should have done better to save the first goal," said Oduor. The bankers squandered a 2-o lead to share spoils with the brewers at Thika Stadium on Sunday. Three minutes into the match, Tusker called the bluff when Kenyan international Boniface Muchiri's low drive effort sent KCB custodian Joseph Okoth into early action. Muchiri had darted down the left channel before cutting in to set himself up for a shot, but Okoth's quick reflexes saved the day. Then in the 10th minute,the bankers replied with a vicious attack on the other end and Hashim Sempala had to move swiftly to clear glaring danger after Michael Oduor teed up Nahashon Alembi in the area for a glorious opportunity. But it wasn't long before Tusker's defence cracked up to gift Derrick Otanga his 18th minute goal. Otanga was on the mark again in the 24th minute when keeper Robert Mboya committed a grave howler that the bankers' marksman gladly capitalised on to grab his brace. Sensing danger, Matano effected an early change in the 32nd minute when Faraj Ominde made way for Humphrey Mieno. In the 53rd minute, Mieno and Kevin Okoth weaved a scintilling combination play before setting up Sempala, who scopped the ball wide. The brewers emerged from the tunnel after the interval more aggressive, and were soon to launch consecutive inroads into their opponent's territory. Then in the 60th minute, KCB head gaffer Zedekiah Otieno, seeking to consolidate his lead, brought on David Ambulu and Samuel Mwangi for Reagan Otieno and David Simiyu respectively. On his part, Matano made a further change, introducing Eric Zakayo, Jackson Macharia and Christopher Oruchum for Brian Marita, Genry Meja and Okoth. Matano's decision proved effective when Mieno pounced on the ball after Okoth failed to hold it firmly to pull one back for the brewers. In the 81st minute, centre referee Raymond Onyango slapped KCB's Vincent Warambo with a yellow card for time wasting. Three minutes later, Macharia came on the end of Mieno's pinpoint pass to level the terms for the brewers. The results leave Tusker at the summit of the log with 51 points as KCB remain rooted in second with 47. In the first match of the day at the same venue, 2009 Premier League champions, Sofapaka, found the going tough against newbies, Bidco United, who held them to a barren draw at Thika Stadium on Sunday.