Kenyans will appreciate the work being done by the Jubilee administration after its tenure is over, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has said. Muturi, who has declared an interest in the presidency, said Kenyans have a habit of criticising the ruling administrations, only to realise their achievements later. He cited former President Mwai Kibaki’s tenure that was widely faulted as it constructed the multibillion-shilling Thika Superhighway. Muturi was addressing members of the Covenant Clergy Alliance, which represents hundreds of churches, in Gikono area of Maragua, Murang’a. Muturi said professionals took to the media to accuse Kibaki of failing to prudently use government resources, only to proclaim later that he is the best president to have run the country. Similarly, Kenyans will appreciate the numerous infrastructural projects being undertaken by Uhuru after the end of his reign, he said. “I hear many Kenyans complaining that the government is not working but a few years from now they will enjoy the benefits of the ongoing projects. Let people make noise for now,” he said. “Implementing infrastructure projects is not like planting maize that you harvest after a few months. They will not have immediate benefits but they will change lives for the better.” He cited the Sh62 billion Nairobi Expressway whose construction started last year and is meant to provide motorists with the option of paying between Sh100 and Sh1,500 to escape heavy traffic. He said many motorists will find the expressway convenient and will prefer paying toll charges to evade the traffic jam nightmare that dogs most parts of the capital. The road is being constructed by China Road and Bridge Corporation and will be operated by the company for 27 years before it is handed over to the government. “The benefits of what the government is accomplishing will be so enormous, but politics keeps getting in the way,” Muturi said. Muturi said the taxes collected by the government are enough to facilitate development that betters the lives of the people, especially the delivery of high-quality healthcare. He added that the government’s Big Four Agenda must be anchored on agriculture, which the country heavily depends on. He noted that Kenyan youths are innovative and should be encouraged to venture into value addition. “A sector such as manufacturing must have its basis on agriculture. Nobody should tell us that youths are not interested in agriculture.” The government has put in place numerous policies capable of facilitating transformation but lacks people to implement them, he said. Muturi sought to dismiss claims that he is a project of the state. He said he has enough political experience to conduct successful presidential election campaigns without any assistance. He further allayed fears that his campaigns will affect the delivery of his duties as house speaker, saying he is well capable of performing the two without compromising either. Muturi last week announced that he will vie for the presidency just a month after his controversial coronation as the spokesperson of the Mt Kenya region in Murang’a on May 22. Since May, Muturi has made two visits to Murang’a in what is being perceived as an effort to pacify the county and get it to support him. Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria, another presidential hopeful, condemned Muturi’s coronation and led elders in a ceremony to cleanse Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga Shrine that he said had been soiled by the Muturi's coronation. Wa Iria has been popularising his Usawa Kwa Wote party and recently launched a membership recruitment drive as he prepares to make his first stab at the presidency.