Engineers from Spanish-based Mondo Track and Field have finally laid a new synthetic track at Kenyatta University where the athletes' village was to be situated during the World Athletics Under-20 Championship on August 17-22. Speaking during the exercise, Vincent Onywera, Registrar-Research, Innovation and Outreach at the institution, said the new track is a big boost not only to local athletes preparing for international assignments but also to sports development in the country. "We are very grateful the facility has been finally installed. It is a world class facility. This track is not only for the benefit of Kenyatta University but is also a national facility that other universities and institutions can use for different sporting activities. We are looking forward to hosting various championships including the national school games as well as the East Africa Universities games," Onywera said. He said the track will be useful in enhancing physical education, which is one of the courses offered by the institution, and reduce cases of non-communicable diseases occasioned by a sedentary lifestyle. "Our new education system has put an emphasis on physical education, exercise and sports science and this facility will go a long way in enhancing that. "We also hope that it will be integral in the fight against non-communicable diseases, which have become prevalent because people are living sedentary lifestyles and eating unhealthy food. "So, this facility will not only be for training and competition but also for research and community engagement," he said. Onywera called for more strategic partnerships between sports bodies and educational institutions to tap and grow sports talent in the country. The synthetic track was designated as a warm-up area for athletes competing at the junior event, which will be held a few kilometres away at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Last week, Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohammed said preparations are moving rapidly and smoothly, including the national trials for the World Under-20 at the venue, which was a dry run for the championship.