The anti-FGM board has raised alarm over increasing cases of female genital mutilation in the Mt Kenya region. The board says about 26 per cent of women in the region have undergone the cut, despite the government's efforts to stop the practice for decades. The board’s chairperson Agnes Pareiyo said this practice is being encouraged by traditional and cultural groups that are slowly taking root in the region. The board has announced plans to roll out a sensitisation campaign targeting women groups, churches and residents to stem the practice. “We want to sensitise people living in the affected areas to ensure they understand the dangers of the practice,” she said. Pareiyo said the practice is retrogressive and cannot be allowed to thrive, especially in communities that did not practice it previously. About 22 counties have been categorised as FGM hotspots including some parts of Meru, Kisii, Migori,  Samburu, Kajiado, Laikipia and Taita Taveta. The practice is also rampant among the Somali community. Pareiyo said this when she met Murang’a county commissioner Fred Ndunga in Murang’a town following reports that a 38-year-old woman from Kandara was forcibly circumcised by her husband last month. The woman who spoke to journalists said her husband committed the offence on June 9 after he joined a cult and told her that he could not live with an uncircumcised woman. The man, she said, came home with a group of about 30 men at 11 pm saying they had come to circumcise her. He also threatened to circumcise their three young daughters. She said they pricked her private parts with a needle, saying they would circumcise her with their fingernails. But before they could complete the process, she screamed, waking up two of her daughters, who then called for help. She said the men fled, leaving her bleeding. The incident left her with wounds that make it painful to pass urine. But the story has aroused controversy, as the board said they had not received evidence that the woman had been circumcised. Pareiyo said the woman was in a turbulent marriage that sometimes turned violent, and that she had merely been assaulted. “From what we have gathered, the woman had domestic squabbles with her husband and was assaulted, and that is where the FGM story came in,” she said. “The woman’s statements when she reported the matter to the police and her medical reports do not indicate that she was cut in her private parts,” she said, adding that the board plans to meet her to get her account of what transpired. She however noted that the government would continue investigating the matter to its conclusion. A matter as serious as FGM, she said, cannot be taken lightly, especially when it occurs in an area like Murang’a that has not had previous cases. “FGM is a meaningless tradition that only serves to make the life of a woman harder. It cannot be allowed to creep back especially in an area that was not previously affected,” she said. Ndunga confirmed that the suspect was arrested immediately the reports were made but said the police later found out that the woman had sustained general assault injuries. Reports of circumcision, he added, remain unconfirmed. “I am asking the people of Murang’a who have true reports to report them to the police. They can also send a message to 988 hot line and start their message with the word Murang’a,” he said. The commissioner said the area assistant chief has been trying to arbitrate domestic squabbles between the woman and her husband over time. “When she went to the Kandara deputy county commissioner and made the reports and complained that she had been assaulted and threatened, investigations were started immediately,” he said. Ndunga also dismissed claims that several cults that are in operation in the county have been luring women into female genital mutilation, saying no case of FGM has been attributed to them. The cults are only being mentioned through rumours, he said. But one of the women who attended to the victim when she went to Murang’a general hospital to seek treatment told the Star that when she saw her, she was bleeding profusely. The woman who sought anonymity said a scan image taken at the hospital showed that her private parts had been badly injured. “When we got the scan images, we sought the help of a medical officer who explained that her private parts were in bad shape,” she said. She wondered why the anti-FGM board had not bothered to talk to the victim before concluding that she was lying. “I doubt she would refuse to undergo another medical check up to confirm whether what she is saying is true,” the source said, adding that people who have interacted with the victim were shocked by the turn of events. The incident has sparked outrage among the womenfolk, with Murang'a Woman Rep Sabina Chege vowing to mobilise women to rise against the practice. -Edited by SKanyara 