Officials at the Social Protection department have devised ways of syphoning cash meant for orphans and elderly persons. The plot involves registering beneficiaries in more than one social assistance programme, an audit by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu reveals. In other instances, cash is disbursed to the dead and beneficiaries registered to banks without their consent. With the double entries, millions of shillings are transferred to the fake beneficiaries under unclear circumstances. Gathungu, in her review of the department’s accounts for the financial year to June 2020, revealed that 12,188 beneficiaries were registered in two separate social programmes. A comparison of the Older People and Orphans and Vulnerable Children payrolls revealed they were paid Sh266 million from both programmes. The auditor said the Social Protection department has not provided any documentation to justify beneficiaries registered in more than one programme. The instances of double payments to some beneficiaries have left out millions of orphans and elderly persons without any respite. Kenya has about three million orphans. The Consolidated Cash Transfer Programme operations manual has categorised circumstances under which beneficiaries can be registered in more than one programme. But Gathungu said without any document to justify beneficiaries registered in more than one programme, it was not possible to confirm that the 12,188 beneficiaries are legally registered and thus were eligible in the two programmes. “Therefore, the payment of Sh266,228,000 could not be confirmed as a proper charge on public funds,” the auditor said in the report recently tabled in Parliament. It is not the first time that the auditor is flagging malpractices in the cash transfer programme under the Simon Chelugui-led Labour ministry. In 2018, it was revealed that some deceased persons were retained in the list of beneficiaries and were disbursed Sh184,000 for the period the situation prevailed. Management cited challenges of establishing proof of life and lack of feedback mechanism in relation to deaths. In the audit for the year ending June 2019, it was revealed that some beneficiaries were coerced into enrolling into banks they had not applied for. Some affected beneficiaries told auditors, according to the report, that their accounts were opened at Kenya Commercial Bank without their consent. In the same year, the auditor queried the veracity of the disbursements of Sh24.5 billion under the cash transfer programme. Gathungu revealed a flagrant breach of a contract agreement which provides that the banks provide reconciliation reports showing the funds received and disbursed. However, payrolls for each of the service providers and respective reconciliation were not provided by management for audit review. At the same time, rejected credit reports, dormant accounts reports, performance reports, the balance returned to the principal by clawback, final reconciliation reports were not provided. Banks also failed to disclose the total amount of money received from the department, the total amount credited to beneficiary accounts, and the amount of funds withdrawn by beneficiaries on a monthly basis. They also did not disclose the non-collected amounts by beneficiaries and commission files—narrative and electronic—detailing payments made. Management at that time explained that it was unable to access the information due to the confidentiality clause of the Banking Act. But a similar pattern has been flagged in the management of the relief stimulus package provided by President Uhuru Kenyatta’s administration. A review of the payroll data extracted from the system revealed that 1,323 beneficiaries shared 257 account numbers. Some Sh8.3 million was paid through the questionable account numbers in six payment phases during the year under review. “No plausible explanation was given as to why beneficiaries are sharing bank accounts,” Gathungu said. “In the circumstance, the authenticity of the amount paid into these accounts could not be ascertained.” The auditor said following the findings, it could not be confirmed if the Sh9.34 billion transferred by the Social Protection department was used within the law. The cash was to assist households of members with severe disabilities to cushion them against adverse economic effects of Covid-19. An audit of the funds further revealed that the money was deposited in an account in the name of a private entity trading as MPESA Holding Company Ltd. Gathungu said there was an irregularity in the move as the money was to be deposited into the Interior and Citizen Services recurrent account. “No explanation was provided as to why the deposit was made to MPESA Holding Company Limited instead of the State Department for Interior and Citizen Services’ recurrent account,” the report reads in part. It could therefore not be confirmed that the full disbursement was received by the intended recipients. Ordinarily, the money was to be sent to the ministry account, which would then give instructions to the bank to transfer money to M-Pesa. The cash transfer programme started in 2004 with a pilot of about 500 households of poor orphans and vulnerable children in select districts in the country. It has gradually expanded to include two more population categories of Older People and People with Severe Disabilities. The number of households covered has grown to 1.2 million in all the 290 constituencies. Chelugui once said the value of the transfer has remained constant over the years, despite increasing inflation and diverse household circumstances. With an annual deficit of Sh4 billion over the past five years, it is argued fewer households have been paid their regular transfers despite their enrolment in the programme. -Edited by SKanyara