Jubilee at the weekend intensified campaigns to drum up support for its Kiambaa MP by-election candidate Kariri Njama. The outfit has mobilised resources and party heavyweights have camped in Kiambaa to woo voters ahead of Thursday's by-election. Governor James Nyoro, while drumming up support for Kariri and Muguga MCA seat candidates, said it is not time to gamble with the leadership of Kiambaa. "We should not be lied to by people pushing for the UDA candidate, most of whom are still in Jubilee," he said. Nyoro said the Jubilee administration has developed Kiambu county, and Kiambaa and Muguga voters should recognise this by supporting the party's candidates. "We are seeing major roads being constructed, electricity has been installed, dams are also being constructed among other major projects by the Jubilee administration," he said. He said the entire Central region is waiting for the outcome of the Kiambaa by-election. Among Jubilee MPs campaigning for Njama include MP Wambugu Ngunjiri (Nyeri Town), Joshua Kutuny (Cherangany), Sabina Chege (Murang'a Woman Rep), Peter Mwathi (Limuru) and Swarup Mishra (Kesses). Other leaders on the ground include former Dagoretti South MP Dennis Waweru, former Nairobi speaker Beatrice Elachi, Kiambu Deputy Governor Joyce Ngugi and Jubilee youth caucus led by Pauline Njoroge, who is the communications officer at NEPAD/APRM Kenya secretariat. Kutuny said voting in UDA party candidate Njuguna Wanjiku is like voting in the opposition. "Kiambaa people have said they want to remain in Jubilee as it is the party they have known for the last six years. We are confident that Jubilee will carry the day," the Cherangany MP said. Waweru called upon Kiambaa voters "not to be used as guinea pigs" by voting for the UDA candidate. "Kiambaa people will show UDA that they cannot be used as guinea pigs," he said. Elachi urged the youth and women not to be influenced by UDA. "We know those outsiders supporting UDA are not in Kiambaa in the interest of their candidates but are out to sell their new party," she said. Ngunjiri said Jubilee is strong and will show its might on Thursday. He said about 35 MPs will act as agents during the by-elections in Kiambaa and Muguga. "We believe the IEBC will do a good job and if our opponents try anything fishy, we will be on the lookout. We believe Jubilee will be victorious," Ngunjiri said. Chege said Njama deserves to be elected as he has given back to the community by sponsoring needy students. The Jubilee leaders said they have listened to the Kiambaa people, most of whom are supporting Njama. Sasha Wamae, a youth leader and founder of ‘Young women for Kenya’, said they will deliver the Kiambaa seat through the Jubilee party. Mt Kenya Colleges and Universities Students Association chairman Steve Chege said they want everyone to know that Jubilee is still strong. "After we are done with the Kiambaa by-election, we shall officially take over the activities of the party and give it a youthful face," he said. Njama, while speaking to the youth, pledged to support their agenda and to empower them by making sure they get technical training and employment opportunities. "When I get elected, I will take 250 youths in Kiambaa to take up TVET courses. I will address the issue of unemployment with the various opportunities that are there," he said. Njama said youth support is crucial and he has helped them on various issues through his Kariri Njama Foundation. "I understand their needs and I have provided education and various opportunities to the youth," he said. Edited by A.N 