The government of Kisumu has organised an international investor conference in September. The event slated for September 26—30 will market the lakeside county as an investment hub following its reinvigorated growth over the past three years. More than 3,000 investors are targeted to attend as the county repositions itself as a regional business hub for the Lake Region Economic Bloc and the East African Community. Making the announcement, Governor Anyang' Nyong’o said the county government plans to showcase investment opportunities in agriculture, tourism, manufacturing, industrialisation, sports, culture and talent development, film, infrastructure, and energy, among other sectors. Preparations are almost complete. It will be held in strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocols. Kisumu county and the national government are finalising ongoing infrastructure projects. So far, the 217km meter-gauge railway from Nakuru to Kisumu has been completed, with passenger and cargo trains expected to be launched soon. Kisumu port has also been refurbished at a cost of Sh3 billion and is set to be commissioned soon to reopen maritime trade between Kenya, Uganda, and Tanzania. The government has also secured land at Miwani in Muhoroni for the establishment of a special economic zone. These, among other initiatives, are set to be discussed at length during the conference. Nyong’o said the county government plans to use the event as a precursor of the 9th edition of the Africities conference to be held in Kisumu next April. Africities is the United Cities and Local Governments of Africa’s flagship Pan-African event that is held every three years in one of the five regions of Africa. The event attracts communities and local authorities in African countries, as well as financial institutions, civil society groups, and development partners at continental and international levels. Kisumu is the first intermediary city in Africa to host the continental event, which has attracted over 4,000 delegates.