Gor Mahia custodian Gad Mathews  was the toast of the day, blocking two attempts from the spot as K'Ogalo beat arch-rivals AFC Leopards 4-1 on post-match penalties in a closely contested Betway Cup final at Nyayo Stadium on Sunday. Mathews saved Isaac Kipyegon and Said Tsuma whereas Eric Munene was the only one to score past him. Following the win, Gor will represent Kenya in next season's CAF Confederations Cup besides going home Sh2m richer compared to the losers who bagged Sh1m. Ingwe shaked off their underdogs tag coming into the derby as they started off the promising side. In the 4th minute, Clifton Miheso dashed down the left channel and picked out Tito Okello with a fine cross in the area, but the South Sudanese's header was palmed away by a hawk-eyed John Oyemba for a fruitless corner. An end to end game, Elvis Rupia rattled the woodwork a minute later after Frank Ogolla lost balance and tumbled to the ground, leaving him with sufficient space and time to compose himself for a shot. A glaring opportunity came knocking on K’Ogalo’s door in the 15th minute when Geoffrey Ochieng swang the ball forward into the path of Okello but Clyde Senaji thwarted the attack. Rupia had another glorious opportunity to put Leopards ahead in the 21st minute but the forward lost his footing and fumbled with the ball after being neatly put through by Austin Odhiambo. Four minutes later, Ogolla picked a yellow card after sending Rupia tumbling down about 20 yards out. Indeed, it was the only way to put tabs on the on-form forward as he barged into the area preparing to finish the job. Gor  earned their second corner moments later when Senaji sprawled on the ground to fend off Macharia’s cross as Miheso, Okello and Abdul prowled in wait. In the 34th minute, Isaac Kipyegon dispossessed Gor skipper Kenneth Muguna in the midfield and set up Lewis Bandi. The fullback in turn darted off down the left channel and picked out Rupia only for the forward to slam the side of the net. Gor emerged from the dressing room spitting fire. A minute after the breather, Okello charged  down the right channel after being put through by Ernest Wendo, but his feeble effort went inches wide. A minute later,  Oyemba was forced into full stretch to block Muguna’s rasping shot. Ingwe head coach Patrick Aussems introduced Peter Thiongo for Odhiambo in a frantic attempt to bolster the midfield. In the 60th minute, referee Waweru waved away penalty shouts from Leopards  after Harun Shakava sent Rupia tumbling down in the area.  Gor’s head coach Portuguese Vaz Pinto introduce Sammy Onyango for winger John Macharia to sharpen his attack force. Onyango almost proved a worthy substitution in 80th minute after he soared high to head Clifton Miheso’s cross but Oyemba heaved himself up to calmly collect the ball. Sensing a penalty shootout, Aussems introduced third choice custodian Ezekiel Owade who  was seemingly included in the match day squad specifically for the role. However, the tactic came to naught as Gor found the bull's eye through all their kickers — Sydney Ochieng, Kenneth Muguna, Clifton Miheso and Sammy Onyango. Gor Mahia’s Kenneth Muguna scooped the Most Valuable Player accolade. Best goalKeeper award John Oyemba for keeping five clean sheets. The top scorers' award went to Benjamin Mosha.