Lack of collaboration between the county and national government on land matters is to blame for the increasing land disputes in Kwale, a county official has said. County Environment Executive Saumu Beja Mahaja said the national government has been authorising renewal of leases and giving title deeds to private developers without consulting the county as required by the law. "Before a lease is renewed, the county government is supposed to be involved and contribute in decision making but this has not been the case," she said. Mahaja said the unconstitutional act has in turn led to the suffering of many innocent residents who are constantly at loggerheads with the investors. Currently, there is a dispute between more than 80 Wasini island residents in Lunga-Lunga and a private developer with both claiming ownership of at least 283 acres of land. The region has witnessed many cases of land disputes with residents being forcibly evicted from their alleged ancestral lands. Property worth millions of shillings have been lost in the demolition exercises as bulldozers bring down houses late at night under the supervision of armed police officers. Recently, over 2,000 residents at Bonje and Mwamdudu in Kinango subcounty were rendered homeless after their houses were reduced to rubles by bulldozers. This follows another demolition at Mbela village in Diani where thousands others are continuing to sleep in the cold after their homes were flattened by a private developer. Last year, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission launched investigations into various public lands whose ownership is disputed by private developers in Kwale. Mahaja said the only way historical land injustices would be addressed in the region is if the national government respect the law and abides by the rules and regulations surrounding the process of lease renewals and title deeds. "If consultations and cooperation are enhanced then we will end these land wrangles because the county is closer to the citizens and knows what's happening in the grassroots," she said. Kwale government is opposed to the renewal of leases and wants lands with expired leases to be given back to the communities. The County Executive said it is unfair for a single person to claim possession of big parcels of land rendering thousands homeless yet they have lived there for long. More so, she said, the claimed rented lands are undeveloped contrary to the lease conditions. "You cannot be having a title deed for over 1,000 acres that has been idle for more than 100 years and wake up one day wanting to evict the indigenous people," she said. Mahaja said the county government is determined to ensure the resident's rights are upheld and respected and they will stand by them until justice prevails. -Edited by SKanyara