Chief Justice Martha Koome lauded the East African Court of Justice (EACJ) for embracing mediation to find solutions to disputes arising among sister countries. Koome said she was happy to note the dispute resolution regarding South Sudan which has been resolved. She added that for all the problems that the countries have no one will come to solve and we must find solutions by ourselves. "Without mediation or alternative dispute resolution, we will never be able to deal with the backlog of cases that we have", Koome said. She was speaking on Wednesday during the official closing ceremony of EACJ judges training in Nairobi. The CJ promised to support EACJ strategic plan because it adds value to the East African community. "I don't understand why one government take the other government to court and also government fighting itself, who pays the bill when we have all these conflicts". Koome said the problem discussed during the training is all over and the Judiciary looks at the East African Court of Justice to give standards that they can emulate. "We all know when we reach the end of our justice in our jurisdiction, we have the EAC to look upon to", she said. Also, Koome said that the judiciary may come up with a master class on judgment writing which she said she will support to make sure judgments are written on time. EACJ President Nestor Kayobera said during the same event that the training was successful and urged the judges to do their best at work. He said the rule of law in East Africa Community in a number of issues include time limitation to file requirement. "It has been realised that a number of reasonable cases have been dismissed on grounds of time-barred and this requires amendment of the treaty to extend the time to the litigants so that they can get enough time to launch their cases", Kayobera said. Kayobera added that during their training emerging concerns rose around Article 30 of the treaty which allows legal and natural persons to mitigate before the court.