Ugenya parliamentary aspirant Michael Oliech has launched a Sh1.5 million water project in Ugunya to improve the health of residents through clean water. Oliech launched three clean water projects at Udira Kamrembo, Sega and Ulanda that will serve more than 8,000 residents. The aspirant said the clean water points will help tame waterborne diseases and asked the community to take good care of the water points. Oliech addressed residents at Udira Kamrembo before proceeding to Ulanda where he also launched a clean water project worth Sh800,000. The aspirant also thanked the Cater Foundation for supporting the projects and appealed to other stakeholders to join in initiating more community projects. Oliech is vying for the Ugenya parliamentary seat on an ODM ticket and will battle it out with Chris Karran in the nominations. The winner will face current MP David Ochieng of MDG party in 2022. Ugenya has been very elusive to ODM in the last two elections. Ochieng carried the day in a by-election after successfully contesting Karran’s victory in court. The Ugenya aspirant said he comes in with a new agenda of empowering the poor with the available resources in the constituency. “It disheartens that Ugenya is the only subcounty in Siaya with no financial institution just because we have no major economic activities in the constituency to support a bank,” Oliech said. Oliech said going forward he will ensure enough circulation of money in the constituency through small-scale businesses and lobby financial institutions to the area. “Our people are subjected to long-distances to save their money and look for loans to invest hence losing the morale to do business,” he added. Oliech regretted that even the high level of insecurity in the area is brought by poverty and lack of business ideas to uplift the lives of residents. He said he is looking forward to not only focusing on income-generating projects but also empowering the community through education. Edited by Henry Makori