Clerics should take at least fifteen minutes of their sermons to educate worshippers on the importance of receiving the Covid-19 vaccine, Equity Bank chief executive officer James Mwangi has urged. Mwangi said the effort would prepare residents for a mass Covid-19 vaccination drive to begin in August if a plan by President Uhuru Kenyatta is implemented. Uhuru last week said his administration ordered 13 million doses of single-shot Johnson & Johnson vaccine and the plan is to get about 10 million adults inoculated by Christmas. The President said that by end of 2022, the government projects to have vaccinated about 26 million adults. Mwangi, who is also on the Covid-19 Fund committee, urged Kenyans to heed the government’s clarion call by turning out in large numbers to be vaccinated. “It is my appeal to all Kenyans to turn up in large numbers when that time comes. We want to hastily get our lives back to normal, open up the economy of our country and improve the state of our country.” He told doubters that the government cannot put the lives of its citizens in jeopardy by ordering unsafe vaccines. “Unlike the current vaccines that are being administered in the country where you have to go for two shots, the one the government has ordered will be carried out once and we want all Kenyans to take advantage of the exercise. “I want to assure you that the government has been ordering and will continue ordering safe vaccines. So there is nothing to worry about,” he said. Mwangi spoke on Thursday at the ACK Mount Kenya hospital in Kirinyaga county during PPE consignment distribution by the Equity Group Foundation. “In the last one and a half years we have supplied the protection gear to over 120 public and private hospitals throughout the country, out of which 60 are faith-based facilities. We cannot underestimate the effort the private practitioners are playing towards complementing the government’s effort in combating the spread of the virus.” He said Equity Group will continue offering its support to various medical institutions by supplying the necessary medical gear to health workers who are at the front line in fighting the pandemic. Kirinyaga director of medical services, public health and sanitation George Karoki praised the foundation for its commitment to assisting health workers without discrimination. He said the organisation had assisted the medical facilities within the county with an assortment of anti-Covid protective gear worth Sh6,520,000. “We are grateful to the foundation for its unwavering support because ever since the pandemic struck, our county has enjoyed a replenishment of PPE in both public and private facilities. Reverend Benson Maina who is the hospital’s chairperson told the banker they will begin a campaign to encourage their followers to take the Covid-19 jab and continue to observe all the health protocols. 