The United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund has condemned the recent kidnapping and murder of children that has been witnessed in Nairobi and other parts of the country. In a statement on Friday, Kenyan representative Maniza Zaman said the culprits behind the kidnappings should be held to account, while additional measures to protect children are taken. “We need to redouble our efforts to ensure that children are protected wherever they are – at home, in schools, and in public spaces," Zaman said. "We need psychosocial support for child victims and their families, and we need to ensure that the public is vigilant and knows how to recognize and report any kind of violence against children.” To ensure the safety and protection of children, she said communities should be empowered and involved in campaigns. “We need a ‘whole of society’ approach, involving the Government, communities, parents and caregivers, teachers, and children themselves. No child should ever go through the traumatic experience of being a victim of violence and abuse,” she said. Last year, the Ministry of Labour with support from UNICEF launched a five-year National Prevention and Response Plan on Violence against Children, which was in response to persistently high rates of violence against children in Kenya. The plan includes a public information campaign ‘Spot It, Stop It’ which aims to raise public awareness of violence against children and how to prevent and report it. Children and adults have been encouraged to speak up about violence, seek support from a trusted adult, a children officer, or the Child Helpline on 116 (toll-free), and report cases to the police. This comes as the suspect in the kidnapping and killing of minors remains in custody for 30 days and helps in the search for other bodies. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations obtained a court order to detain suspects in the kidnapping and murder of at least 10 children. Masten Wanjala was on Thursday arraigned before Makadara chief magistrate Heston Nyagah under a miscellaneous application. The minor was a class six pupil at Sagaret primary school in Majengo. On July 8, another report of a missing 12-year-old child by the name of Mutuku Musyoki was made.