Education stakeholders in Lari seek to improve children's performance in exams even as the 844 system makes way for the competency-based curriculum. They say learners should work hard and get better grades. They decried that some last year candidates got less than 150 marks, with some schools scoring 170 as mean grade. The 844 system is slowly being replaced by CBC. Miramar International College executive director Dominic Mwenja says technology has changed the world a lot, hence children need to be prepared well to cope with the changes. "Technology is changing the world so fast. We must not allow our children to fail exams, we must support them to earn better grades so that they can climb the education ladder towards higher learning. They might take part in changing the World” Prof Mwenja said. He spoke on Saturday at Gitithia Catholic church hall where he joined the Gitithia Primary School board of management, clerics and parents. He was accompanied by headteacher Peter Nding’uri, Kiambu county TSC officer Regina Opondo, former MP Mburu Kahangara, businessman Ngure Tharao, and Lari Kirenga MCA Joseph Karichu. Others were Lari subcounty TSC officer James Lang'at and Uplands zone curriculum support officer James Kabebe. Kiambu West Knut branch chairman David Kamau urged parents and other stakeholders to support teachers and pupils, saying they were all trained to teach and nurture learners not only to pass exams but also to live well in society. “Whether you go to the best performing and poorly performing schools, all teachers are trained the same. We are parents, nurses, caretakers, teachers, and counsellors of your children. We aim at getting the best results from them,” he said. Opondo urged all BoMs to investigate why the schools were performing poorly and find a solution so that the learners can earn better grades. She advised parents not to speak negatively about teachers whose classes have been performing poorly, in front of learners, but rather encourage their children to put in more effort. 