LSK President Nelson Havi got a reprieve after the High Court stopped his plea taking that was scheduled for Wednesday. Havi who was arrested on Tuesday and later released on a Sh10,000 police bond was directed to appear in court today to take the plea of assault. He is alleged to have assaulted the LSK CEO Mercy Wambua on Monday during a council member meeting at their offices. However, through his lawyer Bryan Khaemba the LSK boss made an application before the High Court and got orders barring his prosecution. Justice Jairus Ngaah granted Havi leave to file his substantive application challenging his arrest and prosecution. “Leave granted shall operate as stay from further arrests or prosecution of the applicant for alleged offences connected with the allegations made by Mercy Wambua surrounding the events of the LSK Council meeting held on Monday at the LSK offices,” the order reads. Justice Ngaah has further directed Havi to file a substantive motion within seven days. The case will be mentioned on September 21 for a hearing when parties will make their submissions to the court. In his application to the court, Khaemba says his client was arrested and was scheduled to take plea over Wambua’s complaint that was untrue. According to the court papers, the cumulative action and inaction of the state part have led to Havi being subjected to public ridicule and embarrassment. “The police intent to prosecute him in respect of a complaint and offences related to rumours and innuendo peddled through print and social media, following a meeting at the LSK offices, Gitanga Road which he was present in his professional capacity as the elected President of the LSK,” Khaemba argued. Khaemba said the arrest and intention to prosecute Havi is a contravention of his fundamental rights to a fair trial, fair administrative action and amounts to an abuse of the legal process. “The DCI has usurped his authority and mandate to arrest and detain my client without conducting any criminal investigations,” reads court papers. He told the court that it was in the interest of justice that the intended prosecution of Havi be restrained pending the hearing and determination of the petition challenging the arrest and intended prosecution. Khaemba had pleaded with the court to intervene in the matter arguing that Havi risked being charged in a criminal court. “In the most unfair administrative action, the police have totally refused to furnish the applicant with reasons for their decision to arrest and detain him despite him requesting for the same,” Khaemba said.