Arsenal have agreed a deal in principle for the £50m transfer of Brighton & Hove Albion defender Ben White. White was a late call-up to Gareth Southgate’s England Euro 2020 squad. It completes a meteoric rise for the 23-year-old, who was released by Southampton as a youngster before being signed by Brighton. He went on a number of loans from the Seagulls, including to Leeds’ Championship title-winning side in 2019-20. White’s performances for Leeds attracted the attention of many leading clubs and prompted Brighton to secure him on a new four-year contract last summer. That deal put the Seagulls in a strong negotiating position this summer and it is understood they rejected two bids from the Gunners before agreement was finally reached amid interest from other Premier League clubs. White is on holiday so the transfer, including his medical, will not be completed until he returns. The transfer comes as Arsenal part ways with Brazil defender David Luiz after his contract expired. The Gunners have also signed 21-year-old left-back Nuno Tavares from Benfica for £8m this summer. Meanwhile, Raul Jimenez made his long-awaited return from injury as Wolves fell to a 1-0 pre-season friendly defeat at League One side Crewe Alexandra. The Mexican striker, 30, had not played since he suffered a fractured skull at Arsenal on November 29. Wearing protective headgear, Jimenez struck the bar with a free-kick before being replaced by Patrick Cutrone. Chris Long scored the winner at Gresty Road as Bruno Lage's reign as Wolves boss began in disappointing fashion. Jimenez was cleared to return in May, but Wolves decided not to risk him for the final game of the season against Manchester United.It was also decided he would miss the Olympic Games even though Mexico were keen to choose the former Benfica forward as an overage player. Elsewhere, Patrick Vieira enjoyed a winning start as Crystal Palace manager as Wilfried Zaha scored the only goal in their friendly at League Two Walsall. Former Arsenal midfielder Vieira, who previously managed Nice in France, replaced Roy Hodgson as Palace boss on a three-year contract. Neither of his two new signings, Michael Olise and Remi Matthews, were involved at the Banks's Stadium, although Nathaniel Clyne did feature for the first 45 minutes despite not yet signing an extension to his contract, which expired in the summer.