Youth groups transforming public spaces in Nairobi to reclaim the lost glory of green city in the sun have been awarded. The winners were announced on Thursday during an award event hosted by the Public Space Network in collaboration with NMS. The competition was funded by the DreamTown NGO from Denmark and the UN-Habitat Program. This is the 5th edition of the Changing Faces Competition 2020/2021. Water CS Sicily Kariuki, NMS director-general Mohammed Badi, Nema DG Mamo Mamo, UN-Habitat executive director Maimunah Sharif and Kenya Forest Service chief conservator Julius Kamau were present. NMS and UN-Habitat signed an MoU to enhance cooperation and promote communities' role in improving their city. The overall winner was Kamukunji Environmental and Conservation Community which pocketed Sh 150,000. The team was awarded for its effort in transforming a dumpsite into a safe recreational park. There was also a tremendous personal investment by team members both monetary and volunteer time. The team was said to have a great vision on how they would like to scale up and have worked on building partnerships to support their growth plans. The site where the team worked is recognized as a National Heritage site protected under the Kenya National Museums hence very strategic in relaying the mobilization story. The Komb Green Solutions from Korogocho pocketed Sh100,000 for their key role in sprucing up the Nairobi River. Their excellent mobilization skills brought together several youths before transforming a large section of the river. The team is accredited with the creation of an iconic community park on the river bank. They are one of the community teams leading in the Nairobi River regeneration project. Believers Youth Group from Dandora pocketed Sh 100,000 under the playgrounds Challenge category (Child-Friendly Space). The team created a mini-park well suited for children. The space created has a well-tended lawn free from any child hazards, with a range of animals and birds roaming freely which provide points of education and entertainment for children. There is also a functional library where members can borrow books and space for children to read peacefully. Wahenga Youth Group pocketed Sh100,000 under the courtyards challenge. The team transformed courtyards in their neighbourhood using art as a mobilization tool. The majority of teams working in that area have borrowed their model from this team. The best Newcomer Effort award went to sister brother Love from Dandora. They pocketed Sh50,000 after transforming unused space into a beautiful, clean, green and serene space with some activities for children. PTG Amps from Kayole pocketed Sh30,000 after being declared the most resilient team. This is a new incoming team, at least three times; their space was trashed by unknown persons who are against the community transformation efforts. In each instance, the team recovered and redid their space. They also faced resistance from Nyumba Kumi officials who demanded payment and frustrated their efforts. However, the team persisted until the end of the competition. The Special Award for consistency went to Mustard Seed from Dandora which pocketed Sh30,000. The team has been a pioneer in the competition since 2014; they have demonstrated consistent growth and stellar performance over the period. It is the model court that sits on a reclaimed illegal dumping site and inspiration to competition led by Public Space Network, Community Mobilizer Charles Gachanga. During the awards, Josephat Karomi from Kamukunji was declared as the best community champion pocketing Sh50,000. Participating as a community champion for the first time, Karomi recruited teams from the widest geographical radius while building partnerships with other organizations and established an excellent rapport with government agencies. The competition is an annual, international award-winning initiative that mobilizes youth teams through a fun competition to take responsibility for managing public spaces around them. They also compete against their peers to see which team will create the cleanest, greenest and safest space in their neighbourhood. The initiative is the brainchild of the founder and chairman of the Network - Robinson Esialimba. Initiated in 2014, the competition has successfully run five editions that have seen the participation of more than 300 youth teams from across Nairobi bringing together over 3000 young people. This year’s competition saw the participation of 114 teams representing more than one thousand young people from across the city. The fifth edition was launched in October last year by Environment CS Keriako Tobiko and the teams had three months to transform their spaces. They were then evaluated by an independent jury from organizations such as NMS, Architectural Association of Kenya, Women in Real Estate, Planning Systems, Agence Française de Dévelopement among others who made site visits to evaluate the team’s work.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris