England defender Harry Maguire will be at the heart of Gareth Southgate’s defence in Wednesday’s Euro 2020 semi-final against Denmark, but he did not know if he would be fit enough to even make the squad after an ankle injury in May. Maguire suffered ligament damage in Manchester United’s May 9 Premier League match with Aston Villa and missed the rest of the domestic season and his club’s Europa League final loss to Villarreal. He missed England’s warm-up games and opening two matches in the Euros’ group stage but returned in the final group fixture with Czech Republic and has been alongside John Stones since then. Asked if he feared he might have to watch the Euros on TV rather than be on the field, Maguire, who scored a header in Saturday’s 4-0 win over Ukraine, said there was uncertainty. “I think with any injury, you don’t know how you are going to recover, you don’t know the rehab, if you are going to have a setback. Touch wood, I haven’t had any setbacks in rehab and it has all gone smoothly, all gone to plan and a little bit quicker than we all thought,” he told a news conference on Monday. “Obviously to miss the Europa League final was disappointing and then I fully set my sights on making the Euros squad.” The Yorkshireman said he did not know, when he was named in that squad, when he would be ready to return to action but is pleased with the way he has coped. “It’s not like being thrown into a friendly match, it’s the European Championship, so it’s so demanding and the intensity of each game,” he said. “So where it has gone and where it has been, I think that is great credit to the medical staff at Manchester United and England for the way they went about everything, the way they pushed me every day and obviously I am really proud of myself in terms of the way that I pushed myself as well.” Maguire was part of the England team which lost to Croatia in the semi-final of the World Cup in Russia three years ago and says the memory of that loss is in the players’ minds. “Losing the semi-final at the World Cup hurt a lot. So we need to make sure when it comes on Wednesday night we get a positive feeling rather than the one we got against Croatia.” Elsewhere, England are not the same team that was stunned by Croatia in the 2018 World Cup semi-final and the influx of young, attacking talent has them poised for success at Euro 2020, defender Kieran Trippier said ahead of Wednesday’s semi-final against Denmark. Trippier scored with an early free kick in the World Cup semi-final in Russia before Croatia struck twice to snatch an extra-time win. Gareth Southgate’s side face the Danes at Wembley with the chance to reach the final of a major tournament for the first time since winning the 1966 World Cup. “I think from the two years the team has changed a lot and we are in a position now where we just want to create our own history,” Trippier told British media on Monday. “There are only maybe six or seven of us from that World Cup team, we have got so much good young talent now. “It is there for everyone to see the attacking players we’ve got and I think we’ve taken that step forward from 2018.”