Gor Mahia head coach Portuguese Vaz Pinto has warned AFC Leopards to brace up for battle royale  in their much-hyped Betway Cup  finals at Utalii ground this Sunday. Besides the Sh2 million prize money at stake, the winner of the mouthwatering encounter will proceed to represent the country in the Caf Confederations Cup. At least 64 teams had thrown their hats in the ring for the contest that roped in 11 out of the 17 top tier sides. Speaking on Thursday, Pinto said the reason they fell 2-1 to Western Stima in their last Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League encounter was because he chose to rest his key players for their crucial domestic cup tie against traditional arch-rivals AFC Leopards. "It was important to rest my players because they are tired after featuring in 16 matches within 46 days. That's like doing half a season in one and a half months," said Pinto. They obviously required some time to recover ahead of our finals on Sunday," said Pinto. Gor set the stage for the mammoth tie after seeing off  Bidco United 4-2 on post-match penalties at Utalii grounds. AFC also went ahead to beat Division One side Equity 6-5 also on post-match  penalties after both sides had settled for a goal-less draw in regulation time in the second semi finals of the day at the same venue. Both K'Ogalo and Ingwe kicked off their campaign on a high note  with 4-1 and 6-0 thumping of minnows Congo Boys and Taveta All Stars respectively. The two sides will flex muscles in the second match of the day that will be preceded by the playoffs between Bidco and Equity whose winner will take home Sh250,000. The tactician assured their ardent fans of their commitment to bring the silverware back home after missing out narrowly on the Caf Champions League slot that went to Tusker. The brewers finished top of the table by June 30, the deadline set by the regional football governing body for member federations to submit names of representatives. "We are definitely keen on booking the remaining slot for the regional tourney after we failed to clinch the Champions League slot, so it won't be any easier for our opponents," said Pinto. FKF had initially set the encounter for Ruaraka grounds but moved to shift the venue to Utalii grounds last Friday after frantic efforts to secure either Moi Stadium, Kasarani or Nyayo Stadium hit a snag. They revealed that efforts to gain access to either Nyayo Stadium or Moi, Stadium Kasarani had hit a snag despite numerous pleas. In a letter dated June 4 and signed by FKF CEO Barry Otieno, the federation wrote to Sports Kenya director-general Pius Metto, requesting to hire Moi Stadium, Kasarani for the Betway FKF Cup finals between arch-rivals AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia slated for July 4. But in a quick rejoinder, Metto reiterated that Moi Stadium, Kasarani had long been set aside specifically for the Kenyan Tokyo Olympics-bound contingent and any attempts to interfere with the bubble camp would only cause inconvenience. “We've put our Olympic teams in a bubble camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, and asking them to surrender the facility for use will only cause a lot of inconveniences,” said Metto.