The Auditor General has flagged the Nairobi County Assembly for  spending Sh12.3 million to lease offices for MCAs. In the report for FY 2018-19, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu put the assembly on the spot for paying Sh14.7 million to the office leasing scheme. In that year, the assembly spent Sh570 million on goods and services, including Sh14.7 million on rental of produced assets. However, the audit report showed there were no signed lease agreements between the assembly and the landlords to support the payments. “In the circumstances, it was not clear whether the expenditure of Sh12.3 million was a proper charge to public funds,” the audit report read. Earlier in March, the budget committee said Nairobi had to sacrifice planned construction of offices for MCAs so they could have free cars instead of buying them with low-interest loans. President Uhuru Kenyatta had promised car loans be converted to grants for the next batch of MCAs. This was seen as an inducement to vote for BBI in assemblies. However, they are still going to get offices. The Annual Development Plan report for 2019 said most MCAs are operating from rented offices; 53 MCAs out of 85 are accommodated in rented offices. The remaining 32 offices are dilapidated and in need of quick rehabilitation. The county was to spend Sh400 million to build new offices for its ward representatives to ease the pressure for space from other county government workers. It was to spend another Sh100 million on furniture and computers for the new offices. The new block was to be constructed at the parking space between Taifa Road and City Hall Way starting this year. The aim was to provide work space for 39 nominated ward representatives and chairpersons of House committees. The construction of the new offices was to commence in 2019 but the project to set up a Sh500 million administration block was pushed back. It was delayed after the assembly dropped plans to build the office block for ward representatives without work offices because of unavailability of the land identified for the project. The project was to take place in phases, with the first phase planned for the financial year ending June 20, 2019. “This project could therefore not take place and had to be dropped. The assembly is considering other feasible acquisition methods," said then Assembly Clerk Jacob Ngwele. In this financial year ending June 30, 2022, the assembly is to spend Sh1.4 billion to improve existing offices for MCAs and construct new ones. Under the plan, MCAs and the assembly's leadership will get offices for Sh1.18 billion, which will be spent on buying an administration block. As part of the new plan to improve the assembly's infrastructure, Sh1.18 billion will be spent to acquire an administration block for nominated MCAs and offices for the assembly's leaders. Another Sh191 million will be spent to rehabilitate and construct 30 assembly ward offices; this will be executed in a phased approach. The remaining Sh300 million has been earmarked to buy information communication technology infrastructure, furniture and other equipment. The new development is contained in the Nairobi County Fiscal Strategy paper for the financial year ending June 30, 2022, and will start next month. “A total of Sh1.18 billion will go towards acquisition of an administrative block to cater for 37 special-elect MCAs and 20 offices for the assembly’s leaders and staff,” the document reads. (Edited by V. Graham)