Kemri has successfully trialled herbal flour to be used in eradicating neglected tropical diseases. Scientists at the Kenya Medical Research Institute are undertaking research to introduce integrated deworming and nutritious porridge to children in primary school. The Ujiplus project is undergoing a third clinical trial and is aimed at providing a local solution to intestinal infections such as roundworms, hookworms and schistosomiasis (bilharzia) and ringworms. The researchers will soon introduce the product in the market as an alternative treatment for the neglected tropical diseases after successful clinical trials of Ujiplus flour. The nutritious Ujiplus flour is prepared just like common porridge before it is given to children. Kemri director of research and capacity building Prof Elijah Songok said the new product will be a breakthrough following positive indicators in the previous trials. Preliminary clinical trials of the medicine were done in Nandi and Kirinyaga counties. “The results met our objectives and raised hopes of success in the study. Children who took the formulation were dewormed and their nutritional indicators (weight) improved,” Songok said. Speaking in Mbita town on Friday, Songok said Ujiplus is effective, safe, affordable and enhances a child's nutrition status. Neglected tropical diseases are rampant in areas around large water bodies. “We’re coming up with Ujiplus medicine to change the approach of deworming children in Africa,” Songok said. Kemri scientist Dr Elizabeth Matey said the product is made from home-grown ingredients such as millet, maize and other fortified products. “We’ve partnered with herbalists and farmers who are supplying us with ingredients which have all been tested in our laboratories. We’re creating employment for farmers by providing a ready market for their products,” Matey said. Preliminary results showed that some school pupils where trials were done exhibited signs of health improvement. Nyamanga and Bondo Township primary schools in Mbita, Homa Bay county, are among schools selected for the clinical trials of the deworming flour. The schools’ authorities said cases of stomach upset had significantly reduced among the pupils. Previously, at least 20 per cent of pupils at the learning institutions would miss classes after being diagnosed with bilharzia and other intestinal infections which affect the liver, lungs, nervous system and the brain. Nyamanga head teacher Kennedy Kajwang said cases of pupils complaining about stomachache have reduced since they started taking the porridge. “Frequent absenteeism that was witnessed due to complaints of stomach problems has significantly reduced,” Kajwang said. Bondo Township head teacher Peter Oburu said they have increased enrolment of pupils. He said Grade 2 pupils at the school have been using the porridge for nearly three months and a remarkable change was reported. “The novel porridge has helped pupils be awake in class. Previously, many pupils from poor families would not go to school and if they come they sleep in class because of hunger,” Oburu said. Prior to rollout of the programme by Kemri, the government had been engaged in a nationwide deworming exercise that started in 2001. Currently, at least 10 million children are being dewormed annually after the World Health Organization provided a roadmap for the deworming exercise. Edited by Henry Makori