ANC leader Musalia has intensified his 2022 presidential campaigns, even as his One Kenya Alliance co-principals appear uninspired 13 months to the general election OKA brings together Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Moses Wetang'ula of Ford Kenya. They have all declared their interest in the presidency. It is understood President Uhuru Kenyatta is wooing the trio to abandon OKA and team up with ODM leader Raila Odinga to form a formidable alliance to take on Deputy President William Ruto. Starting off a two-day tour of Nyeri, Mudavadi on Saturday sought Mt Kenya governors' support in his 2022 presidential bid. In a clear indication he could run for president solo as he did in 2013, Mudavadi has increased visibility touring various parts of the country. The former vice-president had earlier toured Nakuru and Nyandarua counties, where he met area governors. He said he would visit more counties. Mudavadi has also toured Mombasa and Garissa in Northeastern. He said he has been reaching out to governors to share his views and vision and expressed optimism they will support him when the right time comes. Mudavadi said he was ready to form coalitions with like-minded leaders but said coalitions collapse because of lack of trust among political partners. He said a strong formation such as Nasa, which he helped form had a breach of trust leading to its collapse. Trust, he said, is important in whatever formation as Kenyans move to the 2022 general election. He said things can be in writing but if the leaders are not working based on trust, then what is on paper may not be good enough. Any formation that he will be involved in, he added, should be anchored in trust and good policies for the good of the country. “So before we sign anything new, we have to have an understanding on some fundamental issues,” he said. He cited the issues as the economy, improving the environment and healthcare services among others, as his priority areas is formation of any coalition he will be part of. Even sharing of political parties' funds should be do on the basis of trust, he said. Mudavadi has ruled out working with Raila again unless he agrees to a political agreement that locks out ODM from fielding a presidential candidate in 2022. While Mudavadi has intensified his political activities across the country, partners in OKA have maintained a low profile with once in a while campaign activity. Kalonzo a week ago traversed his Ukamba backyard preparing ground for President Kenyatta’s visit and attended a church service in Nairobi. Despite announcing he will not play second fiddle again, the Wiper boss has limited his action to church services - mostly in Nairobi and Ukambani - with no political visibility as far as 2022 is concerned. Gideon and Wetang'ula, on the other hand, appear to be spectators in the presidential contest, which is shaping up into a three-horse race. In the course of the week, Mudavadi dispatched a team to Coast region for mass party registration. On Thursday evening, he launched the ANC’s training manual for women aspirants. “We are intentional in our desire to bring on board more women candidates in 2022,” Mudavadi said on the same day he hosted Garissa Governor Ali Korane at his Nairobi office. Mudavadi, who has already won over Uhuru allies such as Nairobi Senator John Sakaja, also hosted Nyandarua Governor Francis Kimemia at his Nairobi office. “Our discussion covered a wide range of issues - economy, security, agriculture, infrastructure, healthcare, education and good governance,” Mudavadi said after the meeting. He added, “We further agreed to work together in fostering national unity, peace and togetherness as we approach the electioneering period.”