Governor Sospeter Ojaamong has absolved himself from the blame game surrounding poor services in Busia. Ojaamong on Monday told critics accusing him of poor delivery of critical services to take their concerns to the county executives. He said they are the heads of the various departments in his administration. “My desire to leave a legacy in the remaining 13 months is being hampered by my executive, which is not living up to its billing. My executive is not performing to my expectations. I wanted them to work faster, but that has not happened,” Ojaamong said in a brief statement shared on his official social media pages. “Until I hand over power to the incoming governor in October 2022, let us work hard to deliver to the people of Busia county. We pushed the national government to release to counties their equitable share for the financial year ending June 30, 2021, which it obliged and allowed an extension of two weeks for the absorption of the funds.” The governor cited the Water department, which he said had done little to ensure supply despite complaints from the public. "I take issue with the Water department for not giving me convincing reasons why the taps continue to be dry. It will not be business as usual. I have given you the budget, but I am surprised there is no water, with concerned officers failing to give convincing reasons,” he said. “As we strive to pay pending bills for contractors and suppliers who have completed their work, I will not entertain officers who hide files for some clients with ulterior motives." Ojaamong was speaking in Busia town when he met with county executives, chief officers and department directors to review the state of the county projects currently under implementation. Eleven months ago, Ojaamong had warned lazy county executives they would be fired if they failed to meet their performance targets. In August 2020, Ojaamong said his administration would not tolerate county employees out to sabotage his good working relationship with residents. “I will visit departments on a weekly basis to check on how officers are discharging their duties to the satisfaction of county residents,” Ojaamong said. He at the time oversaw the signing of performance contracts by county executives, chief officers and departmental directors. “Performance contracts will be a deliverable tool to be replicated yearly. My executives should discharge their duties meticulously to enable me realise my legacy. This is a wake-up call for chief executive committee members, chief officers and directors to strive and deliver on their mandates. All service providers should sacrifice to ensure proper service delivery.” Ojaamong issued the August 2020 warning eight months after he made similar remarks. In January 2020, the former Amagoro MP said he would work with people who would enable him realise his legacy when he exits office in 2022 after serving as Busia governor for two terms. “The delivery of services to the people of Busia county is paramount for them to improve and realise their dreams,” Ojaamong said then. On June 8, the governor had said he would exit office in 2022 leaving a county that has almost all projects complete. “I'm exiting the stage with a good foundation that my successor will cherish, starting it on a clean sheet. Most of the projects my administration initiated are over 90 per cent complete, with priority also given to stalled projects,” he said. On April 1, the governor said his administration is committed to finishing all incomplete projects before the lapse of his tenure. “I instruct officers in all departments to ensure all county projects are completed on time. All our major roads should be passable, our health facilities should be well-equipped, unlock more water projects among others to ease the burden on our people,” he said while in Butula subcounty. Edited by A.N