Anti-narcotics police have arrested five suspects packaging 250kg of drugs known as shashamane, a mixture of narcotics, in Karen. The suspects and drugs were seized on Tuesday evening during a sting operation at a residence in Karen near Bomas. The suspects were packaging the drugs, a brown powder, in readiness for distribution. It causes hallucinations and its effects are said to be like those of cocaine and opium. Police and anti-drugs authorities are concerned over the increasing seizures of shashamane. The drug, which originates in Ethiopia is becoming popular locally and has been on the market for a few years. Officials say an increase in the use of shashamane is a major challenge in fighting substance abuse. The drug is boiled in a pot and smoked like shisha, or rolled into joints. Some addicts mix the drug with mustard seed oil and cannabis before rolling it in joints. The smoke can affect people as far as four metres away. Traffickers often conceal it in sacks of rice and sugar. The sacks travel from Ethiopia to Kenya mostly through Somalia and later penetrate to Garissa, Nairobi, Tana River and other coastal towns. Once the drugs arrive, they are packaged in brown 500mg packets and sold to a few trusted dealers for Sh800 each. They then sell it for about Sh10 a teaspoonful, depending on supply and demand. When police raided the Karen home, they found the suspects with a weighing machine packaging the narcotics for the market. Some of the drugs were hidden in the bathroom, bedrooms and others were being weighed and packaged. Director of Criminal Investigations George Kinoti said they have stepped up efforts to rid the trafficking of narcotics, which is the main source of the menace. “If we address the source we can deal with the menace,” Kinoti said. He added that more resources have been directed towards the war on narcotics. He said all forms of narcotics cause harm to many and they are determined to eliminate the threat at large. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)