With only a week left before departure, the Tokyo Olympics-bound Hit Squad quartet say they possess the grit and energy to strut comfortably to the medal podium. The boxers have been stropping their blades from their training base at Moi Stadium, Kasarani since early June and now feel they have amassed sufficient expertise from their four coaches to charge effectively for medals in Japan. Hit Squad captain featherweight Nick Okoth asked his teammates to shake off the fear of the unknown and fly the country's flag high. "There is always that tension that pops up ahead of such major international tournaments, but we must learn to rise above it and perform well enough to make our country proud," said Okoth. He said he quacked in his boots during his debut games in 2008, a factor that cost him dearly as he ended up bowing out in the early stages of the competition. "This is my second Olympic Games and I'm not allowing fear to ruin my chances this time round. "During my first games, I trembled in the ring out of nervousness and I'm not ready to lose the glorious opportunity lying ahead once again. "I have accumulated wealth of experience that is sufficient to fire me to the ultimate prize," said Okoth. African Zone 3 heavyweight champion Elly Ajowi reckons they have been refined well enough by their knowledgeable tacticians and all that is left now is for them to justify their inclusion in the Kenyan contingent. "We have very knowledgeable coaches from whom we've gathered invaluable expertise. Coupled with the wealth of experience we've gathered en-route  Tokyo, we now have what it takes to bring the medals back home," said Ajowi. Lightweight Christine Ongare also urged team-mates to prove their mettle at the games and asked those who failed to make the team to continue working hard as they eye other opportunities. "Now that we have earned this rare chance, keep on encouraging us because our success could create opportunities for other Kenyan boxers out there. If you never made the cut, don't feel discouraged. We have other tournaments along the way, and who knows you may be the ones we shall be looking up to," she said. Welterweight Elizabeth Akinyi said she is now fit for competition after working thoroughly to attain the right weight. She said she has completely healed from a nasty scratch in her gums on the opening day of the invitational Konstantin Korotkov Memorial Boxing Championship in Moscow, Russia.