ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi began his two-day tour of Nakuru County on Saturday by paying Governor Lee Kinyanjui a courtesy call at his office. He then made a tour of the larger Nakuru City accompanied by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja, among other leaders. "First stop a courtesy call to @GovLeeKinyanjui who has done a wonderful job developing the county," Mudavadi tweeted. The Presidential hopeful is expected to pitch camp in Nakuru county on Saturday and Sunday as he tries to gain ground the region considered as Deputy President William Ruto’s stronghold. Mudavadi is expected to hold consultative meetings later today with key influencers from the county including; business and political leaders. "Mudavadi has anchored his 2022 political journey around rebuilding a resilient economy and ensuring peace and stability. His Nakuru tour is expected to bolster his message on the resuscitation of the economy and the management of public debt as he aims to be handed the mandate by Kenyans to fix this come 2022, a statement from his office said. On Sunday, the former deputy Prime Minister is expected to attend two church services starting at NEEMA PCEA 8:30am and at St Peters Catholic Church, Lanet. After the church services, he will meet representatives from communities in the cosmopolitan county of Nakuru. The tour comes barely three weeks after he toured the Coastal City of Mombasa where he engaged various local leaders and residents urging them to support his presidential bid. Mudavadi who is eyeing the presidency in 2022 has always insisted on the need for unity and coming together of like-minded leaders to form a government that will work for the people. He has an alliance -One Kenya Alliance- with former National Super Alliance co-principals, Kalonzo Musyoka and Moses Wetangula. Kanu Chairman Gideon Moi is also part of OKA. The ANC leader has been touring various parts of the country to popularize his party and his economic recovery agenda ahead of next year's general elections. Last year, Mudavadi visited the Mt. Kenya region to consolidate his support base ahead of 2022. He also held a series of meeting with leaders from both Eastern and the Coast region.