The government of Botswana has warned its citizens against traveling to places rocked by protests in South Africa and Eswatini. In a statement on Tuesday through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the government asked its citizens to avoid unnecessary travel to KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng provinces. South Africa has witnessed chaos as supporters of former President Jacob Zuma took to the streets demanding his release. Zuma was sentenced to 15 months in prison for court’s contempt after defying a court order for him to testify before a judicial commission investigating widespread allegations of corruption during his era of the presidency. Since then, the country has witnessed skirmishes which have also led to looting as protesters vandalised shopping centers and businesses in the Gauteng and Kwazulu-Natal provinces, where Zuma has big support. Botswana has also asked its citizens who are in South Africa to exercise extreme caution and avoid unnecessary movements especially in the cities of Johannesburg and Durban. “Batswana are further advised to avoid unnecessary travel to the Kingdom of Eswatini due to civil unrest in the country.  Batswana who are already in Eswatini are advised to exercise extreme caution and to avoid unnecessary movements to the country.” The Batswana in the mentioned two countries have been asked to contact the office of the High Commission in those countries for further information and help. By Tuesday, the protest in South Africa had led to the death of at least 45 people as the government tries to restore calm. Eswatini has also been experiencing protest for the past weeks as locals demands for constitutional reform in the only country that still practices total monarchy in Africa. SADC’s chairperson Mokgweetsi Masisi, who is the President of Botswana had earlier said the team’s fact-finding mission in Eswatini was to gather first-hand information on the disturbances, including the state of security in the country, and to appeal for calm and restraint from all the stakeholders.