Olympic 1,500m champion Faith Kipyegon faces inform Hassan Sifan of  Netherlands in what will be hotly contest race during the Monaco Diamond League on Friday. Kipyegon will be gunning for revenge having lost to Sifan in Florence, Italy last month. Hassan clocked a world-leading time of 3:53.53 with Kipyegon coming home second in 3:53.91. Hassan has announced she  will double in both  5000m and 10,000m at the Tokyo Olympic Games. She is, therefore, keen to make her mark in the metric mile in Monaco in  bid  to underline her superiority across her exceptional range of distances. Kipyegon will have Africa 1,50 m champion Winny Chebet for company with Winnie Nanyondo of Uganda another threat to watch out. World 3,000m steeplechase champion and record holder, Beatrice Chepkoech leads a star studded field in the water jump event Chepkoech returns to the scene where she broke the world record in 2018 and faces a stern test from former world champion Hyvin Kiyeng who has been in fine form on the circuit this season. Purity Kirui and Fancy Cherono will be in the race alongside former world champion Emma Coburn of the United States, in-form German Gesa Krause and Bahrain’s Winifred Yavi. World 1,500m champion Timothy Cheruiyot who missed out on selection to the Kenya team to the Tokyo Olympics, will be hoping to stamp his authority in his speciality. Cheruiyot bounced back to win in Stockholm last weekend and will be hoping to continue his rich vein of form as he takes on Timothy Sein, Charles Simotwo,  Norwegian siblings Filip and Jakob Ingrebrigsten and Ethiopian Samuel Tefera. Ferguson Rotich will be looking to build momentum ahead of Tokyo when he parades in the 800m . Rotich, however, faces an acid test from compatriot and Tokyo-bound Emmanuel Korir, Botswana's  Olympic silver Nigel Amos,  Clayton Murphy of the United States and compatriot Bryce Hoppel. Abraham Kibiwott spearheads the steeplechase pack alongside Ben Kigen and Amos Kirui. They will be up against world silver medallist Lamech Girma. The 200m showdown will see world 100m champion Shelly-Ann Fraser-Pryce taking on Olympic 400m champion Shaunae Miller-Uibo, American Tamara Clark, in-form Blessing Okagbare (Nigeria)  and Marie-Josee Ta Lou ( Ivory Coast).