Deputy President William Ruto has welcomed ODM party leader Raila Odinga to the 'Hustler nation' and the economic empowerment discussion. The DP was reacting to an article by a local paper where Raila unveiled various measures that he says will eradicate poverty and make Kenya prosperous. “My friend Tinga, welcome to the Hustler movement. The conversation here is about the economy, not ethnicity, empowerment not power,” he said. “…Jobs not positions, creating opportunity and wealth not sharing, citizens not leaders by changing policy not the constitution to bottom-up not top-down economics.” Raila’s move appeared to be a deliberate response to Ruto’s bottom-up economic model that he has consistently trashed as promoting the handout culture. The former Prime Minister said he will develop and implement policies on the rural transformation that make rural life more liveable. Ruto has been giving wheelbarrows, car washing machines, motorcycles, animal feed and sewing machines to the youth. But both Raila and President Uhuru Kenyatta have criticised the move saying it’s not sustainable and the government agenda should be driven by policy. DP Ruto has been calling out leaders who have been pushing for the Building Bridges Initiative  Constitutional change, terming them selfish individuals, who don't care about the wellbeing of Kenyans. A week ago, Raila released snippets of his 2022 blueprint that will anchor his presidential run. The blueprint makes national stability, the war against corruption, job creation, industrialisation and support for small business the centre of his 2022 presidential run. Though he has not stated publicly that he will seek the top seat, Raila has embarked on key activities including consolidating his traditional support bases, leaving no doubt that he will vie. Raila’s men have also made it clear that their leader will go for the top seat. Ruto has rolled out his agenda, the bottom-up economic model which he believes will empower the majority of Kenyans at the bottom of the pyramid to turn around the economy of the country.