Jubilee politicians campaigning against the party should relinquish their seats, the Kirinyaga chair, Muriithi Kang’ara, has said. Kang’ara termed it disrespectful for the elected leaders to continue enjoying the benefits the party gives and also tarnish its name. “If you are an elected leader and don’t respect the policy of the party and its leader who is President Uhuru Kenyatta, then resign and then IEBC can announce the  post you hold vacant,” he said. He wants President Kenyatta to institute disciplinary measures against the errant leaders. “Enough is enough! The President should now act on their case. Let them know that every political party is guided by a constitution that should be followed to the letter.” Speaking to journalists on Wednesday in Sagana, Kang’ara said that the party is intact and not dead as some politicians have been claiming. “We want to dispel rumours that have been perpetuated by some desperate politicians who have since joined other parties, that Jubilee is being dissolved. The party is strong, here to stay and will field candidates in next year’s polls,” Kang'ara said. He also lauded President Kenyatta’s regime for initiating transformative projects in the country, adding that the administration had brought more development than any other. “The many projects including the modern transport infrastructures being undertaken under his regime is an indication that the President is a hard worker. However, it is unfortunate that the very people he trusted to work with him are backstabbing him by politicking against his administration, saying nothing much has been achieved,” he said. As the general election nears, Kang'ara urged Kenyans to be wary of the leaders they elect, lest they regret afterwards. He advised the electorate to scrutinise the integrity and working capability of the candidates. “Those seeking to be re-elected, let them say what they have done for the electorate in the duration they have been in power. Those seeking leadership for the first term, let them say what they plan to do to make lives better,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara