 Allies of Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka are reducing him to a village headman with primitive and retrogressive remarks, ODM has said. Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu, an ally of Kalonzo, had asked ODM leader Raila Odinga to keep off Ukambani unless invited by the Wiper boss. Nzengu was reacting to last week's tour of the region by President Uhuru Kenyatta which was attended by Raila. Nzengu had accused Raila of undermining Kalonzo by gatecrashing Uhuru's tour of the region. He claimed the former Prime Minister had not been invited. ODM has responded to Nzengu, saying his remarks are primitive. ODM chairman John Mbadi said the remarks are not only retrogressive but also reduce Kalonzo to a village headman and not a national leader that he is. Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua also lashed out at Nzengu terming his remarks personal and which does not represent the community’s position. Speaking to the Star on phone, Mbadi said he is concerned about the statement coming from Kalonzo’s ally, adding that as ODM they are against zoning of regions ahead of 2022 General Elections. “They are talking of being President of the country and they are reducing him to a village headsman who requires that before people go to his village they seek permission. Where Kalonzo has reached as vice president of this country and our running mate twice, they should not do that kind of damage to his image,” Mbadi said. He added, “Even those of us who are supporting him as our running mate twice, we have a stake in his image they should know that. They should stop such kind of primitive talk. They should package him as national leader not a village headsman.” Kalonzo was Raila’s running mate during the 2013 and 2017 presidential elections, both of which they lost to President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Mwingi North lawmaker warned that Raila should keep off Ukambani—Kalonzo’s backyard—unless invited by the former Vice President. "We were surprised to see Raila accompany President Kenyatta to his Ukambani tour and upon asking our party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka, he said he had not invited him," Nzengu said when he handed over a school bus to Kamuwongo Secondary School. Governor Mutua said the Kamba nation is hospitable and denounced the remarks by the MP. “We have heard sentiments by some leaders asking Raila not to come to Ukambani unless he is invited by someone. I think that person does not speak for the rest of us,” Mutua said. “We are very welcoming people and Kenya is for all Kenyans. You cannot tell any Kenyans not to come to your region. It is not proper thinking. So, I ask Kenyans to please ignore those sentiments of not wanting Raila in our area.” Mutua spoke on Tuesday when he appeared before Senate CPAIC committee chaired by Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko to respond to audit queries.  -Edited by SKanyara