Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga has outlined his economic vision to make Kenya the African continent’s headquarters for global business. Raila's macroeconomic vision varies somewhat from Deputy President William Ruto's bottom-up approach which focuses on the microeconomic aspect. In a statement on Wednesday, Raila said he imagines a country with a firm foundation for the rule of law backed by efficient government structures that can withstand pressure. "End result; We make Kenya Africa’s leading financial centre; a logistics, shipping and aviation hub; Africa’s headquarter for global business, manufacturing and diplomacy. Jobs come, upward social mobility comes for all. I believe it’s possible," he said. The ODM leader went on to highlight some of the things that need to be done, for this to be achieved, including; investment in manpower development through a universal top-flight public education system and enforce meritocracy when hiring them. Raila stated that pursuing a low and transparent tax regime supported by a clean and efficient public service as well as investment in energy will help achieve this. "With massive investment in air, maritime, rail and road transportation, we will position Kenya as a natural hub for multinational businesses in Africa." "We promote and finance innovativeness, entrepreneurship, team work and work ethic. Kenyans work hard. Hard work must be made to pay," Raila noted. The former PM said investing in higher-value-added industries and strong productivity instead of just consumption is also part of his plan. He added that continued investment in food security and an efficient public primary healthcare system will also play an important role. Raila said he would ensure a fair, efficient and transparent judiciary, because investors and citizens need assurance that when disputes arise the judiciary will deliver fast fair and transparent justice. He added that corruption must not be tolerated, insisting on the need for a stable country. "We do more to promote social cohesion out of our ethnic and religious diversity. A house divided cannot stand," he said. Raila's statement comes even as he is believed to be warming up for next years general elections, which most people believe will be his last stab at the country's top seat.