Malkia Strikers coach Paul Bitok believes they have the quality and what it takes to deliver at the Tokyo-Olympics Games later this month. Speaking during a virtual media briefing on Tuesday, the immediate former Rwanda coach said they are adequately prepared for the task ahead, adding a planned trip to Kurume City will prepare them well enough ahead of their matches in Tokyo. "I am happy with the squad which is a blend of youth and experience. Everybody will have a chance including youngsters as we would like to see them perform at the grandest stage," he said. "Being the first group to travel, I believe players will quickly adjust to the weather demands. Hopefully, we will also play friendly matches since we've had none. With the African Cup of Nations in September, we want to have the best results in the Olympics to propel us forward. There's reason to believe in our young squad." Bitok vowed to stick to the style of play introduced by the Brazilian tacticians who visited the country recently, saying there's no need to change a working system. "We will carry on with the same style of play. Areas such as conditioning, power, flexibility, and accuracy when it comes to positioning remain vital in the modern-day game." Experienced setter Jane Wacu said Malkia Strikers will not let the nation down in as much as it's a new experience for most the players. The 36-year-old former Kenya Prisons player, currently features for Anse Royale in Sychelles. Kenya returns to the planetary show after a 16-year hiatus—the first for Wacu who brings along a wealth of experience gathered from the World Championships and other international competitions. "All I can say is we won't  disappoint you. It is not a must to return home with a medal but as a team, we will put our best foot forward." Kenya Commercial Bank left attacker Mercy Moim, who doubles up as captain for Malkia, urged the dropped players to rally behind the team and not to lose focus. "It's tough especially for Elizabeth Wanyama and Violet Makuto who have trained with the team up to the last minute only to miss out . However, I encourage them to remain levelheaded. It was so competitive but also a tough decision from the technical bench considering the quality." Kenya's first delegation (with six of the Malkia Strikers' players) will leave on Thursday.