Two legislators from Ukambani have accused ODM leader Raila Odinga of undermining Wiper boss Kalonzo Musyoka by gatecrashing President Uhuru Kenyatta's tour of the region last week. Mwingi North MP Paul Nzengu told Raila to keep off Ukambani unless invited by Kalonzo. Nzengu accused the former Prime Minister of intruding President Uhuru Kenyatta's visit of the region last week, thus undermining any successful talks between area leaders and the President. Nzengu said Ukambani leaders kept off President Kenyatta’s tour of Kisumu, and, therefore, Raila had no business showing up during the Ukambani visit. "We were surprised to see Raila accompany President Kenyatta to his Ukambani tour and upon asking our party leader, Kalonzo Musyoka, he said he had not invited him," Nzengu said when he handed over a school bus to Kamuwongo Secondary School. The bus will also aid transport in other nearby schools. He said Raila and Kalonzo should hold talks at the national level so that the former vice-president can give the direction the region will take when the right time comes. The Constitution provides that every person has the right to freedom of movement. On the One Kenya Alliance, Nzengu told the four partners — Kalonzo, ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi, Kanu chairman Gideon Moi, and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula — to unite for them to win the 2022 General Election, failure to which they will all perish politically. He said Kalonzo should be the flag bearer as he is their "elder brother". Mwingi Central MP Gideon Mulyungi asked Raila to honour the agreement he made with other Nasa co-principals in 2017 and support Kalonzo in the 2022 presidential bid. ODM has denied the existence of any agreement in relation to next year's presidential election. ODM secretary-general Edwin Sifuna last year accused Kalonzo of seeking to “reap where he did not sow". However, ruling out any possibility of Kalonzo supporting Raila again, Mulyungi has said the Wiper party leader has so far supported the ODM boss in two consecutive general elections and it was only fair that Raila returns the favour. Speaking at his home in Kalisasi in Mwingi Central, Mulyungi said the agreement between Raila and Kalonzo was clear that the former would should support the latter in 2022, and that not winning the 2017 election doesn't give Raila any excuse not to honour the said MoU.