A Standard 6 boy from Baringo is nursing a bullet injury after he was shot by suspected armed Marakwet bandits on Wednesday. Pkemoi Aremo, 13, a pupil at Dira primary school in Tirioko ward, is admitted to Kapenguria Referral Hospital in West Pokot. “He was accompanying three girls to fetch water along seasonal Kerio River before the 5pm attack,” Tirioko ward MCA Sam Lokales said on Thursday. The girls escaped without injuries. The boy sustained an open gunshot wound on his chest. A teacher rushed him on a motorcycle to Sigor Subcounty Hospital in West Pokot, 30 kilometres away. He was later referred to Kapenguria for further medication. The incident occured barely a day after Interior CS Fred Matiang'i visited the area. On Tuesday, Matiang'i called for a ceasefire between the warring Pokot and Marakwet pastoral communities. Matiangi further issued the bandits a seven-day order to surrender themselves and their illegal guns. Locals said no livestock were stolen during the attack. “It is quite unfortunate that bandits from the Marakwet side are defying Matiangi's orders to cause mayhem and hullabaloo along the valley,” he said. The MCA called upon his people to maintain calm, urging Matiang'i and Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembea to take immediate action to stop the bandits. Meanwhile, residents of Baringo North and Baringo South are accusing the government of focusing on Kerio Valley and leaving them out. “Why is it that every time an attack is heard along Kerio valley Matiangi must land there in choppers to assess the situation, while nobody cares when people of Baringo are attacked, killed by bandits,” resident Richard Chepchomei said. Chepchomei said it is high time the government stopped approaching insecurity discriminatively and help flash out the notorious bandits to restore peace in the entire North Rift region. “We are tired of burying our people frequently and losing thousands of our livestock to bandits while the state which is mandated to protect people’s lives and property watches helplessly,” he said. The victims claim they suffer from hunger amid the ongoing security operation, calling upon the government to come to their aid. “Not all people are bandits, they are only a few people but punishing the entire population because of certain individuals is wrong,” Ripko Kositei MCA Daniel Tuwit said. He urged the government and well-wishers to send relief food supplies for children, women and the elderly. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)