Clinching the Kenyan Premier League title is Tusker's key objective this season, head coach Robert Matano has reiterated. Matano has therefore asked his charges not to rest on their laurels even after securing a slot in next season's CAF Champions League. "We are taking each match at a time and we have our eyes firmly fixed on the title. It's true we already have the Champions League slot but we need to cap it off with the Kenyan Premier League title and I have already told the boys as much," said Matano. The brewers have an arduous task against third-placed AFC Leopards at Thika Stadium on Friday but Matano believes this is a perfect chance to extend their advantage at the top. "We have enough energy to charge for the title after the long break occasioned by Covid-19 where the players had enough time to rest. So, the congested fixtures need not to be an excuse. We must go for it," added Matano. A win might help Leopards close the gap on second-placed KCB, who are four points clear. Both Ingwe and the brewers will be heading into the match on the back of morale-boosting wins in their last encounters. Leopards beat Bandari 2-0 to take their tally to 43 points, eight adrift of Tusker who edged Gor Mahia 2-1. Leopards head coach Patrick Aussems might experience a selection headache with four of his key players already out of contract. The four were conspicuously absent from their last outing against Bandari at Thika Stadium last weekend. They include custodians John Oyemba and Benjamin Ochan, forward Hansel Ochieng and midfielder Said Tsuma.  Mercurial midfielder Collins Sichenje is also said to be finalising his trip to Greece. After crushing 2-1 to Ulinzi Stars at ASK Grounds on Wednesday, Wazito return for a fixture against KCB at Thika Stadium on Saturday. The moneybags must tread cautiously as they come up against a side that are fighting tooth and nail for a maiden top-flight title. The Zedekiah Otieno-led bankers are currently second on the log with 47 points, four adrift of leaders Tusker. Kariobangi Sharks face Vihiga United at the same venue later in the day. Sharks are fifth on the log with 38 points while Vihiuga are second-last with 16. Also on Saturday, champions Gor Mahia have a date with Nairobi City Stars at Ruaraka Grounds while Sofapaka will host Posta Rangers at Wundanyi Stadium, Taita Taveta.