A local logistics company is piloting its first electric vehicle fleets to help address clean transportation in Nairobi. The firm has partnered with electric vehicle provider ARC Ride to deploy 3-wheeler (3W) electric vehicles, also known as E3’s, for the last-mile delivery solution, and reduce carbon footprint. Under an agreement between the parties, four E3’s (e-tuk tuks) will be procured for the two-month pilot project duration. Sendy will seek to acquire more by the end of this year – coming at a time when urban populations are pushing the growth of the delivery ecosystem and grappling with high air pollution. According to Sendy's Transport Vice president Chris Nyaga, the increased demand of the last-mile connectivity for delivery of goods is naturally pushing the growth of three-wheeler goods vehicles in urban logistics. ''Three-wheeler electric vehicles are suitable for all kinds of business needs that require last-mile deliveries. They are becoming important in the final mile segment and will help us reduce delivery costs for our customers in a clean ecosystem,'' Nyaga said. He added that the  partnership with ARC Ride is a progressive investment that will pioneer change in last-mile delivery in Kenya. The preference for electric 3Ws is due to the limitations of big trucks or mini-vans that may be costly to operate and cannot offer doorstep reach in most of the cities due to narrow streets, while 2-wheelers (2Ws) offer only limited load capacity. According to environmental reports, three-wheel electric vehicles can reduce carbon tailpipe emissions by 13 tonnes per 100 km. They also offer a sizable cost in operational and maintenance savings which reflect customer savings. “As a socially responsible business, we also have a commitment towards curbing the destructive impacts of increased logistical activities on the urban ecosystem and building sustainable supply chains, “ Nyaga said. A Kenyan online purchasing revolution from online e-commerce sites has led to the growth of the demand for last-mile delivery ecosystems. Globally, E-commerce is expected to soar 78 per cent globally by 2030, according to a World Economic Forum report. The volume of delivery vehicles in the top 100 cities in the world will rise by 36 per cent by 2030. ARC Ride director of Business Development Bede Hesmondhalgh said the fleet of electric vehicles are optimized for last mile deliveries and effectively tackle both logistic and environmental issues. ''We are looking forward to introducing a wide range of electric vehicles to Sendy’s platform in the upcoming months to develop this partnership and e-commerce,'' Hesmondhalgh  said.