President Uhuru Kenyatta has announced that he will have a scaled down tour of the Ukambani region, due to Covid-19. In a statement by State House Spokesperson Kanze Dena on Tuesday, the date for the tour that see the Head of State inspect government projects will be announced later. "It is notified that whereas His Excellency the President remains keen to assess the impact of his Administration’s transformative projects and programmes across the Country, in this instance he will make a scaled down inspection of identified projects in the Lower Eastern Region," Kanze said. During the tour, Uhuru will be accompanied by leaders from the region, in full adherence to the set Covid-19 protocols, to stop further spread of the virus. The statement came shortly after a meeting between the President and a delegation of Ukambani leaders led by former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka, Kitui Governor Charity Ngilu, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo, Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua, Machakos Senator Agnes Kavindu. Makueni Deputy Governor Adelina Mwau, Machakos Deputy Governor Eng. Francis Maliti and other leaders serving in both Houses of Parliament were also present. "In view of the foregoing and cognisance of the directives issued as part of Public Order No. 4 of 2021 on COVID-19 barring ‘super-spreader’ events being held within Kenya for the reason that they imperil the public health and exacerbate the COVID-19 situation in our country, the meeting resolved to scale down the planned presidential visit to the region," the statement said. On Monday, Uhuru cancelled his planned two-day tour of Ukambani region over fears the visit may trigger a spread of Covid-19. The President was to visit the region beginning Tuesday. In the two-day development tour, the Uhuru was expected to visit Machakos and Makueni counties. In Makueni, he would begin his tour at the Konza Technopolis in Makueni before proceeding to inspect the Thwake Dam project and later launch Kibwezi-Kitui road. Uhuru would then inspect ongoing government projects and launch new ones in a bid to pacify the region. The tour cancellation had been seen to be as a result of bickering between two camps - one led by Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka, and the other by Kitui Goveronor Charity Ngilu, Makueni's Kivutha Kibwana and Machakos's Alfred Mutua. Kalonzo had been accused of trying to bulldoze the tour in a bid to seek his endorsement as the region's kingpin, while the other camp was keen on showcasing their development projects.