Kenya is hosting this year’s executive committee meeting of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association for Africa from Friday to Sunday. Delegates from 18 countries will gather virtually in Nairobi for the meeting that is a precursor to the CPA Annual Conference. “We tell the rest of the world that Kenya is open for business and tourism. We are able to observe WHO and our Ministry of Health guidelines. The other sectors of the economy can borrow a leaf," National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi said. Other participants are from Botswana, Cameroon, Eswatini, Ghana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Rwanda, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia. State and provincial legislatures from Nigeria, South Africa and Tanzania (Zanzibar) – being subnational legislatures that form part of the membership of CPA Africa Region— will also attend. The committee is the apex body of the CPA Africa in terms of management of the association's affairs Muturi will lead Kenya’s delegation, accompanied by Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu, (senior regional representative) and Mbeere North MP Muriuki Njagagua (branch representative). Speaker Muturi and his Senate counterpart Kenneth Lusaka are co-presidents of the CPA (Kenya Branch) while Muturi is the chairperson of the executive committee of the CPA (Africa Region). Tanzanian Speaker Ndugai Job Yustino, South Africa Deputy Speaker Tsenoli Solomon Lechesa, Nigerian Speaker Femi Gbajabiamila and Zanzibar Speaker Maulid Zubeir Ali are among those who have arrived in Nairobi. The meeting will focus on the role of African legislatures in implementing measures to mitigate the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic. Mainstreaming persons living with disability will also be discussed. Muturi said the meeting would be a build up of virtual meetings that the committee has been engaging in over time, though other engagements were disrupted by the pandemic. “We will take the opportunity to review what has happened over the last year. We will share experiences and appreciate that some African countries have had the culture of parliamentary democracy,” the speaker said. "When these countries meet together, there is a lot of growth of democratic cultures in various countries," he said. He said issues on the agenda warrant a physical meeting. He said alongside the committee meeting, the CPA Africa Investment Board to will discuss investment proposals to make CPA sustainable. The Women's League of the CPA will focus on women in leadership. The Commonwealth Parliamentary Association brings together parliamentarians in Commonwealth states around the globe. It is made up of over 180 legislatures (or branches) divided up into nine geographic regions of the Commonwealth. (Edited by V. Graham)