Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji on Monday launched a boat, MV Adil, to enhance access to justice for the people of Lamu. European Union (EU) and the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC), through Programme for Legal Empowerment and Aid Delivery in Kenya (PLEAD), have been providing both technical and hardware support to enhance the administration and access to justice in Lamu. Haji said acquisition of the boat by EU and the ODPP was in realisation that there is poor and unaffordable transport to justice institutions such as the ODPP offices and court stations located in physically remote areas within Lamu. Consequently, transportation becomes a barrier to access to justice by citizens. The need to provide support to the ODPP in purchasing of the boat was identified during the service week that was supported by PLEAD in March 2019. The service week was part of the ODPP-led Project ‘All for Justice Phase II’, whose core mandate was to enhance access to justice and reduce on the number of pre-trial detainees. Haji said the boat will facilitate mobility of the ODPP and criminal justice actors during mobile court sessions in the main Islands of Lamu. "MV Adil will also facilitate justice sector agencies sensitize Lamu residents on human rights issues affecting them," Haji said. The DPP was accompanied by Charity Kagwi of UNODC, Malindi and Tana River High Court Judge Reuben Nyakundi and members of Lamu CUC among others. Ambassador Katrin Hagemann said the launch of MV Adil will facilitate realization of the ODPP mandate. In exercise of their mandate, the ODPP are required to also prosecute cases in the seven surrounding islands during the mobile court sessions, but had no means of transportation, and therefore relied on other actors to facilitate them and the prosecution witnesses. "The European Union is proud to have supported the ODPP through the PLEAD Partnership. PLEAD is anchored in the Kenya Vision 2030 strategy and supports government reforms that are transforming the criminal justice sector.” she underscored," Hagemann said. PLEAD recognizes that the basis of guaranteeing the rule of law is addressing the link between justice and poverty. It tackles and traces different links in the justice chain, from prosecution to sentencing to reintegration of ex-offenders in the community. UNODC Head of Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Programme Charity Kagwi, said they are honoured to take part in improving delivery of justice services and expanding the use of alternatives to imprisonment in Kenya. "Propelled by our Vision for Africa 2030, we endeavor to strengthen crime prevention, enhance justice, address organized crime, ensure a balanced response to drugs, improve the rule of law and bolster resilience," Kagwi said Kagwi termed the handover ceremonial event as great leap in the journey towards access to justice within the Lamu region in line with SDG 16.