A month after Nakuru's city status was approved by the Senate, the county plans to elevate two of its populous towns into municipalities. Governor Lee Kinyanjui said his administration has adopted a report by the department of Lands to confer municipality status on Molo and Gilgil towns. Kinyanjui said the adoption of the report was a step towards making the towns safer, competitive and beautiful for investment. He said the towns will have the classification and legal status for urban management policies and systems. “In order to attract investment and institutionalise urban planning in our towns, the county government is considering the upgrade,” he said in a statement on Wednesday. Kinyanjui said he would form a committee to find out whether the two towns meet the criteria set in law for the conferment of municipal status. “If the Ad hoc Committee finds that the municipal requirements have been met, the county government will forward the report to the assembly for consideration,” he said. Under the Urban Areas and Cities Act, a town can be elevated into a municipality if it has a population of at least 50,000 residents. According to the 2019 census conducted by the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics, Gilgil has a population of 185,209 residents while Molo has 156,732 people. Kinyanjui said he will give the two towns their charters once their elevation is approved by the county assembly. If elevated, Gilgil and Molo will become the third and fourth towns to become municipalities after Nakuru and Naivasha. Nakuru awaits a city status charter from President Uhuru Kenyatta. Molo was a town council before devolution. Nakuru’s elevation to a city was approved by the Senate in early June, making it the fourth city in Kenya after Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu. In March 2019, Kinyanjui gave Nakuru and Naivasha their municipality charters and soon established municipal boards to run them. Nakuru has also been ranked among the fastest growing counties. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)