Residents of Otiende estate in Kakamega town have protested against proposed evictions and demolition of houses by the county government. The estate was built in the 1960s through the National Housing Corporation but is earmarked for demolition to pave way for an upgrade of the town. On Saturday, tenants met and resolved to engage a lawyer to guide them on the matter, including seeking legal redress. Other estates set to be flattened are Mudiri ‘A' and Amalemba scheme estates. Otiende Estate Welfare chair Moses Odiado said that none of the residents had received notices from either the NHC or the county government to vacate the houses. “We learned of the planned demolition of the estate through the media. As residents, we have been dealing with the National Housing Corporation since we came here and it’s them who collect the rent. They have not told us anything about the impending evictions,” he said. He said that NHC had asked them not to take instructions from anyone until they made official communication handing over the houses to the county government. “Twice since 2013 we have been seeing people come to measure the plots and even plant beacons. When we contacted NHC and the ministry of lands, we were told to stay until the houses have been handed over to the county government and we have not been told that,” he said. “We have no problem with the county government as long as we are duly informed about the programmes and given adequate time to prepare to relocate because some of us have lived here for many years,” he said. Odiado said that their lawyer will this week engage NHC and county government to find a way forward, adding that legal action was one of the options by the residents to ensure their rights are not trampled upon. Oparanya announced on Monday that the county government will demolish Amalemba, Otiende and Mudiri ‘A’ estates to build 4,000 affordable houses. The tender for construct the houses was awarded to Pinnie Agencies in December 2020. While announcing the planned demolition on Monday, Oparanya said that occupants of the houses to be demolished will be given priority once the new units were complete. He said staff from the national government, county or other organisations will be eligible to buy the houses for between Sh1 million to Sh3 million. He said a 20 per cent deposit of the required price for the house will be paid upfront and then the balance deducted from their payslips on checkoff. The governor added that the project will change the face of the two municipalities besides resolving the housing shortage for staff and other residents. "We are going to use modern technology so that the project can be completed within eight to nine months," he added.  (edited by o. owino)