Hundreds of Homa Bay residents in urban centres are up in arms over severe water shortage after electricity was disconnected. Kenya Power cut electricity used for pumping the commodity due to unpaid bills of more than Sh12 million. The Homa Bay government allegedly delayed to settle the bill for a number of months. On Wednesday, Homa Bay town residents demanded to be supplied with water after their taps went try for more than three weeks. The disgruntled residents led by Polycarp Nges and Nancy Anyango asked Governor Cyprian Awiti to intervene. They said a standoff between Kenya Power and Homa Bay government should not deny them their rights. “We’re lacking water at a critical time when it’s highly needed to combat the spread of Covid-19. Governor Awiti should help us address the situation amicably,” Nges said. Anyango said the majority of women in Homa Bay, Kendu Bay and Mbita towns have been relying on untreated water from Lake Victoria. A spot check revealed that Oyugis, Ndhiwa, Kadongo and Rangwe town residents depend on boreholes to access water. The situation has made the cost of the commodity to increase. A 20-litre jerrycan of water now retails at Sh60 up from Sh20 one month ago. “Our sanitation is compromised and we’re susceptible to diseases like cholera, dysentery and even coronavirus. It’s high time this perennial water problem is addressed completely,” Anyango said. Homa Bay Kenya Power manager Ken Okumbe said the electricity to water treatment plants was disconnected one month ago due to unpaid water bills. “The county government hasn’t honoured its promise of clearing the arrears,” Okumbe said. Water and Environment executive Dickson Nyawinda asked Kenya Power to reconnect the electricity on grounds that they are paying the bills. “We have paid Sh10 million and promised to pay the remaining amount in the near future but Kenya Power is yet to act by reconnecting the electricity,” Nyawinda said. In Homa Bay town estates such as Sofia, Got Rabuor, Kapita, Makongeni and Shauri Yako lack water. Taps at institutions like the prison, Homa Bay police station and other national government offices are also dry. “We’re talking with the county finance department to settle all the debts,” Nyawinda said. Edited by Henry Makori