Wrangles between the Nyamira county assembly and the executive are hurting development, Senator Okong'o Omogeni has said. He called upon the leaders to put the interests of residents first. The senator spoke on Monday during an interview at a vernacular radio station. "I have tried my best to talk to all the leaders in the county on the importance of unity of purpose. I have always considered our residents because they are our bosses," Omogeni said. He said for the county to develop, the discord between the county assembly and the executive must be addressed. "I have had talks with the governor and I have his memorandum to the assembly on what he feels should be done for the people of Nyamira," the legislator said. The senator said it is embarrassing that instead of leaders sitting and planning on development, they are busy engaging in unnecessary wrangles that have halted development in the county. The MCAs and the executive have disagreed on whether money should be deducted from the health department in the budget and be diverted to other projects. Health department has been allocated Sh1.6 billion. The MCAs are also against the construction of a Sh35 million speaker's residence, saying the money should be allocated for other development projects. The senator said the allocation of money for the speaker's official residence, additional money to the county assembly and deducting money from the health department should be reconsidered before they are undertaken. “The speaker’s official residence and the assembly block should not be a priority now. We have other issues such as upgrade of health facilities and markets, which should be considered instead of making allocations to projects that do not directly benefit our residents,” he added. "Our priority should be residents who gave us power. That is why our interests should be straight to them. We should at all times not forget who we are supposed to work for." The issue of the deputy governor that has been a problem also came up.  Omogeni called upon leaders at the county assembly to support Governor Amos Nyaribo by giving him the deputy governor of his choice. "Instead of our leaders differing on the issue of the deputy governor, it is better they give James Gesami a chance to work as the deputy governor," he said. Omogeni said the recent appointment of Gesami as an adviser to Nyaribo was as a result of the governor believing in his capacity to deliver to the people of Nyamira in any position. "The fact that Gesami was rejected by the county assembly does not mean he cannot work in other capacities. That is why Nyaribo had to get Gesami to the office of the adviser," he said. Edited by A.N 