Kenya Ports Authority acting managing director John Mwangemi has been cleared to take over the port’s top job. The High Court declared that it had not suspended his appointment. Mwangemi had been appointed in an acting capacity pending the appointment of the MD. However, last week, an order allegedly from the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Mombasa suspended the appointment and his swearing-in. Judge Byram Ongaya said the order as extracted and served on KPA was not in the court’s handwritten records. He said the directives were erroneous, as the court did not quash Mwangemi’s appointment. Ongaya directed that the proper order which gave the petitioner a relief to file the judicial review to challenge the acting MD’s appointment to be extracted, verified and served to all the parties. The judge said parties in the suit were at liberty to publish the correct position of the matter within three days and notify the public. KPA rushed to court seeking to have the orders suspended, claiming falsification of court documents. It said the judge suspended Mwangemi’s appointment without allowing them to defend themselves. Through lawyer Augustus Wafula, KPA said the court had quashed the MD's appointment without according the respondents a chance to be heard. Wafula said upon perusing the court file, he realised no such order was made. “The falsification of court orders violates the rule of law and the dignity of this court,” he said. KPA head of litigation and disputes John Kinyanjui said the move was well orchestrated and aimed at embarrassing the court or bring its dignity to disrepute and public shame. Kinyanjui said the actions amounted to contempt of court and criminal liability and should be expunged from the court file records before the matter could proceed. The matter objecting to Mwangemi’s appointment was filed by the Commission for Human Rights and Justice, a Mombasa-based civil society organisation. The group wanted Mwangemi’s appointment to be annulled as it contravened the KPA Act that provides the appointment of the MD be done in consultation with the board of directors.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris