The body of a 41-year-old woman was on Friday exhumed in Embu North sub county three days after she was buried under a mistaken identity situation. Residents of Kathangari village who witnessed the exhumation said it was something they have never heard of or witnessed. The family of Augusta Wanjiru mistakenly took the body of Daisy Karimi from the Embu level 5 mortuary and buried her at a donated land in Kathangari on Wednesday. Augusta’s mother Jane Wambeti said that the confusion came about when they went to pick Wanjiru’s body, as she was in deep grief and could not stand looking at the body to ensure it was her daughter. “On Tuesday we went to the Mortuary and identified the body but on Wednesday the burial day, I was so confused and I could not stand looking at her body to confirm it was her,” she said. The news came later in the day from the mortuary official that they had buried Daisy Karimi instead of Augusta Wanjiru. The morgue attendants also realized they had given the body of Daisy Karimi to the wrong family after Karimi’s family complained of the wrong body and demanded their Kin’s actual body. The relatives said that when they enquired the whereabouts of their daughter, the morgue attendants took them rounds until the last minute when they were informed that the body was given to another family in Kathangari. “We were at the mortuary by 8:30 am and now is 6 pm, we were given the wrong body and the mortuary attendants are taking us round,”  Catherine Nyaga, Daisy’s cousin said then. Daisy’s family obtained a court order to exhume the body for burial at her home in Karigiri, Embu West. Margeret Marigu the area sub-chief said they received the news and requested Jane to allow the exhumation which she agreed since she went to the Embu Level 5 hospital morgue and confirmed that her daughter was still there. Jane said she was happy about the administration cooperation with the morgue attendants who made sure she was assisted to bury her daughter the same day as Daisy’s body was returned to the morgue for confirmation from her family.  Edited  by Kiilu Damaris