President Uhuru Kenyatta has said time is ripe for Team Kenya to reap the fruits of their hard work at the upcoming Tokyo Olympics on July 23-August 8. President Kenyatta said the event is an opportunity for the sportspersons to display the selflessness and persistence normally associated with Kenyans and continue cementing the country's reputation as a hotbed of talent. "Kenyan sports have attracted the best talents in the country and our values of hard work and service are deeply entrenched in our athletes. The 2020 Tokyo Olympics is another opportunity for us to promote these qualities that position us for success in the sporting world. For this reason, my government has and will continue to support you  as you take part in this years’ Olympic games," Kenyatta said. The president reminded the team that countless, aspiring Olympians in the country will be keenly following their performances from which to draw inspiration. "My request to you is that you be great ambassadors of Kenya; to work hard and together as Team Kenya towards the growth of  a stronger sporting sector and bringing glory to your country, which I believe will be inspire and nurture those to come in the future. I wish each and every one of you success at the Olympics and look forward to celebrate with you when you get back," he said. The president was speaking at State House, Nairobi when he officially handed over the national flag to a section of the team, led by overall captain — the men's rugby Sevens skipper — Andrew Amonde. The team also received the official travel kit inspired by Kenya's national colours and symbols. Speaking at the same time, East African Breweries Limited managing director, Jane Karuku expressed optimism that the team will surpass expectations in Tokyo. "We are proud to be here to send off our athletes to Tokyo for the Olympic Games. Kenya Breweries has always enjoyed a special relationship with Kenyan sports and with Team Kenya in particular. We are confident of another stellar showing and we hope the added incentive of their new Tusker gear will add value to their experience as they go out on international duty," Karuku said. The first batch of the women's national volleyball team, Malkia Strikers, departed yesterday evening  for the pre-Olympics camp in Kurume City.