Bribery claims have rocked the Form 1 transfer exercise as parents accuse principals of seeking as much as Sh100,000 for a slot. Parents dissatisfied with the government's decision on where their children will proceed to secondary school are opting for transfers. Some have had to part with bribes. Interviews with dozens of parents suggest that some school heads are seeking money to facilitate the transfers. A leading national school in Kiambu was identified by two parents who allege they paid Sh100,000 to secure transfer letters. Speaking to the Star, one of the parents said her son had scored 411 marks and was admitted to an extra-county school but the family opted for a better school. “We were linked up with the school principal and we got an admission but it cost us Sh100,000,” the parent said. A Nakuru-based parent whose daughter scored 362 marks says they took a detour in more than five schools within Nakuru town and finally got a school but paid Sh5,000 for booking. On asking if the money is refundable, she was informed it wasn’t, neither did it account for admission or part of the school fees. The parent shared the transaction message used in the transfer of the funds. Nicholas Maiyo of the Kenya Parents Association on Thursday said they had received numerous complaints from parents that had been forwarded to the Education Ministry for action. The ministry had, however, yet to respond to queries on the complaints by Thursday. Unlike the electronic selection exercise, transfers are physical exercises where parents are involved in seeking admission in schools. However, the issuance of transfers and admission is not purely at the discretion of the headteachers as they get to forward the request to the Education Ministry for approval. The Ministry of Education has yet to give an update on the number of transfers it has approved. Indimuli Kahi, the chairman of the Kenya Secondary School Heads Association told the Star that parents continue to flock to most secondary in search of new places for their children. However, Kahi says he has yet to receive any official complaint about extortion by his members from parents or or any member of the public. “It’s crazy for principals who even when they say they do not have any more accommodation, parents are still knocking at their doors, phone calls seeking favours. Those who lose out in such instances feel aggrieved,” Kahi said. Some like Huruma Girls have resorted to barring parents seeking admissions at the gate. A notice on the school gate reads, “No space for those seeking Form 1 places.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris