Kenyans continue mourning the death of Kenyan veteran journalist Hillary Boniface Ng'weno who died on Wednesday evening after a long illness. Ng’weno’s death was confirmed by his daughter Bettina. The distinguished journalist, editor, publisher, and broadcaster died at the age of 83. Deputy President William Ruto described Ng’weno as a journalist who pioneered robust, independent profound, and rich journalism that deepened the country’s nascent post-independence democracy and cast a brilliant spotlight on government and governance. “And this is in large part a legacy of Hillary Boniface Ng'weno. Our history as well as our destiny will bear the bold marks of his proud accomplishments. Our strong and evolving democracy, the robust environment of freedom, and our media's implacable commitment to truth and independence enable Kenya to retain its vitality and invests our society with confidence about the future,” Ruto said. The DP added that Ng'weno incubated a seemingly vast cohort of prodigious scribes, whose prolific contributions sustained freedom and accountability even during our country's most difficult times. He also described him as the father of Kenyan journalism. “Ng'weno's career began as a brilliant scribe, but he firmly established himself as a towering journalist and a historian of tremendous power.” ODM leader Raila Odinga said Ng'weno was an outstanding student who became the first Kenyan to join the famous Harvard University in the US where he studied Nuclear Physics. Raila said that after his studies in the US, Ng’weno returned to Kenya where he took part in fighting for press freedom. “Hillary’s work played a leading role in promoting press freedom in Kenya and thus helping to expand the country’s democratic space. His example and mentorship paved the way for dozens of young journalists who have followed in his footsteps to bring us the news we so value today,” Raila said. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka said that Ng’weno will be remembered as a pioneer in independent broadcasting. “He was a journalist par excellence who greatly contributed to the growth of the Kenya journalism in every aspect. My condolences go to his family and friends. May he Rest in Peace.”