Twitter has announced the shutting down of the Fleets feature. Unlike tweets, Twitter’s new 'Fleets' could not receive Likes, Replies or Retweets. And they disappeared entirely after 24 hours. But on Wednesday, Twitter said they had big hopes for Fleets, but now it’s time to say goodbye and take flight with other ideas. It noted that Fleets will no longer be available Starting August 3. "We had planned for Fleets to help people feel comfortable joining the conversation in a low-pressure way, but it turns out Fleets were mainly used by those Tweeting the most. So now we're ready to explore other ways for people to share on Twitter," Twitter said. Head of Product Ilya Brown said they built Fleets as a lower-pressure, ephemeral way for people to share their fleeting thoughts. "But, in the time since we introduced Fleets to everyone, we haven’t seen an increase in the number of new people joining the conversation with Fleets as we hoped," he said. Brown said the company will focus on creating other ways for people to join the conversation and talk about what’s happening in their world using lessons learnt from Fleets. He outlined what they had learned and what was coming next. "We’ll explore more ways to address what holds people back from participating on Twitter. And for the people who already are Tweeting, we’re focused on making this better for you," he said. " Soon, we’ll test updates to the Tweet composer and camera to incorporate features from the Fleets composer – like the full-screen camera, text formatting options, and GIF stickers." Brown said they are evolving what Twitter is, and trying bigger, bolder things to serve the public conversation. "A number of these updates, like Fleets, are speculative and won’t work out. We’ll be rigorous, evaluate what works, and know when to move on and focus elsewhere," he said. "If we're not evolving our approach and winding down features every once in a while –  we're not taking big enough chances. We’ll continue to build new ways to participate in conversations, listening to feedback and changing direction when there may be a better way to serve people using Twitter."