Youngster Brenda Chebet is looking beyond next month’s World Under-20 athletics Championships at the Moi Sports Centre, Kasarani. Chebet said her target is to break the 800m national record of 1:54.01 that was set by Kenya’s Pamela Jelimo in 2008. The Mount Elgon-born athlete in Bungoma County said she only had a month of training prior to the trials and she is happy to have posted good results. “ I hope to run better results when I line up for the 800m race during the championships set for August 17-22. Chebet has currently intensified her training at the Kipchoge Keino Stadium ahead of the global junior championships. Chebet finished second behind the champion Sheila Chepkosgei. “With little time to prepare, I have managed to cut into the Kenya team with good time. But heading into the championships, I want to improve my time in 800m. That is my target under the guidance of coach John Litei,” said Chebet. Influenced by her father Duncan Mkori, who used to compete in the two-lap race during his youthful days , Chebet said she did not have enough time to train due to the coronavirus and school work but after school, she was introduced to Litei who has taken her career to another level. “After my Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education (KCSE) in April, I was idle at home but James Kwalia, who is my cousin brought me to Iten and I was introduced to my current coach who has transformed my career,” said Chebet. Competing for North Rift, the 17-year-old clocked 2:05.58 to finish second in the women’s 800m final, behind the winner Chepkosgei from Western who clocked 2:03.76 and Nelly Chepchirchir from Central Rift (2:06.28). She added that once she acquires the 1:59 as her personal best, it will be her chance to improve on her transition into the senior cadre with positive results. “I want to specialise in this race as a way of appreciating my father who is my role model and my great supporter in my career. He is my number one fan,” added Chebet. Her coach Litei said the junior athlete is strong enough and will definitely medal at the World Under 20 Championships. “She has the potential to medal for this country. For the time we have been together, she has shown dedication in training and I believe the future is bright,” said Litei.