Dr Dinah Jeruto on Friday faced the panel for the selection for the appointment of Commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, which entered day three. During the interview, Jeruto pointed out that the IEBC has specific mandates to ensure free, fair and transparent elections and the that it cannot monitor itself. "IEBC cannot monitor itself and in this case, we need people with passion, people not within the IEBC, and these are people who will be on the ground checking if laws are being observed," she said. "This is where you bring in people like international or local observers that are selected, part of the media to constitute the observers because they will be giving real-time information on what goes on." She stated that observers should be assured of their security, assured of freedom of movement within the polling station. "The content of facilitation is logistics in terms of providing transportation to where observers area going, to make sure the people on the ground are safe, officers should allow the observers to go in because without that clear instruction, you might find some people are zealous refusing the observers to go in," Jeruto said. On how to address issues touching on the mandate of the commission under Article 88 of the constitution, Jeruto said the key mandates are to handle all matters related to elections and referendums. "Specific items coming from that number is to ensure voter registration, ensure continuous updating of the voter registrar, to handle any electoral dispute apart from those that arise from general elections, come up with regulations and process of party nominations, use of technology," she explained. Dinah was born in Baringo 54 years ago and went to Soliam Primary School, before proceeding to Moi Girls High School, Eldoret, Kapsabet Girls for KCSE. She was then admitted to the University of Nairobi where she did a Bachelor of Arts degree in Political Science and Philosophy. She was hired at Egerton in 1990 where she has been to date. "I was an administrative assistant. I was working at the faculty level managing students issues from the processing of examinations, dealing with students disciplinary issues. I was the faculty secretary and member of committees in the faculty," she added Thirty-six candidates have been shortlisted for the three vacant positions in the commission.