Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga’s ODM party wants Registrar of Political Parties to convene an urgent Nasa meeting to settle the raging wars over coalition’s funds. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna wrote to RPP Ann Nderitu asking her to convene a meeting of Wiper, ANC and Ford Kenya to put to rest the cash issue. In a letter dated July 15, Sifuna decried what he termed as deliberate misinformation about how the coalition was supposed to share money after the election. “Our position is that Nasa was not a clandestine organisation but an above-the-board alliance of registered political parties and governed by instruments that are deposited with your office, the contents of which are self-explanatory,” Sifuna said. “We therefore wish to request your esteemed office to convene at your earliest possible convenience a meeting of Nasa constituent parties as per Musyoka’s request to deliberate on and put this matter to rest.” Kalonzo had written to Nderitu in April over the parties funds. Last week, Kalonzo spoke of a meeting with ODM party leader Raila Odinga over sharing of Nasa money. The sharing of Nasa money has become a thorn in the flesh, with ODM being accused of starving other parties. During a morning interview with Radio Citizen last week, Raila said that his party will not share its rightful amount with other affiliate parties. Raila argued that ODM is receiving money based on the number of MPs in both Houses who were sponsored by the party, and not through the 2017 presidential election outcome. “If we were receiving money based on the presidential elections, that would have been fine to share with our colleagues,” Raila said. He added: “There are those who are spreading rumours that ODM is denying other affiliates money. If that money is available, we will share with them.” In an attempt to break the cash stalemate, Nasa set up a technical team comprising representatives of ODM and Kalonzo’s Wiper, the team met on April 28. According to Sifuna’s letter, the partners made recommendations that are yet to be acted upon. “However, we continue to consume via mass media comments attributed to some members of the Nasa summit and their respective parties that are of complete variance with Nasa coalition agreement and imputing lack of integrity and accountability on the part of our Party.” Last week, ruling Jubilee and ODM received Sh353,856,428 and 165,252,076 political parties fund respectively. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)