Lionel Messi has agreed to stay at Barcelona on a deal until 2026 that includes reducing his wages to half of his previous salary. The announcement is dependent on player departures that will allow Barca to fund the Argentina captain’s wages. Messi, 34, was a free agent after his contract — that reportedly paid him £123m a season — expired on June 30. He is on holiday after winning the Copa America and the finer details of the contract are yet to be finalised. Re-signing Messi was the principal summer target of new chairman Joan Laporta. Barca are also looking at a swap deal involving forward Antoine Griezmann and Atletico Madrid midfielder Saul Niguez, with the idea of reducing the wage bill. Fringe players such as Junior Firpo, Jean-Clair Todibo and Carles Alena have already been sold to free up budget but other big-name departures will also need to take place. Messi had been linked with moves to Paris St-Germain and Manchester City, where he would be reunited with his former boss at Barcelona Pep Guardiola, as well as America’s Major League Soccer, which he has previously considered experiencing. Messi is Barcelona’s record scorer with 672 goals and has won 10 La Liga titles, four Champions Leagues, seven Copa del Reys as well as claiming the Ballon d’Or on a record six occasions. Meanwhile, Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma has joined Paris St Germain on a five-year deal after leaving Serie A club AC Milan on a free transfer, the French Ligue 1 side said on Wednesday. Donnarumma, who was crowned Euro 2020 Player of the Tournament after Italy's victory over England in the final, helped Milan finish second in Serie A last season to secure Champions League qualification for the first time since 2013-14. During his six seasons in Serie A, the 22-year-old made 215 league appearances, while becoming the youngest goalkeeper in Italian national team history, at the age of 17 years and 189 days, during a game against France, in September 2016. "I am delighted to be part of this huge club," Donnarumma said. "I feel ready to take on this new challenge and continue to grow here. With Paris, I want to win as much as possible and to bring joy to the supporters." Earlier on Wednesday, Donnarumma posted an emotional Instagram message to Milan supporters. "All the Rossoneri I met, from the first to the last day, will always be in my heart as a fundamental part of that journey through life that made me what I am today," he said. "I wish Milan all possible success and I do that with my heart, for the affection that ties me to these colours, a sentiment that distance and time cannot cancel. "I arrived at Milan when I was little more than a child, for eight years I wore this jersey with pride. I also achieved important personal targets with the Rossoneri shirt, such as my debut at the age of 16 in Serie A. I experienced extraordinary years that I will never forget." PSG have been busy this summer in the transfer market, having already brought in veteran Spanish defender Sergio Ramos on a free transfer after he left Real Madrid, along with the capture of fullback Achraf Hakimi from Inter Milan. "We are delighted to welcome Gianluigi Donnarumma to Paris Saint-Germain," PSG Chairman and CEO Nasser Al-Khelaifi said. "I know Gianluigi will receive a warm Parisian welcome from everyone at the club, including his team mates, our staff and all the supporters."