A little-known parasitic disease is causing female infertility at the Coast in Tana River and parts of Nyanza. It's known as female genital schistosomiasis (FGS), similar to Guinea worm disease (snail fever, bilharzia) but especially devastating to woman who may suffer infertility. Most people are unaware that they have it and symptoms may not appear for a year or more. Some people assume they have malaria since symptoms are similar. FGS is a waterborne disease that can be acute or chronic. It is caused by the parasite flatworm (schistosoma haematobium) that causes one of the neglected tropical diseases. The World Health Organization says 75 per cent of women and girls infected with the parasite have lesions in the uterus, cervix, vagina or vulva. Infection occurs when larval forms of the parasite released by freshwater snails penetrate the skin during contact with infested water.  Worms develop in the body and may emerge in the extremities. When an infected person contaminates freshwater sources with their excreta containing the parasite eggs, the eggs hatch in the water commencing a transmission cycle. People are infected during routine agricultural, domestic, occupational, and recreational activities which expose them to infested water. Most of those infected begin malaria treatments, but the disease does not respond. The head of vector-borne and neglected tropical diseases at the Health ministry, Dr Sultani Matendechero, said the disease lesions start oozing pus because it affects the urogenital system. “If they are young married women the husband starts asking where the pus is coming from. Some women are beaten. The worst part is if they are not treated, the infection eats the uterus which becomes useless,” the physician explains. When the patient goes to the doctor, the inflamed cervix gives the first impression that the woman might have cancer. “They do a biopsy, they assess, no cancer. They try again treating bacterial infections, nothing. So the doctor decides this is cancer that is not being picked and it might spread to ovaries and other organs so what do we do to save this lady? Just remove the uterus,” he said. WHO says that while in the body, the larvae develop into adult schistomisosi. The adult worms live in the blood vessels where the females release eggs. Some of the eggs are passed out in the faeces or urine to continue the parasitic cycle. Others become trapped in body tissues, causing immune reactions and progressive damage to organs. The WHO said lack of hygiene and certain play habits of school-aged children, such as swimming or fishing in polluted water, make them especially vulnerable to infection. Girls who come from communities where childbirth is viewed as important are rejected and suffer social stigma. The disease occurs in women of all age groups, including young girls. “The worst part is that treating it is just Sh80 per tablet. You just need one dose of praziquantel and the disease is gone. "So you can see how ignorance and neglect ravages our communities, they are exacerbating poverty," Matendechero said. Signs of FGS include vaginal bleeding, genital ulcers and pain. FGS can cause reproductive organ damage characterised by infertility, ectopic pregnancy, premature birth, spontaneous abortion, low birth weight and maternal death. Apart from treating with praziquantel, a more comprehensive approach including potable water, adequate sanitation and snail-control would also reduce transmission. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)