President Uhuru Kenyatta has indirectly taken a swipe at Deputy President William Ruto for 'corrupting minds' of the youth with handouts instead of empowering them to fend for themselves. Without mentioning the DP by name, Uhuru hit out at some leaders he said do not have plans for transforming the lives of Kenyans and have instead resorted to dishing out handouts. "You must have plans. And you can't have plans if you don't think about the things that will help citizens to stand on their own," he said. "Kenyans don't want handouts. They want to be given the ability to fend for themselves. That is the country we can say, have citizens who are happy for their country," Uhuru said in an apparent attack on his deputy. Ruto has been criticized for giving out money and other donations to churches and welfare groups but he has defended his actions saying he's empowering the 'hustlers.' Uhuru spoke when he inspected the construction of the multi-billion shilling Thwake dam in Makueni County on Friday. He said that the project, which will supply water to the residents of Makueni, Kitui and Machakos counties, is among the mega infrastructural projects that his administration is undertaking to empower Kenyans and make them self reliant. He attacked those who have been criticising his administration for investing in infrastructure, terming them planless leaders who don't care about the plight and future of the country. "Those asking why we are doing this (infrastructure). We are doing them because without infrastructure, you can't raise the standards of people. You cannot get jobs. Without this water project that we are doing, we cannot plough these areas. "If we say we want electricity, it's not because people are eating electricity, but because it's helping youth in the village to start his Jua Kali job like welding. "Infrastructure is important. Those who don't understand why we are doing these should know that we will not end the problem of joblessness among our youth. We won't be able to raise the lives of our people if we don't have the infrastructure," he said. The president was accompanied by ODM leader Raila Odinga, Wiper's Kalonzo Musyoka and governors Charity Ngilu (Kitui), Kivutha Kibwana (Makueni) and Alfred Mutua (Machakos) among other leaders. "And that is why I thank these leaders. If you hear Raila speak, he says infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure. He understands what is needed. If you listen to Kalonzo, it is the same. He understands what's needed. Not just talking because you want to corrupt the minds of the youth," he said.