The family of a father and son, officially released from the Shimo aa Tewa Prison after a successful appeal, on Friday were furious and mystified after they were not freed. They had been convicted of terrorism-related charges Prison authorities told Mahfudh Ashur Hemed, his son Ibrahim Mahfudh Ashur’s lawyer Chacha Mwita and Muslims for Human Rights chairman Khelef Khalifa the original release order could not be traced. Mwita had given them a copy of the order. Prison authorities declined, however, to accept the copy saying they must have the original order and it must be given to them by one of their own officers. Mwita, Khelef and three of the released men's relatives had waited for nine hours for them to be released, from 9am to around 6pm. During this time, they were told an officer was on the way from the Mombasa High Court, bringing  the original release order. Justice dwera Ong’injo had set Hemed and Ibrahim free in a ruling on Thursday. Father and son had been convicted of four of five five counts  and were serving a life sentence. The counts include harbouring Fazul Abdulla Mohamed, the main suspect in the August 7, 1998, bombing of the US Embassy in Nairobi where 219 people were killed. They were linked to the November 28, 2002, bombing at Kikambala Paradise Hotel in Kilifi county where 15 people died. The two, who were charged jointly with Lutfiya Abubakar Bashrahil, are said to have accommodated Fazul in December 2007 in Malindi. They are also said to have harboured Fazul on August 2, 2008, at Silver Sands Estate in Malindi. They were also charged with stealing a passport belonging to Ali Mohammed Abubakar on March 13, 2000, at Kilimanjaro Lodge in Eastleigh, Nairobi, and handling stolen goods at Maweni Estate in Malindi on August 2, 2008. The fifth count stated that they had falsified a passport. Mombasa chief magistrate M. Gicheru, who was the trial magistrate, found the two guilty of three of the five counts in a judgment on February 5, 2019. They were sentenced to life imprisonment for being accessories to the  to murder for the first two counts by Judge E. K. Makori on February 7, 2019. They appealed on February 18, 2019, on ground of defective charges, and said the trial magistrate based his sentencing on belief and not evidence on record, among other grounds. Judge Ong’injo found the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Fazul, who was later allegedly murdered in Somalia by authorities, was present at Hemed’s house on the dates in question. “Having analysed the evidence of all the prosecution witnesses and weighing them against the evidence of the appellants and their witnesses, I do find that the prosecution’s evidence left a lot of loose ends that cannot sustain a conviction,” judge Ong’injo said in her ruling. “The appellants’ appeal is therefore successful. The conviction is quashed and the sentences set aside. The appellants are hereby set at liberty unless otherwise lawfully detained. Orders accordingly,” Ong’injo ruled. On Friday, speaking outside the Shimo la Tewa prison on Friday evening, Mwita said by Thursday the judgment had been printed and signed by the judge. “I got my copy from the original. Today, it is said the original copy of the judgment cannot be traced. How can this be?” Mwita asked. The lawyer and Khalifa believe someone powerful in the government or the police service has a hand in the ‘disappearance’ of the original copy. “Who has intervened in this case and does not want these two to get their freedom, which has been confirmed by the court?” Mwita asked. He said they will be following up the matter on Monday. Muhuri’s Khalifa said a  game that is being played aimed at making Hemed and his son Ibrahim disappear. “They could come here with the original copy after we have left. But we have left strict instruction that the two should not get out of the prison without the presence of their lawyer Mwita, Khalifa said. Khalifa said the freedom of the two is being infringed on by the authorities. “If a judge says one must be released, they must be released. This issue about originals is not our concern. It is the magistrate’s,” the human rights defender said. “We have information some ATPU officers were hovering around the court this morning. We believe they may have taken the original release orders,” Khalifa said. Mwita said once one’s freedom has been determined by the court, one must start to enjoy that freedom right there. “If it is an administrative issue, then the one responsible for the delay must be held responsible. Because it is supposed to be automatic. The right to liberty is a basic right in the Constitution,” Mwita said.. Mahfudh Mohammed, Hemed’s nephew, said Kenya is governed by laws and that no one is above the law. “It is important the laws are followed. If the authorities do not follow the law, what should we, the small people, do? Mahfudh asked. He said those with power should not abuse it. He revealed that family and friends had gathered at Hemed’s house in Mombasa eagerly awaiting their arrival. “Everyone is at home from 9am waiting for them to come home. We are disappointed that till now they are yet to be released,” Mahfudh said. (Edited by V. Graham)