Amani National Congress Leader, Musalia Mudavadi on Saturday decried the introduction of 16 per cent VAT on cooking gas. Households will now pay at least Sh350 more for cooking gas following the introduction of the 16 per cent value-added tax on the commodity, adding to the pain of costly life. The Finance Act, 2021 came into effect on July 1, after President Uhuru Kenyatta's assent, a move that reintroduced (VAT) on liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), but delayed the levy for one year to July due to concerns about the cost of living. Mudavadi questioned the decision saying, that it was painful to tax Kenyans on the most basic commodities such as cooking gas and food items. Mudavadi who was accompanied by Nakuru Governor Lee Kinyanjui, Nairobi Senator, Johnson Sakaja and a host of MPs and MCAs, said the move might result in environmental degradation. "The tax on gas is following the woman up to her kitchen; what do you expect her to do, she will cut trees to get firewood or charcoal," he said. Mudavadi promised to reduce tax, end corruption and reduce national debt if elected President. He was addressing the media at Nyayo Gardens after a closed door meeting with Governor Kinyanjui, Nakuru County Assembly Speaker, Joel Kairu and other leaders at the county level. He commended Kinyanjui, Nakuru leadership and the people for the former municipality's upgrade to city status. He said the upgrade will be followed by vast opportunities as investors throng to Nakuru for business. "The residents should align themselves to benefit from the new status," said Mudavadi. On BBI, the 2022 presidential aspirant said Nakuru would have been the greatest beneficiary of the proposed law financially and security wise. He observed that Nakuru has been a hot spot for political violence and BBI sought to deal with such problems. "Despite the challenges, the Constitutional Amendment Bill 2020 had great propositions such as ending political turmoil before, during and after every election," he said. Mudavadi said he desired a secure Kenya for all regardless of race, religion or ethnic background. "We do not want to go back to a situation where people in Molo are compelled to live in the same house with their livestock for fear of them being stolen," he said. udavadi is on a two day tour of Nakuru to champion his economic blueprint for the region. He had a closed door meeting with the governor earlier on Saturday before meeting the business community and professionals in the afternoon. He will attend two church services at St Peter's Catholic church Lanet and Neema PCEA at Teachers Estate. MPs present included Tindi Mwale (Butere), Ernest Kagesi (Vihiga), Sakwa Bunyasi (Nambale), and Vihiga County Speaker, Hasna Mdaizi.