More Kenyan dairy farmers may be forced out of business by rising temperatures unless they find efficient ways to cool off their cows. Scientists have established cows in Kenya begin to produce less milk when temperatures rise above 22 degrees. Production reduces gradually with higher temperatures, unless the cows are kept in shades or cooled off using other ways. Heat stress is well-known to reduce milk production globally, but the threshold for Kenya has never been established, until now. The daily average temperature and temperature humidity index (THI) are used to assess milk yield losses. “Considering a one-day lag, the estimated heat stress thresholds were about 22 °C and 69 index units for temperature humidity index,” the scientists said of the Kenyan cows. They compared daily milk production, daily temperatures and humidity between 2000-2017. Data on milk production was obtained from the Kenya Livestock Breeders Organization and Livestock Recording Centre. The KLBO is a farmers’ group with functions of livestock registration and milk recording, whereas LRC is a department under the Ministry of Agriculture. The Kenyan temperature threshold is much lower than the popularly established threshold of 26 °C in many countries. “Apart from animal factors, the differences in heat stress thresholds result from differences in climates where the animals are raised,” the scientists said. The study was published in the Animal journal last week and was carried out by Egerton University scientist Jack Mbuthia and two German researchers. Kenya's daytime temperatures average between 20°C and 28°C, according to the Meteorological Department. However, temperatures are rising every year due to climate change, which will make large parts of Kenya unsuitable for dairy farming. “Increase of temperatures will affect livestock more in higher rather than lower altitudes, because in the latter, they are better adapted to high temperatures and drought,” the study says. The current analysis only looked at the main dairy cattle breeds – Friesian, Ayrshire, Jersey and Guernsey. Indigenous cattle such as Zebu, which are low milk producers, can withstand high temperatures without considerable effect on milk production. They were not included in the study. Lactating cows usually respond to heat stress by sweating, panting, drinking more water, and seeking shade when possible. When temperatures rise further, they eat less feed, which leads to a fall in milk production. The scientists said farmers can mitigate the effects through simple adaptations, such as providing shade, to installing fans and water misting systems. “Long-term sustainable production would be achieved through the selection and breeding of heat-tolerant individuals,” the authors say. Heat stress is not the main factor affecting milk production in Kenya, the researchers noted. “The seasonal variability of milk yield is characterised by high milk during wet seasons and low milk in dry seasons. This is primarily due to pasture availability.” Kenya has about 4.5 million cows, the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics says. Dairy farming is the largest agricultural subsector compared to other aspects of farming and contributes to about 14 per cent of Gross Domestic Products in the agricultural sector. Edited by A.N