The hospitality industry in Western Kenya continues to record low business due to the strict rules imposed by the government to contain the spread of Covid-19. President Uhuru Kenyatta last week announced an extension of the revised curfew hours for the region to July 31. Curfew starts at 7pm and ends at 4am in 13 counties in the lake region that have been declared Covid-19 hotspot. The counties are Busia, Vihiga, Kisii, Nyamira, Kakamega, Kericho, Bomet, Bungoma, Trans Nzoia, Kisumu, Siaya, Homa Bay and Migori. Among the worst-hit businesses in the region are hotels that have been registering declined bookings. Lake Victoria Tourism Association chairman Robinson Anyal said the industry, which was on a recovery path, has been dealt a blow by the Covid-19 restrictions. He said hoteliers have devised innovative ways to sustain their businesses. “Our performance in room occupancy has dropped to below 20 per cent, with some facilities doing below 15 per cent. But the positive news is that 90 per cent have remained open through cost-cutting and other innovative ways,” Anyal said. Peter Ayuko, the manager of Joventure Hotel in Kisumu, said the facility has been forced to send 70 per cent of workers on unpaid leave as a cost-cutting measure. “We are back to square one. Rooms are empty and there is no traffic into the hotel after 6pm. It is devastating. We were recovering and had called back most of the employees,” he said. Suleiman Wanda, the general manager of Aturukan hotel in Trans Nzoia county, said most conferences, which remain a key driver for the region’s hotel business, have been postponed indefinitely. “The recent extension of curfew hours means that the hospitality industry will be severely crippled. We might have a hard time settling our financial obligations because of the postponement of conferences that were expected to bring in better returns,” Wanda said. He added, “We however remain optimistic of overcoming this testing moment and our resilient spirit will shine through.” Divine Homes Resort general manager Oscar Ochola said they were facing tough times. “Not only are the new restrictions on Covid-19 to blame for the low bookings, but most organisations are also closing their financial year plans,” he said. Busia’s Farm View Hotel manager Dan Kubasu said all bookings have been cancelled. “No more bookings. Check-in customers are no longer there, especially those who usually come for dinner and entertainment,” he said. Imperial Express hotel in Kisumu operations manager Kena Shah said they have very low occupancies as there are no meetings or conferences. “The situation is quite bad. Group bookings are done in advance but clients have cancelled or postponed,” Shah said. An official at Ufanisi Resort in Kisii said the curfew has negatively affected business. “Most NGOs, who were great supporters of our conference facilities are sceptical not to endanger the lives of their staff,” manager Maurice Odhiambo said.  Edited by A.N 