ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has once again poured cold water on the possibility of reviving the National Super Alliance, Nasa, ahead of the 2022 general elections. Speaking during a service at Ruaraka SDA Church on Saturday, Mudavadi said the opposition outfit has been taken hostage. “Hiyo wakati nilikuwa nasema Nasa hawa, lakini siku hizi, nikama Nasa imenaswa,” he told the congregation. This loosely translated to, “I used to say capture them. But nowadays, it seems Nasa has been captured.” The former Vice President’s sentiments come at a time when attempts are being made to revive the coalition to face Deputy President William Ruto. Recently, President Uhuru Kenyatta, who has fallen out with his deputy, urged Nasa principals to unite ahead of the polls to increase their chances of taking over power when he retires. But Mudavadi and Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka have downplayed the unity bid, saying mistrust among them has made it difficult to resuscitate the moribund coalition. Mudavadi, who was accompanied by Nairobi Senator Johnson Sakaja and a host of other leaders, reiterated that his name will be on the presidential ballot in the upcoming polls. He drummed up support for his bid, saying Kenyans need an honest and transparent leader who will turn around the economy of the country. “I want to tell you that I am in the field. I am vying for the presidency of the Republic of Kenya. I am not seeking the seat by force. I am humble and pleading with Kenyans wherever they are to stand together so that we can build our country,” he said. Mudavadi said fixing the economy to ensure every Kenyan can put food on the table is his main agenda if elected next year, adding that Kenyans are currently suffering. “Our agenda as we go into 2022 is the economy. We want to change the lives of Kenyans so that they can get means to put food on the table,” he said. He said Kenyans should be cautious about dishonest and unscrupulous leaders who are seeking the seat for their own benefit. “Let’s be solid. Let's be together and let's look at the right leadership, step by step. August next year, don't vote because of your tribe. Don't vote because of money. Don't vote because you have been forced. Vote because you believe you are making the right decision for the country," he said. Mudavadi called for scrutiny of those seeking leadership positions, including public servants, saying that thugs and corrupt individuals are hell bent on holding the country hostage. He cited the ongoing interviews for the vacant commissioners positions at the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, where a candidate pulled out of the exercise after he was found with fake academic certificates. “That is a sign that if we don't take care, conmen are in every corner. They are waiting for Kenyans in every corner,” he said. “If you close your eyes, these conmen will get to a corner that is very important for our nation. If we put those conmen in leadership positions, our country will sink,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori