More than 1,500 people have benefited from free medical camp at Maisha Medical Clinic, one of the projects under the Maisha Project in Kisumu county. Maisha Project Founder Beatrice Atieno Williamson said the five-day medical initiative saw beneficiaries treated and given medicines. They were treated of various diseases such as malaria and coughs among others. The health facility is based at Chiga in Kisumu East sub county. Maisha Project is an international organisation working on local levels in Kenya to empower people to transform their communities. With the Covid-19 spike in Kisumu, Williamson said they have realised that many people are sick in Kisumu whether they have Covid-19 or not they are sick. “The hospitals are full and that’s what drives us to organise for the medical camp to treat people. By the end of the initiative we shall have seen more than 700 people,” Williamson said. According to her, people are sick with the normal basic diseases that they could not get to the closest hospitals because people are also afraid of the Covid-19. “We are seeing 100 people every day,” she said. Maisha  Medical Clinic has partnered with the Ministry of Health to ensure children are vaccinated for the realisation of the ongoing countywide immunization of measles and rubella. “We have so far vaccinated more than 750 children for measles and its design to end on Monday. But our target is to reach at least 1,000 children,” she said. Williamson added that the health workers vaccinate almost 100 children. “It is exciting that we are providing a medical camp for the community and at the same time saving the lives of children. Without this measles vaccination they could be in danger in the future,” she said. Maisha medical clinic boasts of a full 24/7 hospital for the Chiga community. The hospital’s bed capacity is 35 but currently, 20 are operational. “The bed capacity is full because people are sick. “We are doing the medical camp during the day of outpatient basis and we are so proud to serve the people of this community,” Williamson said. During the medical camp, parents were also sensitised on measles and rubella as well as the importance of vaccination. More than 750 children below five years were vaccinated against measles and rubella. They targeted to vaccine at least 1,000 children by close of the drive. “The jab is very effective at protecting children against measles and rubella, and preventing the complications caused by these diseases,” she said. The vaccination, Williamson said, was also conducted in churches, villages, and schools especially Early Childhood Developments (ECDs) centers to meet the target. “We have competent nurses undertaking the measles and rubella vaccination drive,” she said. She noted that all their health workers have been trained and sensitised to the exercise to reach the unvaccinated children in the area. Williamson noted that measles remained a big threat to unvaccinated children, adding that every effort shall be made to reach those who have not been vaccinated. Kisumu is among the 22 high-risk counties that the Ministry of Health earmarked for the vaccination. Maisha Project with its headquarters in Oklahoma, USA the local projects in Kisumu are locally owned, managed, and operated. “We have over 46 employees in this compound and that means that Maisha project is already raising champions in this community to be self-reliant and raising the economic empowerment through the entrepreneurship of what we do and creating jobs,” Williamson said. Born and bred in the village of Chiga in Kisumu East, Williamson said her mission is to transform lives and empower her community by providing lasting solutions to address poverty, hunger, disease, and under-education to communities. She received sponsorship for education at the age of 9 and moved to Oklahoma in the USA where she has been for the last 20 years. Williamson said her desire is to give others that same opportunity for education and a "hand up." “Born and bred in Kisumu. My second home has been in Oklahoma, USA for the last 20 years but my heart is in Kisumu,” she said. In 2008, Williamson said they started Maisha project on the aspect of the feeding program for children to ensure they have good nutritional food in school,” Williamson said. Currently, there are more than 1,000 children under the Maisha Project drawn from Kisumu. The children are from primary schools, secondary and colleges. “We are very thankful to God because starting in 2019 we are seeing the fruits of our Labour. We have students graduating from universities and colleges across Kenya. The beauty part of it is that the students are coming back to Maisha project and working here,” Williamson said. Currently, there are teachers working at Maisha School and those who are social workers and chefs. There are also some who are working at the Maisha medical clinic. “We are not just limited to kids, our mission is really to empower people to transform their community and that is what we are doing since our inception,” Williamson said. Under the Maisha Project, there are five basic pillars such as education, health, empowerment, infrastructure and cultural differences. On cultural differences, Williamson explained that they bring mission trips from America to projects in Kisumu and also take Kenyan children to America for the same mission. “We have been doing this for couple of years now,” the founder said. Williamson noted that every day children face the risk of disease, malnutrition and hopelessness. In the Nyanza region, where Maisha is located, the silent epidemic of HIV/AIDS has killed mothers and fathers. This leaves one out of every three households headed by a child. According to Williamson eradicating generational poverty starts with educating and empowering children. Maisha team accomplish their mission through projects such as Legacy of Hope education sponsorships, school feeding, empowerment/micro-finance, HIV/AIDS care/education and much more.