A Multi-agency security team is in a dilemma even as they hunt for their wanted colleague over the murder of two men. In as much as they want Caroline Kangogo to be apprehended to face charges, they fear a physical confrontation may lead to deaths on both sides. This is because she is a sharpshooter and may decide to go down with those out to get her if it reaches that level, one officer said. The saga surrounding her has now become an excuse or a source of fear among some. This is after a licensed gun holder shot and wounded a woman in Kiminini on fears she was Kangogo. The man was disarmed after he shot and injured one Phanice Chemutai in the stomach in an encounter. He mistook her for Kangogo, the man told police who arrived at the scene moments later. The man claimed the woman had persistently called him for an unknown mission that prompted him to shoot her when they met. Police fear similar incidents may happen if Kangogo is not arrested soon. The woman was admitted to a local hospital in a stable condition as police investigate the incident. Kangogo is a suspect in the killing of two people, including police Constable John Ogweno, in Nakuru on Monday, July 5. She later allegedly shot dead Peter Ndwiga Njiru, 32, in a lodging in Juja, Kiambu county, about 200km from where the police officer died. An autopsy showed Ogweno died of a haemorrhage. Njiru's autopsy said he died out of bleeding from the head. Ogweno’s firearm with 15 bullets is yet to be recovered but police said they found some of his clothes in Kangogo’s house. Police have recovered one of her phones, which was dumped in Nakuru. Detectives were deployed to her rural home to protect her parents in case she turns up there and turns violent. Most of her friends are police officers and they don't know who her next target could be. Officers in her Nakuru workstation are nervous. One officer revealed Kangogo and Njiru met at the station when he went to report about an incident in which a female worker had apparently stolen from him about Sh100,000. In the course of the investigation by Kangogo, they fell in love. The case went cold after the said staff swore to reveal why she took the money. The two have since been lovers until she killed him in a lodging. Kangogo withdrew Sh40,000 from a bank in Juja on Monday, it has emerged. Detectives investigating the murder of two men have established that the money was withdrawn from a bank to enable her to move around. Sources privy to the investigations also said they were pursuing revenge as the possible motive for the attacks, which have left two suspected lovers, police constable Ogweno and a Juja businessman dead. Police say Kangogo had apparently taken a loan of about Sh500,00 together with Ogweno which could be a factor in her actions. But that notwithstanding, the hunt for her is ongoing, police said adding they are pursuing several other leads. They want her to face charges after the autopsy on the two bodies was conducted. The police warn that she is armed, dangerous and lethal and wants the public to be on the lookout even as they intensify efforts to finally apprehend her. DCI boss George Kinoti appealed to the public to help arrest Corporal Caroline Kangogo whom he termed rogue, armed and dangerous. “We are cautioning members of the public, especially men, to be on the lookout for the rogue officer, who is luring men to her trap before executing them in cold blood,” he said.