Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei believes the 46-member team to represent Kenya at the World Athletics Under-20 Championship will return a memorable performance at the August 17-22 event. Tuwei said the 24 men and 22 women have the capacity to cope with the pressure of putting on a good show as the host nation and replicating the excellent performance of Team Kenya at the last edition in Tampere, Finland in 2018. "It is not going to be easy because this is the first time we are hosting a junior event of this kind in the country. Our athletes performed very well in the last edition in Finland and led the medal table. Anything that involves a World Championship is never easy but I am sure with much training these athletes can perform better," Tuwei said. Tuwei further said meticulous preparations by different stakeholders since last year has ensured the country ends up with the strongest team possible to do duty on home soil. "I would like to thank our regions and affiliates for preparing their teams and bringing them from their places of domicile to this place so that we can select the final team. I would also like to thank the youth sub-committee of AK for the wonderful programme and  preparations they put in place for these trials to ensure this selection process," he said. The final team was named after three days of trials during which close to 500 junior athletes from across the country and beyond converged at Moi Stadium, Kasarani to stake their claim for a place in Team Kenya. The athletes will return to their respective bases for the next fortnight to clear up on any issues related to their studies before reporting for residential camp on July 15. Echoing his president's words, Barnaba Korir, AK's director of the youth sub-committee, said the juniors are close to attaining peak conditions in their performances. "On the technical side, it is clear that the levels are quite high as evident from the performances today. They are about 80 per cent ready to compete at the global level. We want them to enter residential camp and train for quite a longer time to fine-tune them for the championships," Korir said. Also present at the closing ceremony were Ministry of Sports CAS Simon Kachapin and Olympics Kenya president Paul Tergat, among others. Full Team Men High Jump: Sid Markus Discus : Titus Kiptoo High Jump: Dennis MainaS hot Put: Dominic Kiprotich Javelin: Wilson Letunyie 10,000m walk Harrington Wanyonyi 400m H: Peter Kithome, Allocious Kipngetich 110m H: Patrick Muindi 3000m: Bernard Kibet, Daniel Kinyanjui 100m: Sylvester Simiyu 400m: Elkanah Kiprotich, Edwin Kipyegon 1500m: Vincent Keter, Emmanuel Lemama 200m: Jonathan Muasya 5,000m: Levi Kibet, Benson Kiplangat 800m: Noah Kibet, Emmanuel Wanyonyi 3000m S/C: Simon Kiprop, Amos Serem Women High Jump: Zeddy Chesire Discus Linda: Kageha Javelin: Martha Musaai Triple Jump: Fatuma Winny Long Jump: Zeddy Chesire Shot Put: Maureen Milka 10,000m walk: Margaret Gati 400m H:Agnes Ngumbi 100m H: Agnes Ngumbi 5,000m: Maurine Cherotich, Zena Jeptoo 100m: Mercy Chebet 400m: Sylvia Chelangat 3000m Teresia Muthoni, Zena Jemutai 1500m: Purity Chepkurui, Winny Jemutai 200m: Louise Morara 800m: Sheila Chepkosgei, Brenda Chebet 3000m S/C: Jackline Chepkoech, Faith Cherotich