ODM leader Raila Odinga has told off his partners in the National Super Alliance over their claim for a share of the funding for political parties. ODM has been accused of bullying its partners Wiper, ANC, and Ford Kenya in their efforts to get a share of the millions of shillings. Raila, however, said Nasa was not a political party to be given the funds as a unit, adding that the alliance's engagements end at Parliament, “after which each party has to deal with its own issues.” The former prime minister said the parties have no justification to claim the cash since the 2017 presidential election was nullified. Raila said since Nasa did not take part in the repeat election, ODM has received nothing from the presidential vote. “There is no penny ODM has got from the government from the presidential vote, so there is nothing to divide,” he said during an interview with Radio Citizen. The former PM said the money the party gets is in respect of the proportionate number of ODM lawmakers in Parliament. His assertions stand to deal a blow to Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC Musalia Mudavadi, and Ford Kenya’s Moses Wetang'ula in their claim to the parties’ cash. “There is no money for Nasa that ODM has refused to divide. The money ODM is receiving is for the sake of the MPs it has, just like what is given to Jubilee,” Raila said. “We can’t deny our partners their right. They are not getting money because they don’t have the numbers.” “We were told that the Registrar of Political Parties has refused to recognise the results of 2017 since they were nullified in court,” the ODM leader said. He spoke even as Kalonzo vowed to put a fight for ODM to give Wiper its rightful share of the cash from the 2017 vote. The Wiper boss said he was going to hold a meeting with Raila to discuss the matter and not the 2022 General Election. “The issue we’ll discuss is basically the political parties’ fund. This is taxpayers’ money. I don’t intend to discuss 2022 at this stage. The time is coming,” Kalonzo said on Thursday. But Raila said the talks with his Nasa co-principals will be held “as people who went hunting but did not get the animal they were pursuing.” “We went hunting and came back empty-handed. What is there to be divided? Which benefit has ODM got from the past election? The party is still the way it was, just poor as other parties.” On the split in Nasa over the 2022 flagbearer, the ODM leader said the issue should not arise as he is yet to declare whether he will run or not. Raila said he has not refused to hold talks with Wiper, Ford Kenya, and ANC, saying he only asked that they weigh options and see who can win. “We will join hands with whoever can win. It must not be Raila. I have not declared I am vying. I have said we are ready to support others. What matters is that someone can deliver the vote,” the former PM said. ONE BULLET But in a strong hint that he was not out of the equation, Raila denied ever saying he had only “one bullet.” “I have never said I have only one bullet. In fact, I have a full magazine,” he said in dismissal to claims that he was waiting for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s endorsement. Raila said he has at no time in his political life depended on endorsements to vie for any seat. "I am not looking for an endorsement from anyone. I don't depend on endorsements in my life. My whole political career has been about service to the people, not endorsements,” he said. The ODM leader said he will not speak of his 2022 plans until after the BBI process is concluded. "I will be looking for votes from President Uhuru and others if I decide to vie for the Presidency. I will not be looking for endorsements." He dismissed those bidding for the presidency as ‘only running their mouths yet have no solutions that will change the lives of Kenyans.’ His take was that even if he won’t run, he’d continue giving advice to the government of the day. Raila described talks between ODM and Jubilee as ‘preparations by players waiting for a big game.’ “Those are exercises. You can’t put the players in the field to wait for the game. We are looking at whether to go alone as ODM or as a coalition. We have players in Jubilee and ODM as well as Wiper, ANC, and Ford Kenya. We will look at the team we will put together,” he said. He expressed confidence that the country still has a chance to hold a referendum to implement the BBI recommendations. He said the timing of the plebiscite should not be a worry since the activity does not require the kind of resources for conducting a general election. “There is still time for a referendum. We have a year to elections. It can be done even if it gets to December…nothing stops us from doing so,” the ODM leader said. Raila said he was confident the courts will deliver a favourable ruling to allow Kenyans to have a say in the proposed constitutional changes. “If justice is served, reggae will come back. I am ready for the outcome of the courts. If the courts decide against us, we will accept the verdict.” The BBI is seeking to introduce an expanded Executive to include a prime minister and two deputies as well as increase the share of revenue to counties to 35 per cent. Raila said most of the proposals in the BBI document require a vote of the people to either approve or reject them. “Why would some people waste our time in courts yet they can go to wananchi and seek their view through the referendum?” the ODM leader asked. Raila also answered back at Deputy President William Ruto saying the DP was wrong to claim to have helped him win in 2007. “Someone cannot claim credit for the 2007 win. Ruto was just a player in the ODM team. He never helped me with money or anything. He helped himself as we were there as a team,” he said. On possibilities of teaming up with the Hustler Movement, Raila said that he “would rather be at home than be part of a team that glorifies corruption.”  Edited by P.O