World 3000m steeplechase Beatrice Chepkoech record holder expects all eyes to be her at the 2020 Tokyo Olympic Games and must therefore put in an excellent performance. Coronavirus pandemic or not, Chepkoech admits these lofty expectations from around the world have been her fuel in training as she attempts a successful shot at the Olympics title. "What keeps me moving is that I am a world record holder and all eyes will be on me. This is what gives me morale in my training at all times whether there is a pandemic or not," Chepkoech said. Regardless of the additional weight of expectations on her shoulder, she still looks to her exploits in Monaco in 2018 as the moment when she realise that the steeplechase was her calling. "My most memorable moment was in 2018 when I set a new steeplechase record in Monaco. It was at that point that I realised I was cut out for this race," she said. Chepkoech timed 8:44.32 to set a new world record at the Monaco Diamond League. Apart from the water and jumps race, Chepkoech has also run 800m, 2,000m steeplechase, 3000m, half marathon and 1500m in which she won a bronze medal at the 2015 African Games in Brazzaville, Congo and clinched silver at the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia in 2017. In February this year, she set a new record of 14:43 in the women's 5K road race at the Morocco Run to shatter the previous one of 14:48 by Caroline Kipkirui, three years ago. In Tokyo, Chepkoech will be carrying the Kenyan flag high alongside 2016 Rio Olympics silver medalist Hyvin Kiyeng and 2014 Commonwealth Games champion Purity Kirui. Meanwhile, world marathon record holder Eliud Kipchoge has bemoaned the lack of spectators at the Olympics but is optimistic the Tokyo Games will still be a thriller. "I'm excited to participate in the Olympic marathon in Sapporo. Unfortunately, there won't be any fans in attendance but hopefully, many millions around the world can watch on TV and enjoy the largest sporting event on earth," Kipchoge said. The Olympic champion, who will be among the last to leave the country for Japan on July 31, said all is well in his preparations.