The government has been urged to invest more in infrastructure and medication for sickle cell patients. Maisha Project founder Beatrice Williamson said it is alarming that children born with sickle cell disease in Kenya hardly live past five years due to lack of proper healthcare. “We have learnt that sickle cell is a forgotten disease here in Kenya and a lot of people are born with sickle cell, which requires proper medication,” she said. Williamson said they have a sickle cell department that offers services for patients at Maisha Medical Clinic in Chiga, Kisumu East. The clinic is one of the projects under the Maisha Project. “We are providing health services to 35 patients, both children and adults, with sickle cell,” Williamson said. “I am proud of that department because my sister was born with sickle cell and as a family, we have struggled to give her the best care all her life. She is 30 years old now, kicking and alive. She has a beautiful young daughter.” Williamson said with proper care, children born with sickle cell can live a full life. “At Maisha Medical Clinic, we are able to serve families that have a situation like sickle cell but don’t have an income,” she said. Williamson spoke during a five-day medical camp at Maisha Medical Clinic. More than 750 people were treated for various ailments such as malaria and cough. At least 1,000 children under five years were vaccinated against measles and rubella. “The jab is very effective in protecting children against measles and rubella and preventing the complications caused by these diseases,”  Williamson said. Maisha Project is an international organisation working at local levels in Kenya to empower people to transform their communities. Its headquarters is in Oklahoma, US. The projects in Kisumu are locally owned, managed and operated. Born and bred in Chiga village in Kisumu East subcounty, Williamson said her mission is to transform lives and empower her community by providing lasting solutions to address poverty, hunger, disease and fight illiteracy. Edited by A.N 