Ever seen me at any of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s functions? This is the question Amani leader Musalia Mudavadi on Thursday tossed at critics who say his presidential bid is being backed by President Kenyatta. The former Vice President was apparently referring to his Nasa partners Raila Odinga and Wiper’s Kalonzo Musyoka who have been conspicuous at the President's recent events. Musalia said he is his own man in the 2022 succession race, further dismissing any chances of his taking part in rescuing the crumbling Nasa coalition. “Whose project am I and in what way? I am in the opposition so this is propaganda that has no roots. What is the evidence I am a project? Table it,” he said in an interview with Citizen TV. “Has Uhuru said Musalia is my project? Even in his programmes, which one has he assigned me? Apart from events to mark national days, which people are there most of the time?” he asked. The Amani leader says he is preparing to run for the presidency on his party's ticket, saying he is keen on building the outfit at the moment. Asked whether he'd take part in talks to revive Nasa, Musalia said there was “no going back to the past”, adding it would be a waste of time to tell Kenyans about the coalition’s rebirth. “I have moved on. I am building ANC just like others are building their parties. Even if we are to talk, we are already forming the One Kenya Alliance,” he said. “We have seen that the faith among the leadership has gone down. It is time to move forward, not bring issues of us being stuck where Nasa was.” Musalia said the Nasa experience was an eye-opener. "This is where we say that if we don’t want to be accountable to what we agreed on as a team, you have to know that you owe it to your supporters and to the team members. “We have to be accountable to each other. If we say we want to form a coalition which will emerge, we must go there with trust and accountability,” he added. The former deputy prime minister said they will continue preparing OKA for the next election, considering the IEBC has released a timetable for the 2022 General Election. Musalia made clear he has no intention of working with Raila, casting the ODM leader as one who cannot be trusted with agreements. The bone of contention is the political parties’ cash which the Nasa parties accuse ODM of clinging to, contrary to the agreement deposited with the Registrar of Political Parties. His comments followed ODM receiving Sh165 million from the Political Parties Fund in line with provisions of the Political Parties (Funding) Regulations, 2019. Jubilee Party got Sh353 million, the payout triggering grumbles among the Nasa members on why their parties are yet to get a share of the proceeds. ODM party was in defiance of the pre-2017 elections agreement, the ANC boss said,  accusing the party leadership of being dishonest in its reason for holding on to the funds. In a further indication he wouldn’t work with Raila, the Amani leader said the party equally defied the agreement on sharing parliamentary positions. “We also agreed that whoever ran in 2017, his party will not field a candidate in 2022. The agreement included how we will share parliamentary slots but that is yet to happen. In reality, we have seen how committee slots were shared. Leaders from Nasa have been sidelined,” he said. Raila earlier said there was no money to be shared among Nasa partners since the 2017 presidential election was nullified. His party argues the money would be shared had they won and if they jointly fronted candidates in sharing House leadership positions. On the OKA agenda, the Amani leader said they are still agreeing on issues defining the next elections, adding that coalition building cannot be rushed. He urged his supporters to look at ideologies that define leaders, adding OKA is not about beating DP William Ruto in the elections. “If we say so, it would be a narrow objective. We must know that where Kenya is going, there is need to focus on issues that will change the lives of citizens, not competition,” Musalia said.  (Edited by V. Graham)