The Attorney General has been given 21 days to get Health CS Mutahi Kagwe to file an affidavit in a case seeking to compel the Judiciary to resume physical court hearings. The affidavit by the CS is meant to confirm whether courts should be open for public hearings. Judge James Makau told the parties in the matter that he will give his judgment on October 14. In the case filed by Kituo cha Sheria, the court heard that many Kenyans are suffering from lack of access to justice as they cannot access the virtual court hearing and the e-filing system. This is because most Kenyans cannot afford mobile phones, computers and they lack technological skills to access the virtual court system. Through lawyers John Khaminwa and John Mwariri, the lobby group stressed that the court needs to rule on the matter as the Chief Justice and the state had failed to show the initiatives and the programmes they had put in place to ensure poor Kenyans access justice. “In this regard justice was only being served by the court to a few rich Kenyans and advocates. Justice therefore is perceived as elitist,” the lobby group said. The Law Society of Kenya which is also a party to the matter, told the court that its members have complained that the e-filing portal is at times unresponsive and takes a lot of time, sometimes even a fortnight to get help from the court assistants or officials at the registry. The society also says advocates have faced challenges when paying filing fees auto generated by the e-filing system as at times the payment do not reflect and or the monies sent bounce back and receive an error message that Judiciary account is not capable of receiving funds. “These results in late filing and service of the documents, hence occasioning an unnecessary hardship to the advocates,” an affidavit sworn by Mercy Wambua reads in part. Also raised by LSK is the fact that sometimes the links provided by the courts get changed without members being notified in good time. “… It takes time for members to be allowed in the virtual session, sometimes even getting their matters have already been called and adverse orders made against them despite the court having notice of the challenges.” The e-filing system, according to LSK, has also led to mistrust and doubt by the clients who perceive the failure of the system is as a result of negligence on the part of lawyers. -Edited by SKanyara