A 10-day measles and rubella vaccination campaign has been rolled out by the Ministry of Health targeting thousands of children who missed the first round of the drive. The first round was conducted between January and May. Already, 171,000 doses have been received by Kisumu and distributed to 200 vaccination posts across the county. Kisumu County Expanded Programme on Immunisation logistician Florence Akech said the doses are expected to cover 158, 881 children aged 9-59 months who missed out on the first round of vaccination . Akech noted that the first round covered 14,098, with only 7, 208 children vaccinated in the second round so far. She noted that all health workers including community health volunteers have been trained and sensitised to the exercise, expressing optimism that all the unvaccinated children in the area shall be reached by close of the drive. She was speaking during the launch of the programme at Nyalenda Health Centre in Kisumu Central subcounty. “We are taking advantage of any public meetings, barazas and other sensitisation drives going on in the country to spread the message to ensure that all our children receive the jab,” Akech said. However, poor uptake of the vaccine and other vaccinations has been attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic. The county chief officer of health Gregory Ganda said since the pandemic broke out, very few people visit health facilities where these services are offered, reducing the coverage. “This pandemic has also caused a major financial strain affecting supplies across our facilities,” he added. Ganda noted that measles remained a big threat to unvaccinated children, adding that every effort shall be made to reach those who have not been vaccinated. “Cases of measles have been reported in Tana River and Garissa counties and being a contagious disease, we cannot afford to sit back,” he said. Besides the health facilities, the vaccination is administered at selected mobile and temporary posts to ensure that all the children are reached. Kisumu is among the 22 high-risk counties that the Ministry of Health earmarked for the vaccination. Edited by Henry Makori