Kanana Muthomi fired 55 gross to lift the Kenchic Junior Golf Competition 9-10 years category at the Royal Nairobi Golf Club over the weekend. At the same time, Kai Henry Mukumbu staged an impressive show on the fairways to lift the hotly contested 7-8 years nine-hole category. “This victory means a lot to us as a family. It is a proof that Kanana is progressing in the game,” said Muthomi’s father Robert. This was the second major win for Muthomi, who won the African Junior Challenge Championship in South Africa in 2019. Seven-year-old Mukumbu said it was constant practice on the range that catapulted him to victory. “I’m proud of myself. I practiced twice in the week before I came for the tournament and that extra effort has paid off,” said Mukumbu, who is in PP2 at Thomas Back Primary School in Nairobi. “I want to thank my parents for introducing me to golf. Apart from planning to be a pro in the sport, I want to be a firefighter when I grow up.” Mukumbu’s father, Josiah Mwangi, said they only practice on weekends during school terms but this changes when Mukumbu goes for holidays. “My son started playing golf when he was three. He has had an amazing progress since. We are happy with his victory,” said Mwangi. In other results, Cynthia Auma scored 113 gross to lift the girls 14 and above category as Kiyule Kivuvani (101 gross) emerged boys’ champion in the group. Andy Gathere (67) and B.Wanjiru (69) won the boys and girls under 13 categories respectively. Kenchic Limited Head of Operations and Processing, Philip Carolan, said the event has unearthed talents that need nurturing. “We are open to ideas on how to improve junior golf competition because these youngsters are the future Kenya Open Champions,” he noted. “In the meantime, we have planned a series of championships across the country with our next events planned in the coming months.” Junior Golf Foundation (JGF) President Larry Ngala said the turn up for the inaugural championship was amazing. “This shows the future of golf in the country is very bright. The JGF will work hand in hand with Professional Golfers of Kenya to improve the game across the country,” said Ngala.