A lobby group has challenged a decision by Chief Justice Martha Koome to allow Justice Jessie Lessit to conclude murdered lawyer Willie Kimani’s case. In a letter to the Chief Justice, Sheria Mtaani and Shadrack Wambui have asked Koome to withdraw her directions to Lessit, arguing that they are against the law. “This is because the court does not have the jurisdiction to deal with High Court matters following its elevation to the Court of Appeal,” the letter states. Lessit has been sworn in as Court of Appeal judge but Koome allowed her to conclude her matters, including the Kimani case that she set for hearing from Thursday. According to the letter that has been received by the CJ’s office, there are thousands of litigants affected by the swearing-in of judges to the Court of Appeal, but Justice Lessit was the only one allowed to conclude her matters. They argue that it is discriminatory for Lessit to conclude her matters when there is no communication that the other judges are also concluding theirs. “Could it be that my lady has information that the other honourable justices concluded the matters that they were handling before their elevation to the Court of Appeal?” the letter asked. The lobby group wants an explanation from Koome on why she directed Justice Lessit to conclude her matters even though she has already been sworn in as a Court of Appeal judge. Other High Court judges sworn in as Court of Appeal judges are justices Msagha Mbogholi, Hellen Omondi, Mumbi Ngugi, Francis Tuiyott and Pauline Nyamweya. Shadrack Wambui further says that it is discriminatory for Lessit to hear and conclude her matters when in the past once a judge is elevated, she abandons her matters. “It is therefore baffling and surprising to the public that my lady has proceeded to treat differently consumers of justice that are the same and equal without offering the country an explanation,” the letter reads. Wambui says there are several court decisions that have ruled on the issue of jurisdiction in relation to the matter. He further states that one can easily predict that the outcome of the pending trials that she directed Justice Lesiit to handle will be challenged and her findings disturbed by the Court of Appeal, where she is expected to assume duties. "Further and unless my lady withdraws her directions to Justice Lesiit, we undertake to take the appropriate legal action available in the circumstances in order to quash and invalidate the impugned decision,” the letter reads. Edited by Henry Makori