Organisers of sports events have been urged to embrace environmental conservation, especially the restoration and preservation of water towers. Speaking in Nandi county during the Rediscover Nandi Road Race, the Kenya Water Towers Agency Acting Director-General, Dr. Julius Tanui said aggressive efforts spearheaded by Environment and Forestry CS Keriako Tobiko aimed at increasing the country's forest cover are finally bearing fruit. "For the last two years, our CS has led relentless efforts to preserve our water towers and plant millions of trees across the country. Supporting this race whose team is the preservation of water towers is a clear example," said Dr. Tanui. He cited the Mau Water Tower as an example of a project that has started to bear fruits through the guidance of the CS and the cooperation of other stakeholders. “The process to fence off the Mau Water Tower is earnestly continuing. Partnerships between state and non-state actors are paramount to spurring a tree planting culture within our local communities,” he said. In his speech read by National Environmental Complaints Committee ( NECC) secretary Dr. John Chumo, Tobiko exalted such events as the Re-Discover Nandi Road Race for their impact on awareness of the local community on the need to conserve water towers and wetlands. “The event will go a long way in promoting the conservation of Mother Nature through campaigns to increase forest and tree cover in the Country for social-economic benefits and healthy environment and will also play a vital role in conserving our catchment areas that are the source of our waters which is a fundamental measure that can help mitigate the issue of water scarcity in the country for our own sake and for posterity,” Tobiko said. He thanked various stakeholders, such as Mozzart Bet, NSSF, NHIF, Kenya Power and Lighting Company, County Pension Fund, Communication Authority, Athletics Kenya, and NECC, among others, for coming together towards a worthy cause. “There is need for the NEMA, County Governments, WRA, and WRUAs and other concerned organs to have concerted efforts and educate the communities on the various water towers and wetlands conservation methods and on alternative use in a non-consumptive manner such as ecotourism to save them from degradation,” Tobiko added.  