United Democratic Alliance (UDA) party has hit out at the ruling Jubilee Party for protesting the outcome of the concluded Kiambaa by-elections. This comes as Jubilee raises concern over the alleged manipulation of votes in some polling stations, saying they will move to court to challenge the outcome. On Tuesday, UDA secretary-general Veronica Maina said that it is shocking for Jubilee that they are demanding a recount even after being involved in massive voter bribery. “It is shocking to note that after massive voter bribery, misuse of Administration officers including uniformed Chiefs, high level of Voter intimidation the Jubilee Party can demand vote recount while knowing very well that on July 15th, 2021, they did everything possible to try and unfairly sway the results of Kiambaa Constituency and Muguga Ward by-election!” Maina said. She added that whining and claims of election rigging is the reserve of the political parties outside government and not the ruling party. According to the declaration by the IEBC, UDA aspirant Njuguna Wanjiku received 21,773 votes while the Jubilee candidate Kariri Njama followed closely with 21,263 votes. On Monday, a section of the Jubilee leaders allied to the party leader President Uhuru Kenyatta forged a united front after days of accusations and counter-accusations over the election defeat. The leaders dropped the push to overhaul the secretariat and instead settled on a recovery roadmap that will culminate in a retreat for all elected Jubilee leaders supporting the President. Jubilee Vice Chairperson David Murathe said that they have evidence to support the call for a recount of the votes. “We are not satisfied with what IEBC did to our candidate. When you are not satisfied with the results and you want a recount, they cannot refuse to give you a recount," he said. "The numbers that came out from the polling stations were not the same numbers that came to the tallying center. And we have concrete evidence." His remarks come even after IEBC denied aiding rigging in the ongoing Kiambaa by-election following allegations made by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. During the crisis meeting of the secretariat and MPs, the Jubilee leaders said they had resolved to have a conciliation to avert a falling-out. The team agreed on a 30-day framework to rejuvenate the party, open offices, revamp organs and enhance its presence across the country.