Embu farmers now can  get advice from professionals at the University of Embu on the best farming practices to cope with during climate change. The institution on Tuesday signed a MoU with the Kenya Climate Innovation Center (KCIC) and Gitutho Architects and Planners Limited. It was signed by KCIC chief executive officer Edward Mungai, University of Embu vice chancellor Mugendi Njeru and Gitutho Architects director Mugure Njendu. The university will also provide real estate planners with building designs, such as lighting, that require less energy. The MoU will facilitate research, training, sharing of facilities and community service by the three institutions. The construction sector is a significant contributors to climate change with its large volume of emissions. Buildings emit 39 per cent of carbon dioxide and constitute 36 per cent of global energy consumption. Agriculture is the backbone of Kenya’s economy and is contributes about 25 per cent of GDP. The project will aim at changing youths' perception of agriculture and seek to reduce the 39 per cent unemployment rate. The three institutions anticipate building a zero-carbon rated, certified Green Innovation Center. They committed to promote, develop and execute sustainable and innovative projects, research and education tackling climate change. “KCIC will provide business incubation and acceleration by providing advice on intellectual property rights and strategies, commercial licensing options, innovations and developing partnerships,” Mungai said. “We have already planted more than 5,000 tree seedlings this season at Embu University to promote the Initiative.” KCIC will also support the University in accessing funding opportunities for further research and development of agriculture-based technologies innovations, including preparing joint research funding proposals. “We aim at providing KCIC with continuous access to our research faculty, innovators and the student working on relevant agricultural-based technologies and innovations,” Njeru said “We will also allow access to Embu University agricultural facilities including the green innovation centre like the control plots for research, development and testing of solutions such as fertilizers, seeds and farming techniques.” He said the university targets at giving solutions to the challenge of climate change as it faces humanity. “The university will provide KCIC with an ongoing pipeline of agriculture innovation and technologies developed for purpose of providing commercialization support for qualifying cases,” Njeru said Gitutho Architects will lead towards environmentally sustainable buildings, promoting healthy and efficient environments through the design conceptualisation of the Green Innovation Centre. “They will promote green building designs, practices and technologies through the networks of KCIC and Embu University,”  Mugure said. The three plan will identify and assign a staff person as a partnership Liaison and contact person to regularly monitor and review activities under MoU.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris