Murang’a residents have lamented delayed services at the lands registry. They say they have to wait for over a year to process documents, a process that previously took only a few days. They also have to pay up to Sh2,000 to brokers for services such as land search that should be free. Officers create artificial delays to compel members of the public to use brokers to access services, they said. The brokers are the only people allowed to access the offices as desperate residents queue outside, they added. Even the elderly undertaking land succession have to visit the offices for days on end. Eventually, they have to turn to brokers to get help. For years, there has been a huge outcry as residents have to dig deeper into their pockets to acquire land documents. Nephat Maina, the chairperson of the Nyumba Kumi Initiative in Murang’a town, said they are fed up with the frustrations. He appealed to investigative agencies to establish the cause of the delays and ensure officers responsible are held to account. “The only way you can make any headway in the office is to go through brokers, who ask for money and give some of it to some of the officers,” he said. Maina said it is time the government streamlined the office as it is crucial to the development of the county. The sentiments were echoed by Kenneth Maguta, a trader, who said he has been chasing numerous title deeds at the registry for years. Maguta said the delayed release of land titles has prompted him to postpone his planned development projects and that has occasioned him massive losses. He said the process is frustrating traders keen on establishing businesses and constructing houses. And the government is also losing revenue. “I would be undertaking several development initiatives that would be providing jobs to scores of youths,” he said, adding that the confusion in the registry is stifling the economy. “All these people queuing outside would be engaging in their normal economic activities—being productive.” Maguta said should the government not take any action, residents will mobilise themselves and flush the corrupt officers out of the registry. “This is a public office that should be serving us but is instead the source of a great deal of suffering.” He termed it unacceptable to subject elderly people to such suffering; they wait for hours outside the offices and some have to forego meals. Nahashon Mbogo, another victim, said the entire county is served by only one registrar and that slows down services. “The registrar is always unavailable and when she is available, she only stays in the office for a few hours,” he said. The office is riddled with corruption and has been taken over by cartels, Mbogo said. He appealed to Lands Cabinet Secretary Faridah Karoney to deploy more registrars or ensure the one in charge works professionally. When journalists sought comment from registrar Alice Gisemba, some officers fled as others locked themselves in their offices. A few minutes later, a host of police officers entered the offices, saying they had been informed that unknown people were unlawfully photographing the registry. The officers, however, retreated after the journalists identified themselves and explained that they were following up on complaints by members of the public. The government is implementing reforms in the Lands ministry to curb corruption and ease access to services. The Ardhi Sasa online platform, which is part of the reform initiative, involves digitising land documents so that Kenyans can search and transfer property online.  Edited by F'Orieny