Some senior staff in a county in Nyanza are worried their days could be numbered because of their nine-year-long corruption spree in the county. For a couple of years since the advent of devolution, the senior officers are said to have made millions of shillings in fictitious deals. A little bird has whispered to Corridors of Power the officers would even forge letters of anti-graft agencies and hoodwink the unsuspecting governor over fake summonses by the authorities. Then they made huge withdrawals from the county coffers on the pretext of 'managing the crisis'. However, their days are said to be numbered, with the Asset Recovery Agency and Twalib Mbarak’s (pictured) EACC on their necks. *** A controversial lawmaker has pledged to ensure that a senior government official doesn't get a gubernatorial seat in 2022. The MP, who is known for shooting from the hip, has been rooting for an incumbent county chief who belongs to a different political party to defend his post. It is understood the lawmaker is planning to introduce the county CEO to a top political leader this week to boost his chances of retaining the seat. The only little problem that will derail the quest by the legislator to prop up the governor is that his opponent, a man he ousted in 2017, enjoys massive support in the county and most MPs and MCAs are rallying behind him. *** An MP from Western is contemplating quitting the party through which he was elected to office following a disagreement with the party leader over 2022 polls. The man serving his second term had wanted the party to give him a direct ticket, but that is appearing to be a pipe dream. His governor has propped up a competitor with higher popularity ratings. The man wants to step aside after the party leader declined his call to compel the rival to abandon his ambition. The party leader told him that since the new broom is popular, he has no right to deny the people their right to choose their MP. *** A lawmaker who spent much of his teenage life in the United States is facing a huge political dilemma over his overblown ambition to become a governor in next year's polls. A little bird has whispered to Corridors of Power that he could be in deep trouble after his party leader recently remarked that he was out to undermine his allies holding key positions. The man is now contemplating going back to a parliamentary position that he once held. But things still aren't rosy for him, given the popularity of the area legislator. (Edited by V. Graham)