Mandera county leaders on Tuesday met in Nairobi to discuss worsening violence and terrorism and urged cooperation to end them. The meeting chaired by Governor Ali Roba sought community-led solutions to the al Shabaab menace by working in partnership with security agencies. The area is largely inaccessible by road after recent attacks on public buses, national and county government vehicles as well as trucks ferrying cargo. In attendance were Chief Administrative Secretary Hassan Noor  Hassan, Senator Mohamed Maalim, MPs Omar Mohamed, Bashir Abdullahi, Adan Haji, Kullow Maalim, Abdi Mude and Speaker of Assembly Mohammed Khalif. The meeting follows a recent peace trip led by CS Adan Mohamed and the governor calling on the residents to cooperate with security agencies. In June, county government officials stopped the movement of their vehicles because of increasing terror-related incidents. There are fears of more attacks after residents reported sighting more gunmen roaming in separate places while planning to strike. In a memo released on June 3, county secretary Abdinur Hussein explained strict regulations for vehicle movement. He told the executive committee members to ensure no vehicle is on the road past 5pm on any weekday. Hussein said until further notice no vehicle will be authorised to travel to the sub-counties unless for emergencies. He cited ambulances, health utility vehicles, Covid-19 pandemic responses vehicles, firefighting trucks, skip loaders and sanitation trucks. The area in the  northern part of the county has been safe since 2013 but has lately become a soft target. Police have been mounting operations in the area. The terrorists have been destroying security installations in a series of attacks. This has forced non-local teachers to flee. The border region has borne the brunt of repeated attacks from the militants who are at times aided by locals. The terrorists attack after breaching security zones, leaving dozens of civilians and security officials dead or wounded. They have been planting explosives on the routes used by the security agencies and attacking them. Edited by Kiilu Damaris