IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati has dismissed allegations that the electoral agency has been compromised. Chebukati said the commission respects the rule of law, and works within their constitutional mandate. "As a commission, we follow the law in everything we do," he said in response to claims the IEBC is being controlled by external forces. The IEBC boss said the commissioners who opted to resign had their personal interests and were uncomfortable with the agency's legal framework. In 2018, four IEBC commissioners resigned following divisions in the commission after the disputed 2017 general election. They are Roselyn Akombe, who resigned and fled to the US days before the 2017 presidential repeat poll, vice-chairperson Connie Nkatha-Maina,  commissioners Paul Kurgat and Margaret Mwachanya. Nkatha, Kurgat and Mwachanya accused Chebukati of failing in the leadership of the commission. Speaking in an interview in Diani, Kwale county, during a two-day Kenya Media Sector Working Group Conference, Chebukati said he is not responsible for anyone's resignation. "The decision on whether you want to work or resign is very personal because when someone is employed, they are interviewed and hired individually," he said. A fortnight ago, Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua, while in his coast presidential campaign tour, alleged that some people want to jeopardise IEBC's capacity because of being understaffed and broke. Chebukati, however, said the interviews for the new commissioners are already ongoing, further noting the commission is firm and able to carry out its duties. President Uhuru Kenyatta announced the posts left by the four commissioners as vacant in April after three years. During the period, the commission worked with only three commissioners, despite the law requiring at least seven. The IEBC chair said financial constraints have been a major challenge for the commission. However, he is optimistic that in the new budget allocation, the IEBC will be able to run its programmes efficiently and within the given time. "With the election budget set aside, it is our responsibility to ensure every eligible citizen is registered in every corner of the country," he said. The  mass voter registration will target four million Kenyans. So far, only 149,600 new voters have been registered in the continuous voter registration that began on October 13, 2018.