Garissa Governor Ali Korane has reconciled with his deputy Abdi Dagane. The two set aside their differences on Thursday and promised to work together for the sake of the people who elected them. In mid-2019, Dagane through his Facebook account accused the governor of locking him out of key decisions on the running of the county affairs. In the post, Dagane claimed that Korane no longer consults him as agreed when his Samawadhal community formed a per-election coalition that propelled them to power in the 2017 General Election. “When I took an oath alongside the governor on August 21, 2017, we had a lot of zeal and vigour to transform Garissa into a regional hub. Our vision was to see a better Garissa and a government for the people that appreciates the very force that propelled it to power," the post said. He added that as a principal assistant and the most senior county official from the Samawadhal community, he would not bargain with anybody for the rights of his people and the programmes that they're entitled to. After nearly two years, the two came together in a 'handshake' ceremony held at the governor's residence. They regretted their differences which were in the glare of the public. While addressing the public during the brief function, Governor Korane said politicians agree and disagree at one point but eventually it was healthy to come together and adopt a common stand. The governor said the rift between them was a nationwide phenomenon but Garissa county will set the pace for the rest to emulate. "Unity for the interests of the electorate who gave us votes under one umbrella is paramount," Korane said. Dagane urged members of the public to desist from dwelling on the past and focus on the new turn of events anchored on forgiveness, unity and blessings. The deputy governor said he will work together with his boss to achieve their campaign manifesto. Garissa Senator Abdul Haji who was also present thanked the two leaders for putting the interest of the electorate first. “I appreciated the move by our two leaders and thank them for the bold decision they took to put aside their interests and focus on delivering what they promised the electorate,” Haji said. He urged county leaders to finalise on-going programmes to elevate Masalani town into a municipality and fast track payment of all pending bills. Garissa county assembly speaker Ahmed Ibrahim Abass, former Fafi MP (Rtd) Major Aden Sugow, former Garissa mayor Siyat Osman were among leaders who addressed the meeting. Also present were county executives and other senior officials led by the county secretary.  (Edited by Bilha Makokha)