The Moi Educational Centre has been ordered to pay 14 families Sh150,000 each in damages for forcefully evicting them from informal settlements within Nairobi county. The government will also have to pay each family Sh100,000. The directive was issued after the Supreme Court upheld a decision by the High Court that awarded the families the money over illegal and forceful evictions. The 14 petitioners were inhabitants of City Cotton and Upendo villages, two informal settlements in Nairobi. They moved to the Supreme Court after the Court of Appeal set aside a decision of the then High Court judge Mumbi Ngugi in 2014 that awarded them damages. Mumbi, in her judgement delivered on October 14, 2014, found that the demolition of their houses and their forced eviction was a violation of their fundamental right to inherent human dignity, security of the person and access to adequate housing. The families were not provided with alternative land or shelter, she ruled. On Friday, Supreme Court judges agreed with Mumbi, saying, “It is an undeniable fact that forced evictions generally constitute a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms and an abuse of inherent human rights.” The apex court found that the eviction of the petitioners was violent, and the state failed in its duty to ensure that those in informal settlements are treated with dignity. “The participation of state agents in violent evictions only points to the fact that Moi Educational Centre ultimately acquired favoured status outside the law in acquiring ultimate and total control of the suit property at the cost of violating the rights of the petitioners, including the elderly and children,” it said. The court further declared that the demolition of the petitioners' houses and their forced eviction by Moi educational Centre and Inspector General of Police without a valid court order was a violation of their rights. The centre had argued that evictions were necessary in that the negative effects of the rapidly expanding and sprawling slums, including increased insecurity, rape, abductions and fights, increased theft, increased cases of illicit brews, drug abuse and trafficking were likely to affect schoolchildren, more so their learning activities and security. 