Senators are set to investigate the Sh364 billion loan borrowed from China to build the Mombasa-Nairobi standard gauge railway. Murang’a Senator Irungu Kangata wants the Senate to investigate the deal and the revelations that the government offered the Kenya Ports Authority as collateral for the loan from Exim Bank of China. In a statement set to be requested in the House on Tuesday, Kangata wants the House through the Finance and Budget committee to inquire into reports that KPA assets, among them the port of Mombasa, were offered as security in the event of a default. “Confirm that KPA gave up claim to any immunity from legal proceedings or any other assets, hence jeopardizing its assets in the event of a default of the loan,” reads the statement. In February, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu revealed for the first time that Kenya waived its immunity in the event of a legal dispute link to a default of serving the loan. The borrowers KPA and Kenya Railways Corporation gave up claim to any immunity from legal proceedings or any other assets. “Under this clause (17.5) the borrowers agree that any proceedings against them or their assets in connections with the agreement, no immunity from such proceedings shall be claimed by it or with respect of its assets and they irrevocably waive any right of immunity whether characterised as sovereign immunity or otherwise,” the report read in part. This means default on the Kenyan part in respect of the SGR loans would see the country surrender KPA assets, the main one being the Mombasa port. In his statement, Kang'ata wants the committee chaired by Kirinyaga Senator Charles Kibiru to establish why KPA misinformed the government to get into a lopsided agreement, especially on the premise of volumes of the cargo to be ferried via SGR. He argues that the agreement stipulates that KPA was required to guarantee a minimum amount of freight to be charged and received by the operator throughout the term of the agreement, regardless of the prevailing business situation. “The committee should state the sanctions KPA management will face, in their individual capacities, for misadvising the government to get into a skewed agreement, and the measures in place to reduce such risks in future.” In her report, Gathungu said KPA assets are exposed to the risk of takeover by the lender since the authority signed the payment arrangement agreement with the lender. However, National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani denied claims China could take over the Mombasa port if Kenya defaults on its Sh364 billion loan. Yatani said that Kenya is servicing the SGR loans as provided in the agreements. “There is absolutely no risk of China or any other country taking over the Port of Mombasa,” the Treasury boss said. He further denied assertions that the government has pledged public assets as security to publicly guaranteed debts. “Such an action would violate the provision of existing loan agreements with other bilateral creditors.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris