Nyeri on Wednesday received the second consignment of medical supplies worth Sh52.2 million from the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority. The county has had severe drug and other medical supplies shortage, which Governor Mutahi Kahiga blamed on failure by the National Treasury to release county funds. The county, as a result, owed Kemsa Sh35 million, which has now been paid and the supplies released. Last week, the county had received supplies worth Sh11.5 million that were distributed to health facilities. Out of the Sh52.2 million supplies received, there was Sh41 million worth of drugs, non-pharmaceutical supplies worth Sh8.2 million, X-ray supplies worth Sh1.8 million and surgical gloves worth Sh1.2 million. “The medical drugs contained in this delivery include antibiotics, drugs for diabetes, hypertension and other non-communicable diseases, antiseptics, oral and injectable pain killers and intravenous fluids among others,” Kahiga said. The county chief said the supplies will be delivered to all health facilities including dispensaries. Also to be delivered are Sh12.8 million cancer drugs, which he said have been ordered and will be arriving soon. “I wish to thank Nyeri residents for being patient and assure them that in three months, the problem of drug and medical supplies shortage will be a thing of the past,” Kahiga said. The governor recently assented to an Act that will enable hospitals to retain 80 per cent of the money they collect. The Nyeri County Health Services Fund Act, 2021, will also see 20 per cent of this collection allocated to primary health services. The Act will improve financial positions in the county health facilities and enhance their smooth running, Kahiga said. “This is intended to improve the health services within the county because the institutions shall do their procurement at that level and retain the money they collect,” he said. Kahiga said by Tuesday, 2,255 people had tested positive of Covid-19 with 124 deaths being reported since the pandemic was first reported. A total of 8,934 have been tested for Covid-19. More than half of those who tested positive were asymptomatic. Some 22 patients were admitted to Covid-19 isolation facilities, but about 11 of them, who are at the King’ong’o GK Prison, are asymptomatic. Three patients in the county public hospital are on oxygen, with Mt Kenya Hospital, which is the major county Covid-19 isolation centre, having only two patients. “This is an improvement because like last month, we had about 139 people hospitalised, with 17 out of the number being on oxygen,” he said. He, however, urged residents to continue observing the Covid-19 protocols to help flatten the curve. On Covid vaccines, Kahiga said 37,861 people received the first dose out of which 19,099 have received the second dose. He called on those yet to receive the second dose to visit the nearest vaccination centre for the jab. -Edited by SKanyara