Handicap nine home player, John Mathai, carded an excellent round of 38 points to emerge overall winner of the Nanyuki Sports Club’s leg of the 2021 NCBA Golf Series over the weekend. His impressive form saw him become the Series’ eighth winner, edging out clubmate Peter Rimui (9), who carded a round of 36 to clinch top the men’s category ahead of Cyprian Bundi (1). Bundi finished the day with 35 points to claim the runner’s-up spot in the category. Samantha Mathu (27) won the women's category with a round of 24 points ahead of Lucy Njuguna (11), with 21 points. In subsequent events, Gurung Tek (16) emerged as the first-nine winner with 21 stableford points as Kelvin Gitonga (12) claimed the honours for the second-nine with 19 Stableford points. “Selecting Nanyuki to be part of this series was driven by two things: one is that we have many customers here, and part of what we do through the NCBA Golf Series is to spend time with our customers, so Nanyuki becomes that important for us," said NCBA Group Managing Director, John Gachora. “The importance of golf to Nanyuki cannot be underestimated. Nanyuki has been such an important club golf-wise; if you walk around the course, you see a lot of NCBA branding, which means we have been part of that golf story for Nanyuki. " The Nanyuki Sports Club leg, the eighth in the NCBA Golf Series, was the second event of a doubleheader weekend in the calendar, which featured a Club Nite at the Nyeri Golf Club on Friday. Meanwhile, Richard Kabugi (28) was crowned the nine-hole winner on countback, having carded 18 Stableford points ahead of Ephantus Mate (14), who finished the day runner-up in the category with 18 points. The series now moves to the Karen Country Club on July 24, for the ninth event on the calendar. NCBA donated indigenous tree seedlings and took part in a tree-planting exercise at the Nanyuki Sports Club as part of the Bank’s ‘Change the Story’ initiative. Through the initiative, NCBA Bank encourages members across participating golf clubs to actively participate in tree planting to attain 10 percent forest cover across the country by 2022.