City Hall and Housing and Urban Development department are developing policies to improve the state of markets in Nairobi. The National Markets Development Policy seeks to enhance synergy amongst traders, trade associations and regulators as well as standardise and formalise markets in seven counties. Nairobi, Kajiado, Meru, Nakuru, Nyamira  Kiambu and Uasin Gishu are the seven pilot counties involved in the policy. Speaking at a workshop on Thursday, Trade and Commerce executive Winnie Gathangu said the new policy will help improvise various upgrade activities that will change how city markets are managed. "This policy is aimed at creating physical, environment and business-friendly trading infrastructure, enhance functionality and utilisation of public markets and trading facilities, inculcate and strengthen entrepreneurial skills among traders and establish cohesive and effective management models for public markets," she said. The policy will also help in zoning and market segregation, gender friendly infrastructure and introduce food value addition and storage facilities to ensure commodities availability all year round. “We are also working on developing management models applicable to existing markets and new upcoming markets,” Gathangu said. There are about 50 county owned markets in Nairobi and 100 informal markets. Markets are among Nairobi's own source revenue stream and the county has set target to collect Sh676 million from them in the financial year ending June 30, 2022. “Therefore the National Markets Development Policy seeks to standardise and formalise markets across the counties, enhance synergies amongst traders, trade associations and regulators,” Gathangu noted. She also noted that the county is at the tail end of developing market management models applicable to existing markets and new upcoming markets. Officers from both levels of government  were also present at the workshop organised by the State Department for Housing and Urban Development in partnership with Eastern Africa Grain Council and Rockefeller Foundation. To increase the number of trading spaces, the multi agency team is expected to effect designing and building markets guided by research and development. This will involve legislating and implementing new market management models applicable to existing markets and new upcoming markets, enacting legal framework for trading spaces application, allocation and management of county market facilities. To increase the number of trading spaces, the multi agency team is expected to effect designing and building markets guided by research and development. This will involve legislating and implementing new market management models applicable to existing markets and new upcoming markets, enacting legal framework for trading spaces application, allocation and management of county market facilities