A policewoman sharpshooter who loves to party and allegedly killed two men is believed to be hiding in Nairobi. The hunt is on. DCI George Kinoti appealed to the public to help arrest Corporal Caroline Kangogo whom he termed "rogue, armed and dangerous. “We are cautioning members of the public, especially men, to be on the lookout for the rogue officer, who is luring men to her trap before executing them in cold blood,” he said. The 34-year-old woman is on the run after allegedly killing a policeman and another man. She is estranged from her husband and has two children, aged eight and 11. Her colleagues said she loves to drink and party all night. Detectives hunting her said they received information she was last seen around Club Velvet in Kahawa Wendani at around 2am on Wednesday. She then hopped on a motorbike and headed to Nairobi on Thika Road, exiting at Drive Inn, probably in Mathare slums. “All indications are she is within Nairobi region. The hunt is on and we ask her to surrender,” an officer aware of the hunt said.. Kangogo is a suspect in the killing of two people, including police Constable John Ogweno, in Nakuru on Monday. She later allegedly shot dead Peter Ndwiga Njiru, 32, in a lodging in Juja, Kiambu county, about 200km from where the police officer died. An autopsy showed Ogweno died of haemorrhage. Njiru's autopsy was planned for Thursday in Thika. Ogweno’s firearm with 15 bullets is yet to be recovered but police said they found some of his clothes in Kangogo’s house. Police have recovered one of her phones, which was dumped in Nakuru. Detectives were deployed to her rural home to protect her parents in case she turns up there and turns violent. Her colleagues said she is a sharpshooter, most of her friends are police officers and they don't know who her next target could be. Officers in her Nakuru workstation are nervous. Following reports she was headed to Kisii, officers there staged futile raids after calls from residents. Police profilers are scrutinising her past to understand what's driving her. Kangogo had deactivated her social media accounts. In September 2020, she had  posted a casket on her Facebook account, which some colleagues said could have indicated what was on her mind. She was previously attached to the Judiciary department before she was moved to the Anti-Crime Unit at the Nakuru Central police station. Police records indicate she was born on January 10, 1987, at Nyawa village, Tambach division, in Keiyo, Elgeyo Marakwet. She enlisted in the police force on August 14, 2008, at the rank of corporal and earned her first promotion on January 20, 2015. She obtained a first-class in shooting range classification at the Kiganjo Police Training College. She attended the Police Training College in Mombasa in 2009. She was attached to  Kaloleni police station between 2010 and 2013 and attended Kiganjo Police College between 2013 and 2015. She has been stationed at Central police station in Nakuru since 2015. In 2019, Kangogo was issued with a show cause letter by the OCS Nakuru police station. She had sent a chilling message to her estranged husband, a senior officer in Mombasa, that she would also go after him. Officers close to her were nervous and on alert. Her colleagues say she loves alcohol and revellers in most clubs around Nakuru are familiar with her. She spends most of her off days partying. Not even the night curfew and closure of entertainment joints stood between Kangogo and a party. Her colleagues said she would mobiliser her fellow revellers and relocate to the parking areas within Kasarani police staff quarters where they would continue having fun.  (Edited by V. Graham)