The Methodist Church in Kenya has reaffirmed its rejection of same-sex marriage, repudiating the stand taken by the British Methodist Conference last month. Presiding Bishop Rev Joseph Ntombura told a press conference on Thursday the Kenyan conference remains opposed to same-sex marriage as it violates Bible teachings. The British Methodist Church conference voted on June 30 to permit ministers to preside over and officiate at wedding ceremonies for members in same-sex unions. The leadership meeting voted 254 to 46 to change the definition of marriage. They, however, allowed a freedom of conscience clause to permit ministers who are opposed to homosexuality not to conduct the ceremonies. The British church is country's fourth largest Christian denomination with about 164,000 members in more than 4,000 churches. But Ntombura, who is also the president of Africa Methodist Council, said the leadership of the Kenyan church was "concerned that the British Methodist Conference would take such a drastic decision overwhelmingly. "We are even more saddened that a church we have held strong mission links with for many years would take this direction," he said, terming it a "sharp deviation" from what the Bible teaches. The presiding bishop said the Methodist church of Kenya had severed its links with the British church in 1967 and that his leadership team was the one with final say on any doctrinal matter. "The decisions of the British Methodist Conference or any other conference have no impact on our decision in theory or practice," the bishop said. "I know some groups locally may have taken the decision of the British Methodist Church to be the stand of the Methodist Church in Kenya. That is not our position, therefore, we completely dissociate with their decision all together." Ntombura asserted definition of marriage was explicitly stated in Genesis 1:27, 2:23-24 and in Matthew 19:1-12 and that it was not a matter of discussion and guesswork. In this case, he said, "marriage is a union between a male and a female not between a man and a man nor between a woman and a woman..." The bishop said the church also does not permit cohabitation by unmarried couples or encourage divorce. Ntombura said deviating from these belief systems and the Bible "would leave the church vulnerable" and lead it to decay . Ntombura was joined by bishops Alice Mutuma who is in charge of Nyambene Synod and Ahn Chan Oh who is in charge of the Kajiado Synod. (Edited by V. Graham)