President Uhuru Kenyatta has asked leaders to restrain themselves from insulting him on podiums. "Come let us sit and talk... don't throw insults at me in a podium somewhere. Where elders are seated, there will always be a solution ," he said. Uhuru was speaking when he was issuing title deeds in Kilifi county on Thursday. "Kutupiana maneno haitatuletea suluhu, nikukuja pamoja.. (throwing insults will not bring solutions, its coming together," he said. The president said he has not mentioned anyone from any political party. "Hapa tumeketi sijali kama mtu ni wa chama tofauti. Hakuli ODM sikuli Jubilee, sote tunakula jasho ya kazi tunayofanya. Wale hawataki watu wawe pamoja, hawana suluhu ya shida," he said. (From where I am seated I don't care whether you are in ODM, jubilee or which party. All of us reap from the work that we are doing. Those who don't want to bring people together, don't have solutions for Kenyans) "Lazima tutafute barabara itakayohakikisha waKenya wanaletwa pamoja na sio kutenganishwa." (We have to look for a way that will enable Kenyans to come together) Uhuru seemed to be talking about his deputy William Ruto and his allies. Early in the month, Ruto said he has avoided a public confrontation with the President despite countless humiliations and his roles as an elected leader being taken away. In an exclusive interview , Ruto said if he were a greedy leader, he would be engaged in a public showdown with the President to fight for his roles given by law. Uhuru further said that those issued with title deeds should ensure they get wealth out of it. "Mtu kuwa na title deed ya anakoishi yaleta mambo mengi kwa kuwa ni mwisho wa ufukara kwasababu mtu anajua anakoishi, kesho hataharakishwa, na jina squatter ianze kutoka kwa midomo yetu. Tuko hapa (pwani) kupatiana vyeti vya hatimiliki karibu 2,169 ," he said. He said that once a person gets a title deed they can take loan and construct their own homes. "Umepata cheti chako cha ardhi, pesa iko mikononi mwako; hiyo pesa kupitia cheti chako utatumia kuimarisha maisha yako ama utaenda barabarani uuze na kufikia Desemba mjamaa hana chochote? Mhifadhi vyeti vya ardhi," he said. Uhuru urged the people of Kilifi to allow BBI to pass to help Kenyans. "Tupitishe hii BBI ndio kila mtu awe na haki yake, ndio sauti ya kila mKenya iwe na mahali popote alipo," he said. 