Residents of Kirinyaga county have high expectations as they get ready to host guests from all over the country during this year’s Mashujaa Day on October 20. Businesspeople who spoke to the Star expressed hopes of raking in huge profits during the celebration. The residents who are mostly rice farmers have a long list of demands they expect President Uhuru Kenyatta to provide solutions to during the event. Mashujaa Day will be hosted in Wang’uru stadium in Mwea. The national event will be the first major activity to be undertaken in the stadium which is currently under construction. Last month, county commissioner Jim Njoka said it was 82 per cent complete. Agnes Mureithi, a rice trader in Ngurubani town in Mwea, expressed her excitement, saying the event will help expose the growing town to the world. She noted that it will provide them an opportunity to market their rice in huge quantities and at a good price. “Mwea is well known for pishori rice. During the event, we hope  to make huge profits because we will be selling our produce to Kenyans who will come in huge numbers. Therefore, we are getting ready to host them and we thank the government for choosing our county to host the heroes’ event,” she said. However, Mureithi urged President Kenyatta while leading the national event to offer solutions to the challenges ailing rice farming. “For a long time, farmers have had to deal with the problem of deplorable roads that cut across the paddies. This becomes difficult when transporting our produce from the scheme. We want President Kenyatta to assure us of repairing those roads which have made farming rice difficult by the day.” She also urged the state to protect local rice farmers by subjecting rice imports to heavy taxation to discourage unfair competition. She lamented that many Kenyans prefer buying cheap imports to local brands. Nicoleta Gathure, another rice trader within the town, said she expects their elected leaders will air their grievances to the head of state during the event. “Rice farmers have decried the pests menace like snails and quelea birds which continue to destroy our produce and we harvest low quantity. We want the government to provide us with subsidised fertilisers and other farm inputs to increase our rice yields.” Gathure expressed hope that the Thiba dam will be completed soon to end water shortage in their farms. “With Mashujaa, we expect to make new customers who will be ordering our produce in huge quantities. Most of our clients who order such quantities are from Nairobi and Mombasa. With the celebrations, we expect to meet new customers from other parts of the country,” she said. Samuel Maingi who runs a guest house in Mwea hailed the government for choosing Kirinyaga to host the next Mashujaa Day. He told the Star he intends to take advantage of the event to market his business and offer good services to the guests. “We expect business will boom and change this small but growing town. As the hospitality industry, we look forward to hosting guests within our premises. Many of us have started preparing by fixing the accommodation premises. We want to assure all guests that we long to serve them and welcome them to our county,” he said. Edited by Henry Makori