Mary Jepkosgei was unable to bear children so she took Selina Jerotich as her wife in a woman-to-woman marriage under Nandi customary law in 1986. They lived together until Jepkosgei died. Jerotich, left alone, inherited the land her wife had been bequeathed by her father Kimutwo Maritim in 1968. But her nephew decided to disinherit her. The courts have come to her rescue. Judges William Ouko, Roselyne Nambuye and Wanjiru Karanja dismissed Shadrack Bungei's appeal, declaring Jerotich the rightful heir of Jepkosgei’s parcel of land in Eldoret. The judges dismissed Bungei's appeal on July 9, saying it lacked merit. Jerotich told the court of their marriage 34 years ago,  saying she is the rightful owner of Jepkosgei's land. She had been living on the suit land since her marriage to Jepkosgei. The land is a portion of a larger parcel acquired by Jepkosgei's father, Maritim. Jepkosgei had been in occupation of the parcel since its acquisition. In 1987 her father subdivided the land between Jepkosgei and her brother Joseph. Since Joseph had passed away, his portion was vested in his elder son, Kiptarbei Kering. Jepkosgei was granted the suit land and registered in her favour in 1992. When Jepkosgei died, the family met on January 20, 2004 and agreed that Jerotich was the rightful heir of the land. However, Bungei colluded with Kiptarbei to disinherit her. Bungei had told the court that under the guise of mourning his late father, Jepkosgei, his aunt, moved onto the plot. He said he only discovered while applying for letters of administration in 2004 that his aunt and his older brother, Kiptarbei, had fraudulently subdivided the plot into two and transferred it to themselves. Later on, his brother had surrendered his title by an agreement dated March 8, 2005 to Bungei as the administrator of their father’s estate. Upon the death of his aunt Jepkosgei, he said, Jerotich took out letters of administration over her estate. Bungei said he believed it was an effort to obtain the suit land fraudulently through transmission. A judgment was delivered in the matter on May 29, 2017 which found that the nature of cause of action could not be addressed by way of an originating summons. The court then dismissed the summons. Aggrieved by that decision, Bungei appealed, saying the Environment and Land Court had no jurisdiction over the dispute. He said it related to ownership of assets of a dead person and administration of his estate. Appeal judges disagreed with Bungei, saying the matter fell within the jurisdiction of the Environment Court. “It is quite clear to us from the pleadings that though the appellant (Bungei) filed the suit as an administrator of his late father’s estate, he sought the determination of the ownership of the suit land and not administration of the deceased’s estate, which was already a concluded issue. "The question of who between the parties was entitled to the suit property, without a doubt, fell within the mandate of the ELC,” held the judges. The judges further added: "It is common ground that Jepkosgei was registered as the proprietor of the suit land and title thereto issued on 5th February, 1992, according to the certificate of search produced by the appellant. "It follows that by Section 143 of the Registered Land Act (repealed), which was in force at the time relevant to this dispute, Jepkosgei’s title was proof of ownership and the same could not be defeated by the appellant’s unsubstantiated allegations of fraud,” held the judges. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)