The importance parents give to children’s secondary school education should follow more serious attention to the early years at kindergarten because it is at this stage children should develop the foundation for lifelong learning. Jenny Coetzee, the managing director of Crawford International School, says five-year-old children should end their time at kindergarten with the basics for communication, reasoning and problem-solving backed by enthusiasm for reading. Learners at the school’s kindergarten are aged between three to five years and start in a group of three- to four-year-olds with a programme using the Early Year’s Foundation Stage (EFS) curriculum. Fridah Moli, who is in charge of the three- to four-year-olds, said, “Our open learning set-up helps my fellow teacher Bancy Kanuri and I to guide pupils to learn by playing. This gives the children a sense of adventure, which grows their concentration and builds relationships with their friends.” Talking about the four- to five-year-old group for which she is responsible, Christina Ricci said, “Children of these ages already have surprisingly good manners and enthusiasm for learning and reading. We encourage them to improve eye coordination and manual dexterity through art.” The children learn to identify shapes, colours and textures. Children are encouraged to use different materials to be creative in a fun and relaxed environment. “We introduce projects for the children to tackle. Recently they have worked on the earth’s resources and planets. Now the topic is the ocean and its sea creatures,” she said. The EFS principles highlight the uniqueness of each child to constantly learn. The Crawford teachers recognise that children develop at their own pace, needing a prepared environment to develop. This is achieved with classroom organisation, lesson preparation and reading. After arriving in the morning, the 17 pupils in each class choose how they start their day looked after by the teachers. They give support to the children who have immediate access to reading, art, hobby equipment and the use of plenty of pencils, crayons, paints and brushes. Two teachers for each group link with the children to guide and support them in their individual activities. After a 45-minute session, the children switch to Crawford Connect to share news, stories and songs to build self-expression abilities. Subsequent activities and six daily lessons include numeracy, art, drama, Mandarin, French, Kiswahili, digital literacy, music and dance. Prior to heading home, children gather around a conversation pool to chat about the day’s activities. They also have a choice of a variety of sports and clubs like the book club, beading, art attack and ballet dance. In addition, they can participate in a variety of sports activities like athletics, football, swimming and taekwondo.