Initial investigations point to bad weather as the main cause of the accident involving a light aircraft that left one dead and two others seriously injured in Naivasha on Monday evening. This came as police recovered the black box from the plane that was headed to Lodwar when it crashed in Eburru forest near Ndabibi trading centre, 40km from Naivasha town. Witnesses said the plane circled the forest and nearby farms several times seeking to land before crashing due to poor weather. It burst into flames on impact, killing the co-pilot as the pilot and another passenger were rescued and rushed to Naivasha Subcounty Hospital in serious but stable condition. According to Nakuru county police commander Beatrice Kiraguri, initial investigations pointed to bad weather as the main cause of the crash. Speaking at Naivasha Subcounty Hospital after visiting those injured, the police boss said the plane was going to Lodwar before heading to Ethiopia. “The plane was used in the ongoing spraying of locusts in Northern Kenya and was on its way to Lodwar when it crashed, killing one and injuring two others,” she said. She termed the condition of the two survivors stable, adding that plans were under way to transfer them to Nairobi for specialised treatment. A resident of Ndabibi, Joe Ngure, described how the plane overflew several farms thrice before it crashed. “The plane was producing some loud noise and we knew something was wrong before it crashed in the forest and burst into flames,” he said. Meanwhile, two men died along the Nairobi-Nakuru highway in separate accidents near Gilgil town on Tuesday morning. In the first incident, a middle-aged man was hit and killed while crossing the road near Langalanga centre, 10km from Gilgil town. And in the second incident, the driver of a pick-up died on the spot after his car was involved in a head-on collision with a Canter near Kikopey trading centre. Gilgil police boss John Onditi confirmed both incidents. He said the bodies were collected and taken to the local mortuary. “We had two fatal accidents that left two people dead and three other people slightly injured along the highway,” Onditi said.  Edited by Henry Makori