More than 300 traders at Maendeleo City Market in Kisumu have raised concerns over escalating insecurity that has made them incur huge losses. They said their shops have been broken into and goods worth millions of shillings stolen. The traders said they are now doing business in fear. Led by human rights defender Audi Ogada, the traders said there is serious a security lapse and blamed the city inspectorate and police for failing to protect them and their property. “It is unfortunate that quite a number of complaints have been reported with little done. Similarly, continuous vandalism is reported to be on the increase,” Ogada said. He petitioned directorate of inspectorate head Samuel Orimba and Kisumu Central OCPD James Ngetich to enhance security in the market. “It is sad that your office and the bus park police officers have virtually ceased to function by way of protecting the traders and their property,” Ogada said. In a petition dated June 30 to Orimba, Governor Anyang Nyong’o and Ngetich, Ogada demanded that the insecurity be addressed urgently. “Respectfully, your office should urgently address this matter of growing concern of increased breakages, theft, burglary and stealing to save traders from continuous loss,” he said. Ogada said Kisumu Central OCS Paul Muringi and the officer in charge of Bus Park police post should ensure that they cultivate workable strategies to curb the escalating crime within the market and its environs. According to Ogada the laxity and corruption have greatly contributed to proliferation of crime in the area. “More particularly, it is equally dismal to note that police only intimidate  and arbitrarily arrest innocent wananchi between 7pm and 9pm in the name of Covid-19 while the real suspects are left scot free to engage in crime between 9pm and 4am,” he said. He called on security officers to develop practical approaches to the serious problem facing traders who are taxpayers. Ngetich said they have intensified patrols in the subcounty. "We are investigating the matter and we urge those with complaints and vital information to share with police," he said. The police boss, however, said the alleged insecurity is "own creation" of the traders and those fighting over the stalls. "I can tell you, we will handle the matter accordingly. We have to ensure there is peace in the area. We are ready and willing to secure every citizen and protect their property," Ngetich said. Edited by Henry Makori