The construction of walkways in Nakuru town will proceed after the High Court in Milimani declined to set aside the award of the tender to Delfree company. Justice Ngaah Jairus said there was no evidence the tender was awarded illegally as the Public Procurement Administrative Board properly exercised its powers under the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Act. “The decision can also not be said to have been irrational  since it was based on facts and the law,” he said. Fahimyasin Company Limited sued PPAB after its bid was rejected by Kenya Urban Roads Authority and granted to Delfree. The two had been listed as interested parties in the case. The tender was for labour-based works for construction of walkways in Kaptembwo Area in Nakuru Town-Lot 20 (youth category). Fahimyasin argued that it complied with all the mandatory requirements but Kura rejected it without any particular reason. At the heart of the dispute on the mandatory requirements was Kura’s form of written power of attorney found in the tender document. According to Kura, Fahimyasin’s signatory to the  form did not have the power of attorney. But the company, on the other hand, argued that the signatory, Yasin Jaldesa, had the power of attorney to execute the relevant documents on behalf of the company. Yasin is the company CEO. Yasin swore that the tender documents did not have sufficient information on the requirement of the power of attorney as a result of which the company was ‘confused’. The board, however, said the company ought to have sought further clarification from Kura if it found the requirements in the tender documents unclear or, alternatively, it ought to have filed a request for review within 14 days of what it considered a breach. The board also indicated that the company’s bid was found non-responsive during preliminary evaluation. It did not proceed to technical and financial evaluation where other compliant bids were evaluated, among them Delfree, which was the lowest evaluated bidder. Edited by Henry Makori