The 943 traders displaced during the 13km dualling of Outering Road have been relocated to the new Wakulima market along Kangundo Road. Kura director general Silas Kinoti said another 490 spaces have not been allocated at Wakulima. He called on interested persons to apply at the deputy county commissioner, Njiru subcounty office at no charge. “Anyone with a grievance or complaint is requested to lodge it in writing to the DCC, Njiru subcounty,” a Kura the notice read. It was not immediately known when the market will open. The new Wakulima market in Mowlem ward, Embakasi West, is expected to accommodate 3,000 traders and help decongest the CBD of hawkers. The Sh8.5 billion road project funded by the African Development Bank eased the commute from Eastlands into the city. The new Sh800 million new Wakulima market was set up to accommodate the displaced traders during construction as well as those from Marikiti market in the city centre. The traders have now been allocated slots at the new Wakulima market after a wait of more than six years. To avoid confusion, the Kenya Urban Roads Authority publicly listed the names of the traders. Kura's chief corporate communications officer John Cheboi on Monday confirmed that the published names were only for the displaced traders. “As Kura, we took data of the displaced traders back in 2015 and they are the ones to whom we have given priority in occupying the market,” he said. The criteria used to allocate the 490 spaces include Mowlem ward with 147 stalls, 30 per cent. The 30 per cent allocation also applies to Embakasi West and the rest of Nairobi county. Forty-nine stalls have been set aside for Persons Living with Disabilities. Construction of the market started in July 2017. It is funded by  the AfDB. The market will help decongest county markets and increase access to quality, affordable and sustainable food. The double-storey market has 158 stalls, 12 shops, 36 shutters on the ground floor, additional shutters with provision of more on the first floor. It also has abolition and shower blocks on each floor as well as external washrooms, four water 10,000-litre storage tanks  and two 900,000 litres underground water tanks. Concerns had been raised alleged bribery to reserve market spaces. In March, President Uhuru Kenyatta warned Nairobi politicians against inciting traders to illegally occupy the five new city markets. The Sh2.2 billion markets include the Sh389 million Mwariro in Starehe, Sh214 million Westlands, Sh493 million Gikomba, Sh294 million Karandini in Dagoretti and the Sh800 million new Wakulima. Uhuru said traders who had previously occupied the markets will be given first priority once he commissions them. He said once the original traders have occupied their market stores, the rest will be distributed through an open ballot supervised by government officials. The government began balloting four out of five markets in August last year but it is yet to announce the allocations. (Edited by Bilha Makokha)