Tusker mercurial midfielder Faraj Ominde has promised to justify his inclusion in the Kenya U-23 men's national team—the Emerging Stars—by working hard to comprise the final squad. Ominde's recent superb form in the Football Kenya Federation Premier League matches handed him his debut call-up to the provisional squad named by head coach Stanley Okumbi. Emerging Stars are sharpening their claws ahead of the 2021 Cecafa U-23 Championships  starting on July 17 in Bahir Dar, Ethiopia. "I feel greatly privileged to be given an opportunity to don the national colours in such a major tournament. It's now upon me to prove to the coach that I deserve a place in the final squad," said Ominde. The 22-year-old has been outstanding at the heart of the brewers' solid midfield and his partnership with Apollo Otieno has been instrumental in the side's impressive run this season. "Honestly, I didn't see it coming, but I'm not surprised given I've had a fine form this season," said the soft spoken midfielder. Ominde says his brother Aziz (Nairobi City Stars) and twin brother Jaffary Owiti (AFC Leopards) have inspired him to the level he has attained thus far. "It was at Mukumu High School that I found feet in the top flight soccer, joining and captaining Kakamega Homeboyz in the KPL U-20 tournament, where we were guided by veteran tactician Gilbert Selebwa," he added. Ominde fondly recalls how his father would take them along to the stadium to watch big games. “We owe a lot of success in football to dad. Besides training us when we were young, he would also take us with him to the stadium on numerous occasions,” he says. After an impressive show at Homeboyz in the KPL youth tournament, the club’s management enticed him with an offer to feature for the senior team in the top tier but the principal thought it wasn’t good enough. “When I was in Form 4, Homeboyz wanted me to join them but our principal  Dennis Munyendo asked me to turn down the offer in anticipation that better deals would soon come along the way.” He ultimately joined former top flight side Chemelil and after toiling there  for one and a half years, he got offers from Vihiga, Bandari Tusker and AFC at ago. However, he finally settled for Tusker under Robert Matano and that’s where he is to-date.