Garissa Township MP Aden Duale on Monday opposed a proposal to appoint a woman as Chief Kadhi, or any other Kadhi. The former National Assembly Majority leader faulted Chief Kadhi Sheikh Muhdhar who welcomed the idea of women running courts, even the highest. Duale was speaking at Northeastern National Polytechnic, where he issued CDF kitty bursaries worth Sh1.12 million to students from poor families in his constituency. Muhdhar said anyone who has deeply studied Sharia law can be a Kadhi, regardless of gender. The Quran and Islamic law are silent on whether a Kadhi must be a man. Duale said Islam has placed women in high esteem with clear definition of  roles for each gender, adding that Kadhi is not a women’s role. “We will not accept women Kadhis. It is not found anywhere in the Holy Quran or the teachings of the Prophet," Duale  said. "Islam has a special place for women. We have been taught the roles they can perform and roles they cannot perform,” he added. The remarks come just days after some women activists initiated the debate with the calls to have women Kadhis. They claimed the appointment of Chief Justice Martha Koome  has emboldened their resolve to go for the position of the Chief Kadhi. They said women scholars are needed at the helm of Kadhis' courts to handle marital and other challenges. However, Duale said Martha Koome is Chief Justice in a secular judicial system and Muslims should be left to decide their own fate. He said Muslims voted for the 2010 Constitution for two reasons — the Kadhi’s court and devolution. “We wanted to run our affairs when it comes to marriage, divorce and inheritance in accordance of the Holy Koran and teachings of the Prophet. Just because Martha Koome is Chief Justice does not automatically mean that as Muslims we are now ready to have a woman Kadhi," he said. On female genital mutilation, Duale said he will only listen to Muslim scholars. Many activists are strongly opposed to religious leaders' support of FGM, arguing that all forms of genital mutilation is illegal. “We will not listen to what the NGOs tell us, nor the government  nor the western countries. We will follow key religious leaders on the issue,” Duale said. (Edited by V. Graham) 