President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto could be headed for yet another clash after it emerged that some of the DP’s allies are plotting to impeach Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. On Wednesday, eight youthful MPs allied to the President and his handshake partner Raila Odinga alleged the plot, putting the DP at the centre of the scheme and threatening to table a counter-ouster motion against Ruto. They dared the DP and his men for a face-off on the floor of the House. Led by Embakasi East MP Babu Owino, the legislators said Nyali MP Mohamed Ali and his Embakasi West counterpart George Theuri were collecting signatures to start the impeachment project of the CS. They alleged the removal bid has been instigated by the alleged failure by the CS to honour invites by the parliamentary committee to respond to members’ concerns “They are coming up with made up issues. If the deputy president has issues with the President, let him face the President directly,” Owino said. Also in Owino's team are Teddy Mwambire (Ganze), Charles Nguna (Mwingi West), Caleb Amisi (Saboti), Kithua Nzambia (Kilome), Kwenya Thuku (North Kinangop), Godfrey Osotsi (nominated) and Gideon Koske (Chepalungu). They addressed a press conference at Parliament Buildings on Wednesday. Contacted, Ali confirmed that the process to impeach the CS is underway, adding that ‘a good number’ of members have already signed the petition to sanction his removal. He claimed that the CS has abused his office powers, does not respect court orders, and has little respect for MPs and that his ministry has failed in its mandate to protect Kenyans. “Yes, we are going on with the impeachment. A good number have signed the petition and they are from across the board,” he told the Star on the phone. Ali, popularly known as Jicho Pevu, is a confidant of the DP and is one of his point men in the Coast region. Matiang'i is a ‘super minister’ in the President’s Cabinet. He is considered the most powerful CS after his boss elevated him to chair the committee on the implementation of government projects. The role was initially played by the DP. Uhuru and Ruto are not seeing eye-to-eye, and the latest revelations could widen the cracks. Mwambire told the DP and his Tangatanga brigade to keep civil servants away from succession politics. “The DP has been on record telling people to leave civil servants alone to do their work. He should sort out his issues with the President and leave alone Matiang'i,” the Ganze MP said. Osotsi threatened that they would initiate a counter-impeachment bid against the DP if his allies make good their plan to table a motion to remove Matiang'i. Edited by A.N