Kirinyaga Deputy Governor Peter Ndambiri has dismissed claims that he is not on good terms with his boss, Governor Anne Waiguru. Ndambiri said on Sunday that they have not attended public functions together for more than a year but that does not mean they have a rift. He said they still serve together for the welfare of residents. He spoke at Kiandumu AIPCA church in Gichugu. The service was also attended by Waiguru and Archbishop Fredrick Wang’ombe. “We have not shared a public platform together for more than a year but we still serve in the same administration. With the new norm that requires us to work from home, we often don’t meet,” he said. Ndambiri urged all county leaders to continue working together in peace for a stronger county and prioritise unity and tolerance, especially in the run-up to next year's general election. He defended himself saying he has all along supported Waiguru in accomplishing her development agenda and has never participated in causing friction between the executive and the county assembly. “When Kirinyaga county experienced a stand-off between the two county leadership arms, I did not in any way incite any leader to fight our governor," he said. "When some of the MCAs pushed her to the edge, I kept off such politics because my policy is to accord respect to those given the mandate by the electorate to serve them.” He, however, said he will be in the race to wrest the seat from Waiguru and will canvass for votes from every corner of the county. “I feel fit to run for the top seat next year but I will continue supporting the current governor to complete her term. If Kirinyaga people want me to serve them as their governor, who am I to say no?” Waiguru, who has previously declared that she will seek reelection, said she is focused on marketing her administration's development projects, reiterating that she believes in peace. “A wise person doesn’t need to be told much. You all know who was fighting me. I’m God-fearing.” She also called on residents to give leadership roles to people who are committed to working for them. She highlighted a number of life-changing projects that her administration has undertaken. “I want you to evaluate my CV; elect me back based on my track record, which speaks for itself. Under my leadership, we have achieved transformative change in the lives of residents across the county, from health, infrastructure, education, and many other departments.” She also urged Mt Kenya residents to continue supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta's administration and heeding his advice. “Let us continue to unite, pray for him and, most importantly, listen to his advice because he knows a lot of things that we don’t. We should be very careful and wise when choosing leaders,” Waiguru said. 