Nema has suspended iron ore and gold mining at two quarries in Kasipul constituency, Homa Bay county, over safety concerns. The environmental agency, in collaboration with the police, arrested seven people for engaging in mining in Kaduda and Kosele. Mining at these two sites is outlawed. The National Environment Management Authority had issued orders to operators of the two sites to vacate on grounds that they were exposing residents to danger. Homa Bay Nema director Josiah Nyandoro said on Thursday that among those arrested were people who leased their land to others to undertake mining. Those arrested will be charged in court. “We arrested seven people, including three men of Somali origin, for operating illegal mining. Their stone crushing machines were seized at the sites,” Nyandoro said. He said anyone who wants to engage in the business must obtain a permit from the mining department and an environmental impact assessment report. “Most mining operators work without a permit. They practice illegal activities which expose many residents to danger,” he said. Nyandoro said people operating mining in Kasipul have also encroached on government land. He said they are working closely with the Kenya Forest Service to address the issue of land encroachment. Residents of North Kasipul have been excavating land since they discovered gold in the area. The discovery has attracted foreigners who buy land to undertake gold mining activities. “These people don’t consider any environmental safety measures and instead they focus on how they can extract the mineral in the soil,” Nyandoro said. He added that miners have dug up vertical tunnels deep into the ground. The tunnels have other horizontal shafts leading to areas where gold deposits are believed to exist. “Water run-offs usually get into the mines during rains and lead to drowning in the tunnels. Earth movements are also rampant around mining areas,” Nyandoro said. “We shut down the mines to protect both the lives of minors and residents.”  Edited by A.N