A candidate for a position at the electoral agency found herself in a tight spot when she was asked to illustrate how she would communicate to voters in Swahili. Florence Jaoko struggled to make complete Swahili sentences when the panel asked her to demonstrate how she would explain her roles to voters who don’t speak English. Jaoko had appeared before the Selection Panel for the Appointment of Commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission for the oral interviews. Joseph Ngumbi, a member of the panel, had pointed out that Jaoko would at some point be required to go to the grassroots to talk to voters. After making some efforts, Jaoko retreated to English, saying Swahili was not given much attention during her days in primary school. “Let me just explain this in English. When I was a judicial officer in Kibera, I could hardly speak Swahili. But in one year, I used to deliver my judgments in Swahili,” she said. “When you are in that environment, and people are giving their evidence in Swahili, you get to know the language. I was actually the one asking lawyers to just ask in Swahili.” Jaoko, a former chairperson at Kenya National Commission on Human Rights said she would quickly learn the Swahili words to use when communicating issues to do with elections. “Believe it or not, if I join IEBC, I will know the proper words that are needed to communicate at the grassroots. I also learned the words when I was with KNCHR,” she told the panel on Monday. So far, nine shortlisted candidates have taken the oral interviews. Jaoko was among 36 applicants who were shortlisted to fill four positions that were left vacant following the exit of Roselyne Akombe, Paul Kurgat, Connie Maina and Margaret Mwachanya after the 2017 General Elections. Jaoko further said Kenyans should be able to confirm their voter details in any IEBC constituency office. She said the information should be accessible at the nearest IEBC constituency office so that Kenyans are not forced to travel long distances to confirm their details. She said the IEBC should also publish all the details online as a way of cleaning the register. “If the details could be made available in good time, then those who will have problems with their particulars will have time to have the issues addressed,” she explained. Jaoko further said IEBC should also educate voters on some of the hitches they are likely to encounter as they go to elect their leaders. She said the procedures to address the problems should also be explained in advance. “It is not that we will be expecting too many hitches but Kenyans should be told of problems that are likely to occur and how they will be addressed. This will help reduce suspicion and entrench trust in the electoral body,” she said. Candidate Harriette Chiggai told the panel politicians pose the greatest risk to a credible election. Chiggai, a Nairobi lawyer, said IEBC faces several challenges that could hinder it from delivering credible elections but politicians topped the list. She said IEBC could have in place measures to guarantee credible elections but politicians with selfish interests could erode all gains achieved in no time. “There is usually a lot of interference from the political class in the running of IEBC. Politicians are the same people who incite voters to turn against each other,” she said. Chiggai said that the political class should learn to accept defeat when they are floored in elections. “It is good for leaders to accept that they did not win. These are areas that we need to mould through various engagements,” she stated. Chiggai said she would engage relevant government agencies to fight electoral malpractices if allowed to serve as commissioner. “I will seek a partnership with the National Police Service and any other relevant agency to curb any electoral malpractices,” she said. Chiggai noted that politicians are also the people who determine the amount of funding for the electoral agency. She promised to lobby for IEBC to get more funding to run its activities. “I would strive to ensure Parliament has a better budget for IEBC for it to run activities over five years,” Chiggai stated. She said she would reach out to development partners to get support to run activities like training of staff and capacity building. Chaggai also said that the appointment of commissioners should be staggered for institutional memory. Also, when commissioners are appointed at the same time, they could all leave at once.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris