Kiambu Firefighting Academy's curriculum has been accredited by the Technical Vocational Education Training Authority. The academy was built by the county government in conjunction with the Polish Centre for International Aid. The county now hosts the first firefighting training college in Kiambu town, with the Poland government helping to establish the facility. Chief Fire Officers Association chairman Samuel Kahura said the Sh20 million academy has opened its doors to students who will be trained using the latest technique in combating fire and rescue missions. “Kiambu is the first devolved unit to hold such an academy. The firemen and women will also be trained in high rescue missions,” Kahura said. He said Kiambu has 85 graduates in firefighting but the number is not enough, hence it will be training professional firefighters from 30 counties who can also access the classroom learning online. “We want to have more people trained in disaster dealing skills so that they can be responding within the shortest period possible,” Kahura said. Governor James Nyoro said the partnership with foreign aid to provide techniques in combating disasters will go a long way in addressing disasters. He said the training centre will add value to the country by having firefighting and rescue mission professionals. Last week, while on a visit to Kenya, Poland undersecretary of State for Economic and Development Cooperation for Africa and Middle East Pawel Jablonski commissioned the academy. Polish Ambassador Jacek Bazanski also attended the event. Poland is seeking to share its technical expertise and know-how and modernisation of the economy and economic reforms with African states. Jablonski said the academy will provide high-quality professional education and certification services. “This is how building the image of Poland and relations looks like for years. Beyond anything else I have experienced today, this is the most impressive thing. We will continue to support the institute to continue improving the safety of Kenyans,” Jablonski said. The Polish Centre for International Aid and NGO has conducted the largest firefighter training programme in Kenya. “From 2014 when PCPM started training and retrofitting fire brigades in Kenya, the number of fire brigades and firefighters increased by 150 per cent, a progress achieved thanks to Polish support,” PCPM chief executive  Wojtek Wilk Wilk said. The Kiambu government, through funding from the World Bank under the Kenya Urban Support Programme, has built a fire station in Karuri municipal council for Sh63 million. It is the second largest in the country.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris