Deputy President William Ruto has said politics must be detached from the fight against corruption. “You cannot assist those who do not have ideas on how to move Kenya forward by using criminal justice system,” Ruto said. He said it was time leaders competed on the platform of issues and ideas rather than force, blackmail and fears. “Do not use the criminal justice system to fight your opponents. Look for agenda to market yourselves to the electorate,” he said. He was speaking when he met his allies in Karen Nairobi. The MPs said the fight against corruption must not be politicised, with most arguing that government agencies were increasingly using the anti-corruption calls to stifle independent voices. They cited the Directorate of Criminal Investigation as a key actor in the intimidation to leaders associated with Ruto. The leaders were Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni wa Muchomba, Kikuyu MP Kimani Ichungwa, Kandara MP Alice Wahome, Kabete MP Githua Wamacukuru, Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika, Nakuru Woman Rep. Lizah Chelule, Malindi MP Aisha Jumwa and Taita Taveta Woman Rep. Lydia Haika. Wahome said selective justice was killing the fight against corruption in the country. “The laws must be defined independently of the circumstances of those to whom the rules are intended to apply,” she said. She asked the Kiambu Woman Rep who recently defected to Ruto’s political wing to prepare for harassment from the DCI, EACC, KRA, among others. “The politically-instigated cases will come up against you, but stay firm in your political stand,” Kandara MP said. Kihika asked the DCI to stop being used to meet political ends. “You cannot be coming up with imaginary cases against those allied to Dr Ruto. The time of mischief is running out,” she argued. She said they will not be intimidated but intensify their efforts towards the empowerment of ordinary Kenyans. Her sentiments were supported by her Kikuyu counterpart who said State agencies were being used to persecute some leaders. “DCI and other state agencies must stop these political persecutions,” Kimani Kimani. “DCI should focus on unearthing those behind the theft if COVID-19 funds.” “We support the fight against corruption but it must be done independently without political bias.”