The Kiambu county government is planning to start milling and marketing coffee from the region in a bid to revive the sector and put more money in farmers' pockets. Governor James Nyoro said coffee earnings have over the years dwindled, forcing most farmers to abandon the crop and venture into other income-generating activities. He said the county government has set aside Sh100 million to put up a coffee milling plant which will be a huge step towards rehabilitating the sector. Plans to put up the plant are at an advanced stage and that the ground-breaking for the project will be in a month’s time, the governor said. “Coffee has been one of the top foreign income earners in the country for decades, and it is one of the commodities that has made Kiambu what it is now. The value of coffee has significantly declined due to a myriad of problems. We have started the journey to restore the sector’s lost glory,” Nyoro said. He spoke on Friday during the launch of construction of a modern market in Gatukuyu town in Gatundu North subcounty. The governor said besides setting up the plant, the county government will also market the coffee to benefit farmers. The county will be distributing farm inputs to growers every year, he said.  Fertiliser worth Sh50 million has already been disbursed. “We are determined to increase the county’s coffee production while adhering to high quality of the cherries to fetch better prices in the market. This is why we are distributing essential farm inputs to our farmers,” he said. The county administration will fast-track the rehabilitation of factories that are in a deplorable state, the governor said. Nyoro said the county government will also help coffee societies in clearing the debts they owe to the government and other financial institutions. “With debts, you cannot rehabilitate the coffee sector. We will be approaching the government to have these debts written off or rescheduled so that our aim of improving coffee farming in Kiambu becomes successful,” he said. Meanwhile, Nyoro said the Gatukuyu modern market's first phase will cost Sh30 million. The project is expected to be completed in six months. “This is a very busy market where farmers from Gatundu North sell their produce. We will give the market a new look with vital amenities including lavatories, proper link roads, a dispensary and Huduma Centre to enable residents and traders to get better services,” he said. Traders in the open air market, led by their chairperson Margaret Njeri, praised the county government for the initiative. “We have been selling our wares under the scotching sun and during the rains, we have been counting losses since our goods get destroyed and the market is rendered inaccessible. We are however grateful that our suffering will come to an end and we hope our economy will blossom,” she said. Edited by A.N