Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka has said he has arranged to meet with the ODM party leader Raila Odinga over sharing of Nasa money. The sharing of Nasa money among the coalition member parties has become a thorn in the flesh, with ODM being accused of starving other parties. On Thursday morning during an interview with Radio Citizen, Raila said that his party will not share its rightful amount with other affiliate parties. Raila said that ODM is receiving money based on the number of the MPs in both Houses who were sponsored by the party, and not through the 2017 presidential election outcome. “If we were receiving money based on the presidential elections, that would have been fine to share with our colleagues,” Raila said. He continued that, “There are those who are spreading rumours that ODM is denying other affiliates money. If that money is available, we will share with them.” Reacting to Raila’s sentiments, Kalonzo said that the coalition is receiving money from the office of the Registrar of Political Parties, which is taxpayers' money. “Basically, the issue is about sharing of the revenue out of the Political Parties funds because these are public funds. This is taxpayers' money,” Kalonzo said on Thursday. The other parties say that according to the agreement dated April 2017, each party was to get an equal share of the fund, since they agreed to jointly contest for the various seats. “Funds due to the party from which the coalition presidential candidate has been attributed to the presidential vote shall be shared equally among the coalition parties,” part of the agreement reads. But the other parties are still calling for their share, about thirteen months to the next general elections. ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and his Ford-Kenya counterpart Moses Wetang'ula had also asked ODM to give them their share. Mudavadi had said that the problem with the coalition is dishonesty. The ANC leader had said that the betrayal that rocked the Nasa coalition since its formation in January 2017 is beyond repair, as leaders from the coalition’s constituencies are sending conflicting messages. “When you send conflicting messages, you discourage people. As leaders, we must not send conflicting messages. I was the founder of Nasa, and we really pushed…but I want Kenyans to know there is a serious deficit of trust in Nasa,” Mudavadi said.