Bidco United head coach Anthony Akhulia wants his charges to be more clinical in front of goal following a hard-fought win over troubled Mathare United in a Kenyan Premier League match on Thursday. The top flight debutantes heightened Mathare's relegation concerns after edging them 1-0 at Thika Stadiumbut Akhulia reckons they should have celebrated more goals. "I'm entirely impressed with the effort my boys put into today's match. This is our seventh win of the season and a huge boost as we head into an encounter against Bandari," said Akhulia. "However, I believe we should have come out with a bigger goal margin if we had utilized our opportunities well enough," said Akhulia. Eric Gichimu rose unmarked to head in the all-important goal in the 42nd minute after coming on the end of  David Kalama's superb corner kick. Three minutes into action, Tyson Otieno came threatening Bidco's goal with a thunderous low drive but Bidco hawk-eyed custodian Omar Adisa was up to the task. Five minutes later, the Slum Boys earned a set piece on the edge of the area, but Kennedy Ochieng's attempt to pick out Anthony Oginga for a header came a cropper. Two yellow cards in a span of five minutes defined the tense nature of the game. In the 18th minute, centre referee Brooke Philips slapped Zachary Gathu with a yellow card for a rash challenge on James Kinyanjui and  Alphonse Ndonye's sinister play. In the 28th minute, David Orem had a glorious opportunity to fire Bidco into the lead after being teed up by David Gateri some 20 yards out but scooped his long range effort inches wide. The Slum Boys squandered a perfect opportunity to level matters when John Mwangi botched a sitter after being set up by Kinyanjui. Emmanuel Okiri thought he had extended Bidco's lead in stoppage time only for the linesman to flag him an offside. Following the outcome, Bidco have moved to 11th with 31 points. The Slum Boys relegation worries continue to pile up as they remain bottom placed with 14 points after 23 matches.