Kenya should explore the use of technology to reduce costs of elections and improve transparency, the panel for appointing IEBC commissioners was told. Justus Abonyo said on Thursday the country should consider adopting blockchain technology, which would reduce the cost of running an election by as much as 300 per cent. He further said blockchain technology enhances efforts to move to electronic voting and offers greater security and transparency, which increases trust in election systems. “The cost of a ballot in Kenya ranges between $7 and $25 (Sh700-Sh2,500). If we use blockchain technology, this cost will go down to $0.5 (Sh50). This is an area I would explore as a commissioner," he said. A blockchain is a digital ledger of transactions that is duplicated and distributed across the entire network of computer systems. It provides a platform for creating a highly secure, decentralised, anonymised, yet auditable chain of records, used presently in cryptocurrency systems. This same technology could also be used to record and report votes and prevent many types of voter fraud. In many countries, including developed nations, voting by and large still involves paper ballots. Abonyo, former chairman of Social Democratic Party of Kenya, said he would not have a problem resigning if elections observers and other stakeholders question the credibility of an election he presided over. “I will listen to what observers are saying and other stakeholders, like the voters themselves. If they are unanimous that the elections were not credible, I will step down,” he stated. “I will agree with them and take note we have done a bad job. They will have returned a verdict but I will ask for evidence.” Abonyo added he would not initiate the process of having the election nullified and would wait for someone to go to court. “People are taken to court. I will not take myself to court. I will not go to court and accuse myself,” he added. Justus Maithya Munyithya told the panel that as a commissioner, he would ensure the electoral body plans in advance and thereby cuts down costs. “I would push for a proper election plan. I would want us to be clear on the time we procure election materials and at what cost. We would also go for the best price in the market,” he stated. Munyithya said he would have the electoral agency procure some materials locally. “Most materials are procured out of the country, yet some of them are available locally, and at even better prices,” he pointed out. He also cited the use of technology as being key to bringing down the cost of running elections. “On technology, however, I must point out that we need to engage key stakeholders on the best way to go about it. We will need to engage Kenya Power, telecommunication companies and ICT experts, among others,” he said. He added that technological materials would be acquired well in advance to give room for test runs. “Even with technology, the manual system would be on standby because anything could happen,” he stated. Munyithya warned that the electoral body also faces a number of external risks, among them changes of electoral laws at the last minute, budgetary constraints and even a pandemic. “To mitigate some of these challenges, the electoral body needs to constantly engage the stakeholders,” he said.  Kagwiria Mbogori, a human rights practitioner, told the panel the Ministry of Interior must be responsible for the lives of Kenyans during elections. Mbogori, who served as chairperson of the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights, said security organs in the country need to work hand in hand with other stakeholders to ensure Kenyans to exercise their democratic rights. “The ministry of Interior must be responsible for the lives of the citizens and it should pain us when we lose a single life because of elections,” she stated. She expressed regret politicians have been getting away with electoral malpractices, including inciting communities against each other. “Why are very few people prosecuted for electoral offences? I would enhance engagements with the Office of Director of Public Prosecution as stakeholders in the electoral process. We need to enhance that partnership and if we do it, there will be less violence,” she added. She said, “I will bring a human rights approach to IEBC. I have the experience because I have been a human rights practitioner for close to 30 years now.” (Edited by V. Graham)