Senators have put the Ministry of Interior on the spot for failing to confer citizenship status on foreigners married to Kenyans. The lawmakers said that all non-Kenyans either living in the country or abroad and are married to Kenyans have a right to citizenship as provided for in the Constitution. However, they claimed that the Ministry has failed to comply with the law, with some foreigners forced to wait for years for their applications to be processed. Taita Taveta Senator Johnes Mwaruma started the debate on the floor when he claimed that many foreigners married to Kenyans are yet to get the status despite the Constitution providing so. Article 15 (1) of the Constitution stipulates that a person who has been married to a citizen for a period of seven years is entitled on application to be registered as a citizen. “We want an explanation why foreigners married to Kenyans have not been conferred with Kenyan citizenship as per Article 13(2) and 15(1) of the Constitution,” he said. Mwaruma asked the House National Security, Defence and Foreign Relations Committee to take up the matter and summon Interior CS Fred Matiang’i to explain non-compliance with the Constitution. The senator, who hails from a county that borders Tanzania, wants the panel, chaired by Kisumu Senator Fred Outa to establish the number of Tanzanians married to Kenyans in his county. The lawmaker wants the ministry to give a list of the number of women who have applied for conferment of citizenship and those who have been conferred with citizenship. He also seeks information on the number of foreigners whose applications for citizenship are pending. Mwaruma also wants to know when they will be given that citizenship status. “This should apply to people from other foreign countries and are married to Kenyans. When will they be will be conferred with Kenyan citizenship upon verification of their marital status documents,” he said. Speaker Kenneth Lusaka directed the committee to take up the matter and invite the CS to explain the concern that has left many foreigners without Kenyan citizenship status.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris