Tusker are ready to prove to the continent that they didn't just stumble upon a Confederations of African Football Champions League berth by chance, head coach Robert Matano has assured. Beaming with pride and honour immediately after walloping Ulinzi 4-1 at ASK grounds, Nakuru on Wednesday, Matano said they would ensure all the efforts they put into securing the slot to go down the drain. "I'm simply lost for words. It's like a dream come true. I wish to extol my boys for a job well done. They certainly deserved the victory with such a fine display of character after the match," said the veteran tactician. "Our next target is to clinch the league, which I believe won't be difficult with the current crop of players in our ranks, " he added. Tusker elbowed out KCB to secure the Confederations of African Football Champions League slot after thumping Ulinzi Stars 4-1 at ASK Grounds, Nakuru on Wednesday. The bankers sprang from a goal down to edge Nzoia Sugar 2-1 at Ruaraka Grounds, but their inspirational comeback wasn't sufficient to secure them the Champions League slot given the brewers went into Wednesday's encounter a point better. Although the brewers have booked the CL slot, the title race is far from over and there is no guarantee they'll walk away with the top-flight silverware at the end of the season. Football Kenya only rushed to identify the Kenyan representatives on Wednesday in a frantic attempt to beat the June 30 deadline set by the regional football governing body. Ulinzi went into an early celebration after Boniface Onyango headed in from a corner in the 11th minute. Undeterred, Tusker replied with an inroad into their opponent's territory  four minutes later. James Saruni was forced into a full-length stretch to parry away Henry Meja's close range attempt. It wasn't long before the brewers capitalised on their opponent's grave howler when Ulinzi's right fullback Brian Birgen turned Luke Namanda's cross into his own net. In the 28th minute, Faraj Ominde arrived in time for Henry Meja's cross from the right channel, his diving header swirling just inches wide. The brewers had their agenda well defined for the second half. Just a minute after the breather, they took command of the proceedings when Meja cut in an enticing low cross from the left with Brian Marita popping up at the back post to stab the ball into the net. Christopher Oruchum should have done more damage eight minutes later but his header missed the target after a brilliant corner from Sam Meja. At Ruaraka, centre-back, Elvis Ronack put the millers in the driving seat after rising unmarked to head in Wanjala's cross but the bankers cancelled out the deficit in the 42nd minute through Reagan Otieno. Eager for their maiden title, they pressed ahead and doubled the advantage after captain Simon Munala converted from the spot on the stroke of halftime. KCB assistant coach Godfrey Oduor congratulates Tusker for securing the slot and wished them well. In Thika, AFC Leopards hopes of winning the league were once again dimmed after falling to Kariobangi Sharks 1-0.  Mathare United beat Vihiga 2-1 in the tail-ender battle in Narok. In another match Gor Mahia and Bandari played out to a barren draw at Utalii ground in Nairobi.