It was a big win for murdered human rights lawyer Willie Kimani and his family as Justice Jessie Lessit said she will conclude the case before her reassignment. There were fears the appointment and reassignment of judges could mean the Kimani case would have to be heard after five years, the case is nearing conclusion. The possibility that defendants—four AP officers—could choose a fresh trial outraged the nation. In directions given on Thursday, in a virtual court, the judge said she had received written instructions from Chief Justice Martha Koome to conclude all her partly heard matters and pending judgments. Kimani was abducted alongside his client Josephat Mwenda and taxi driver Joseph Muiruri as they left the Mavoko Law Courts after an appearance on June 23, 2016. They were murdered and thrown in a river. Despite threats, Mwenda was pursuing a case against an AP officer who had attacked him, and Kimani represented him. Lessit said she would stay on during mention of Kimani’s case which has been pending since January when it was last mentioned in court. Last week, Kimani’s family had pleaded with the Chief Justice to allow Justice Lessit to conclude the hearing before she moves to the Court of Appeal. Judge Lessit will proceed with the Kimani case from July 8  to July 30 on every Thursday and Friday. Defense Lawyer Cliff Ombeta had argued that Judge Lessit has no mandate to hear any matter at the High Court after being sworn in as a Court of Appeal judge. However, speaking to the Star after court, Ombeta said they are opposing the directions from the CJ because they want to finalise the matter. Lawyer Katwa Kigen also told the Star that his client Sylvia Wanjiku one of the accused was very happy with the directions because she wants the matter to end. In the case, Judge Lessit has two more witnesses to hear including the one who had been stood down last year before the prosecution closed their case In the case, Four AP officers—Fredrick Leliman, Stephen Cheburet, Sylvia Wanjiku and Leonard Mwangi—and police informer Peter Ngugi were arrested and charged with the murder of the trio. That case could have ended last year had the Covid-19 pandemic not disrupted hearings. The prosecution was about to close the case, but the hearings were adjourned on several occasions owing to the pandemic. The trial was to resume in January but judge Lessit was indisposed, leading to several adjournments. So far, the court has heard 44 prosecution witnesses. Last week, Lawyer Shadrack Wambui told the Star that Justice Lessit has now assumed an appellate court role, meaning she cannot hear matters that arise in the original jurisdiction or any fresh matters at the High Court. “In as much as Justice Lessit has the institutional memory of the case and has been on top of the matter by trying to expedite it, her jurisdiction was taken away immediately she was sworn in as a judge of the Court of Appeal,” he said. Wambui said it is expected that another judge will take up the matter and the accused will have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether the new judge will take over from where judge Lessit left or the matter begins afresh. “The accused have a right to call for this matter to begin afresh on grounds that this court has not seen the demeanour of the witnesses that have already testified,” the lawyer said. However, he said it is possible, though highly unlikely, that the accused can choose to proceed with a new judge from where Lessit left. (Edited by V. Graham) 