AFC Leopards centre-back Clyde Senaji has dispelled rumours he has deserted the Football Kenya Federation Premier League side. Recent reports have linked Senaji with a move to current leaders Tusker, and his conspicuous absence from their last league assignment against coastal side Bandari at Thika Stadium on Saturday made the claims all the more plausible. Besides him, four other senior members of the 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions are said to be contemplating a search for new folds after their contracts ran out in June. They include regular custodians Ugandan Benjamin Ochan and John Oyemba, midfielder Said Tsuma and forward Hansel Ochieng. Sources at Leopards say the club is, however, not keen to initiate any talks for new offers. According to a circular sent by the club prior to their last league encounter against coastal side, Bandari, at Thika Stadium on Saturday, the club decided to sideline the mentioned players after their contracts ran out. Read the statement: “The team safely arrived in Thika Town for our FKF Premier League match against Bandari FC “Ochan Benjamin, Hansel Ochieng and Said Tsuma won't feature in the match after their contracts ended. Senaji Clyde and Oyemba John will also miss the match for failing to travel with the team.” Speaking to the Star exclusively on Monday, Senaji refuted claims he had parted ways with the club, adding the only reason he wasn't included in the match day squad is because he had failed to attend training sessions heading into the encounter. “I’m actually surprised to hear claims appearing in the media that I’ve left the club. The truth is I still have a month left on my contract,” said Senaji. The towering defender, however, confirmed reports that current leaders, Tusker, are hot on his heels and have actually expressed interest in securing his signature. “Yeah, it's true Tusker have initiated talks and I’m still studying other offers as well. I'll make the move at the appropriate time but at the moment I’m still at AFC Leopards,” said Senaji. Leopards went on to beat Bandari 2-0 with Aussems showering the squad that featured in the match with praises for showing character. Lately, the den has experienced some major hiccups that continue to jolt their charge for their first top-flight title since 1998. They currently lie third on the log with 43 points, eight adrift of leaders Tusker. Leopards now only have the title to play for, having narrowly missing out on the CAF Confederations Cup slot after crashing to arch-rivals Gor Mahia in the Betway Cup final at Nyayo Stadium a week ago. The Champions League berth went to Tusker who had emerged top of the table by June 30, the official deadline set by the continental football governing body for member associations to submit names of representatives. Meanwhile, Ochan has been linked with a move to Uganda Premier League champions Vipers SC.