The Trans Nzoia county assembly has ordered Governor Patrick Khaemba to file a response to a report by the Auditor General before he appears for questioning over alleged misuse of funds by his administration. Chairman of the Public Accounts Committee at the assembly Peter Waswa said they expect the response to be filed by the governor’s office within one week after which they will set a date for a meeting with the county boss over the audit queries. Khaemba had two months ago requested to appear before the assembly early this month and did so on July 2 but his team had not filed a written response as required by assembly procedures. “We have asked them to file the response in a week’s time so that the committee can go through it before the governor and his team appear to discuss the same,” Waswa said. The MCA who spoke to the Star said the questioning of the county executive was not personal in any way, but a requirement of the law. “We are dealing with public funds and the role of the assembly is clear as concerns oversight. We are not in any way targeting Khaemba but we are dealing with the office of the governor,” he said. Trans Nzoia MPs have also supported the assembly and accused Khaemba of a poor development record characterised by many stalled projects in the region in the last eight years. The legislators led by Chris Wamalwa of Kiminini and his Endebes counterpart Robert Pukose said construction of the Kitale Referral Hospital at Sh1.2 billion remained incomplete yet it was one of Khaemba’s flagship projects. Wamalwa accused Khaemba of letting down the people of Trans Nzoia and his party, Ford Kenya. “I am one of those who campaigned for Khaemba to become governor but I regret that he has been a let-down and even as he prepares to quit next year, there is little to show for the period he has been in office,” Wamalwa said. Wamalwa and Pukose have also asked Khaemba to honour summonses by the county assembly Public Accounts Committee where he is required to explain financial mismanagement issues raised in the report by the auditor. “He has to go there and explain all that they want to know because the county is a public entity and Khaemba is accountable to residents of Trans Nzoia,” Wanalwa said. The county boss has already agreed to appear before MCAs who want to question him over issues raised by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu on alleged misuse of public funds in the county. County secretary Sifuna Wakofula wrote to the committee requesting to prepare and appear this month. “I would like to request that the invitation scheduled for June 4, 2021 be postponed to early July due to unavoidable circumstances,” said Wakofula in an earlier letter to the assembly. He said they appreciate the gravity of the matter and commit to appear on a date convenient to the assembly PAC preferably early next month.  The letter is dated June 3, 2021. Waswa said the county boss and his team were to be questioned on the audit report and the stalled construction of the Trans Nzoia Referral Hospital. “The committee is the equivalent of a High Court as per the law and if they don’t appear then we will still change tack and force him to come using necessary legal instruments,” Waswa said. The MCAs want Khaemba’s administration to also explain why there was no register for assets of the county valued at more than Sh8 billion. Gathungu flagged financial anomalies and discrepancies amounting to more than Sh3 billion in Trans Nzoia during the 2018-2019 financial year. The latest audit report cites many cases where financial expenditures by Trans Nzoia county government were done irregularly with no supporting documents and contrary to regulations on management of public funds. Edited by Henry Makori