On Saturday, Kenyans woke up to news of the demise of Sameer Group chairman, Naushad Merali. A statement from the Shia Ithna Ashri Jamaat secretariat said the billionaire industrialist died in Nairobi at the age of 70. "It is with profound grief and sorrow that we inform you of the sad demise of Dr. Naushad Noorali Merali in Nairobi." "It is the family’s request that Covid protocols be adhered to firmly hence, only immediate members of the family and those assisting with the burial proceedings to attend. The family thanks you for honouring this request," the statement said. His burial is set for Saturday, July 3. Born in 1951 to Noorali Merali (Bapa), Naushad, who has many times been ranked among the richest men in Kenya and the entire African continent by Forbes, was the director of the defunct Kenya Tea Company from the 1980s to 2005. He was the founder of mobile operator Kencell in partnership with French company Vivendi, which was later sold and renamed Celtel, and is currently known as Airtel. He sold his shares and stepped down from the company’s board in 2014. He was also the pioneer and Chairman of Sameer Group, a conglomerate in Kenya - with a regional presence in East Africa - with interests in agriculture and agribusiness, trading and commerce, construction and engineering, commercial and leasing, EPZs, energy and real estate. Merali is survived by his wife Zarin Bai Merali and children Br. Sameer Merali, and Sis. Yasmin Merali. He was the brother to Marhum Mohamed Merali, Fatma Bai Nasser, Gully Bai Datoo, Marhum Bashir Merali, Shabbir Bhai Merali and Parin Bai Moloo. In 2015, Forbes ranked him the 3rd richest man in Kenya and the 48th riches in Africa with a net worth estimated to have been $370 million (Sh39,960,000,000 billion). He was also involved in many charities through his Zarina and Naushad Merali Foundation. The foundation has mainly been giving aid to schools and hospitals. His contribution to the society and the nation earned him the Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS) presidential award. He had also served as commissioner and board member of various councils in Kenya.