A postmortem on the three bodies of teenagers who were kidnapped and later murdered by a confessed killer shows they were strangled and hit in the head with a blunt object. The postmortem showed Brian Omondi and Junior Mutuku died of strangulation while Charles Opindo had a head injury inflicted by a blunt object. The autopsy on a fourth victim was not done because it was a skeleton. Chief government pathologist Johansen Oduor conducted the exercise at the City Mortuary on Thursday. He said the process of identifying the fourth male victim would be long. The parents of Omondi could not identify him positively because it was badly decomposed, making authorities to take their samples for further tests and analysis. The probe will also seek to find out if the boys were sodomised before being killed. Three of the bodies were collected from Kabete area, Kiambu County while the fourth which is a skeleton was found in a manhole in Pumwani. There were emotional moments at the mortuary when a man appeared, saying his daughter who was eight years has been missing since February and he suspects she is a victim of the killer Masten Wanjala. This comes as police continue to search for more bodies of teenagers missing after their abduction and murder by Wanjala, 25. Police were on July 15 allowed by a court to hold him for 30 days. Wanjala claims he kidnapped and killed at least 12 children in four years in Nairobi, Machakos and Bungoma counties. So far, four bodies have been recovered. Wanjala and his cousin were arrested over the killings. Wanjala said he lured his victims and killed them before dumping the bodies at various places. Police on Monday visited three sites in Pumwani area where he says he dumped more bodies but no other recovery was made. Wanjala has been playing with among others, Young Elephants, a football club with about 80 boys based in Majengo area, Nairobi. His Facebook page has several photographs of himself during happier days with young footballers and trainers including Kinyago Football club where the late Junior Mutuku Musyoki, one of his victims, played. Police said they expected him to take them to various places including Machakos and Western Kenya where he is believed to have dumped bodies of some of his victims. Wanjala claims he single handedly massacred his victims, sometimes through sucking blood from their veins before executing them. And he added he documented by date all the child disappearances and executions. He provided police with a book he documented executions. He told police after luring his targets to safer places, he first stupefied them with a chemical before killing them and sucking their blood. Detectives have further established that all the murder victims were stupefied using a white substance in powder and liquid form, which the victims were either forced to drink or sprayed with before being executed. Global children’s agency Unicef has condemned the kidnapping and murder of the children and called for those responsible to be held to account, while additional measures to protect children are taken. Former Prime Minister Raila Odinga too called on authorities to take measures to tame the trend.