Officials from the ruling Jubilee on Monday met at the party headquarters in Pangani, Nairobi, following the loss in the Kiambaa by-election. The meeting comes after criticism from a section of Jubilee MPs, who accused top party officials of not doing enough to strengthen the party. After the meeting, vice chairperson David Murathe said the party was dissatisfied with the manner in which the IEBC conducted the polls. Murathe alleged he has evidence there was manipulation of votes. “We are not satisfied with what IEBC did to our candidate. When you are not satisfied with the results and you want a recount, they cannot refuse to give you a recount," he said. "The numbers that came out from the polling stations were not the same numbers that came to the tallying center. And we have concrete evidence." His remarks come even after IEBC denied aiding rigging in the ongoing Kiambaa by-election following allegations made by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. In a statement on Thursday, the electoral agency said claims by Kuria that some officials had sneaked out to conduct voting at growers plantation were false. Murathe has also asked Kenyans not to be the victims of the circulating fake news on social media alleging that he had asked the grassroots campaign team in Kiambaa to account for the campaign funds. “I read somewhere where they were talking about Murathe saying that the team that went to the ground needs to account for I don’t know over Sh300 million shillings. There was nothing like that.” He added that the team has agreed on a number of issues that will be rolled out in some weeks ahead, including strengthening the party structures from the grassroots levels and reenergizing the party. The vice-chair also congratulated the team that campaigned for the party aspirant Kariri Njama. Njuguna Wanjiku of UDA won against the by-elections after garnering 21,773 votes while Njama followed closely with 21,263 votes according to the official results from IEBC. Murang’a Woman Representative Sabina Chege said that the party will be seeking the next steps to take ahead of the 2022 general elections through Kenyans. Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said that they agreed to work together as a team after such a candidate conversation. He also echoed Murathe’s sentiments that they won in Kiambaa. “One of the next things that you are going to see in the next thirty days is the rejuvenation of the party at the grassroots level…we are going to see a lot of activities from the grassroots level and we are also going to listen to our members, their views and opinions of what it is that we need to do to make our party even better,” Wambugu said. The team has also said that they learned a lot of things from the Kiambaa by-elections, and dismissed the rumours of plans to eject some of the party officials including the party secretary general Raphael Tuju. Tuju, and his deputy Joshua Kutuny were among the leaders that attended the meeting.