Parents could be in for a bumpy ride as they will be required to pay annual fees in full within a span of eight months, when schools reopen in a fortnight. Learners will this week commence the third term holiday marking an end to the disrupted 2020 school calendar. The holiday will run for less than two weeks between July 17 and July 25 and will give way for students to proceed to the next class upon reopening on July 26. Traditionally, schools would currently be in the mid of the second term. The break will provide time for the commencement of the 2021 school calendar. The 2021 calendar is arguably going to be the shortest, spanning only eight months between July and March next year. The year will have two short breaks at the end of the first and second terms. However, stakeholders now raise questions on how parents will juggle  fee obligations in the three terms that have been shortened in a bid to recover time. In total, the 2021 school year will have 30 weeks; eight weeks shy of the normal school year. Term 1 will begin on July 26, learners will have another one-week break from October 2 to October 10 before they open for second term the following day. It will run until December 23. Third term will run from January 3 to March 4 of 2022. The calendar is an adjustment of the traditional January- December school cycle that was altered by closure of learning institutions in March last year due to the Covid-19 crisis. Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo on Monday urged the government to relook the fee-paying model in the period of the altered calendar, set to continue until end of 2022. Maiyo says the compact timelines could take a toll on parents as they have limited time to organise finances. "The government needs to cushion parents during these hard times as the period between the three terms is very brief and not enough for them to look for fees," Maiyo said. During the holiday, the Teachers Service Commission and the curriculum developer will jointly conduct a training for teachers to handle the CBC curriculum in Grade 5. The new school year will be activity-filled; first, it will mark the roll-out of the Competency-Based Curriculum to Grade 5. It will also mark the admission to Form 1 of the 2020 KCPE candidates soon after reopening. Kenya National Examination Council will also be registering the 2021 candidates ahead of the March examinations. The candidates will also select their preferred secondary schools. On Thursday, Kessha chairman Indimuli Kahi called on the government to take the holiday opportunity to ensure teachers are inoculated against Covid-19. He said vaccinating all teachers with the first and second doses will ensure the virus does not overrun the school system.  (Edited by Bilha Makokha)