Muslim for Human Rights has filed a petition at the High Court in Malindi seeking orders compelling the police to produce a Lamu county ambulance driver. Driver Yassir Hemed was allegedly abducted by police in Mkunumbi on June 19. The people who seized him had guns, handcuffs and jungle uniforms. Hemed was reportedly driving with his family from Mpeketoni to Lamu when gunmen in jungle uniform cornered them at Mkunumbi, dragged him out at gunpoint and took him away without any explanation. Since then, his family, together with Muhuri, have been looking for him in mortuaries, hospitals and police stations in vain. Muhuri rapid response officer Francis Auma said they want Hemed to be produced dead or alive. Speaking outside the Malindi law courts after successfully filing the petition under a certificate of urgency, he said the family has tried in vain to find him. Muhuri has been following this case since the day Hemed was abducted. Auma said they have enough evidence that the abductors were police officers. He said they have witnesses to the abduction, which occurred in broad daylight. Habeas Corpus is used to relieve a person from unlawful restraint. It is a remedy intended to determine whether the person under detention is held under lawful authority. Auma said their organisation currently handling two habeas corpus cases of people suspected to have been abducted by police in Lamu and Mombasa. The other case is that one of Bakari Mwanyota Mbwana who was abducted in Likoni, Mombasa. Auma said such cases have been on the rise and more interesting about the cases is that police are said to be behind the abductions. “The orders we want before the court demand the Lamu OCS, Mpeketoni OCS and Lamu county Directorate of Criminal Investigations to produce Ahmed before the High Court,” he said. Auma said Hemed had no criminal records and the police could have taken him to court as required by law if they were accusing them of committing criminal offences. Athman Mohamed Bwana, a family friend and a resident of Lamu who accompanied Muhuri, urged the court to speed up the case to enable the family to get justice. He said they have been looking for him ever since he was abducted. Yumna Ali Salim, the wife of the abducted driver in a written affidavit stated that three armed men wearing masks and security outfits alighted from a GK Land Cruiser after intercepting their vehicle a few kilometres from Mkunumbi township, and abducted her husband. She said they then ordered her, her son, and a passenger to get out of the car before taking her husband’s driving licence. Salim said the masked men then ordered them to walk ahead without looking behind, warning that that they would shoot them if they disobeyed. “We later turned to look back after walking for some distance only to find that the three-armed men with the GK land cruiser had disappeared with my husband leaving our car in the middle of the road,” she said. Salim said her son moved the car, parked it by the roadside and then they boarded a public service vehicle to Lamu. “Since then, I have not heard from my husband, his phone has been switched off and his whereabouts remain unknown,” she said. The case was reported at Lamu and Mpeketoni police stations, but they are still unable to locate him.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris