The Masinde Muliro University of Science and Technology will hold its 16th graduation on August 20, despite an active court case challenging the composition of its council. The graduation had earlier been slated for June 11, but the university postponed it indefinitely over its leadership crisis. Environment and Labour Relations judge Stephen Radido ruled on April 7 that the university council was irregularly constituted by Education CS George Magoha. Radido declared that the decision by Magoha to gazette and consequently appoint Dr Name Musangi as the council chairperson, and Stephen Mutoro, Connie Mogaka, Joshua Ogango and Githu Kiragu as members on March 20, 2020, violated the Constitution. The university appealed against the ruling, but no stay orders were issued. On Monday, vice chancellor Solomon Shivairo announced that the delayed graduation will be held virtually on August 20, saying the university council has been fully constituted. According to a report by the university on the status of the case, both parties were in court on June 17 over an appeal the institution filed against the ruling. The parties were directed to file their written submissions by Thursday. The case will be mentioned on July 29 and the ruling will be on December 8. “The matter was last in court on June 17, 2021. The judgment in place was set aside for reasons that neither the university nor counsel on record were notified of the proceedings of December 17, 2020,” the report read. “The petitioner has indicated his intention to fully withdraw the petition,” it  further read. The petition challenging the validity of the university council was filed in August 2020 by Bungoma activist Moses Lukoye. On Thursday, Shivairo said the court paved the way for the council to operate by setting aside the April ruling. The university has remained without substantive leadership for the last 30 months after the expiry of the term of former vice chancellor Frederick Otieno (now dead), in November 2018. His replacement has been dogged by court cases. The institution has since been led by three VCs in an acting capacity. All three faculties at the university are led by acting heads. Another case that had been filed at the labour court in Kisumu halting the process of restarting recruitment of a substantive university VC and three DVCs by the Public Service Commission has been withdrawn. This means that PSC can proceed and fill the leadership vacuum at the institution. Edited by A.N