Bandari are still well placed to dislodge Kenyan Premier League leaders Tusker and possibly clinch the top-flight title, head coach Casa Mbungo has said. Mbungo made the remarks after the dockers squeezed a hard-fought 1-0 win over a resilient Vihiga United side in a Premier League match played at ASK Grounds in Nakuru on Tuesday. “We missed out on the Caf Confederation Cup and the Champions League but the title is still within our reach," said Mbungo. His opposite number Mike Mururi said their main agenda this season was to maintain their status in the top tier. “We are doing all we can to avoid the jaws of relegation and I believe we still stand a chance if we plan well for the remaining matches," said Mururi. William Wadri's 45th-minute goal from the spot was all the coastal darlings needed to bag maximum points over a struggling Vihiga United team. Wadri was called to duty after marauding forward Umaru Kasumba was sent tumbling down in the area. Bandari should gave gone ahead in the 23rd minute after Wadri teed up Kasumba some 19 yards out only for defender Sammy Sindani to read their intentions early enough. Four minutes later, Kasumba's long-range effort forced Vihiga custodian Morgan Ambuka to stretch full length for a daring save. Vihiga got their opportunity of the match in the 34th minute when Lawrence Luvada attempted to hurl the ball past Justine Ndikumana with a thunderous low drive but the hawk-eyed keeper was well placed to save the day. In the first match of the day, Western Stima and Nzoia Sugar played out to a two-all draw. Western Stima made their intentions clear right from the first whistle. Humphrey Katasi moved hastily to nip Barron Oketch's 9th-minute close-range effort in the bud. Joseph Mwangi had a glorious opportunity to put Nzoia ahead in the 19th minute only for his rasping shot to miss the target by a whisker. In the 31st minute, Oketch curled the ball into the top right corner of the net to break the deadlock. Nzoia came back from the interval more purposeful and it wasn't long before Joseph Mwangi got his name on the scoresheet in the 54th minute to level terms. But the millers' joy was short-lived after Rogers Ouma's 75th-minute screamer put the powermen back in the driving seat. Just when Stima thought they had collected their fifth win of the season, Kevin Juma spoilt the party with an equaliser in stoppage time as the teams left the pitch tied at 2-2. The results leave Bandari seventh with 36 points and Víhiga second last with 16. Nzoia are 14th with 21 points while Western Stima are 15th with 18.