The US has affirmed its commitment to maintaining a strategic dialogue with Kenya, key in addressing shared priorities such as the fight against Covid-19 and crises in Ethiopia and South Sudan. US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said Kenya and the US have a “very important strategic partnership”, and are working together across the continent and beyond. Secretary Blinken spoke on Friday when he met with Foreign Affairs Cabinet Secretary Raychelle Omamo at the State Department in the US. “Secretary Blinken and Cabinet Secretary Omamo reaffirmed the importance of the US-Kenya strategic partnership, highlighting shared global priorities including responding to the Covid-19 pandemic, addressing climate change, and investing in democracy and security in Africa,” the State Department said in a statement after the meeting. He added that there is a lot to be done in Africa, and sought Kenya’s cooperation on the continent as Kenya sits at the UN Security Council. Blinken said 1.7 million Covid-19 vaccines donated by the US are en route to Kenya. “We thank you for the vaccine donation and for standing with us through this difficult period and for emphasizing that there is still hope and that all countries can build back better,” CS Omamo said. In March this year, Blinken has urged Kenya to work with the US on the UN Security Council and in other venues to address the crisis in Ethiopia’s Tigray region. In a phone call with Omamo, Blinken acknowledged Kenya’s strong and durable multilateral engagement and welcomed the opportunity to cooperate closely with Kenya on the UN Security Council on matters of international concern. He raised concerns about recent reports of atrocities and the worsening humanitarian situations in the region. “Secretary Blinken emphasised our commitment to working with Kenya to advance our shared interests in trade, democracy, human rights, global health, regional security, and climate change for the benefit of the American and Kenyan people,” on March 2. On April 27, Blinken made a virtual visit to Africa, including Kenya, which also marked 57 years of bilateral relations. Secretary Blinken met with President Kenyatta and Cabinet Secretary Omamo to reaffirm our strategic partnership, discuss future cooperation to promote democracy and expand trade and explore avenues to address global challenges, including climate change and the pandemic.