Eugene Mbugua is an executive producer of some of our favourite TV shows and has a good number of them under his name. He has gradually become one of the most sort after docu-reality filmmakers in Kenya having created; Concert Nyumbani, Foods of Kenya, Get In the Kitchen, Our Perfect Wedding, Stori Yangu, Sol Family, and Wahu and Nameless' This Love. According to Mbugua, who spoke in a past interview with Showmax, he loves documentaries because they allow the audience to re-examine the past and pick learnings from them. He is also fascinated by reality TV because of how relatable it is and how much it moves people. Catch Mbugua’s biggest shows, on Showmax. This Love S1 This Love explores the lives of Kenya’s celebrity couple, Nameless and Wahu, as they share more about their family life, their marriage (that has lasted for 15 years despite the initial skepticism) and the lessons they have learnt along the way. This Love also follows Nameless and Wahu on their journey to record their first-ever joint album, and the people that are working with them behind the scenes to make the project a success. The first episode of This Love is now streaming on Showmax, with new episodes releasing every Monday. Sol Family S1-2 One of the most-watched local shows by Kenyan Showmax subscribers, this docu-reality series captures Kenya’s multi-award-winning band, Sauti Sol, like you’ve never seen them before, letting us in on some intimate and personal details about their lives, as well as their Sol Generation protégés Nviiri the Storyteller and Bensoul. Sol Family’s second season offers a more in-depth look into the group's romantic relationships where we see Bien support Chiki in starting her dance studio, Polycarp and Amanda share their home-birth story, and we also get to meet the ladies in Nviiri’s and Bensoul’s lives.. Stori Yangu S1-4 The first of its kind in Kenya, Stori Yangu is a docu-series that goes beyond the headlines and offers an in-depth look into the lives of notable personalities who have influenced Kenya’s past and present, taking the audience with on the journey that defined who they are today – from the struggles to the heartbreaks to the triumphs. The current fourth season tells the stories of personalities such as Hon. Kalonzo Musyoka, celebrity pastor Reverend Lucy Natasha, the iron lady of Kenyan politics Martha Karua, renowned media personality and BBC’s Top 100 Women (2017) Adelle Onyango, award-winning investigative journalist John Allan-Namu and more. Stori Yangu, which Mbugua has revealed to be the favourite among all his shows in a past interview, was nominated in the Best Documentary category at the 2018 Kalasha Awards. Our Perfect Wedding Kenya S1-11 Adapted from the South African format of the same name, this wedding reality show follows different couples in Kenya on their journey as they plan for their big day. It also features interesting backstories on how they started dating, plus the drama and setbacks of planning a wedding. In between, we also experience the different cultures of the bride and groom and how this ties into the overall ceremony. Hosted by Angie Mlay (Socialites), Our Perfect Wedding is arguably Kenya’s most popular wedding show, even winning Best TV Reality at the 2019 Kalasha Awards. In the mood for more Kenyan reality and documentary TV shows on Showmax? Also catch John Allan-Namu’s Kalasha-winning docuseries Maisha Mkanda, and the docu-drama Chozi and dating reality show Date My Family, both executive-produced by five-time Groove Awards Video Producer and BMF member, Samuel Maina, popularly known as Sammy Dee.