Busia has registered four plain As in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education exams after five years without a student scoring the grade. Four students at Butula Boys National School scored the county's straight As. Michael Baraka and Samwel Mukhebi scored 82 points each to emerge joint leaders at the school as well as the county. They were followed by Simon Nyamahonga and Hopkins Ejoi who both scooped 81 points. School principal Daniel Ouma said a mean score of 8.15 was a great achievement. He attributed the school’s impressive results to hard work and determination from both students and teachers. Thirty other students from the institution scored A-, 46 (B+), 45 (B), 49 (B-) and 62 (C+). Forty-four of those who sat the 2020 KCSE at the school managed to get C, 11 (C-), five (D+) as one had a D Plain. Salvation Army Kolanya Girls National School in Teso North had six girls scoring A-. The six were Tracy Nyongesa, Ann Nyawino, Catherine Nyakalama and Veronica Wafula who tied on 75 points and Dorothy Akoth and Sasala Wendy Ayuma who jointly scooped 74 points. The school registered an improved mean score of 6.67 compared to 6.07 recorded in 2019. Another school from Teso North, Kolanya Boys High School had two students who score A-. These were Muhindi Duncan (75 points) and Erick Onyango Juma (74). Sigalame High School had four top students scoring A-. Dickens Ogara and Antonius Waka tied on 78 points while Silas Sanya and Brighten Ombere got 74 points each. Nambale Boys had one student with an A-. The school recorded a mean score of 6.5 ahead of Lwanya Girls which had a mean score of 6.2. Top outside Busia Students from Busia in schools outside the county produced some of the best results in the country. Kenneth Oranga who sat his exams at Kapsabet Boys was ranked seventh nationally with an A plain. He had scored 407 marks in the 2016 KCPE exams which he sat at Amoni Primary School in Teso North subcounty. James Oduya, son of Teso North subcounty administrator Zipporah Amoit, scored an A plain of 83 points at Mangu High School. Calvin Ekisa, Oranga’s classmate at Kapsabet Boys scored an A-. The county government of Busia had in 2014 promised to issue laptops to students in Busia who will score an A Plain in KCSE.  (edited by o. owino)