The government is mulling engaging private investors in the management of Kenya's wildlife under Public-Private-Partnerships. Tourism CS Najib Balala on Wednesday said the government will not sell its wildlife but will be under the Kenya Wildlife Service. "We will not privatise our national parks, they remain national assets," Balala said in his office on Wednesday. The CS said the government is contemplating the idea of how to better manage wildlife in the country through the Public-Private-Partnership model. He said the public will be given an opportunity to give their input. Balala said the KWS revenue for 2019 was Sh 4.2 billion but is now less. "There is a big deficit in terms of revenue. Our expenditure to run KWS is still very high, we have 6,000 staff and we need to pay salaries. We need Sh 7 billion to run KWS," Balala said. The CS said Covid-19 has made matters worse as human-wildlife conflict has increased. "Conservancies also have zero revenue from tourism that why we gave rangers Sh 1 billion for salaries," Balala said. As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, the government provided Sh 1 billion for 5,500 wildlife scouts under KWS and Sh 1 billion for the 160 wildlife conservancies in the country. Balala said, "if we sit and do nothing, there will be a major problem." The CS said out of 58 national parks and reserves only six to seven of them were generating money. "We need to think about what happened to our paper parks. We might have a park but not necessarily with revenue but even we have no capacity to manage it," he said. Balala said there is a need to think out of the box and manage it better. He cited Akagera National Park in Rwanda as one of the parks that are not managed by the government. Balala said the South African parks are only providing security while other concessions are managed privately. "When we think about PPP (Public-Private-Partnership), there are two fundamental issues that we need to make very clear. We do not compromise security. Security will always remain KWS and we do not compromise conservation," he said. Balala said the Wildlife Conservation and Management Act 2013 lumped everything on KWS. The CS said under the new policy, KWS will be made to focus on their key mandate of security and conservation. Balala said the Wildlife Research and training institute has since been established while the regulatory function will be done by the central government. "We want to involve discussion before studying what is going on around the region in parks that are doing well all over the continent," he said. Balala said how such parks are managed will be borrowed. The CS cited the way Maasai Mara and Transmara were being managed saying Transmara was being managed much better. "The people who are managing that reserve also invest heavily in infrastructure," he said. Balala said Tsavo national park rarely has a five-star hotel or lodge that is privately done. "Those concessions should be handled differently and should include infrastructure so that the core mandate of KWS will remain security and conservation. Security because all the animals are assets of the government and the people," he said. Balala said KWS cannot abdicate their responsibility. The CS said Ol Pejeta, Lewa and Loisaba were being managed by the private sector and have been successful. Balala said core management can be done locally. "We are not in a hurry to go and get international companies to come and manage. No," he said. He said through such management, KWS will benefit as well as the person who has invested heavily in the revival of the national parks. Balala said Boni national park and Dundori are some of the beautiful parks. However, the government has no capacity to manage them. He said criminals have since taken over Boni. Balala said KWS parks such as Chyulu and others have been invaded by squatters due to a lack of resources and capacity. He said Mwingi North national reserve in Kitui lacks management capacity. "We cannot have the capacity, can we look for capacity and manage but the assets still remain with for example Kitui they benefit in terms of revenue but the ecosystem is managed even better," he said. Balala said the private part of it can build lodges and other facilities. "You make the money but share with the owners of the assets and that is the model we are looking at," he said. Balala said human-wildlife has increased with a backlog of sH 14 billion. He said the government has been towing with the idea of handing compensation of victims to an insurance company. Balala said Human-wildlife conflict needs Sh 3.1 billion every year.