Two people have been injured as one stabbed on the shoulder when chaos broke in a funeral in Obunga Slums. Kisumu Central aspirant Joshua Oron, who declared to vie for the sit come 2022 polls' vehicle was pelted with stones. It's alleged that Oron was on his way out when his convoy was waylaid by alleged supporters of Kisumu central MP Fred Ouda. This happened during the burial of an artiste who had died within the area. During the process, one person was stabbed on the left shoulder, several others escaped with minor injuries as four vehicles had their windscreens smashed. According to one of the supporters of the politician (Oron) Dan Onyango, a group of youths blocked their way as they left the funeral while carrying crude weapon. He said their vehicles were pelted with stones. Onyango however called for peace and tolerance during this coming electioneering period. However, when contacted, Kisumu Central MP Ouda 's personal assistant Steve Rambo said when the incident occurred they were not yet at the venue. "The MP had not even arrived at the venue and so we don't know what transpired and who were involved," he said. Kisumu central OCPD James Ng'etich confirmed the incident but said the funeral was well secured. He noted that after the burial, they may have clashed somewhere out of the funeral vicinity. He added that by the time the police got there, everything was done and no arrest is yet to be made The Executive director of Transform Empowerment for Action Initiative George Collins Owuor, condemned the incident saying a time has come for the young people to be in leadership instead of being used every now and then in causing chaos and there is nothing being fought on. He said youths cannot be fighting for politicians every now and then and a time has come where they have to talk about peaceful co-existence and tolerance. "We shall not allow politicians to organize young people to fight against each other, simply because they are interested in their political conversation and clout," Owuor said. Owuor noted that it was unfortunate that every single electioneering period, men and women are used to cause chaos simply because of some small tokenism that cannot help. "I want to warn politicians in Kisumu to stop organizing young people so that they can fight amongst themselves. "We want to tell the police and any other stakeholders who is in charge of peaceful co-existence and security that actions must be taken, it doesn't matter whether you are prominent or not it doesn't matter," he said.