Pollution from pesticides, mercury, persistent organic pollutants and hazardous wastes remain the key drivers of biodiversity loss, a new report has shown. The study on the 'Interlinkages between the chemicals and waste multilateral environmental agreements and biodiversity: Key Insights' was jointly conducted by the Secretariats of the Basel, Rotterdam and Stockholm Conventions and the Minamata Convention on Mercury. "Mercury is a highly toxic heavy metal that poses a global threat to human health and the environment, persists in the environment and bioaccumulates and biomagnifies in the food chain," the study says. Together with its various compounds, mercury causes a range of severe health impacts, including damage to the central nervous system. Exposure to mercury occurs mainly through ingestion of fish and other marine species contaminated with methylmercury, through inhalation of mercury vapour during occupational activities or spills, or through direct contact from mercury use. The study said mercury is transported around the globe through the environment, so its emission and release can affect human health and the environment even in remote locations. Once released, mercury persists in the environment where it circulates between air, water, sediments, soil and biota in various forms, and may not be removed from this cycle for a century or more. The study said over 2,000 tonnes of mercury are emitted into the air annually from the top 17 anthropogenic sources, with almost 38 per cent derived from artisanal and small-scale gold mining. Estimates of releases from the artisanal and small-scale gold mining sector to land and water combined are 1220 tonnes worldwide. "Artisanal and small-scale gold mining activities are the single biggest source of mercury releases to soil and often take place in biodiverse and sensitive ecosystems around the world." The study found that small-scale gold miners are on the rise, with miners relying on mercury to process mined gold. This, they said, has possible health, environmental and ecosystem impacts on about 100 million people in ASGM communities worldwide. "Impacts of this type of mining on biological diversity occur directly through the clearing of forests to prepare mining sites, and where mercury is used to amalgamate gold ore. "The subsequent burning off and emissions into the atmosphere are also deposited in the environment, with related releases to soils and in tailings leaching into nearby streams and rivers, where much of the activities take place," the study said. In Kenya, small scale gold miners are found in the counties of Migori, Kisumu, Siaya, Vihiga, Kakamega and further up north in Pokot and Turkana. The total number of artisanal small-scale gold miners in Kenya may be close to 250,000, but this is on the increase as more people shift towards gold mining as the main source of livelihood, due to a decline in agricultural productivity within the region. In many artisanal small scale gold mining operations, the mercury that operators use to extract gold from ore comes through trade that violates national or international laws on the import, marketing or use of mercury. The study said food webs in many of the world’s biomes and ecosystems have MeHg concentrations at levels of concern for ecological and human health. Many species of fish and wildlife are impacted by the adverse effects of mercury on their physiology, behaviour and reproductive success. The development of the Minamata Convention on mercury was spurred on by recognition that the significant levels of mercury in the environment from human activities required international action. It is a legally binding convention that contains provisions that regulate anthropogenic activities throughout the entire life cycle of mercury, from its primary mining through its various uses to the management of mercury as waste and management of sites contaminated with mercury. The study said the effects of persistent organic pollutants on the environment have been observed in a range of ecosystems, having effects in freshwater ecosystems, such as lakes and rivers. Pesticides use have also been flagged out by the study as a threat to birdlife, with bird populations having declined 20-25 per cent since pre-agricultural times. They affects insects and pollinators, impacting in a wide range of ecosystem services. Overall, hazardous waste generation increased by 50 per cent between 2007 and 2015, mainly because of growth in countries with lower-middle and higher-middle income. In mapping the interlinkages between chemicals and wastes and biological diversity, the study provides an essential baseline for future work and collaboration between conventions, in different spheres and within them, to efficiently tackle this worldwide issue. -Edited by SKanyara