Hoteliers in Kisumu are hoping that hosting Madaraka Day celebrations in the city next week will boost bookings and inject cash into the sector. The Covid-19 pandemic has ravaged the tourism business, with losses estimated by the government at 80 per cent of revenue. Kisumu has reported more than 20 cases of the deadlier Indian variant, but authorities have said the event will go on as planned. Lake Victoria Tourism Association chair Robinson Anyal said industry players were hopeful the business would be the start of a revival. Several hotels have recorded a rise in bookings ahead of the event and with the planning activities on course. Anyal said there has been slight improvement in demand for accommodation and conference facilities. The majority of the hotels on average report between 15 and 20 per cent in room occupancies. He said they expect to be doing above 30 per cent occupancy days to the event. Anyal said their hotels have ensured compliance with the Ministry of Health's Covid-19 protocols. County public health officials have visited the facilities to ascertain that they follow the minimum standards set for safe operations. “Hospitality players are keen on doing safe business by following the Covid-19 protocols to prevent further spread of the virus,” he said. The Madaraka Day celebrations will be held at the Jomo Kenyatta Stadium on June 1. President Uhuru Kenyatta will preside over the event, with ODM leader Raila Odinga playing host to officials and dignitaries. About 3,000 people will be allowed into the 35,000-capacity Jomo Kenyatta Sport Complex. County press director Aloice Ager told the Star that enhanced Covid-19 control measures have put in the various venues. Ager said guests will have their temperature screened at the various gates and handwashing points set up around the stadium. “The government has bought about 30,000 mask that anybody who will attend the function at the various point will be issued, whether they come with their own mask or not,” he said.  (edited by o. owino)