Limuru residents have petitioned authorities to spare a 100-year-old jacaranda tree. They said the tree is under imminent threat of being removed to pave the way for road expansion. "We don't have a problem with the road works; however, we have worked hard to conserve some of these trees that are now over 100 years," Limuru Highlands zonal special planning committee coordinator Njoki Wainaina told the Star. Wainaina said the jacaranda tree, which is most likely over 100 years, is on Kawamwaki Farm in Riara Ridge. This, she said, is where the link road from Maramba Tea Factory through to the Matibad on the Limuru-Nazareth Road is being upgraded and expanded to 12 metres. "This campaign will be our symbolic call to us and our government to balance all development ventures with the conservation, protection and preservation of trees, wetlands, the flora and fauna in our beautiful area for now and for posterity," she said. Wainaina said the road is being constructed by the Kiambu government. She said by moving the road just two feet, the tree can be saved. "However, the contractor and others in a position to save it may not necessarily have the authority or share the passion to act now," she said. Wainaina said the tree is just one example of the heartbreaking reality in their zone now, as road construction and other developments threaten the conservation of indigenous and other trees that farmers and conservationists have nurtured for decades. "The problem is that there is no consultation between the concerned county and those who approve. We have roads ministry, environment, physical planning and land and agriculture. None consult when doing their work," she said. Wainaina said there is a need for collaboration between ministries. She warned that the government's agenda of increasing the forest cover could be watered down by such a move. "If one government is doing roads and destroying trees while the other is campaigning for increased forest cover, then it makes no sense," he said. She continued, "It is also ironic that at the same time we are campaigning to plant trees and achieve the 10 per cent forest cover by 2022." Wainaina urged the county government to save the tree. The forest cover within Kiambu county is above 16 per cent. Wainaina said the move will be a commitment that in future, there will be coordination between the National and County government departments and with the functions of environment, roads, agriculture and consultations with the landowners. -Edited by SKanyara