The economic recovery in Kenya and other emerging markets will remain highly vulnerable to pandemic-related setbacks, given the slow Covid-19 vaccine rollout. According to S&P, most countries are far from reaching sufficient vaccination levels to ensure an uninterrupted economic recovery. The global rating firm highlighted that slow vaccine rollout presents a high likelihood of intermittent lockdowns that greatly undermine economic recovery efforts. The lockdowns and curfew hours, which keep being revised in Kenya depending on how the Covid-19 infection rates, greatly hurt businesses. In March this year when President Uhuru revised the curfew hours and locked down five counties because of high Covid-19 cases, businesses really suffered as things were slowly picking up. With reduced curfew hours, closure of bars and restaurants, recovery of the sectors was slowed down, the measures were, however, slightly relaxed and restaurants reopened. They are currently slowly recovering. International Monetary Fund chief Kristalina Georgieva has warned that failure to accelerate the vaccine rollout in Africa would have grave economic consequences. “It is clear that there is no durable exit from the economic crisis unless we exit the health crisis,” she said. According to financial analyst Mihr Thakar, individuals and businesses alter their behaviour based on virus flare-ups, regardless of whether or not the government has already put in place restrictions. Thakar noted that each new cycle further weakens businesses and some tend to close up shop. "Vaccination of a huge population in the country is, therefore, the key to ensuring uninterrupted activity is an important variable of future economic performance," S&P said. In Kenya, the vaccination drive has been progressing at a slower pace due to inadequate doses. So far, the country has vaccinated less than two per cent of its population, meaning it is not yet out of the woods. Kenya began vaccinating its population in March after getting one million doses of AstraZeneca from India. The country was supposed to begin its second phase of vaccination in May, but India, which is fighting a huge wave of Covid-19 cases, has banned the exportation of vaccines. According to the Ministry of Health, Kenya will not be able to give a second dose of Covid-19 vaccines until at least June, due to a shortage of AstraZeneca doses. Kenya has now ordered millions of doses of Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson vaccines for Covid-19 in efforts to ramp up vaccination. The country is also working with Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) for assistance in procuring more vaccines. President Uhuru Kenyatta has reiterated the need to scale up African countries' access to Covid-19 vaccines. With the economic fallout of the Covid-19-restrictive measures such as high cost of living and loss of jobs, Uhuru said this is critical in the recovery process. "With regard to access to vaccines, we talk about economic recovery, but there can’t be any recovery without access to vaccine and Africa is desperately lacking in vaccines," Uhuru said.