Tourism CS Najib Balala has challenged research institutes involved with wildlife to use better scientific research methodology to get appropriate and reliable data on wild animals. Balala said the new techniques will enable the government to plan well and understand the trends of animal behaviour and where to intervene. "It is important for us to understand how much wildlife we have because without the right data, it is difficult to have measures for conservation and mitigating the arising challenges," he said. The CS said there is a need to change the science, conservation and management techniques of protected areas to preserve natural resources and wildlife. He said the neglect of embracing better research methods has led to the decline of wildlife numbers. Balala said animals like sable antelopes, elephants, rhinos among others decline each day and there is no sufficient science to explain why they disappear. He said in 2012,  Shimba Hills had 350 elephants but the population dwindled to 35. He spoke while launching the national wildlife census at the Shimba Hills National Reserve in Kwale. The census will include both marine and land animal species in and outside the protected areas. It is a three-month exercise, expected to end in July. He said the exercise will emphasise the collection and retrieval of wild animals data at a broad perspective. Balala said the precise and accurate information will enhance proper planning on how to coexist with the rising population of animal species and human as climate change influence their lives. "We need to have data to know how to manage because we are in different ecosystem land use and competition of resources between animals and residents has risen," he said. The CS said the government is keen to protect both human and wildlife as they coexist. Balala said for the government to extensively reap benefits from tourism, it was essential to have balancing in conservation and securing of livelihoods. He advised the research institute to provide detailed information and science that will provide solutions to wildlife problems. The minister said human and animal conflicts have gone up causing death, injuries and destruction. Currently, the country has a pending bill of Sh14 billion that has not paid to the victim of human-wildlife conflicts since 2014. Balala was accompanied by Principal Secretary for tourism Safina Kwekwe and her wildlife counterpart Fred Segor. -Edited by SKanyara