Karen MCA David Mberia has been convicted of soliciting and accepting a Sh1.7 million bribe from a private school, but his seat has not been declared vacant. Last month the court declined to suspend an order barring Mberia from office after he was found guilty in a corruption case. He represents arguably the most affluent area in Nairobi. Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura has already received the letter communicating the legislator’s conviction but said it was the mandate of the IEBC to declare the position vacant. That hasn't happened yet. The Bribery Act says convicts are not allowed to hold public office. Removal would require a by-election at a time when BBI is front and centre. He was convicted on February 25. High Court judge Mumbi Ngugi ruled the legislator had not placed anything before the court to entitle him to stay orders. Mberia had moved to court seeking to stay the judgment of the lower court, which ruled that he should be barred from office. Judge Ngugi dismissed his application, saying the result of the conviction was not to be determined by the court. “The question whether or not the speaker will declare his seat vacant as a result of the conviction is not a question for determination by this court,” the judge ruled. The court further ruled that it had not been shown a valid reason to stay the execution of a lawful judgment and sentence imposed by a competent court under the Bribery Act. “What this court can do is put in place administrative directions that enable the applicant to expeditiously prosecute his appeal and should it be successful, protect his entitlement to hold the public office that he seeks to protect,” the judge ruled. However, the judge said Mberia has insisted on arguing the application for a stay instead of proceeding with a substantive appeal. Section 18(8) of the Bribery Act states that when a public or state officer is convicted of an offence under the Act, regardless of the penalty imposed, the officer shall be barred from holding public office. Mberia was among the councillors elected to the county assembly after devolution in 2013. From 2013  to 2017 he served as the majority whip when ODM was the majority party in the assembly. However, in the second assembly, Mberia did not occupy any leadership position but was an active member of committees, especially the public accounts committee. In November 2019, he was named the minority leader, replacing Kileleshwa MCA Elias Otieno. Last year in August, he lost the position to Embakasi MCA Michael Ogada. Currently, he is  chairman of the implementation committee that scrutinises the resolutions of the assembly, petitions and the undertakings made by the county executive committee. (Edited by V. Graham) 