 The Kiambu government has begun re-carpeting and expanding a key road in Thika town that has been in deplorable condition for a long time. Governor James Nyoro said the works on Kenyatta Highway will be completed in two weeks. It is being re-carpeted and expanded from Dr Wachira area to Destiny Church. The road connects Thika’s industrial section with the central business district and is also used by thousands who reside in Makongeni, Kiganjo, Kamenu, Landless, Muguga, and Gatuanyaga areas. Nyoro on Monday inspected the ongoing works and said the road will ease the perennial traffic congestion along the stretch and end the suffering that motorists have endured for years. “Once the road is complete, movement will be eased and this will in turn boost trade within Thika region which is healthy for the growth of our economy,” he said. The governor said the county government will also install 200 street lights along the highway to boost security. Footpaths and drainage will be built. Upper Road that starts from Kenya Revenue Authority offices to Thika Stadium and the Kenyatta Highway that extends from Bonjour roundabout to Joy Town Special School are being re-carpeted. “The roads are being re-carpeted by the county government through the Kenya Urban Support Programme and are expected to be complete by the end of this financial year,” Nyoro said. The works are among the Sh300 million projects that will be undertaken within Thika municipality and are being funded by the World Bank. Other projects include construction of a drainage system in Landless and the upgrade of Kilimambogo-Makutano and Muguga township access roads to bitumen standards. “We are determined to ensure that the roads are tarmacked and street lights installed to give the town a new look and for the sake of businesses,” Nyoro said. The national government through the Kenya Urban Roads Authority has also begun re-carpeting of some 13km of roads within the town. Interways Works Ltd has been contracted to construct the roads at a cost of Sh700 million. Roads that will be re-carpeted include by Kura included Commercial, Cross, General Kago, Haile Sellasie, Harry Thuku, Kenyatta Highway, Kwame Nkuruma, Magoko, Bull and Mama Ngina. Others are Stadium, Temple, Thika Girls, Uhuru Street, Upper hill and Workshop roads Walkways, street lights and a proper drainage system will also be put up. Traders led by Thika District Business Association chairman Alfred Wanyoike welcomed the projects saying they will create a conducive environment for doing business. “These projects will not only change the face of the town but will also provide a favourable environment for doing business and we expect trade to boom as Thika gears to become a 24-hour economy,” Wanyoike said.  Edited by P.O