Could President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) be planning to reorganise his government in the wake of the latest developments in the country? A senior government official was heard saying on the phone at a social joint that they fear the President is planning to make changes as he feels let down by some of his close people. But it is not clear when he will drop the bombshell, which is expected to remove a number of his close associates. Only time will tell. *** A section of Nyanza residents want the Independent Policing Oversight Authority  to probe some senior police bosses in Nyanza region over alleged entrenched political links. The residents also accused some senior national government administrators of direct involvement in 2022 politics and demanded an overhaul of the security personnel in the region for the sake of peace. The senior officers are said to be attending night meetings with politicos in the area on behalf of their benefactors. They want to pass on the message of their political bosses and woo politicians to some political formations ahead of next year’s polls. They threatened to hold massive protests in the near future if no action is taken against the partisan officers. *** In a brazen and chilling warning revealing sheer brute force, a county Big Man from Central Kenya has allegedly prepped a gang of hooligans to visit terror upon a senior leader. They are to prevent him from setting foot into a certain county.  The official is said to have conscripted 750 goons to keep vigil at a certain popular spot. He encouraged his jeshi to arm itself with any crude weapon they can lay their hands on. The display of machismo by the Big Man didn’t end there; he announced to his kitchen cabinet that it doesn’t matter whether his target has blessings from above, he will not stop at anything to stop him. *** Close colleagues of a leader of a professional organisation who has declared interest in city politics were overheard laughing and mocking him in hushed tones, calling his candidature a joke. The colleagues, who often remind the leader on social media how well he is doing at the organisation, said the man is punching above his weight. They said maybe his one-man-show style and his dominance and arrogance will be toned down after he is humiliated at the polls next year and his finances dried up. They said maybe his dalliance with a high-profile politico and his title gave him a big head.  Who will tell him the truth?