The Lamu port is poised to be the biggest competitor to Salalah port in Oman and Durban in South Africa in the transshipment business. It will be commissioned by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday when he leads a delegation to receive the first Maersk vessel at the first berth. Two more berths are nearing completion — all three cost Sh40 billion. The Kenya Shippers Council encouraged private investors, including oil companies, to construct the remaining 29 berths. The Kenya Ports Authority said Lamu port with its 32 berths will handle transshipment cargo for smaller ports on the Indian Ocean. Speaking to the Star in an interview, Kenya Shippers Council CEO Gilbert Langat said Salalah in the northern Indian Ocean and Durban have been handling most transshipment cargo meant for Africa. “If the government gets everything right, Lamu will be the biggest competition for the ports of Durban and Salalah. It has the biggest potential to be one of Africa’s busiest ports,” he said on Tuesday.. The Port of Mombasa has also been handling transhipment cargo, but on a smaller scale It is ranked fifth in Africa after Durban, Egypt’s Port Said, Tanger-Med in Morocco and Alexandria in Egypt Mombasa Port has 21 berths, Tanzania's Port of Dar es Salaam has 16 berths. It is sometimes considered Mombasa's biggest competitor. Mombasa handles more than  1.4 million containers annually, Dar es Salaam handles fewer than 800,000 containers. In the first quarter of this year, Mombasa port transshipment traffic recorded 69,658 total equivalent units (TEU), or 20-foot containers. According to global maritime statistics, the Port of Salalah in Oman, which is centrally located at the crossroads of Asia and Europe, serves East Africa, the Red Sea, the Indian Subcontinent and the Arabian/Persian Gulf. The Port of Durban, which is the largest and busiest in Sub-Saharan Africa, handles more than 31.4 million tonnes of cargo annually. Langat said Lamu port will be handling more than 24 million tonnes of cargo annually by 2030, if everything goes as planned. It will be handling transshipment cargo destined for ports in Djibouti, Eritrea, Somalia, Tanzania and other countries along the Indian Ocean as well as Mombasa Port. Langat of the Kenya Shippers Council said Lamu is naturally deep with sheltered harbours and therefore requires minimal dredging to accommodate post-Panamax vessels. Post Panamax vessels have a capacity to handle as many as 110,000 tonnes of cargo and carry more than 10,000 TEUs. The vessels measure 230 metres to 270 metres in length with a draft of 17 metres. Berths at Lamu port are 400 metres long, with an 18-metre draft. So far, berth one is 100 per cent complete. Berths two and three are 95 and 75 per cent complete, respectively. Langat said private companies can partner with the Kenyan government to construct the remaining 29 berths. “Mega oil companies can  invest in one or two berths in Lamu,” Langat said “If that happens, they can then sell petroleum products to other companies and KPA will benefit from the port charges for all docking vessels." Several shipping companies have expressed interest in operating from Lamu. They include Maersk an, Express Shipping & Logistics East Africa Company. The first vessel to dock in Lamu is operated by Maersk Shipping Company. Last week, Maersk East Africa managing director Carl Lorenz said they will be the first ship to dock at Lamu but they will not bring any client's cargo. The company will bring its own equipment to be stationed at the port. Express Shipping & Logistics Company has been running an online marketing campaign to attract potential clients to Lamu. “We are now in Lamu port to support your business growth at the Lapsset corridor,” part of its online marketing campaign reads. Langat said more shipping companies will start doing business in Lamu the port is launched by President Kenyatta. Lamu will not steal business from the Port of Mombasa, he said. “There have been fears Lamu port might kill business for Mombasa port, but Lamu will be mainly for transshipment," Langat said.. “Later, after the inland infrastructure is in place, the Lamu facility will  erve Ethiopia and South Sudan.” Mombasa port will mainly handle cargo for Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda and the DRC. Lamu port may later develop for livestock exports, especially for animals from the Northeast going to the Middle East, Langat said. He said fishing is also big investment and Lamu might have a berth for large fishing vessels. “We can have berths dedicated for livestock exports and also for fishing. Apart from tourism, Lamu is known for deep-sea fishing,” he said. Several value-addition companies will be based be in and around Lamu port's  Special Economic Zones. The port already has employed 100 local youths, KPA human resources manager Mary Wangai said. She said the youth are among the 3,426 Lamu residents who applied for positions advertised in 2019. The port shortlisted 1,114 candidates, but only 962 turned up for interviews and 100 qualified. “They were picked and trained in port operations at Bandari College. They will be deployed in Lamu,” Wangai said. Lamu residents, however, are still demanding more opportunities. KPA says apart from direct employment at the port, residents will benefit from companies that will be based in Lamu. Opportunities exist for housing business for the port's workers, restaurants,  hotels, shopping centres and other businesses. Lamu is poised to become Africa's busiest trading hub after the completion of the entire Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transit (Lapsset) corridor. The Lapsset project includes the Lamu port, a road network connecting to Ethiopia and South Sudan, rail transport to Ethiopia and South Sudan and an oil pipeline connecting to those two nations. Investors are said to have already bought land in Lamu in anticipation of the big business that will come with the port and Lapsset. Transporters are free to speculate, Kenya Transporters Association CEO Dennis Ombok said . “Right now, I do not know of any company that has bought land in Lamu, but people will always speculate. We are watching closely which businesses will be in Lamu and transporters will definitely go where there is cargo,” he  said However, Ombok said the government should also ensure security is increased in and around Lamu, which has experienced terrorist attacks by Somali-based al Shabaab militants. They hide in Boni Forest in Lamu. He said transport companies and investors must be assured of the safety of their trucks on the roads, their investment in that region and cargo at the port. “We know the history of insecurity in Lamu. The national government must first ensure that security is fixed in that region before the transporters venture into that market,” Ombok said. On Sunday, the Coast regional coordinator John Elungata said the government will provide maximum security for the region. “Adequate security measures have been taken to ensure port staff and cargo are safe at all times through the deployment of security personnel on-site,” Elungata said while touring the port. However, several Kenya Defence Forces soldiers were feared killed on Tuesday morning after their patrol vehicle ran over an IED probably planeted by al Shabaab militants. KDF spokesperson Zipporah Kioko did not report fatalities in the 9am attack in Baure in the vast Boni Forest. A number of soldiers were injured and airlifted to Defence Memorial Hospital in Nairobi. Multi-agency teams are pursuing the attackers. A police station has also been constructed within the port and the Kenya Navy has a base at Manda Island. Several army bases have also been established within Lamu. Edited by Kiilu Damaris