Taxi-hailing company–Bolt has increased fares on its platform saying this is in response to the increased cost of fuel in the country. Fuel prices have been on an upward trend since December,  with a litre of super petrol in Nairobi currently retailing at Sh126.37 per litre. It retailed at Sh106.82 in the December 2020-January 2021 period. In a statement on Monday, the company said the fuel price increase has resulted in a matching increment in the per kilometre fares for bolt rides by an average of Sh 2 for each kilometre completed on-trip. Bolt, previously charged Sh25 a kilometer on its budget ride category (dubbed Lite). The new changes will see the prices go up by Sh1.90 to Sh26.90 per kilometer in Nairobi. The changes will be implemented across all Bolt ride categories in all the cities where Bolt currently operates and will vary from town to town in line with the ERC guidelines on fuel prices per city, it said, in a move seen to favour drivers. “ Our pricing has always been informed by market forces and driver earnings. We trust that our evaluation on fluctuating fuel costs and the action to mitigate the impact, will stabilise the growth and sustainability of driver earnings and cost of doing business,” said Micah Kenneth, Regional Manager, Bolt East Africa. The Base category will now attract an addition of Sh2.10 per kilometer in Nairobi and Sh1.70per kilometer in Mombasa, while riders in the economy (Lite) category will now pay an additional Sh1.50 per kilometer in Nakuru and Kisumu towns. Tuk Tuk and Boda boda services in Mombasa, will each attract an increment of Sh 0.60 per kilometer. Boda boda services in other towns will attract price increment of Sh0.80 per kilometer (Nairobi), Sh0.70 per kilometer (Nakuru) and Sh0.60 per kilometer in both Kisumu and Eldoret. “We constantly do our reviews to ensure that we continue to provide the best earnings for drivers and still remain the most preferred platform by customers. We believe that this small increase will still make it possible for riders to access affordable transport," said  Micah. Taxi drivers on digital hailing apps in the country have from time to time protested low earnings from the business, which has seen an influx of companies in the past two years.