 SAMSON ATEKA Former Africa title contender Jas Mangat, current Champion Yasin Nasser and three times NRC title holder Ronald Ssebuguzi make up a star-studded list of Ugandan drivers cleared for next month’s WRC Safari Rally Kenya. They are among the seven given the go-ahead by the Federation of Motorsports Clubs of Uganda (FMU) ahead of June 24-27. The participation of Ugandans will nevertheless be decided when the entry list is finalised. Entries for Safari opened last month and will close on May 25. In a letter to WRC Safari Rally organisers Dipu Ruparelia, the FMU President said: “This is to inform you that seven drivers have been cleared by FMU to participate in the WRC Safari Rally. Any assistance rendered to them will be highly appreciated.” Of the seven, Mangat is the most successful on Kenyan soil having already chalked up three podium finishes — twice on ARC Safari and most recently, on the revived ARC Equator Rally. Mangat, who has rallied in Kenya since 2008, finished second behind Carl “Flash” Tundo in the 2011 edition of Safari and third in 2018. He also finished third overall place during the recent ARC Equator Rally which acted as a dry run for the Safari. Seb is a three-time champion (2007, 2009, 2014) while  Nasser is the reigning Ugandan champion. Like Seb, Mangat is also a three-time champion. Current NRC leader Duncan Mubiru aka Kikankane and Amaanraj Singh Rai are also in the team. Amaanraj is son of two-time Kenyan champion Sarbi Rai, who was Kenya’s number one Sikh driver in the 90s when he racked up back to back KNRC titles. Amaanraj is Rajbir Rai’s brother and also a cousin to the high-flying Kabras Sugar Racing siblings Onkar and Tejveer, the current Kenyan leader. Amaanraj brings to Kenya a Ugandan licence for the second occasion after gracing  Equator Rally last month. Kepha Walubi, who is no stranger to Kenyan gravel is also in the list. He is now back in the saddle and so is Hassan Alwi, the 2016 Pearl of Africa rally winner and a two-time winner of the UMOSPOC Kabalega Rally.