A former civil servant and a businesswoman have been charged with conspiracy to defraud a man of over Sh1.6 million over Kenya Defence Forces recruitment. Jacob Kiruru Ngoletum, who is a former State House supplier, and Dorcas Jepkemboi Kiptirim, alias Mercy, appeared before Milimani senior resident magistrate Zainab Abdul and denied the charges. The prosecution alleges that between January 22, 2021, and May 1, 2021, in Nairobi CBD, the accused, jointly with others not before court, conspired to defraud Eliud Khaemba of Sh1,680,500 by falsely pretending that they were in a position to recruit his son and four others into the KDF during this year's exercise. Dorcas is also separately charged with obtaining the same amount of money on the same dates. They were released on a Sh1 million bond with two similar sureties or Sh700,000 bail. The case will be mentioned on May 31. Meanwhile, a former KRA official has been charged with receiving a Sh8,000 bribe. John Mwangi Mureithi appeared before Milimani Anti-Corruption magistrate Elizabeth Juma and denied the charges. He was accused that on September 20, 2018, being an officer at Domestic Tax of Kenya Revenue Authority and an agent, he conspired to commit an offence of corruption by agreeing to receive a financial advantage of Sh8,000 pretending he would influence the issuance of a tax compliance certificate. The court was informed that he had pretended that he would help influence the issuance of the certificate to Golden Shield General Supplies director Zeitun Korio Saman, who had outstanding Tax Liabilities amounting to Sh20,000. He was charged alongside other former officials Fernandes Munyasya, Caroline Mukami and Luka Albert who are facing abuse of office and bribery counts. The court warned him against absconding as he was to take a plea earlier but absconded. “If you abscond bond again, your bond will be forfeited," the magistrate said. The accused was granted Sh200,000 bail with an alternative Sh1 million bond. The case will be mentioned on June 2.