Governors have agreed to withdraw obsolete antiretroviral drugs from county health facilities and share existing stocks of HIV care supplies. Nevirapine, an anti-HIV drug used by close to 15,000 children and adolescents, was discontinued in 2019 and is among those to be removed from pharmacies. The Council of Governors met on Monday with the Global Fund following an acute shortage of HIV care commodities in the country. “The Council of Governors will engage the Ministry of Health to fast-track the release of the pending products for HIV and Aids stuck at the Port of Mombasa,” chairman Martin Wambora said. The drugs and other supplies donated through USAID are stuck at the port due to a dispute over whether to distribute them through the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency or a private partner of the Americans. USAID is uncomfortable using Kemsa because of corruption scandals at the drugs' supplier. “County governments will prioritise a long term solution in financing HIV, TB and malaria response through domestic financing and increased government resources to the programmes,” Wambora said. Counties with high stocks of the drugs and other HIV commodities have agreed to redistribute some of their stocks to others with low stocks. “We thank them for this consideration and being the brother’s keeper,” Wambora said. Last month, Kemsa dispatched drugs worth Sh1.2 billion to counties, with reports indicating some were outdated ARVs that have been phased out from the treatment regimen. Nevirapine, which is associated with liver damage in some people and exhibited resistance in some counties was replaced by dolutegravir. The dolutegravir-based treatment is cheaper, has fewer side effects and hardly fails. The original manufacturer is German pharma Boehringer Ingelheim and is given as a single drug or as part of a three-drug fixed-dose combination. All high-burden countries in sub-Saharan Africa have adopted dolutegravir-based ART as the preferred first-line regimen. Last week, the National Aids and STIs Control Programme denied claims people living with HIV are being offered toxic antiretroviral drugs. Nascop head Catherine Ngugi said that the drugs being mentioned are not toxic and are still classified for treatment by the World Health organisation. Ngugi said in 2018, Kenya was able to put people living with HIV on a more efficacious drug combination called TND. She said that Nevirapine is still being used in the country. “It is not toxic. It is still being used in the whole world, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa in preventing mother-to-child transmission," Ngugi said. Speaking at a different function, CAS Rashid Aman dismissed reports that donors are mulling rerouting the consignment stuck at the port to other countries. “That information was a little bit outdated. I think we have gone beyond that in the negotiations with USAID and things are on track in terms of releasing those ARVs so that they can reach those people who need them,” Aman said. “There was a point of course where this idea  was being mooted but I think we have gone beyond that so we should be able to see these ARVs reaching people in due time once the negotiations and the paperwork is completed.”  (edited by o. owino)