A political crisis looms in Wajir after impeached Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud and his successor Ahmed Muktar both claimed to be in charge of the county. In what threatens to paralyse county services, the two leaders traded accusations, with each claiming to be the legal county chief. Speaking during a press conference at the Council of Governors’ offices in Nairobi, Mohamud said he is fully in charge of the county affairs on the strength of several court orders that stopped his removal, as well as the swearing-in of his successor. “The import of these orders is that I continue to be in office to execute the powers and functions of the governor of Wajir as prescribed by the law until the petition is heard and determined,” Mohamud said. Anti-riot police officers were deployed to the Delta House building ahead of the presser. At one time, an officer ordered journalists to leave the precincts. Mohamud was impeached after 25 out of 31 senators who attended the session voted in favour of his removal for grossly violating the Constitution and other laws. However, speaking at Haron Portico Hotel, Muktar, flanked by a host of leaders led by Jubilee parliamentary group secretary and Eldas MP Adan Keynan, said he is fully in charge after he took an oath of office last Tuesday. In what threatens to cause political paralysis in Wajir, Muktar said there is no vacuum as he has already rolled up his sleeves to deliver services that residents crave. “We have utmost respect for the Judiciary. The matter is now with the chief justice to form a bench to hear the case. We are ready to work for the people of Wajir,” Muktar said. On Monday, the High Court in Nakuru referred Mohamud’s case to Chief Justice Martha Koome to form a bench to hear and determine it. The 39-year-old county boss appeared to be enjoying the backing of several county leaders who have been critical of his predecessor’s administration. Also accompanying him during the press briefing, were MPs Rashid Amin (Wajir East), Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West), Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj), Mohammed Sheik (Wajir South) and Nasra Sahal (nominated). Environment CAS Mohammed Elmi also attended. Muktar scathingly attacked Mohamud, accusing him of failing to deliver essential services to residents. “For three-and-a-half years, my boss, former governor, we were given time to deliver for the people of Wajir. Unfortunately, you know what happened,” he said. But Mohamud dismissed his removal as orchestration of political machinery keen to shape 2022 politics in the county. “The said politicians are known for their mischievous manoeuvres and political machinations every time general elections are at the corner,” he said. Attempting to justify the political power play behind his impeachment, Mohamud said it was illegal from inception to the end. On May 18, the High Court suspended a Gazette notice by Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka that declared his impeachment. The court also stopped the swearing-in of his deputy. “The import of these orders was that the entire findings and resolutions of the Senate to remove me from office was rendered ineffective, inapplicable and non-operational,” Mohamud said. He went ahead to extend an olive branch to his adversaries, including Muktar and MCAs who removed him from office. “To my deputy governor, I know you as a humble person who has never shown any ill intentions all along. I reaffirm our relationship will remain the same as we continue to serve Wajir people,” he said. “I am more than willing to work with the leaders and stakeholders in addressing the plight of the people and enhancing service delivery.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris