  The ODM party has suffered a blow after the High Court blocked the approval of former West Mugirango MP James Gesami to become Nyamira deputy governor. The seat fell vacant after Amos Nyaribo assumed the office of governor following the death of John Nyagarama last year. The ODM party had on Wednesday picked the former assistant minister as its preferred nominee for the post ahead of vetting and approval hearings. The party rescinded its earlier nomination of Nairobi-based lawyer Charles Rigoro in a bid to unlock a political standoff after Governor Nyaribo rejected the nominee. The party has laid claim to the position arguing that an existing MoU between Nyaribo and Nyagarama signed before the 2017 General Election provides for the sharing of power Nyaribo was elected as deputy governor on the ANC party while Nyagarama ran on the ODM ticket. It was a coalition bid. ODM leader Raila Odinga chaired a crucial meeting on Wednesday at Orange House that resolved to forward Gesami's name after Nyaribo insisted on picking the former MP. However, hours after ODM struck a deal on Gesami, the High Court in Nyamira stopped the processing of the nominee until a petition filed by Patrick Atambo is heard and determined. “That interim conservatory orders be and hereby issued staying the process of nomination and/ or processing a nominee to the office of a deputy governor, county government of Nyamira pending the hearing and determination of the application," the court order says. Gesami was on Friday scheduled to appear before the county assembly committee on appointments chaired by speaker Moffat Teya for vetting. However, the session aborted following the Court order issued on Thursday. Gesami, nevertheless, went ahead and turned up at the assembly offices for the vetting on Friday but was served with the Court order. “The scheduled approval hearing and vetting for your nomination as the deputy governor of Nyamira has hereby been put on hold until the court directs otherwise,” acting assembly clerk Joshua Orang'i wrote to Gesami. He added, “Please note that this is in compliance with the said court order whose copy is hereto attached for your kind perusal and record.” Gesami's name is being forwarded for vetting for the second time. The MCAs had in January voted 21 to 15 to reject his nomination after the vetting committee recommended his rejection. The assembly’s appointments committee had in its report declared Gesami unsuitable for public office. The committee had said the former lawmaker presented an expired certificate of good conduct and was not cleared by the Credit Reference Bureau and his party ODM. The party certificate is key for clearance by the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. Residents of Nyamira would now have to wait longer to get a deputy governor with the case scheduled for hearing on June 8.  Edited by P.O