Garissa governor Ali Korane on Friday accused local politicians he did not name of being behind wrangling in the county assembly. On Wednesday, 36 MCAs signed a petition to impeach assembly speaker Ibrahim Abass, whom they accused of incompetence and gross misconduct. They filed a notice of motion and seek to initiate ouster proceedings on Tuesday next week. They said he had "resorted to running the house business like a kiosk in total disregard for the house procedures". But speaking to the press in Garissa town, Korane dismissed the plot to impeach the speaker "as an exercise in futility". He said the motion "has no basis but is rather a scheme by a few politicians who want to disrupt the operations of the assembly". “So far there is no one who has told us what the speaker has done to warrant his removal. This motion will fail because we are going to garner the numbers,” Korane said. The governor urged the elders to intervene and resolve the matter that he noted "is threatening to disrupt smooth operations of both the county assembly and the executive and service delivery to citizens of Garissa". “We distributed the top positions in this county to the three clans. One for the county secretary, chair for county public service board and the other for the county speaker. It is unfair to purport to remove the speaker from office. I will personally not allow that to happen,” he said. Maalimin MCA Mohamud Aden, the mover of the motion, and other pro-ouster MCAs are also accusing the speaker of gross violation of the Constitution. Addressing the press outside the chambers, Aden, who read the statement on behalf the MCAs, said they had served the assembly clerk, who, in turn, would notify the speaker of their intention to impeach him. “Today, we, the undersigned members of county assembly, have officially filed a notice of motion by way of impeachment in accordance with the Constitution of Kenya 2010 Article 73, 75, 178, 201, 232, The Section 7 of County Government (Amendment) Act, 2020, Section 21 (5)(c) of the Elections Act,” read the statement. Following the 2017 election, Abass, a former Ijara MP, was was elected speaker after garnering majority of the votes. He defeated former Balambala MP Abdikadir Aden, who was later elected Eala lawmaker.