A new chapter has been opened in the relationship between Kenya and Tanzania following the visit by the Head-of-State of the neighbouring country. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his guest, Tanzania President Samia Suluhu, said they agreed to improve ties in trade, infrastructure, transport, tourism, culture and security between the two countries. Speaking at State House in Nairobi after holding private discussions with Suluhu, Uhuru said they even instructed senior government officials from the two countries to constantly engage each other to strengthen the ties. “We have instructed ministers to be meeting from time to time to resolve issues that cause problems for the relationship between the two countries. We want to make everything easy for the two nations,” he said. Suluhu said appreciated the reception Kenya accorded her saying it signified the importance of the visit. She said the two countries need to improve ties as they share a long border, with Kenya being the fifth biggest investor in Tanzania, globally, and number one in the East Africa region. Suluhu said there are 513 huge Kenyan investments in Tanzania worth US$1.7 billion (Sh170 billion). There are 30 Tanzanian companies in Kenya employing some 2,600 people. Suluhu further announced that the two countries had agreed to cooperate in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. “We want testing and clearance at the borders to be fast so as not to hinder trade,” she said. Uhuru said that they agreed on a partnership between Kenya Airways and Air Tanzania to boost the airline services. The Kenyan head of state said that they discussed the possibility of reviving the ship transportation in Lake Victoria from Jinja in Uganda, Kenya to Tanzania. The two leaders also said that the security between the two countries was discussed, including the efforts to end terrorism from the Al Shabaab militia. Uhuru said that they touched on the construction of a gas pipeline that will run from Dar es Salaam in Tanzania to Mombasa. “This will cut the cost of electricity in our country and will ensure that our industries have access to environmental-friendly electricity and energy,” Uhuru said.