The Kisumu county government has commissioned a modern biomedical waste shredder at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. Governor Anyang Nyong’o said the Sh132 million medical microwave shredder will help health facilities in disposing their waste. JOOTRH is the only hospital with a medical incinerator that has been supporting all other health facilities within Kisumu to dispose their waste. The governor said the shredder, with a capacity to handle three tonnes of infectious medical waste per day, will support all the facilities in the county and beyond replacing the old technology of incinerators. He noted that handling medical waste could be hazardous, adding that the management of disposal must be given priority in every hospital within the county. “To manage that everyday growing demand, it became necessary for the county government to invest in expanding its capacity to respond to the increased demand,” Nyong'o said on Wednesday. The installation of the multi-million shillings machine follows a partnership between the Ministry of Health and the Government of Belgium. Kisumu is one of the eight counties that have benefited from the pilot scheme. Other counties include Machakos, Embu, Nyeri, Mombasa, Kisii, Kakamega and Nakuru. Nyong'o said the investment has come when his administration is enhancing its commitment in handling the disposal of medical waste in health institutions across the county. "With this technology, I am directing the county department of health to come up with regulations that will retire the use of incinerators from facilities in the county," he said. “This project is a part of the ongoing larger modernisation of JOOTRH which includes the building of the comprehensive cancer care centre which is a major cancer management project,” he added. Others facilities include neurosurgery research centre, the sickle-cell anaemia research centre and the doctors' suites which are aimed at positioning the facility as a premier teaching and referral centre of choice for the region and beyond. Health ministry's head of directorate of public health Dr Francis Kuria lauded Nyong’o for being visionary and starting the project during his time as the Minister of Medical Services. He noted that the shredder will revolutionise medical waste management. Kuria affirmed that even as the Ministry of Health hands over the project, it will continue partnering with the county government to ensure the investment is properly managed for posterity. "The ministry has already signed agreements for phase two which will cover eight more counties," he said. The medic said the government has trained technical engineers who will be operating and maintaining the machine for efficient use. Kuria said the shredder is used in Belgium with countries such as Botswana, Ghana and Rwanda having embraced the technology. Technical engineer Brian Erick Omondi said the medical waste shredder uses a dual process to convert medical waste into non-category, ordinary waste which can then be disposed using the regular waste disposal system. The sterilwave grinds the waste to fine particles before sterilisation using microwave technology. The Sterilwave system is easy to use and can sterilise up to 440 litres of medical waste in one “machine cycle. The revolutionary medical waste shredder technology not only saves healthcare organisations money on logistics and external treatment or incineration, but is also much safer with minimal handling and transportation of contaminated waste products.  -Edited by SKanyara 