I am a member of the Njuri Ncheke Council of Elders, which was the first to endorse National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi to be the spokesman of Mt Kenya region. The reason wazee of Njuri Ncheke came to that conclusion was that the region was performing poorly in our politics. We have overwhelming numbers—about eight million registered voters—but we have lost our political voice. We are not sitting at the national high table where the national cake is being discussed, or where succession politics is being discussed. Our voice is thus absent in that political space. Secondly, Mt Kenya region is becoming the Tower of Babel—where everybody is talking from their own homes. The children of Israel may have never reached the promised land without people like Moses and Joshua leading them. So, leadership is everything. For us as Mt Kenya region, we feel very disadvantaged because of that lack of leadership. The elders, out of their own experience, therefore, first approached Muturi as the most qualified from the region. The space that he occupies has so many things, but how many of us have sat in Parliament and supervised proceedings from members from all over the country. We believe Muturi has a unique experience that no other leader in the region has, and that is why we support him. That is why we should let his coronation continue so that he is officially declared as our leader to give us direction. We need a person to who we can take our issues and can articulate the various aspirations and needs of Mt Kenya. We know President Uhuru Kenyatta is our leader of the Mt Kenya region. He went to Sagana and said as much, that he should show us the way to do it. But being the president of the country, there are so many challenges. During retired President Kibaki’s time, he was not able to articulate the interest of Mt Kenya region as such but we had Njenga Karume who was the community leader and would take the issues of the region to Kibaki. I see Muturi playing the same role that Karume used to play that time. As MPs, we’d sit with Karume, discuss the issues and channel to the President. It is that of an organisation that we are looking for, and that is why I am supporting Muturi. This is a journey that is starting. I am going to talk to the governors, especially from Mt Kenya West, since we from the East have supported the agenda. The Meru Governor spoke to the Star