The Palestine Embassy has asked Kenya to put pressure on Israel to comply with international law and end its illegal occupation of Palestinian territories. In a statement on Thursday, the Palestine Embassy in Nairobi said such an effort is the only viable way to achieve peace and end the conflict. “We call on the Government of Kenya to continue to work closely with other members of the Security Council and maintain the pressure on Israel to bring it to compliance with international law and to end its illegal occupation,” reads the statement. In January 2021, Kenya replaced South Africa as one of the three elected African members on the UN Security Council alongside Niger and Tunisia. On May 6, 2021 the Palestinians began protests in Jerusalem ahead of a decision by the Supreme Court of Israel regarding Palestinians residents in Sheikh Jarrah. Israel police forces stormed the al Aqsa mosque in response to Palestinian protests. As of Wednesday, both Palestine and Israel national authorities reported at least 300 Palestinian injuries in Gaza and over 300 Israeli injuries. All the violations were documented and recorded by independent human rights organisations and United Nation. The Palestine Embassy said that the current happenings in Jerusalem is a direct result of the impunity that Israel has wrongfully enjoyed for a long time. The impunity is encouraging them to repeatedly violate its commitments under international law and international humanitarian law, Security Council Resolutions, as well as the bilateral agreements signed in the context of the peace accords. “The Israeli apartheid regime should not be allowed to continue, devastating the future of the Palestinian people generation after generation,” reads the statement. Calls to end the violation by members of the United Nations Security Council, EU Member States, UN Secretary General, the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, the League of Arab States, the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, the United Nations Human Rights Council, Human Rights Watch, and Amnesty International have gone unheeded. This week on Wednesday, the UN Security Council held an emergency meeting on the escalating violence between Israel and Palestine but failed to agree on a joint statement due to opposition from the US. During a first emergency meeting on Monday, the US also refused to back a text proposed by Tunisia, Norway and China calling on all parties to refrain from provocation. 