Girls in Garissa county have yet again outshined boys after posting better results in the 2020 KCSE exam. For the past three years, girls have been steadily stamping their authority in national exams, and Education CS George Magoha said he had noted the trend. Abdirahman Mohamed came top at Mnara School with an A- (minus) of 76 points, the second position went to Fatuma Aden with an A- (minus) of 74 points. She was followed by Salma Noor B+, Anzal Noor B, Ayan Abdi B, Hafsa Mohamed B and Iqra Dagane B. Al Azaar Academy was equally dominated by girls. The top student was Abdifatah Abdirahman with an A- (minus) of 74 points followed by Sumeya Abdinazir with B+ of 69 points. Mohamed Khalifa, a retired educationist and currently, a civil society activist attributed the good grades by the girls to the deliberate campaign and advocacy put in place some years back. “What we are witnessing today is the fruits of years of a sustained campaign and advocacy all geared towards giving the girl child an equal opportunity with the boy when it comes to matters education,” Khalifa said. “My worry now is that the boy seems to have been left behind. As a country, we must also look critically at what is ailing the boy child and bring them at par with girls.” Speaking to the press, Fatuma Aden of Mnara Academy who wants to pursue clinical medicine at the University of Nairobi, said it was not easy studying and maintaining the standards in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic. “To say the going has been tough is an understatement. Honestly, I almost gave up when we resumed after the long Covid-19 break,” Fatuma said. “Were it not for my parents, close relatives and teachers who kept encouraging me, I would not be celebrating my good grades today.” Fatuma encouraged other girls to take their education seriously. “Over time, the girl child has proved that given the opportunity, they can post good grades as it has been witnessed,” she said. Sumeya Abdinazir said that since her school days she had wanted to prove that a girl child stands an equal chance with the boy if given the chance. Sumaya’s education was fully sponsored by Cooperative Bank. She has eight other siblings, three of them at university. The three siblings were also sponsored as their father who is a Madrassa teacher could not raise their fees. “I want to urge Cooperative Bank to continue standing with me in my university education. I am promising them that I will not disappoint,” she said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris