President Uhuru Kenyatta’s purge of disloyalists from the ruling Jubilee Party claimed its first casualty in the Senate Tuesday. Isaac Mwaura, a two time-nominated lawmaker, lost his seat following his expulsion from Jubilee Party. Mwaura had switched camp from President Kenyatta's to Deputy President William Ruto's and criticised the rule by political dynasties. "Let me ask you, the family of [former President Daniel] Moi ruled us for 24 years. The [first President Jomo] Kenyatta family ruled for 15 years and another 10 is ending. That's 50 years," he said at a political rally on December 31, last year. That was the day he declared support for Ruto. Five months later, he has lost his Senate job. The Star has established that Jubilee's National Management Committee will Wednesday meet to decide whether to appeal a tribunal decision in favour of five other senators expelled by the party. The five were senators Mary Seneta, Falhada Iman, Naomi Waqo, Victor Prengei and Millicent Omanga. The meeting moved from Monday to Wednesday will decide whether Jubilee will appeal or initiate a fresh process to kick out the Ruto-allied senators. On Tuesday, Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka declared Mwaura’s seat vacant, ending a vigorous push and pull between the lawmaker and his party. The special gazette came on a day the lawmaker voted Yes for the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020, pushed by President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga. It was a late attempt to save himself. Lusaka told an afternoon sitting of the Senate that the gazette notice came to his attention at lunch break, minutes after Mwaura cast his vote. “This explains why in the morning sitting no issue was raised about the participation in the proceedings, including voting at the second reading of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020,” Lusaka said. With the Speaker’s communication, Mwaura became a stranger to the House and was not present in the chambers for the afternoon sitting. The two-term MP has blamed his troubles on his close association with Ruto and his support for the DP's hustler narrative. The former Jubilee senator goes into history as the first nominated MP to be recalled by a sponsoring party. According to the Jubilee Party list submitted to IEBC in 2017, Mwaura’s position will be taken by Joyce Amasong. On Tuesday, senators from across the political divide put up a spirited fight against the revocation of Mwaura’s nomination. The senators largely drawn from Tangatanga claimed the speaker’s pronouncement ignored a court order served to his office. “A big point of concern which I believe should be addressed before we proceed is Senator Mwaura had a pre-existing court order that, before today (Tuesday), had been served to your office,” Nakuru Senator Susan Kihika said. “I am aware that on your desk (Mr Speaker) you have a court order against this decision that you've taken. Wouldn't it be better if you informed this House why you've chosen to take this decision in total disregard of a valid court order?” posed Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot. Siaya Senator James Orengo and his Bungoma counterpart Moses Wetang’ula weighed, in calling for respect of court orders on Mwaura’s case. “What I want to say, Mr Speaker, is that we've got to be consistent. We should settle this question, whether court orders matter or they don't. That question we have not settled.” Orengo said. Wetang’ula cautioned Lusaka against rushing the decision to revoke Mwaura’s nomination, urging for patience to allow him (Mwaura) exhaust all legal channels of redress. “If you try to rush your decision, you will be in serious trouble. Eventually, it is a matter of application of the law; we need to agree that do court orders matter or not,” Wetang’ula said. Lusaka told the House that his office had not been served by any court order promising to give a detailed account of the events that led to his decision on Tuesday next week. “The only thing I can confirm is that at the time I sat here, I had not seen any court order. On Tuesday I will avail all the documents that led to that decision,” he said. Mwaura did not respond to our numerous phone calls and SMS. Mwaura’s trouble started early this year when he attended Ruto’s meeting in Msambweni and allegedly pledged allegiance to United Democratic Alliance. The lawmaker was then dragged to the disciplinary committee chaired by lawyer Muchai Lumatete after Jubilee Party's national chair Nelson Dzuya accused the senator of disloyalty. Mwaura told the committee that his woes had nothing to do with pledging allegiance to UDA. It was about his support for Ruto's 200 presidential bid, he said.  (edited by o. owino) 