Residents of North Pokot subcounty have asked the government to supply them with relief food following a ban of maize importation from Uganda. North Pokot borders the neighbouring country and residents are used to getting cheap maize from across the border. But with the current economic crisis, they cannot afford to buy food and called on the government to supply them with relief food. “We have nothing to feed our families since the government banned importation of food. We are starving. The government should consider us,” resident Mary Longoyale said. She said they depend on their relatives who live across the border in Uganda to supply them with food. “Ugandan side has favourable climatic conditions for farming and they plant maize that they sell to us during dry spell," Longonyale said. The residents have also called on the government to set up a customs office in the region to help control importation of commodities. "The construction of Kanyao border point should be completed to help control trade between the two countries,” another resident Peter Achele said. He said the subcounty depends on their neighbours for food, goods and other services and thus the maize importation ban has resulted to food shortage. Achele said the border post will help the country get revenue since the Uganda border has its revenue collection point unlike on the Kenya side where there are no revenue offices. The residents have asked the government to also deploy agriculture officers at the border to inspect the maize and ensure it is safe for human consumption. Last month, security officers seized 22 lorries that were trying to sneak maize into the country through non-gazetted border points. The security team laid a racket at Kacheliba matatu stage in Makutano town where the lorries coming from Pokot North subcounty offload the maize in the town. The government stopped maize importation from Uganda and Tanzania in March citing safety concerns, including high levels of aflatoxin.  -Edited by SKanyara 