A new development is emerging at the Nairobi County Assembly as MCAs are seeking to change standing orders and prevent parties from choosing minority and majority leaders. Political parties have been appointing the leadership members at the county assembly consisting of the Majority and Minority leaders, their deputies , Majority and minority whips, together with their deputies. In a leaked letter seen by the Star on Wednesday, Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi has proposed to delete the existing Standing orders 20 and 21 that speak on county assembly political parties leadership. The letter was addressed to County Assembly Speaker Benson Mutura and seconded by Huruma MCA David Okelo and Waithaka ward rep Antony Kiragu. The County Assembly standing order number 20 states that “the largest party or coalition of parties in the County Assembly shall designate member of the County Assembly belonging to the Party or coalition of parties to be the leader of the Majority Party.” The Standing order 20 states that the largest party or coalition of parties in the county assembly shall designate the leader of Majority, Deputy Majority leader, Majority Whip and Deputy Majority Whip The same applies in Standing order 21 , where the minority party designates the leader of Minority, Deputy Minority leader, Minority Whip and Deputy Minority Whip. In the new proposals, Oyugi wants the Standing orders be ammended to read ; 20 (1) The largest party or coalition of parties in the County Assembly shall elect 1. A member of the County Assembly belonging to the party or coalition of parties to be the leader of the Majority Party. 2. A member of the County Assembly belonging to the Party or coalition of parties to be the Deputy leader of the Majority Party. 3. A member of the County Assembly belonging to the party or coalition of parties to be the Majority Whip of the Party. 4. A member of the County Assembly belonging to the party or coalition of parties to be the Deputy Majority Whip of the Majority Party. The same has also been proposed for the Minority side. Oyugi has also proposed that MCAs should consider the need of gender balance and any existing coalition agreement entered into pursuant to the Political Parties Act To remove the elected leaders, two thirds votes of all MCAs of the majority/minority  party or coalition of parties in the County Assembly will be required. Justifying his proposals, Oyugi explained that the amendments accord with Commonwealth practice on the management of parties in the House an legislature generally. “These amendments are intended to ensure that Standing Orders improve on the existing arrangements and clearly details the processes by which these leaders shall come about and related procedures,” he noted. The Star has established that the letter has already been committed to the Rules and Procedures committee, which will be holding a meeting tomorrow ( Thursday) to deliberate the matter. Once the decision is arrived at, it will be submitted to the Speaker who has the final say and communicate the matter on the floor of the house The proposal comes at a time when wrangles have persisted  in the ODM party at the assembly. Seven “errant” ODM MCAs are facing risk of expulsion from the party as well as well as de-whipping from committees after being accused of going against the Raila Odinga-led party’s position at the city assembly fueling division within the party. The seven include Kennedy Oyugi of Highrise, Kabiro’s Clarence Munga, and Fredrick Omondi of Kayole Central. Lower Savannah MCA Nicholas Okumu, who was installed by the rebel group as interim minority whip last week to replace Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok after it was claimed 32 out of 56 ODM MCA appended their sigantures on the removal. Embattled Minority Whip Peter Imwatok, said the seven were accused of colluding with some unnamed Jubilee Party MCAs to initiate a “coup” in the party’s leadership. He said the actions by his colleagues amount to gross misconduct and insubordination in accordance with the applicable provisions of ODM constitution and party disciplinary rules. 