Director of Public Prosecutions Noordin Haji has reshuffled regional prosecutors and named new heads of stations in a move aimed at boosting operations. Joseph Gikonyo was named the deputy head of county affairs and prosecution services and Peter Mailanyi as the head Supreme Court and Appeals Division. Tabitha Ouya was named the deputy head of Offences Against the Person (OAP) and head of the civil rights division while Andrew Omutelema was moved to the Prosecution Training Institute. Geoffrey Obiri was moved to Nairobi and named deputy head of economic, international and emerging crimes while Mark Barasa was named head of hate speech and election justice division. Others are Regina Wafula (head of corporate affairs), Irene Maina (deputy chief of staff and head central intake), Peter Kiprop (head of international transnational crime and counter-terrorism division and JKIA) and Monicah Mburugu (acting deputy head of central facilitation services). The DPP also named Mediatrix Rapando the acting head of the human resource division, Miriam Wawira (PTI), Muruka Ofula (acting deputy head of HR division). The changes were announced on May 28 and take effect immediately. The new head of Coast region is Ahmed Hassan Abdi while Joel Chirchir goes to Taita Taveta, Bryan Ayodo (Lamu), Yamina Jami (Kilifi), Allen Mulama (Kwale), Collins Orwa (Tana River). Daniel Warui will head the Lower Eastern region. Esther Macharia is the new Meru prosecutor, Jane Kemunto (Tharaka Nithi), Bonny Okemwa (Kitui), William Ochieng (Marsabit), Dennis Mogambi (Isiolo), Lucas Tanui (Makueni) and Felistus Njeru (Machakos). Charles Orinda will head Northeastern region. Elphas Ombati is the new Wajir head of station, Peter Birir (Mandera), Fredrick Ashmosi (Kirinyaga), Mutinda Nzomo (Murang'a), Jackson Motende (Laikipia). Haji named Christine Nanjala as the new head of Central region. The new Nairobi region head is Joseph Riungu while Tom Imbali goes to Kajiado, Renson Ingonga (Kiambu), Eddie Kadebe (Makadara), Norah Otieno (Kahawa West) and Alloys Kemo will be the head of Nakuru while Timothy Musyoki was moved to Kericho. Jeremia Maroro will head Nyandarua, Judith Ayuma (Elgeyo Marakwet), George Mongare (Baringo), Peter Omooria (Trans Nzoia), George Muriithi (Bomet), Jalson Ondieki (West Pokot), Duncan Ondimu (Narok), Edwin Oduor (Turkana), Patrick Namiti and Brenda Oduor (Nandi). Freda Mwanza is the new head for Western region with Robert Oyiembo (Bungoma), Zachary Omwenga (Busia) and Amos Chigiti (Vihiga). James Warui will head Nyanza region and Jacklyne Kiptoo (Kisii), Joseph Kimathi (Migori), Edward Matisi (Siaya), Desmond Majale (Nyamira) and David Ndege (Homa Bay). The Office of the Directorate of Public Prosecutions has been undertaking major changes including establishing new divisions and departments to enhance its operations.  