Traders at the little-known Gakuyu shopping centre near Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine were the main beneficiaries of Speaker Justin Muturi's coronation as the Mt Kenya spokesperson. As the rituals conducted by elders went on for hours inside the shrine, scores of elders who sat in the tents waiting for the speaker to come out grew impatient and ventured into the shopping centre in search of food. The normally sleepy town roared into life as the traders raked in cash from the thirsty and hungry elders. The few butcheries in the shopping centre filled up as the workers rushed to take orders from the high number of customers. Peter Mwaura, a shopkeeper, said business got better after the elders manning the shrine's gate stopped allowing more people into the site. The only place the elders who arrived late could go to was the  shopping centre. "We expect business to get even better as the hours go by and especially when the ceremony is over because the elders inside will be hungry," he told the Star, saying he hoped the ceremony would drag on until late in the day. Mwaura said the area experiences such an influx only during funeral services. But the villagers complained that the village ranks lowly development-wise despite hosting the shrine that attracts such high level functions. Most people in area live in poverty. Residents urged the national and county governments help uplift their living standards. Jesee Mwangi, a casual labourer in the area, told the Star he struggles to put food on the table. He said his family left him as his wife could not stand the abject poverty in which they were living. Mwangi said the shopping centre should be thriving with activity due to the presence of the shrine. Instead, youths consume illicit brews and smoke bhang when they should be economically productive, he said. "There is nothing much to do to get money here. If the town had more money circulating, youths would not be as hopeless," he said. He said the stretch of road from the village to the Murang'a-Kiria-ini road is too bumpy and makes it hard for local farmers to get their produce to Murang'a town. Mwangi appealed to the government to rehabilitate the feeder road to make their lives easier. He however lauded the government for initiating a water project in the village that is famed for being the origin of the Agikuyu. The water, he said, will enable the villagers to engage in agribusiness and better their lives.  