Medium and small-scale traders in Kwale have decried low business ahead of Eid celebrations as Covid-19 disrupts the economy. They said businesses went down contrary to their expectations as they are operating at 25 per cent profit. Traders usually make brisk business towards the end of Ramadhan. Muslim faithful flock the streets in search of food known to break fast and intensify shopping preserved for Eid celebrations. The most bought commodities are rice, beans, wheat flour, fruits, vegetables among others. The traders want the county government to give them soft loans to boost their businesses. Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya said his administration is working on a law that will authorise the disbursement of funds to cushion the medium and small-scale traders in the county. Last year, the county gave three months' waivers to traders. It hugely affected the annual revenue collection target. Binti Hassan, a trader said the businesses have remained low since Ramadhan began compared to previous years. “This is is the time when business was supposed to be at its peak but it's unfortunate the number of customers has slowed further,” she said. Hassan said they continue to incur losses as traders compete for the fewer buyers. She said Covid-19 made many individuals who lost jobs to seek business opportunities, with supply outmatching demand. “Almost everyone has a business here struggling to get the hardly seen clients,” Hassan said. The traders said they have nothing to celebrate as their families would be left with nothing because business is poor. Hassan said they have accumulated a lot of unpaid bills and some might be kicked out of their rental houses. Yusuph Ahmed blamed the reopening of schools for the decreasing customers. He said with unstable incomes, many parents opt to save money for tuition fees and other learning materials. “Children have resumed learning and that's why many people have decided not to engage in bulk buying knowing of the responsibilities that await them as time goes by,” he said. Ahmed said in normal days many people would have been seen going to the market to buy a lot of food stock unlike now where parents concentrate on specific items. Ukunda Kalipso market vendor Mwanakombo Ndaro said the holy month has helped them get some customers. Ndaro said at least she managed to sell all her stock but at a low profit.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris