Deputy President William Ruto has said the Hustler team displayed good performance in the concluded by-elections in Rurii ward and Bonchari constituency. Ruto said that the country should now focus on the Big4 agenda. In Bonchari, ODM candidate Pavel Oimeke was declared the winner in Tuesday’s  poll after garnering 8,049 ahead of Jubilee Party's Zebedeo Opore who got 7,279 votes. United Democratic Alliance candidate Teresa Bitutu, the party associated with Ruto, emerged third with 6,964 votes. The DP said posted on his Twitter account that his team managed to show  'awesome' performance in Bonchari. He also said the team did a good job in Rurii ward, where the UDA candidate Francis Muraya was declared the winner against Jubilee Party candidate Peter Thinji. Muraya garnered 4,303 votes. The counting of the votes in Juja Constituency resumed on Wednesday morning after chaos erupted on Tuesday evening at the at Mang'u High School tallying center. Three men stormed the center at Mang'u High school and caused a commotion raising concerns from parties involved. Police intervened and whisked the three away. The police restored calm in the area on Wednesday. A confrontation ensued on Tuesday between Jubilee candidate Susan Njeri's supporters led by Kiambu Governor James Nyoro and Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and PEP candidate George Koimburi's supporters led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria and his team. ODM leader Raila Odinga condemned the use of police to mete violence on voters in the Bonchari and Juja parliamentary by-elections. He said such happenings must stop. Raila told off the government functionaries for turning the election arena into “an avenue to pursue imaginary and short-legged political interests.” He described the events in the by-elections as an “arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries.” “The peaceful coexistence must not be taken for granted by some rogue elements wanting to confuse the handshake for an excuse to erode our hard-earned liberties,” Raila said.