Garissa MCAs on Thursday withdrew an impeachment motion against their speaker Ibrahim Abass. On Tuesday last week, 36 ward representatives signed a petition to impeach the speaker. The motion was slated for debate on Tuesday next week. In a letter dated May 20 and signed by Maalimin MCA Mohamud Aden, he expressed his intention to withdraw the impeachment motion. “After consultation with all the stakeholders and pursuant to Standing Order No 48(1) of the Garissa county assembly, I have decided to voluntarily and unconditionally withdraw the said motion with immediate effect,” Aden said. “Kindly acknowledge receipt of the same and mark the said motion as duly withdrawn for the record and the interest of the people of Garissa.” The MCAs had accused the speaker of gross violation of the Constitution and running the house business in total disregard of procedures. Governor Ali Korane had last week dismissed the plot to impeach the speaker as an exercise in futility. He said the motion had no basis but is rather a scheme by a few politicians who want to disrupt the assembly operations. “So far there is no one who has told us what the speaker has done to warrant his removal,” Korane said “This motion will fail because we are going to garner the numbers.” Through his official Facebook page, Korane lauded the MCAs decision to withdraw the impeachment motion. “I thank the MCAs for unanimously and unconditionally withdrawing the proposed impeachment motion against Speaker Ahmed Ibrahim Abass,” he wrote. “They have indeed chosen unity and cohesion over division and conflict.” Speaking on the phone, assembly Majority leader Mohamed Gabow who was among those supporting the motion said they decided in the interest of the people of Garissa. “In respect of the governor's repeated appeal and other respected leaders and elders who pleaded with us to stop the impeachment motion, we agreed to their request,” Gabow said. To address the concerns that were raised by the MCAs going forward, Gabow said that together with the Minority leader Mohamed Ali they will form a committee to look into the issues that have been raised with a view to having them addressed.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris