The country is on alert after experts detected the highly infectious double mutant India coronavirus variant from travellers. The B.1.617 was picked by surveillance teams stationed at the points of entry from five travellers of Indian origin who arrived in the country last week Thursday. The five are working on a fertiliser plant in Kisumu’s Kibos area and have been isolated. Health DG Dr Patrick Amoth says the five cases were picked up on Thursday last week on arrival in the country before the ban on flights from India was imposed. The area has been cordoned off in collaboration with public health officials in Kisumu county to ensure the variant doesn't spread. “This variant has been picked in Kenya and because of connectivity it was just a matter of time. You cannot put barriers to prevent a virus from accessing your territory,” the DG said. “We picked this from a sample of Indian travellers who are doing some work in western part of Kisumu. We have gone ahead together with Kisumu county health team to do contact tracing and essentially reinfence that are especially for local transmission,” he added. The results of the genome sequencing that is ongoing at the Kemri Walter Reed in Kisumu are expected in a week. Dr Amoth has noted that the fives were staying in a camp, making it easier to do contact tracing. The B.1.617 variant has been blamed for India’s second wave of infections that has seen the country’s cases surge to more than 20 million. The variant has been classified by the World Health Organsiation as a variant of interest. The variant was recorded in Uganda last week. The variant had been detected in recent days on a Ugandan who had returned from a visit to India. The Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention has warned India’s intense outbreak was a reminder that Africa must stay vigilant. “The variant will definitely go anywhere because you cannot put a wall and stop the virus from moving and what viruses do is to mutate so they change; sometimes they mutate and change and become weak, sometimes that change makes them more stronger.” Last week, the government imposed a ban on flights between India and Kenya for 14 days as India continues to battle with the deadliest second wave. Making the announcement, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe noted that the suspension will only be for a short period as experts assess how the situation in India unfolds. “The first responsibility we have is protection of Kenyans lives and that we will not hesitate in doing. The option that we have is suspension of passenger flights between ourselves and India perhaps for a period of time and then we resume when they flatten the curve or when we are secure,” the CS said. Tanzania has also suspended her flights to the country. This comes even as the country recorded 489 more positive cases from a sample size of 4,426 tests conducted in 24 hours, representing a positivity rate of 11 per cent. The new cases comprise of 449 Kenyans and 40 foreigners aged between 4 months and 102 years old. Health CAS Dr Rashid Aman has confirmed that 20 more deaths were recorded pushing the fatalities to 2,825. 11 of the deaths were reported on diverse dates while nine are late deaths reports from health facilities audits. “1,164 patients are currently admitted in various health facilities while 6, 603 were in the home-based care program. 153 patients were in the ICU, 28 of whom were on ventilator support, 99 on supplemental oxygen and another 26 under observation,” Aman said. Another 119 patients were separately on supplemental oxygen out of whom 111 were in the general wards and eight in the high dependency unit. -Edited by SKanyara