Whether it is beam (fixed) axle suspension or independent (nonfixed) suspension, the fundamental principle of a suspension damper (misleadingly called the shock) is to dampen the road shocks for the comfort of the occupants in the car, hence the unofficial name the shock absorber. When they are worn out it becomes hard for the driver to maintain the vehicle on the road due to continuous oscillations that affect the steering angles. The construction of the shock absorbers may be different but the principle of operation is the same. Whether it is hydraulic operated or gas-operated, the essence is to pump the hydraulic fluid or gas through small orifices from one chamber to the other when a vehicle hits uneven road surface. The rate at which the fluid moves from one chamber to the other determines how the ride will be felt. The up and down movement of the shock absorber is controlled by the suspension spring wound around it or within it. The weaker the spring the more the up and down oscillations, the harder the spring the harder it is for the damper to travel which translates to a harder ride. From the above explanation, it is evident that every shock absorber is engineered for a certain purpose. From a comfortable smooth ride for passenger vehicles to a hard ride for cargo vehicles. The road wheel bearings, the shock mounts and the mounting points are all considered when the vehicle is being manufactured. The problem comes in when you want to change the above ride by larger margins without factoring in all the above-mentioned considerations. For instance, someone buys a car meant for light purpose but wants to use it for commercial use. They then install heavy-duty springs to the original shocks to refrain them from natural oscillations. As much as this would work for the new purpose, the impact could be felt somewhere else. SIDE EFFECTS  PROPER USE As we may all now understand, the principle of operation of a standard shock is by pushing the fluid from one chamber to the other through small valves to cushion the impact, the process involves heat generation. The more repeated you do it for prolonged periods the more heat you produce and the higher the chances you create for the seals to get worn out due to heat. Technically driving on the extremely bad road for prolonged periods heats the shock and some cooling may help it to function well. The best way to cool the shocks is by spraying cool water on them or methylated spirit after a long drive on a bad road. This cools the oil or gas inside giving them more working hours in such conditions. In most cases, shocks have failed to work when they are extremely hot. Original shocks always give better comfort but when the soft ride has to be traded with a harder ride then several considerations must be made NB altering the vehicle height by longer heavy-duty springs results in steering angles changes that make it difficult in  keeping the vehicle on the road HOW TO IDENTIFY WORN-OUT SHOCKS If your daily drive is on a  smooth terms road, it may be very difficult to identify a worn-out shock but primarily a reduced tire gap between the wheel arch the top of your tire can tell alot. Upon inspection to differentiate between a good shock and a worn-out shock, when disassembled, press down the shock. if it stays down without rising the shaft outward, the shock is completely worn out. Always avoid scratches on the shock shaft. The writer is the owner of Boosted Auto car repair shop