Bandari head coach Casa Mbungo has said their 3-0 crushing defeat to KCB boils down to lack of fitness. The coastal side suffered humiliation at the hands of the bankers in their Football Kenya Federation (FKF) Premier League encounter at Utalii Grounds on Sunday and Mbungo has urged his charges to pull up their socks in their subsequent matches. “We need to perform much better if we are to charge favourably for the title. Today we simply played badly and we need to improve on a lot of things before our next match. “We were low on fitness. We had already conceded two goals in the first half. “We only trained once this week and we didn't have any friendly matches to sharpen us enough for this game,” said Mbungo. KCB tactician Zedekiah Otieno was smug and warm after his team's exceptional performance at home. He, however, played down any talks of an imminent maiden top flight title, saying they would continue taking one match at a time. “Beating Bandari 3-0 shows we are a good team especially considering I didn't have three players. “Our players know what is at stake and we talked about it. We don't want to talk about the title just yet. Our focus is on our next match against Sofapaka. David Simiyu came on the end of Reagan Otieno's cross to put the bankers infront in the 16th minute. Otieno whipped the ball into the area for Simiyu to tap in after dashing up the left channel and pulling off a cheeky stunt on full-back Atariza Amai whom he left on the ground gasping for breath. The goal was a shot in the arm of the bankers who launched menacing successive inroads into the docker's territory, with both Alembi and Brian Ndenga coming sniffing at goal. In the 24th minute, Harun Thomas doubled KCB's advantage with a rasping shot that left Ndikumana dazzled in goal and counting losses. Just five minutes to full-time, Derrick Otanga hammered the final nail into the dockers casket after stabbing Oduor's cross into the net. Sensing a further thumping, Bandari tactician Casa Mbungo tinkered his line up in the 30th minute to seal the palpable defensive loopholes, bringing on Umaru Kasumba for Brian Otieno. Kasumba had a brilliant chance to pull one back for the dockers in the 41st minute, but his resultant header from Abdalla Hassan's corner kick flew inches over the crossbar. Mbungo’s halftime pep talk must have been effective given the dockers emerged from the tunnel a rejuvenated side. The coastal side began exhibiting crisp and neatly strung passes that pinned the bankers in their own half. And in the 63rd minute, Mbungo made further changes that saw Guelord Mwamba and Darius Msagha replace Danson Chetambe and Mosha. With time running out, Otieno effected a double substitution to consolidate the lead, bringing on Derrick Otanga, Michael Oduor and Martin Nderitu for Simiyu, Onyango and Reagan. The win has fired KCB to the summit of the log with 46 points, one above Tusker. Bandari remain rooted in fifth with 27 points. Elsewhere, Mathare United and Nzoia played out to a two-all draw at Sudi Stadium.