National athletics team head coach Julius Kirwa says the federation needs to come up with a masterplan to stifle the growing threat of Ethiopians in the 3,000m steeplechase. Kirwa warned that the Ethiopians are hellbent on snatching the steeplechase crown from Kenyans — a race that has been the preserve of the country and a guaranteed source of medals for decades. "We have a big problem in the steeplechase where the Ethiopians are really coming up big. We may think they are not much of a threat now but if not careful, it might soon be difficult to prevent them from grabbing this title from us. So, I am spending sleepless nights plotting how we can nip this threat in the bud," Kirwa said. Kenya's longstanding rivals in the long distance races and Eastern African neighbours have of late produced young budding runners in 3000m SC who have produced eye-catching performances this year. In February this year, Getnet Wale came agonisingly close — 0.04 seconds less — to breaking Daniel Komen's 23-year old world indoor 3,000m SC record of 7:20.67. Wale clocked 7:24.98 to win the men's indoor 3,000m SC at the World Athletics Indoor Tour Championships in Lievin, France. World 5,000m silver medalist Selemon Barega has also tried his feet at the water-and-hurdles race — a clear sign of Ethiopian's determination to wrestle the throne from Kenya. Nonetheless, Kirwa remains optimistic Kenya remains a minefield of talent in steeplechase and outlined his plan to ensure the promising youngsters eventually come good. "The good news is that we have a number of athletes in the steeplechase who have sustained a high level of performance for quite some time. Even with the under-20 trials, we are watching to see if there are any promising youngster that can help continue this dominance. Even here (at the Tokyo Olympics pre-trials), we are watching keenly. Everyone will be provided with the chance to prove themselves," he said. Kirwa was speaking at the Nyayo Stadium yesterday afternoon during the Tokyo Olympics pre-trials-cum-African Athletics Championships trials. The three-day event is a precursor to the Tokyo Olympics trials slated for June 17-19 as well as a selection process for Kenyan team to the continental championships set for Lagos, Nigeria on June 23-27. Day one of the championships were mainly heats and semi-finals with the finals for most races and field events scheduled for Saturday. In the 3000m SC qualifying round, Amos Kirui timed 8:36.58 to cross the finish line first ahead of Vincent Kipchumba (8:36.83) and reigning African champion Benjamin Kigen (8:37.16) in second and third, respectively. In the second semi of the day, Amos Serem clocked 8:36.22 to beat James Mwanzia (8:39.86) and Cleophas Kandie (8:41.26). In the women's long jump final, it was a clean sweep for Kenya Defence Forces as Gloria Mulei (5.89m) led compatriots Petronila Muombe (5.88m) and Priscilla Tabunda (5.88m) to a podium finish. In the men's category, Isaac Kirwa leapt highest (7.52m) to claim top honours ahead of Edwin Too (7.50m) and Tera Kiplangat (7.50m) in second and third respectively.