Recently, I saw Jason Statham’s latest movie, Wrath of Man. As usual, the action hero was a symbol of consistent strength and courage – he showed no fear. This is the image that some people have of leaders. However, this picture is incomplete. Leaders are people, and people have fears. In leadership, there are times of discouragement, despair, and fear; leaders get scared and unsure sometimes. Sadly, in modern culture, the display of vulnerability by a leader is still viewed as a weakness. So, can you successfully lead while afraid? Yes, you can. Here are four principles to help you. Acknowledge your fears: There is nothing wrong with admitting that you are afraid. Denial will not change the fact. So, acknowledge your fears, but do not let them stop you from moving forward. Acknowledgment makes you human and births empathy in you which positions you to effectively help others. But do not stop there because you must move forward. Know what you have: Fear has a way of blinding you to your options. Here, you believe all hope is lost and that you have nothing; this is not true. You have giftings, a professional network, skills, experience, and other resources at your disposal. Take stock of what you have, and this will begin to build your courage and confidence to lead when afraid. You have a lot working for you; it is time to see and appreciate it. Ask for help: The thinking that a leader is supposed to know it all is still prevalent in society. It is one reason some leaders find it difficult to ask for help – they would be viewed as weak. This is wrong thinking. When a leader is afraid, it is an opportunity to engage other people’s strengths, and this fosters team spirit. Asking for help is how effective leaders mobilise the resources found in their team members – and there is no shame in this. Lead from your strength: You have acknowledged your fears, taken stock of your strengths, and asked your team to help with your weaknesses, now focus on your strengths. Use your gifts, talents, and know-how. Being afraid does not mean that you have lost your abilities. So, use what you have no matter how you feel because your feelings will change when your gifts start producing results. I know you are afraid, and that is fine. Go back to your place of strength, skillfully deploy your gifts, and watch your fears melt away. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com