In this 21st century, youths are trying their level best to find employment in vain. In the past, educated elites were few as compared to now; hence employment opportunities were available. Students are often told that education is the key to success, which is not the case in this 21st century. Many of us have graduated and are still graduating but the future of being employed is blurred. People who have been employed before and those in high social class advise the youths to be entrepreneurs. What these people are unaware of is that even to start the smallest business requires capital and that’s what the youths lack. Most of us come from humble backgrounds in which we have been through education using bursaries and scholarships. In addition, in many areas of Kenya example Nairobi, for you to run your business well, you need to be financially stable, due to the City council majorly known as “Kanjo” who need some amount when passing by, and some other expenses. I am not writing this to report anyone but I am simply trying to show how it is difficult for a youth to find space. Lack of employment opportunities for the youths has made them engage in immoral and antisocial activities. Some do this to earn a living while others for leisure since they are idle. Most of them are involved in drug trafficking and abuse of drugs especially the males. Nowadays even women take part in drug dealing. Some are involved in prostitution and others are forced into marriage to older and rich men. When Covid-19 was reported, the situation moved from bad to worse and many suffer from depression due to the loss of jobs of the dependents who are mostly the parents. Kenya is a country where youth can be up to 30years while still in his or her parents’ home. It is not because we want to but the circumstances surrounding us. It is upon the Kenyan government to strategise on the well-being of youths so as we may no longer feel displaced. In my opinion, a proper strategy is coming up with income-generating projects which will accommodate a greater percentage of the youths countrywide.  Vivian Oresha, journalism student at  Maasai Mara University   Edited by Kiilu Damaris