Baringo Central residents are set to benefit from six boreholes after the national government partnered with German friends to address water shortage in the constituency. On Monday, area MP Joshua Kandie launched the drilling of a borehole at Ng’etmoi dispensary in Kaptiriony, Ewalel-Chap Chap ward. “This is part of our commitment to ensuring sufficient supply of water to both local communities and public facilities in my constituency,” the lawmaker said. Since his election to office in 2017, the MP has prioritised water projects; boreholes have been drilled in different parts of the constituency. He said the project is expected to take about two weeks after which it will be fully equipped with a solar-powered pump. The borehole is also expected to benefit thousands of residents living in Kabarbarma, Chepronge, Sore and Kabobel remote villages who have  been experiencing acute water shortage. The MP was accompanied by area MCA Peter Kebut, the project's contractor and a host of local leaders. Willy Boit, a resident, said women and children have suffered for long and have had to trek up to five kilometres of a hilly, rocky terrain to fetch water down the Emsoo seasonal river. Kandie said the boreholes were drilled courtesy of the National Government Constituency Development Fund and the Pro-Kapsogo German friends. So far, five other boreholes at Tenges Primary School, Tandui primary, Kapkoimet community, Kapsogo Primary School and Tabagon Girls Secondary School have been completed. The legislator promised to drill more boreholes to ensure residents get access to clean water. “During my tenure, I want to ensure my constituents get water at their door steps and live like the white people in Germany and it is possible,” Kandie said. He also urged other political leaders to allocate more resources to projects that ease water access. “Water is life and it is more crucial to make sufficient budget allocation towards ensuring its availability,” he said. More than 60 per cent of the residents of Baringo county have no access to clean and safe water, especially those in the remote villages. About 70 per cent of the county lies under arid and semi-arid  land and residents have to trek between five and 10 kilometres in search of water during the dry season, the worst hit subcounties being the lower parts of Baringo North, Tiaty, Mogotio and Baringo South.  -Edited by SKanyara 