Seven Kenyans have been named among Africa's top 50 corporate female leaders in the latest ranking by Leading Ladies Africa. They are Coca-Cola East and Central Africa vice president Debra Mallowah who has been recognised alongside Monali Shah, head of integrated marketing experiences, Africa at Coca-Cola. Also on the list is Angela Ndambuki, regional director of Sub-Saharan Africa at the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry and Nancy  Ng’ang’a,CEO Ernst & Young, East Africa. Ednah Otieno, human resources director for Diageo(Great Britain) and formerly HR director East African Breweries, Lilian Onyach, head of marketing and corporate communications at Stanbic Bank Kenya and Caroline Wanga, CEO Essence Communications Inc,  have also been named among the top 50. Leading Ladies Africa is a women-focused non-profit entity whose mission is to promote gender inclusivity and diversity, by increasing participation and representation of women of African origin in fields of leadership, business, politics and advocacy. The seven are among 50 female African leaders and women of African descent who are said to be making their mark in the corporate and business sector, spanning different industries in global conglomerates all over the world. “This list reflects our objective to continue to push for gender diversity and inclusiveness within the corporate sector–especially for African women and to highlight and celebrate their achievements in the growth and expansion of global big business," said Francesca Uriri, Founder Leading Ladies Africa. The organisations has been keen in promoting women’s rights in Africa, developing, and equipping African women with the skills required to take on leadership roles across business, governance and corporate sectors. The recognition comes as African women continue to rise and take up leadership positions in global corporate firms that are making Africa a hub for business and growth. Debra Mallowah joined Coca-Cola in February this year as the vice president, East and Central Africa Franchise,  while Monali Shah oversees the integrated marketing communications activities for Coca-Cola in Africa across the brand portfolio of the company. Now in its third year, the list has evolved from being a Nigerian-centric one to an initiative that includes and encompasses the contributions other African women are making in the corporate sector. "At the core of this recognition is a powerful message to African women to consolidate their collective influence by stretching their hands to others on the corporate ladder," the organisation said in a statement on Friday.