Macadamia farmers in Gatundu North subcounty want better laws enacted to protect them from exploitation by middlemen. The farmers from Ngorongo area argue that the state has left them at the mercies of brokers who are reaping big from their sweat. The farmers want proper policies put in place to regulate the production, marketing and pricing of macadamia nuts just as other cash crops including coffee and tea. The farmers who spoke to journalists decried lack of proper policies that they said have seen the nuts market deteriorate drastically especially since the onset of Covid-19 in March last year. Farmer Mary Wambui noted that prices have significantly dropped from Sh225 to below Sh40 per kilogram of macadamia nuts due to market disruption by the pandemic. Wambui has 90 macadamia trees in her Ngorongo village farm and on a good season she harvests about 6,000kg per season, which fetches her not less than Sh1.2 million. She abandoned coffee and resorted to macadamia farming after the nuts business turned out to be lucrative, but little did she know that the farming would turn sour. "When I started growing macadamia, the business was good and it really improved my family's living standards. But for the last one year the prices have drastically dropped. Brokers have taken advantage of the situation and are buying our macadamia at throwaway prices for as low as Sh30 per kilo," she said. Farmer Margaret Githae said most of them have decided to store their produce until the market stabilises. “Most of us have harvested our macadamia and we have declined to sell to brokers because they are taking advantage of the current situation in the market occasioned by the pandemic to buy our produce at throwaway prices,” Githae said. "We are, however, facing a lot of tribulations since we solely depend on the macadamia to sustain our daily living. We are even worried that raising school fees for our children will be difficult," Githae added. Farmer Njenga Nderi said that they are facing abject poverty should the government fail to intervene and restore normalcy in the farming. The farmers pleaded with the government to hasten the creation of policies that will see better markets found and laws to ward off middlemen enacted. “Most farmers are shifting from coffee and tea to macadamia farming because of the high proceeds achieved. We don’t want a situation where macadamia farming will collapse due to infiltration of middlemen and brokers as well as oppressive policies. The government must protect farmers,” Nderi said. Edited by Henry Makori