Comedian Eric Omondi says he has spent Sh6.2 million on his new outfits. Speaking to Word Is, the comedian said he has been having the same image for 13 years and now he feels people are already bored by it. "Unaamka unavaa tu jeans na unatoka na wewe ni msanii. That is not what I want for my next journey. I am very keen to know why Bongo artistes and Americans beat us. Those guys know how to look good and they have different styles." Eric added that showbiz is not all about comedy or music. "It also involves how you look, how you smell. What shoe do you wear, among other things," he said. "I am a star and I need took like my brand. I want to feel respected as a star while leaving my house." He said his new look is unique and inspired by Prince and American singers. "My new look will be unique. Every day I will be in a new look for the next eight months. I will also not be repeating clothes. I have taken my time with my designers and stylist to make all these clothes." He said he took his time with his stylist and designers (Diana Chanzu and Gold Melinda) to import and design all the clothes he needs for that duration of that time. "Kenyans are not ready. So far, have you seen those clothes and materials in Kenya?" he asked. "Before I started wearing them, I had planned sitaki wakenya waanze kunichekelea, asking me luku ilienda wapi? Anyway, I will take them slowly so that they understand. "My look has been inspired by so many things and not Michael Jackson vile watu wanasema. I do not want to be ordinary. I decided to work on my body, my hair, dress code, shoe and also my comedy. I am changing my dress code." Asked how much it cost him, Eric said the budget of all he needed was Sh6.2 million for the eight months. Eric is working on Season 3 of his 'Wife Material' show after he decided to cancel Season 2 after the continuation of 'Wife Material' Season 2 was annulled. “We say farewell to Season 2.” Season 2 was supposed to start yesterday. Season 3 will feature women from Africa and it will start after one week.