Security agencies in Kisii have been put on high alert to deal with any mayhem in the Tuesday Bonchari by election. Regional Commissioner Magu Mutindika said they have already received intelligence that armed goons were being hired to cause mayhem during the voting day. "Some of these goons are said to come from outside the County and they want to cause disruptions during the voting day. "There are also two vehicles loaded with machetes going round which will be used by the goons. Be sure that we will deal with the situation firmly, and decisively " said Mutindika. He said they already had names of the individuals behind the vans loaded with pangas. "We have forwarded the names for action and they will be arrested any time," Mutindika said. The regional commissioner was speaking on Saturday evening during a press conference in Kisii. Mutindika warned all the politicians that had been campaigning that security agencies are alert to deal with any eventuality. "I order the county commander to move with speed and make arrests of those involved in the plot to cause mayhem," stated Regional Commissioner. Already three suspects have since been arrested over the plot to cause disruptions. Mutindika said the suspects would be arraigned in court on Monday. He said as the campaigns come to a close there had been noted an upsurge in voter bribery. He said some people were already going round the constituency to buy ID cards ahead of the voting on Tuesday. Mutindika said the government was already investigating some individuals involved in it with view to prosecuting them. "We don't want Bonchari people to be denied their right to elect their MP in a fair and credible manner. We warn the politicians not to get involved in this as the would live to regret later," he said. Separately, the Regional Commissioner absolved the Interior CS Fred Matiang'i from the Thursday night raid on Governor James Ongwae 's residence. Mutindika said security agencies on the ground were responding to alert of an illegal meeting at the governor's Maili Mbili residence. "That was no ordinary dinner, we are aware. What has been happening is that the police have been doing their daily work. We are not favoring anybody," Mutindika said. He told Kisii Governor James Ongwae, Women Rep Janet Ongera and Senator Sam Ongeri to stop dragging the name of the CS into his illegal 'dinners'. "Everybody will have dinner but was that ordinary dinner? There was a meeting going on there," he stated. He told the governor and his team not to misuse people' s names into his problems. Meanwhile, the campaigns came to a close on Saturday with candidates wooing voters ahead of the voting. Those vying include; Keraa Mary Sally Otara (United Green Movement), Zebedeo Opore (Jubilee), Erick Oigo (National Reconstruction Alliance), David Ogega (Kenya Social Congress) and Margret Gesare Nyabuto (Maendeleo Chapchap). Others are Kevin Mosomi(Party of Democracy Unity), Pavel Oimeke (Orange Democratic Movement), Charles Mogaka(Progressive Party of Kenya), Jonah Ondieki(The New Democrats), Jeremiah Matagaro(Agano Party) Teresa Bitutu(United Democratic Alliance), Paul Matagaro (Mwangaza party) and Victor Omanwa (Party of Economic Democracy). Speaking during the closing rally at Ekerorano area, Bitutu urged voters to turn out in large numbers on Tuesday and vote.