Rain is usually seen as a sign of blessings from above, however, when it pours too much, the road becomes a small lake of trapped water due to improper drainage systems. Sometimes human activity also contributes to water being trapped on the driveways and causes mayhem to road users. For instance, to ease traffic in the city, a section of Mombasa road is under construction with an expressway between the airport and ABC place on Wayiaki way. Larger sections along these two points of the expressway have been barricaded causing too much traffic and heavy floods due to poor drainage caused by the iron sheets used to cordon the construction areas. So how do you drive in such road conditions without causing too much damage to the car because most personal vehicles are not built for such road conditions. SWITCH OFF YOUR FOG LIGHTS Assuming that it's daytime and not raining, going through flooded water with your lights on poses a risk of an electrical short circuit within the wiring system. Water is a good conductor of electric current. If the bumper gets fully submerged in flooded water chances of fog light short circuit are imminent. Switching off the fog lights until further notice may reduce the risk of electrical malfunction. Even though vehicle manufacturers try to waterproof all electrical components and harnesses, previous repairs could expose the wires and circuits to easy exposure during such incidents. Vehicle lights are only meant for road use but not underwater lighting. This is not only limited to fog lights but even headlights and hazards. REDUCE SPEED WHEN GOING THROUGH FLOODED AREAS Most personal cars are made of plastic fittings which include stone guards, bumpers, plastic samp guards and skid plates. Wading through floods at high speeds disintegrates all these parts making them loose. Sometimes this can lead to rattling and weird noises that are costly to repair. The steady movement ensures less resistance from the floods hence less damage to the plastics. The force produced from speeding through flooded roads is capable of loosening front bumpers or completely ripping them off. On the other hand, if your car is well prepared for such road conditions i.e  4×4s, speeding through the floods on the road without minding other road users is uncouth. DO NOT STOP In a scenario where the exhaust pipe is submerged in the floodwaters, do not stop, do not switch off your engine otherwise it won't start again. The best way to determine whether your exhaust is submerged is by judging from the vehicle ahead of you. For one reason or another, if you must stop then your engine revs should be kept a bit higher than the normal idling. The main reason for doing this is to ensure that no water gets into the engine through the exhaust system. If the engine is stopped water from the exhaust pipe will rush back into the cylinder via an open exhaust valve. Due to this setback, drivers are urged to maintain engine revs slightly above normal at all times to keep pushing out any water from the exhaust pipe until the exhaust is not submerged anymore. DO NOT RISK IF YOU HAVE A FRONT MOUNT INTERCOOLER Having a front-mounted intercooler is a good thing but when you come across a flooded road you must be sure that your front mount is tightly sealed or else you risk your engine syphoning water through the intercooler pipes. Should this happen, your vehicle would not move an inch even with as little as 100ml of syphoned water. Water is incompressible. Getting it into your engine would be disastrous and can cause damage to the engine. In the case of an engine stalling halfway in the floods, there are three possible causes namely -Electrical short due to exposed harness and control units; engine may have syphoned water; slipped clutch on manual transmission cars. Attempting to restart a stalled car in floods only makes matters worse especially if it stalked as a result of an electrical short circuit or water in the engine. It is recommended that whenever a vehicle stalls in flood always switch off the engine and all electrical components. Find a way of getting the vehicle out of the flood either by pushing it out or by use of a recovery vehicle. Before a second restart attempt is carried out, manually rotate the engine by use of the crankshaft pulley several times. if the engine doesn't rotate, remove all the spark plugs for the petrol car or injector nozzles for the diesel engine and rotate it once again. This will help the water get out of the cylinders without damaging the engine internals. Once the engine can rotate freely now return the sparkplugs/injector nozzles and start the car. If the engine rotates freely after stalling but does not crank up then it is evident that it dint syphon any water, electrical malfunction could be the cause. A competent electrician would come in handy to salvage the situation. In the case of a slipped clutch due to too much water and improper balancing, the engine will run well but the vehicle won't move. The solution for this would be a clutch replacement. As usual, only go through a flooded road after proper assessment of the situation and be sure that your vehicle will make it to the end otherwise taking a detour will save the hustle of related damages THE AFTERMATH Floods wash away grease from rotating parts i.e the driveshafts, propeller shafts, ball joints and eventhe steering systems. After long rains visit your technician for a full check-up of the above systems and let him advise on whether a service or replacement is needed for the damaged parts due to the floods. The engine v belts and timing belts are also sometimes affected by pebbles and small debris found in water especially if the timing cover is not well secured. Have your technician check these systems too whenever time allows.  The writer is the owner of Boosted Auto car repair shop