The Taita Taveta government has partnered with the Taka Taka ni Mali Foundation to recycle waste in a way that creates employment. The project, spearheaded by the County Waste Management and Entrepreneurship Hub, aims to link waste pickers to waste users and recyclers to enhance resource efficiency. A Waste Management Hub will be established to ensure a cleaner environment and resource management with maximised efficiency. The governor's wife Stella Samboja said the project will be implemented over three years. Once rolled out, there will be a structured programme of managing waste by setting up a dumpsite that will manage waste centrally. More than 15,000 tonnes of waste will be recycled annually. “It will promote the untapped potential for entrepreneurship and skills development in the area of management and utilisation of waste, which has a high potential for business-to-business transactions, resource efficiency and climate mitigation, thereby creating a circular economy,” she said. This potential, Stella said, will offer relief to unemployment, particularly for the youth and women. She asked the private sector to partner with the county to spur the economic state of the region through waste management and recycling. Youth chief officer Wallace Mwaluma said the construction of the garbage collection centre is underway at Chakaleri in Mwatate, adding that its completion will be a huge boost for youth engaged in the recycling business. The Waste is Wealth Initiative is a public-private development partnership aimed at creating green jobs through the growth of entrepreneurship skills as well as improving lives through decent income generation. "This project aims to change completely the way waste management is carried out in the county as well as reduce the expenditure incurred by the government in waste collection and management," Mwaluma said. He said hundreds of young people who lost their jobs as a result of Covid-19 will be subsequently incorporated in the project, thus earning a living.