A decades-old wait for clean safe water is finally over for residents of Karumu Number Kumi in Cianda ward within Kiambaa constituency. The Kiambu county government finally came to their rescue, with the installation of water pipes putting them out of their misery, which has spanned more than three decades. The installation through Karuri Water and Sewerage Company will see more than 500 homesteads get safe water. Piping is underway. “Our county government is thinking of the people at the grassroots as we had been a forgotten lot since we are envisaged by big tea estates and now we are glad that we have clean water with us,” a jubilant Peter Kiiru said. He said they had sunk boreholes but the water was not safe as it got contaminated by sewage percolating from pit latrines. “The water will change the area. We have dug many boreholes and at the same time pit latrines have been dug and the water we take is not safe,” Kiiru said, adding that they will now enjoy their right to safe water. "Every Kenyan has the right to clean and safe water in adequate quantities and to reasonable standards of sanitation as stipulated in Article 43 of the Constitution,” the law says. Cianda MCA Philip Mubea, who is also the Kiambu county assembly deputy speaker, said the water has been tapped from Tigoni Dam. “The area had no water. We were able to secure pipes and tap water from Tigoni Dam that will be purified before being distributed to all homesteads in an area covering two-and-a-half kilometres, benefitting over 500 families,” he said. Mubea said the county government factored in the area in the budget for water and other development projects, hence started with installing a water supply system. “Once the water pipes are installed, the residents can then install water into their homes at a subsidised cost,” Mubea said. The MCA said some of the crucial projects like installing water had stalled because of lack of funds. “The counties have less money and that is why we were advocating BBI as it meant that counties get more money for development. Currently, most of the money is spent on recurrent expenditure, leaving little for development,” Mubea said. Area assistant chief Samuel Muthiga said they have grappled with water challenges. He said residents raised concerns and their pleas were taken to relevant offices for action. Muthiga said the area will now get clean and safe water after their leaders fought for the rights of residents. "Water was not safe here since the pit latrines are many yet boreholes are also there and the installed water will address the issue of keeping safe from Covid-19,” Muthiga said. Danson Mwangi said the water they had been using was contaminated, hence many people contracted waterborne diseases. Patrick Kamau expressed his joy, saying they had complained for many years. He said they will also be able to water their livestock and farms.  Edited by F'Orieny