Two CSs are embroiled in a turf war over implementation of a multi-billion shilling donor project. Their rivalry is threatening to spoil their long-standing relationship. The two, who hail from the same region, have differed on the contractors for the project. One CS is fronting a company associated with his brother-in-law.  The other CS is fronting a firm associated with his clandestine lover. Last weekend, aides of the two nearly exchanged blows at a popular upscale restaurant in the city. One claimed his boss had already sealed the deal and it would start in a fortnight. Maybe President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured) needs to hear about this. *** A parastatal chief is on the spot for allegedly putting his wife and two-year-old daughter on the institution’s payroll. The chief who is harbouring political ambitions is said to have listed his wife as a chief procurement officer, while the daughter is listed as a secretary to one of the senior managers. The revelations emerged during a recent headcount that the chairman and the board of the state corporation ordered. The same headcount revealed that the chairman of the board had also employed his university clandestine lover. *** A local businessman in Kisumu is the talk of town. The man is trying as much as he can to be granted rights to operate his nightclub past curfew hours ahead of the Madaraka Day celebrations to be marked in the city. The man who has been enjoying the support of local police bosses and politicians is able to work past curfew hours as they turn a blind eye. He now thinks that with the influx of state officials in Kisumu ahead of the event, his business could be closed. He wants express rights to continue with the nightclub business to tap the increased number of guests. Of course, this violates health protocols issued by President Uhuru Kenyatta. He argues that the locality of his business premises gives him an advantage to enjoy booming business during the Madaraka Day celebrations. *** Is a vocal MP from Kisii in hiding? Well, there are reports that the MP, accused of having bungled campaigns in the Bonchari by-election, has gone under. The politician has been accused by his colleagues from the region and who were part of the campaign team of failing to avail resources as required. The resources were sent by their political party to facilitate the campaigns but some could have disappeared into thin air. This hurt the campaigns with teams not well resourced to match their competitors. The MP has largely remained unreachable since the by-election was concluded and his mobile phone has been off.