Despite facing frequent famine and general under-development, Turkana county did not utilise more than Sh4 billion allocated for development projects in the 2018-19 financial year. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu in her latest audit report for the county has faulted Governor Josphat Nanok’s administration for failing to absorb the money which amounted to over 87 per cent of resources allocated for projects. “No explanation was provided by the management for the extremely low rate of absorption of development funds,” said Gathungu in her report. The county had Sh14.9 billion which included Sh5.3 billion for development projects and Sh9.6 billion for recurrent programmes. She says in general, Sh10.9 billion was spent during the year under review resulting in an absorption rate of 73 per cent and an under absorption of Sh3.4 billion or 23 per cent of the budget. The county management also allocated Sh4.7 billion for acquisition of assets but only used Sh983. 8 million resulting in an under expenditure of Sh3.6 billion. “In view of the under expenditure, most of the projects included in the annual work plan were not implemented. As a result, goods and services due to the residents were not delivered and the development of the county was affected,” said Gathungu in her report. The auditor said Turkana county management did not also indicate actions it had taken to reverse the unsatisfactory performance for the benefit of residents. The report says the county only collected 70 per cent of budgeted local revenues. It had targeted to collect Sh250 million but ended up with about Sh174 million resulting in a short fall of about Sh75 million. Also queried in the audit report is an expenditure of Sh17.2 million for the purchase of two vehicles for the office of the governor. All details concerning the purchase tender for the vehicles were not provided for audit according to Gathungu. She also queried the supply of three trucks worth more than Sh35 million for the department of education. The administration did not provide log books to confirm that the vehicles indeed belong to the county. Another two vehicles were purchased for the executive at a cost of Sh9.6 million but again relevant documents for the purchase were not provided by the county government for the audit. The county also used Sh32 million to pay for legal services from several firms but no evidence was provided to show that the services were procured competitively. The audit report indicates that eight major projects in the county had stalled and were abandoned by the county government with a large part of Sh254 million total cost of the projects already paid to the contractors. The stalled projects include four ward offices and several bridges among others. Nanok’s administration has also been faulted for retaining 32 officers in service beyond the mandatory retirement of 60 years. They illegally earned more than Sh14.5 million in the year ended June 2019 and the management did not explain why they were retained. Last month Gathungu made an extensive tour of county projects in North Rift -Edited by SKanyara