There is hue and cry in Kabondo-Kasipul and residents want the attention of MP Eve Obara and Kenya Rural Roads Authority boss Philemon Kandie. Why? Kerra awarded a contract for the routine maintenance of the Adega-Kimori road sometime back. The work was started and abandoned midway, and then it started raining cats and dogs. Now, the road is impassable. Some have likened it to a maize farm fresh from weeding. Many motorists have been forced to sleep on the road or abandon their cars overnight. Who will come to their rescue? Where are the Kerra bosses in Homa Bay? *** Not all is well at a parastatal under the Ministry of Energy. A group of businessmen has tipped off the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations concerning a man referred to as the 'super chairman' in the energy sector who is said to be holding brief for some powerful businessmen. He is said to be on a mission to edge out other entrepreneurs who have been doing clean business with the parastatal. The 'super chairman' who is said to be having an affair with a female board member is said to be negotiating for kickbacks through bank deposits. He is also said to be pushing for devaluation of the company with the intention of privatising it and gaining from the initiative. Can the EACC and DCI crack this racket that is out to swindle a public utility for personal gain? *** What became of the reconstruction of the footbridge along Haile Selassie Avenue? Several months after Nairobi Metropolitan Services got a contractor to renovate the critical footbridge connecting Times Towers and City Square Post Office, nothing has been going on. The contractor is no longer on site and pedestrians have been exposed to the danger of speeding motorists along the city road. Residents are now asking NMS director general Mohammed Badi: For how long should we wait? *** A fight amongst the MPs from one of the 47 counties is threatening to spoil their support for one of the presidential candidates. The fights characterised by large egos is so nasty that the once-tight group is now split into three. While they all still pledge their allegiance to the political heavyweight who enjoys massive support in the county, they no longer want their senator to be the head of the delegation. They accuse the senator of being overbearing and backbiting the rest of the team. The fight is likely to backfire badly on the senator who is said to be eyeing the position of a governor in the 2022 General Election. 