Lamu youth who applied for various positions at the new port-LAPSSET have decried being left out in the ongoing recruitment of staff ahead of the port commissioning on May 30. The new date of commissioning was announced by National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani when he toured the port on Thursday. The initial date had been set for June 25. Last week, the port received a consignment of shipping equipment in preparation for the June 25 opening date. The port is poised to commence receiving and shipping goods to and from various shipping lines across the globe after the commissioning. Speaking during a crisis meeting in Lamu island on Friday, hundreds of youth who had applied for various positions at the port met to deliberate on what to do after majority were left out. Over 100 dock worker positions have been advertised with over 1,000 Lamu youth having already applied. Their spokesperson Ahmed Omar said they hope the government will keep its end of the bargain and ensure they get employed. “It’s been weeks since we applied for the jobs but haven’t been contacted yet we hear people have been selected for interviews. It would be unfair for people from other counties to benefit from these jobs yet we are here, qualified but jobless," said Omar. He claimed even during the construction of the port, youth were denied casual jobs which were handed to people from other counties. “We see no reason for dock workers to be brought in from other counties. We can do it, we just hope they give us the chance as promised," he said. In his response, KPA Head of Corporate Affairs Bernad Osero said Lamu youth had been prioritised during the shortlisting and interviews for the dock worker posts. He said over 100 people have since been interviewed and issued with appointment letters. Osero said the successful appointees are currently undertaking orientation training in Mombasa after which they will be deployed to the Lamu port from June when the operations begin. “The recruitment exercise was transparent. We ensured Lamu youth receive high consideration. We also had to bring in a few from Mombasa to help in matters job training and orientation," said Osero. -Edited by SKanyara