Matatus plying the Ngong' route will have a four-hour drop-off and pick-up test run at the Green Park Terminus on Friday evening. It will last from 4pm to 8pm. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services said the second test run will help engineers implement decongesting strategies of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan. The commissioning date is nearing but has not been announced. All PSV vehicles operating from from the Nairobi Railway Station frontage will join the test run. Afterwards, the matatus will return to operating at the Nairobi Railway Station frontage until further notice. NMS director general Mohammed Badi said all stakeholders will assess their preparedness. The Sh250 million Green Park Terminus, the former Lunar Park, will be the biggest drop-off and pick-up point for matatus plying the Ngong and Lang’ata routes once the decongestion plan is implemented. Green Park Terminus is one of six termini NMS is setting up for Sh350 million. NMS said the test run will be carried out in four phases, including dropping off, use of the electronic app systems, picking up and enforcement. “Testing is a signal the park is operating and NMS wants to ensure it is safe, works well and addresses concerns of matatu operators as well as commuters,” Badi said. The first test run on April 27 was filled with confusion and frustrations but experts said it went well enough. The major issue was accommodation of vehicles. The three-hour test started at 6am and observed how matatus drop off commuters. Traffic build-up occurred as matatus entered the terminus. Most commuters appeared confused as they made their way to the Central Business District, blaming the NMS for poor communication. Many said they had been 'ambushed' and were not aware of the test run. Overcrowding was a problem as commuters attempted to find the exit from the terminus as they crossed Uhuru Highway to enter the CBD. NMS transport director Engineer Michael Ochieng said NMS had worked out the problems ahead of Friday's test run. He said police will assist commuters cross the busy Uhuru Highway as they make their entrance at Green Park. “To avoid crowding of commuters, they will use the walkway to enter the park and not squeeze at the exits  set up in the first test run,” Ochieng added. For efficiency and order, NMS will use electronic screens to inform commuters living in different areas where they can board matatus within the terminal. (Edited by V. Graham)