Microfinance Bank Faulu has received a Sh1.45 billion capital injection from parent company Old Mutual Africa Holdings Limited to support its growth strategy hinged on growing its banking business and customer base. Faulu, is banking on small and medium enterprises (SMEs) and business groups which account for the bigger chunk of its customer base, to grow revenue and expand in the counties as the economy gradually picks momentum after the Covid-19 disruption. The capital boost also comes as the Bank, which is part of UAP Old Mutual Group, scales up financial support and solutions to microenterprises and business groups comprising over 150,000 customers. The UAP Old Mutual Group Chief Executive Officer, East Africa, Arthur Oginga says the additional capital will be deployed in strengthening the Bank’s balance sheet. “Our growth strategy is focused on addressing the unique financial needs of small businesses forming the bulk of our customer base. This requires resources hence the support we have received from Old Mutual Africa Holdings Limited will be able to sustainably accelerate Faulu’s business objectives,” Oginga said. In February, Faulu stepped up support to micro, small and medium enterprises and business groups to help recover from the impact of the pandemic. This includes trade finance solutions to larger SMEs in construction, trade, agribusiness and import business. “...our primary focus as a Bank is on unlocking opportunities through trade finance under flexible terms," CEO Apollo  Njoroge said. He said this will be achieved through the banks strategic partners including the county governments, companies in the automotive industry, agribusiness as well as the local community. According to Think Business latest banking survey, Faulu is the leading Microfinance Bank in Kenya with a deposit book and a loan book of Sh.23 Billion and Sh19.5Billion respectively. The bank prides itself having positively economically impacted on millions of customers directly and indirectly.