Seven errant ODM legislators risk expulsion from the party for defying the party position, causing division and allegedly breaking into the office of the minority whip. Their troubles are the latest sign of deepening wrangles in the Raila Odinga-led ODM Party in the county assembly. They also risk loss of committee posts. The MCAs are Nicholas Okumu (Lower Savannah), Kennedy Oyugi (Highrise), Clarence Munga (Kabiro), Fredrick Omondi (Kayole Central), Jared Okode (Mathare North), Redson Otieno (Ngei) and Maurice Gari (Nairobi West). They have been given three days to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them. Without their response, action will be taken. In a letter dated May 21, Minority leader Michael Ogada indicated ODM had instructed the office of the minority whip to take disciplinary action against the seven MCAs. It was addressed to embattled Minority Whip Peter Imwatok. Ogada claimed that a section of ODM lawmakers on May 3 broke into the office of the minority whip with the intention of destroying public and party property. He also said that during a special sitting last Thursday, the same MCAs colluded with the chair of the sitting and defied ODM position on the assembly leadership. “Further, even after the party clarified this matter in a May 20 letter, they have continued to disobey and disparage the party,” the letter reads. The recipient of the letter, Imwatok, said the seven MCAs have been accused of disregarding the Standing Orders, colluding with the chair of the special sitting and some Jubilee MCAs and attempting to change ODM leadership in the assembly. He said despite having being warned by the party, they went ahead and executed the change of leadership, saying the party position was fake news. “The MCAs intentionally broke into the Minority whip's office with the intention of destroying public and party property. They have incessantly abused the party leadership both in the mainstream and social media, causing disharmony among members,” the letter reads. It was copied to ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna and executive director Oduor Ong’wen. Last Thursday, Imwatok was replaced with Lower Savannah MCA Okumu in an apparent coup. Highrise MCA Oyugi started the process two weeks ago when he claimed to have  collected 32 signatures from  56 ODM members in support of the replacement. However, Sifuna said in a letter the party had not made any changes in the assembly leadership. He said he was investigating the actions of ODM members but requested the status quo ante be reverted to immediately. Also within the same period, Mabatini MCA Wilfred Odalo was kicked out as the chairperson of the Public Accounts Committee after both ODM and Jubilee MCAs voted to do so. Imwatok said, however, the actions by his colleagues amounted to gross misconduct and insubordination under the ODM constitution and party disciplinary rules. (Edited by V. Graham)