A Kisumu court has stopped the Siaya county assembly from instituting fresh disciplinary proceedings against clerk Felix Olwero. The assembly service board on April 27 instructed Olwero to appear before it on Tuesday to defend himself against allegations that he illegally withdrew Sh2.9 million from the car loan and mortgage fund on September 1, 2015. The planned disciplinary committee hearing would have culminated in fresh action against Olwero. The county assembly service board had on March 1, 2019 suspended Olwero over the claims. Olwero however moved to court to oppose the decision and on April 14, the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Kisumu quashed Olwero's 2019 suspension and directed that he returns to work. Justice Stephen Radido, while reinstating Olwero, said the assembly did not follow the procedure. But instead of allowing him to resume duties, the assembly service board, led by chairman George Okode, slapped Olwero with a three-month interdiction. Olwero defied the decision by the board and reported to work. On April 29, he accessed the assembly precincts and signed the visitors book. He said he could not disregard the court's directive in favour of a letter by the assembly service board. "How can a court directive be overturned by a letter penned somewhere by a clique that is only keen to frustrate me?" he asked. Olwero accused the board of holding a personal grudge against him. The board defended its decision to issue a fresh suspension. "The decision of the court was ... a public law remedy that doesn't prohibit the board from proceeding with fresh disciplinary procedures against you in accordance with the law," the letter to Olwero reads. The board asked him to respond in writing within 21 days to defend himself over the allegations in the letter. Following the new move by the assembly, Olwero on Monday moved to court under a certificate of urgency to stop the planned additional disciplinary action against him. In the application for an order to stop the intended action by the board, he cited the assembly as in contempt of court for instituting such disciplinary action. The court granted his prayer to stop any disciplinary proceedings against him. The order means that the status quo remains with Olwero as the substantive clerk pending hearing and determination of his application. The order issued by Justice Radido has been served to the assembly and proceedings begin on May 27. "The court shall issue further directions on the case on May 27 as indicated in the court order," the judge said. This may include a hearing date or status for filing of additional documents or responses, if any, by both parties. Edited by A.N