Voting Day in Kisii's Bonchari constituency was marked by a series of arrests as security agencies moved ino to forestall mayhem. Police on Tuesday said the massive presence of security finally paid off as goons who had planned to fan chaos kept off. Three MCAs - Vincent Moisabi (Riana), and nominees Jane Justin and Risper Maseme were arrested at separate polling stations across the constituency. No reason was availed for their arrest by the County Commander Francis Kool. Regional Police Commander Patrick Muiruri however said they had received credible information of a possible flare up, necessitating the massive deployment of security. Other suspects were picked in connection with voter bribery. "We have evidence and they will be prosecuted soon," Muiruri said. Maseme was arrested by detectives at Bogiakumu polling station. ODM party officials condemned the arrests. They further spoke of a 'deliberate scheme by the government to frustrate supporters of our candidate, Pavel Oimeke'. Oimeke had cast his vote at 10am at Nyamare Primary polling, where there was low voter turn out. Three of his agents, he claimed, were also rounded up as voting got underway. Oimeke alleged Bonchari was heavily militaried, scaring away voters. "I don't agree that we needed such heavy presence of police around, it is just unacceptable ," he told reporters. At the Kisii Central Police Station, four officers said to be allied to Kisii Governor James Ongwae spent two nights at the cells. Police said the suspects were part of the hired goons who had planned to fan violence. Jubilee Patty's Zebedeo Opore cast his vote at Nyamiobo Primary at 8am. He denied claims of being a government project. "If I am, then I'm a project of the party that sponsored me. And every other candidate here is a project of some party as far as I know unless you meant something else," he told journalists shortly after voting. United Democratic Alliance candidate Teresa Bitutu, the Deputy President's ally, voted at Suneka Primary, metres away from her home. Her supporters, among them West Mugirango MP Vincent Kemosi, did not allow her to speak to journalists. Kemosi however spoke of intimidation of UDA party supporters during the campaigns. "It hasn't been a good experience for sure but we are still optimistic Mama Bitutu would win with a landslide. The People of Bonchari must be given their democratic chance to pick one of their own," he said. Across the constituency, voter apathy was evident. At Suneka's Baraza Hall for instance, many of the more than 2,000 voters registered there did not show up. Other candidates - Victor Omanwa, Jeremiah Atancha, Kevin Mosomi spoke of heavy voter bribery in most stations as voters turned up to elect an MP. Omanwa, however, appreciated the heavy police presence which he said forestalled planned violence. "Personally I don't have a problem seeing them around. We had expected security to beefed up nonetheless," he told the Star. Mosomi, 25, the PDU candidate however blamed the high police presence at the polling stations for low voter turn out. "I have met so many people along paths who feared going to vote saying they feared being arrested. This is not good for democracy," said Mosomi. Atancha spoke of rampant voter bribery marking the exercise. He however, said they expected the will of the people to prevail when the final tally comes out. " We have already told them to eat whatever comes their way but go to the ballot and pick their leader without such influence," he told journalists at Suneka polling Centre. Mary Otara, United Green Party, and whose campaigns took a low key towards voting, cast her vote at Botoro primary. Separately, ODM party officials spoke of intimidation of their supporters. Party General Secretary Edwin Sifuna said leaders were on surveillance throughout. Woman Rep Janet Ongera also castigated the arrests of several poll agents belonging to ODM. There were further claims 'illegal house detentions' of ODM party Treasurer Timothy Bosire. Bosire said he could barely move out of his hotel room as 'police were hovering all over the hotel I'm putting up at'. Party executive Oduor Ongweny asked IEBC to investigate and quickly act. Separately UDA party also voiced a concern. "This morning Erick Ntabo our chief agent in Bonchari constituency by-election, was arrested by police officers and taken to Gesonso police station. He is yet to be released. Another agent Collins Mokua was wrongfully arrested and released. This happened as police continued with unwarranted intimidation in both Bonchari constituency and Rurii ward, Nyandarua county."