Four second-term governors in the North Rift who will exit office next year are not keen on grooming successors. The county heads are, however, expected to influence voting in their counties during the 2022 general election. The governors include Jackson Mandago of Uasin Gishu, Alex Tolgos of Elgeyo Marakwet, Patrick Khaemba of Trans Nzoia and Josphat Nanok of Turkana. Their deputies have also shown little interest in taking over next year. Trans Nzoia deputy governor Stanley Tarus has said he will not be run for governor next year having served as Khaemba’s deputy for two terms. He says he will either vie for the Senate seat or go for a parliamentary one. “Sometimes it’s good to weigh the situation and make an informed decision. Politics in Trans Nzoia is tricky because the region is extensively cosmopolitan and one has to weigh the dynamics,” the deputy governor said. Tarus who spoke to the Star on the phone said he is proud of what Khaemba's administration has achieved. “We have done a lot in transforming the county, but my boss does not chest-thump over his achievements. All is there for residents to see for themselves,” Tarus said. A majority of residents in Trans Nzoia are from the Luhya community followed by the Kalenjin and several other communities. In Uasin Gishu, Governor Jackson Mandago has cautioned residents not to elect what he termed a “fake successor" to take over from him during next year’s polls. Mandago said there were many people lining up to succeed him but asked residents to be careful not to elect someone who will undo the progress the county has made. He particularly noted that leaders causing disunity and inciting communities should not be given a chance to lead. “We need the next governor to be an individual who will unite our people and take us to the next level of development,” Mandago said. He said he has no preferred successor but front runners for the seat currently include businessman Bundotich Kiprop also known as Buzeki, politician Jonathan Bii and Nairobi Devolution Executive Vesca Kangogo. Mandago’s deputy Daniel Chemno has not made it clear whether he will vie for the governor seat or not. In Elgeyo Marakwet, Tolgos is also not keen on grooming a successor and is at political loggerheads with his deputy Wesley Rotich. Rotich is an ally of DP William Ruto and is charting his own path to vie for the county top seat. Several other leaders in the region are expected to vie for the top seat, including Dr Joyce Chemenjo who has confirmed her interest. Former IG Joseph Boinnet is also expected to vie but has yet to declare his interest. Some residents have proposed he vie for the seat. “I had the voices of the people of Elgeyo Marakwet but at the moment I am still doing the job assigned to me by the President as CAS for Tourism. I will make a decision at the right time,” Boinnet. Governor Josphat Nanok will also be retiring and many aspirants are still fixing their plans to vie for the seat. -Edited by SKanyara