Kenya Ports Authority(KPA) plans to construct a modern facility at Shimoni, Kwale County, in its latest investment portfolio. The authority which commenced operations at Lamu Port last week plans to invest Sh1.3 billion in the Shimoni industrial fishing port project. KPA chairman Joseph Kibwana said the port will a include a multi-purpose berth that will incorporate fish and conventional cargo handling, cold storage facilities, reefer stations and value addition including fish processing plants. “Designs are finished and we will soon embark on construction,” Kibwana said. KPA acting managing director Rashid Salim yesterday said the existing jetty will also be rehabilitated to continue serving the local fishermen and support tourism. The Environmental Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) of the project commenced in October last year, involving locals and their leadership, in a project that has the blessing of the Kwale County government. One of the key objectives of the ESIA is to systematically assess the value of the benefits of the project against the environmental and social concerns, and equally provide measures to avoid, prevent or reduce the magnitude of the impacts. “To protect the environment against the negative impacts of the project, a raft of measures has been recommended and will be applied to ensure smooth implementation of the project whilst minimising environmental degradation,” KPA has noted. The project is expected to play a critical role in the country's push to maximise benefits from fishing in the Indian Ocean, as the government drives the blue economy agenda with the putting in place of policies, institutional changes, incentives and funding. According to Shipping and Maritime affairs Principal Secretary Nancy Karigithu,  the maritime sector has the potential to contribute up to Sh500 billion to the GDP annually. The country has 370 kilometers from the shore into the Indian Ocean , 600 kilometers of coastal length and about 10,700 square kilometers of navigable inland waters. Total water surface is estimated at 240,700 square kilometers of the country’s total area of 580,367 square kilometers (42%)–equivalent to the total land surface area of 31 out of the country's 47 counties. Shimoni Port will help tap into the vast fishing industry which according to government, the country’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) has an annual potential of 350,000 metric tonnes. It is however yielding a paltry 9,134 metric tonnes worth Sh2.4billion. Overall, Kenya produces 180,000 tonnes per year, Agriculture ministry data shows, including from its inland water sources, against a consumption demand of about 500,000 tonnes. This has seen the country import fish with China being a key source, with poor fishing facilities and gears hindering local fishermen from fully reaching their potential. 