A section of leaders from Wajir, Mandera and Garissa counties have called on locals to reject leaders with questionable integrity and poor development track record when they go to the polls next year. Speaking at a Nairobi hotel on Sunday night during harambee to raise funds for construction of madrasas in Mandera North Constituency, the leaders urged locals to elect leaders whose main agenda is developing northern Kenya. Led by Mandera Governor Ali Roba and Eldas Member of Parliament Adan Keynan, the leaders further said locals should vote in people who are keen on safeguarding devolution. Keynan challenged county bosses to enviously guard devolution as it promises to transform the region development-wise. "You can see the benefits devolution has brought. That is something that must be guarded jealously,” added Keynan, who is also Jubilee Coalition Secretary. It was an event that brought together a section of leaders from Northern Kenya to raise funds for Madarsas in Mandera North Constituency. Roba who was the chief guest further challenged students from Northern Kenya to choose courses that easily create job opportunities. "We want our students to look at courses that are rewarding. They should look at courses that when they undertake, they can easily get jobs. Courses in engineering, teaching, architecture, livestock and agriculture, “added Roba. Other leaders who graced the occasion were Hassan Noor Hassan (CAS Education), Mohamed Elmi (CAS Enviroment) and MPs Adan Ali Sheikh Kullow (Mandera South), Kullow Maalim Hassan (Banisa), Abdi Mude (Lafey), Ahmed Kolosh (Wajir West), Ahmed Abdisalam (Wajir North), Rashid Kassim (Wajir East), Ahmed Bashane (Tarbaj). Also present were Mohamed Adan Khalif (Speaker, Mandera County Assembly), Senior Counsel Abdikadir Hussein, Amb. Mahat (Supkem Secretary), Ahmed Abdullah (Former Wajir Governor) and a host of MCAs among others. A total of Sh34,560,900 was raised for Madarsas in Mandera North Constituency. Roba thanked Muslim leadership in Kenya for being in the forefront standing with madarsas, building mosques and also paying salaries of religious leaders in the Country. Roba said in the past they used to rely on Muslim leaders from other parts of the globe to build mosques in the country.