Joseph Joachim Gicheru from Garissa who scored 430 marks in the 2016 KCPE exam has once again excelled with an A (plain) mean grade in the 2020 KCSE exam. Gicheru, 17, was among the top 100 students at Alliance High School after scoring an A with 83. points. He said he was not surprised by the good grades given he was expecting to be among the best students nationally. Speaking at their home in Madogo, Gicheru said the journey had been tough due to the Covid-19 pandemic that forced learners to stay home for seven months after schools were closed to contain the contagion. “During the Covid-19 holiday, I thought that I was losing a lot of content. I had this feeling of desperation that you need to go back to school but again you cannot because of the prevailing circumstances,” Gicheru said. “However, like all the other candidates, I had a consolation that it is something that is affecting the whole country and so I continued to work hard and study on my own.” Gicheru said he wants to study medicine at the University of Nairobi and subsequently specialise in paediatrics. “Since I was a child I have always liked children. I have had this passion for becoming a paediatrician to treat children. You feel happy and have some sense of satisfaction when people you have treated get well,” he said. Gicheru who is the second born in a family of two had a message of hope to children studying in Northeastern, saying they too can always become what they want in life if only they pursue their dream notwithstanding the challenges they encounter. “My good grades should inspire those that are still in school especially in this region that in life it doesn’t matter your background. All that matters is the effort you put in and remaining focused, working hard and keeping your eyes focused on the prize. And as always God will reward you,” he said. His parents John Thuo, a priest at ACK church and Jane Wambui a housewife could not hide their joy. They thanked God and the teachers for guiding their son to post good grades. Wambui said her son had remained a top student all through since he joined school saying that discipline, hard work and focus is what kept him going. “We are very happy. We only pray to God to continue guiding him as he starts his next journey at the university,” Jane said. “It’s our prayer that God fulfils his dreams, and he becomes an important person in society.”   Edited  by Kiilu Damaris