Police in Limuru have asked protesting boda boda operators from Ndeiya ward to be patient as they finalise their investigations into the murder of a rider. Albert Njenga's decomposing body was discovered by a passerby who found dogs excavating it from a shallow grave behind a butchery in Nderu shopping centre on Friday. He had been missing along with his motorcycle for almost a week. Residents set the butchery on fire, alleging some workers there could have been involved in the murder. They proceeded to the butcher's home and burnt down two lorries and a van before police dispersed them using teargas. “People started screaming; the tarmac road was barricaded at Nderu by residents with stones, logs and bonfires were lit. We were so angry at the incident,” Peter Muchendu said. On Saturday, deputy county commissioner Charles Mukele said police are holding two suspects who will be presented in court again after two weeks. The suspects, Toni Saitoti and John Laisa, were arraigned before Limuru resident magistrate Fred Koome last Wednesday in connection with Njenga's disappearance four days earlier. They did not answer the charges after the investigating officer Rose Lwambi said police needed 14 days to finalise investigations. Lwambi told the court that Njenga disappeared on May 22, but the two suspects were arrested at Namanga near Kenya and Tanzania border. Koome ordered the two be detained at Tigoni police station and scheduled the case for mentioning on June 10. On Saturday, Mukele told residents the detectives had sought the 14 days to investigate allegations against the two suspects and collect evidence for their case. He appealed to residents to give police any information they have regarding the two suspects to ensure they build a tight case. “This is a case where the two need to be charged with murder. We are not happy at all,” Mukele said. “This is not the time to hold protests and destroy property. It is time to give police time to investigate and prepare their file well,” he said. Limuru MP Peter Mwathi sent a message of condolence to Njenga’s family and condemned how the rider was murdered and his motorcycle stolen. “It is shocking how he was killed, buried and his motorcycle stolen. If it was to be stolen, why didn’t they leave him alive? This is sad,” Mwathi said. The legislator who heads the National Assembly Security Committee said he would follow up the case until justice is done for Njenga. He said another rider, Wilson Kiburio, was buried two weeks ago after he was murdered and his motorcycle stolen at Tigoni area.  (edited by o. owino)