National trials to select Team Kenya for the World Athletics Under-20 Championships will be used as a dress rehearsal for the global event set for August 17-22 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. Athletics Kenya's Director of Youth Development, Barnaba Korir said the trials — set for June 1-3 — will help the young athletes familiarise themselves with the stadium in addition to testing its preparedness for the biennial championships. "The technologies and the equipment that will be used at the trials will also be used during the World Under-20," said Korir. In addition, AK will this weekend continue with the regional pre-trials expected to culminate in the trials proper at Kasarani. Machakos picked their representatives for the trials a fortnight ago and the action moves to Central Rift this weekend. "We want to kickstart everything and that is why we want athletes who will be coming for the trials to be well prepared and ready to give their best. We don't want a situation where there are many athletes coming to Nairobi and yet some of them end up not competing at all," Korir said. Korir said the selection process seeks to identify talented athletes who may have missed out on the initial pre-trials conducted in November last year at the Nyayo Stadium, Nairobi. "Between now and the trials, the regions will be expected to coordinate within their counties and undertake the pre-trials. We want to sieve the best and ensure that the trials is a battle of the best of the best. During our sub-committee meeting, we felt that sticking with the 80 athletes selected during pre-trials would lock out other deserving athletes, especially those who meet the age requirements but may not be in school at the moment," he said. Some of the regions, which have so far confirmed their pre-trials include the Central Rift and Western, which are slated for May 22 and 29 respectively. Korir registered his satisfaction with the quality of the junior athletes as per the follow-up November pre-trials but admitted there are some technical aspects that still need work. "Their performance was good especially in middle and long distance races. The boys particularly gave a good performance and this gives us optimism over the other pre-trials. We might need to help the sprinters improve on their technical skills through a specialised training camp much the same way we did with the relays team," Korir said. He expressed confidence in a medal haul in the global championships considering the host country has been allowed to register athletes in categories for which Kenya may have not qualified.