A special account for the Ward Development Fund should be in place by the end of this calendar year, budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia has said. MCAs have been complaining they can't access funds and not one project has started in this financial year, while others have stalled. The delay hurts their reelection chances, they say. Mbatia said the committee already is discussing opening a General Purpose Account for ward development projects. The assembly is considering setting up the special account. “Let members be assured the WDF is the first priority. We are in the process of opening it," the Kariobangi South MCA said. The plan is to have the Ward Development Funds channelled to the new General Purpose Account and expedite projects. Currently ward funds are comingled with monies for all other expenditures under the County Revenue Fund. Former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko had placed this fund under his office. MCAs said the funds were difficult to access so they could implement projects. Last October, Nairobi Metropolitan Services took charge of the fund after MCAs moved it from the governor's office to public works. MCAs want control. About Sh1.5 billion has been set aside for the WDF in the next financial year. In the current year ending June 30, Sh1.3 billion has been allocated but not spent. Mbatia agrees administration of the ward fund has been a problem. “WDF is the elephant in the room. In this financial year, no member in the 85 wards has managed to start a project. That is the anxiety in the assembly with the general election just around the corner," he said. The funds allocated in 20020-21 will be spent in the next financial year.  MCAs are to get about Sh17 million each for development projects as part of the Sh39.6 billion annual budget for the next financial year. Legislators have complained the executive has been taking them in circles since 2014 over implementation of WDF projects, resulting in their stalling. In March, MCAs called on Speaker Benson Mutura to intervene between City Hall and NMS to get the projects rolling. Mutura urged MCAs to be more aggressive and use their legal power to exert pressure. “Kindly take charge because it is this house that has all the mandate. We can’t have MCAs lamenting in the house while people back in the ward are crying. “As a house, you have all the powers laid out in the Standing Orders and you have already demonstrated that you can impeach, summon and basically you can even fire,” Mutura said.  (Edited by V. Graham) 