@ppcheti  Lamu residents living near the border with Somalia are once again enjoying free movement and trade without the fear of being attacked by terrorists. They have attributed the tranquil environment to the construction of a security wall along the border. The Kenya-Somali security wall has already strengthened security with normal activities resuming in most parts of Lamu county. The region initially witnessed frequent attacks orchestrated by Somalia-based al Shabaab militants who easily crossed into Kenya via the porous border. That is no more, thanks to the security wall. Trade is already thriving in Ishakani, Kiunga, Hindi, Mokowe, Bodhei and across to Ras Kiamboni and Bulgavo areas that were targets of terror attacks. Officials say security has been strengthened. Much credit has been given to the Kenya-Somalia Border Securitisation Project, the initiative behind the border wall. The Kenyan government started the construction of the 700km wall in 2015 after a spate of attacks by the militants. Northeastern, Coast and Nairobi are among areas that have witnessed the terror attacks during which hundreds have been killed. The wall stretches from Lamu at the Coast to Mandera along the Somalia border. The project is an integral part of government measures to combat terror attacks. Speaking on Thursday, commander Hussein Baraka who is in charge of troops guarding workers undertaking the construction of the wall said a significant percentage of the works on the Lamu side is complete. Baraka said the establishment of border points with full functional customs offices and security barriers is ongoing. The wall will be under the tight watch of soldiers to make it hard for militants to sneak into the country. The construction base christened Usalama Camp is a highly-guarded installation that has security watchtowers manned by the Special Forces commandos, an elite special operations squad from the Kenya Defence Forces. Baraka said there are five-metre deep trenches along the wall. High definition CCTV cameras, capable of detecting threats from as far as 20km will soon be mounted along the fence at three-kilometer intervals. The cameras will complement drones that will be surveying the area. Baraka said the drones and cameras will enable troops to spot an enemy from as far as 20km, enabling them to lay an ambush. "This has forced the enemy to retreat back to Somalia where they are also met with unmatched fire by our forces serving under the AMISOM umbrella. The insurgents have no place to run to or hide. They are on the brink of extinction," the soldier said. Another team of surveillance experts and commandos, drawn from the KDF will conduct day and night patrols along the fence to prevent vandalism. Baraka said another team of elite special forces has been deployed to respond to any security threat within the border area. The unit is also tasked with pursuing the enemy deep into Somalia. "Boni is now a secured zone with security teams ready to respond to any threat by the criminals. We regularly see aircrafts hovering above us and we feel safe and secure, truly we are happy to be Kenyans," Ishakani herder Mohamed Hirsi said. He said the war against terror has been boosted by the willingness of locals to cooperate with security agencies by volunteering information on any suspected activities and individuals. KDF engineers have also built several schools, water pans and stadia in Ras Kamboni and Kiunga areas and upgraded roads in Baragoni as part of community social responsibility. Residents say Operation Linda Boni has driven out terrorists from their hideouts in the expansive forest and rekindled the dwindling economy of the region. Lamu is already positioning itself as Africa’s next big business hub with last week's commissioning of the port by President Uhuru Kenyatta. The Lamu Port will be the biggest in East Africa once all the berths are complete.  Experts say it will be able to hold up to 30 ships at one go. "We now feel safe and can carry out our day-to-day activities freely due to the heavy presence of security personnel. We have numerous KDF soldiers patrolling our area at any time and others manning the border points," Kiunga resident Abdikar Haji said. Adan Abdow said security has improved since the wall was constructed. “There have been no attacks for the past year unlike previously when al Shabaab attacked us regularly," Abdow said.  Edited by P.O