@alalmaurice Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo wants President Uhuru Kenyatta to address the delay in the construction of Koru-Soin Dam to help control perennial flooding in Kisumu county. Uhuru is expected to land in Kisumu on Friday for a five-day blitz of projects launch. Koyoo said Uhuru should swiftly intervene over the dam stand-off to enable construction works to start. This follows a case in which two Chinese firms are tussling over the project. The MP said the dam is the best way to control floods that have been displacing thousands of people and causing massive damage to property. The floods also interrupt learning in schools as well as expose families to water-borne diseases. Koyoo said residents continue to suffer, with most of them displaced from their homes, houses marooned, crops and livestock washed away. Floods mainly affect residents of Muhoroni, Nyando, Kisumu East and Nyakach subcounties. Apart from controlling floods, the dam will also supply water for domestic use and irrigation. Kisumu city and the emerging towns of Ahero, Chemelil, Miwani, Muhoroni, Koru, Awasi, Koitaburot, Katito, Masogo, and Ombeyi will also benefit. Other benefits include increased area under irrigation in and around Ahero and West Kano Irrigation schemes from 1,800 hectares (4,447 acres) to 5,370 (13,269 acres). It will also generate approximately 2.5 megawatts. The power will be used to pump water to higher areas while the excess will be sold to Kenya Power. Water PS Joseph Irungu recently told the Public Accounts Committee, chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi, that the Koru-Soin multi-purpose dam failed to start after a Chinese firm moved to the Public Procurement Administration Review Board to contest the tender award. One of the firm's, which lost the tender, moved to the review board, halting any work on the project. Irungu said his ministry also risks losing money if the matter is not resolved before the next financial year. He said the ministry is one month away from losing the Sh1.5 billion that had been released by the Treasury to start the mega project. The multi-purpose dam is funded by the national government through the National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority. Last year, Authority’s chairman Erick Okeyo said the government had committed Sh25 billion for the project. He said they had met with various stakeholders including Nema, Water Resources Management Authority, the National Land Commission and the Lake Victoria South Waterworks Development Agency. Okeyo said Sh2 billion has been allocated to NLC to compensate landowners. Some 360 parcels were to be acquired for the project. He said 230 parcels would be affected in Kisumu county and 130 in Kericho. The proposed Soin-Koru Dam is a Vision 2030 flagship project located in Kisumu and Kericho counties along the River Nyando. River Nyando is one of the seven major rivers within the Lake Victoria Basin originating from the upper highland areas and flows into Lake Victoria. The Soin-Koru Dam was started in 1982 by the Italian government and taken over by the National Water Conservation and Pipeline Corporation (NWCPC) in 2009.   