It’s just a few days left for Muslims to end their fast on Eid ul Fitr, one of the two great Islamic holidays. But there is another important date near the end of Ramadan that ought to be universally observed by the global Muslim community. That date is Quds Day or Jerusalem Day, the final Friday of Ramadan. This is the day Muslims commemorate their dedication to the liberation of the occupied holy city of Jerusalem. The genocide of Palestine is an evil that all justice seekers are obliged to oppose and condemn vehemently. The issue of Palestine and al-Quds transcend the religious divide. Many anti-Zionist Jews and Christians participate in Quds Day rallies, especially in North America, Europe and South Africa, seeing these as expression of solidarity with the Palestinian people. Undoubtedly, no one is opposed to a real and just peace deal in the Middle East, but peace-building cannot be visualised on the unstable ground of injustice and human rights abuse. Peace rolls out only where and when there is no hostility, occupation, violence and genocide. The bottom line is that even though peace building is essential for stability in the Middle East, it should be built on the basis of justice, not on treason and breaching the covenants. Unfortunately, today peace has practically been equated with injustice, and historical events are clear evidences that Israeli’s regime has never respected its international obligations, nor accepted the Palestinian people’s rights in spite of several so-called peace agreements. This case for Palestine is undoubtedly a trial to humanity and the Palestinian issue should be a priority to the world and the region with the hope that the world eventually would realise that the Zionists are not a trusted friend and partner and all should get united to help Palestinians in their continued struggle for legitimate rights. That’s why upholding the International Quds Day is important for all justice and freedom seekers, in particular the Muslims across the globe to keep alive the Palestine cause and to maintain the precious values of humanity. Adam Kassim is an international relations student University of Nairobi