UDA has promised a harmonious working relationship with partner parties to avoid conflicts that may undermine DP William Ruto's presidential ambitions. Secretary general Veronica Maina said Ruto would not give preferential treatment to any party or individual with regard to party tickets ahead of the 2022 General Election. Maina said although they expect sibling rivalry between the parties that will field candidates, they will maintain constant dialogue and all aspirants will be treated equally. “As parties supporting the DP, we have a common agenda which is uplifting the lives of the ordinary people. That is what we are out to address but where we have many people, rivalry is expected,” she said. Maina, who was with former South Mugirango MP Omingo Magara, was speaking in Eldoret when the party held consultative meetings with aspirants from the region to explain the modalities being put in place ahead of the 2022 polls. The aspirants were from Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Turkana, Nandi and West Pokot. Maina said although individuals and parties have the democratic right to express themselves, UDA and partner parties would not allow rivalry to override the common interest and undermine Ruto’s ambitions. “We have discussed with aspirants extensively on many issues, including the thorny issue of nominations, on which most aspirants have a lot of interest,” she  said. Maina said the aspirants also demanded to be told about plans for the grassroots polls for the party. The secretary general said all parties were clear on backing DP Ruto. “Some of the parties are popular in certain areas and the worst scenario would be if all of them field candidates, but even then, all of them would still be within their democratic right,” she said. The party has rolled out a major recruitment drive for members in most parts of the country and within the Rift Valley, which is Ruto’s backyard UDA targets to register more than 3 million members. Maina said they are encouraging everyone, including MPs, to help register as many members as possible. Edited by A.N