A bitter split has rocked President Uhuru Kenyatta’s backyard as new players battle to take charge of Mount Kenya 14 months to next year’s general elections. On Saturday, National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is to be crowned Mt Kenya spokesman in a divisive ceremony that could trigger physical confrontation. The new power tussle comes at a time when Uhuru’s grip on the region seems to be waning amid questions whether he would have any wherewithal by 2022 to influence his succession. Muturi should be crowned by elders at Agikuyu Shrine of Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga in Murang'a county. But there is a problem. Muranga county officials, MCAs and a section of elders allied to former Gatanga MP Peter Kenneth have threatened to scuttle the process. County officials are blunt. They want to block access to the venue, citing a lack of consultations. Governor Mwangi Wa Iria — himself a presidential aspirant — is seen to be  among top Kikuyu politicians out to scuttle the event. Kenneth, Wa Iria, Agriculture CS Peter Munya, former Agriculture CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru and her ex-Kiambu counterpart William Kabogo are among those jostling to succeed Uhuru. In a rare show of solidarity, however, top leaders from Mt Kenya East have rubbished opposition to Muturi, insisting he must assume the leadership mantle. They include Meru Governor Kiraitu Murungi and Public Service CS Margret Kobia. In an interview with the Star, Kiraitu said the elders approached Muturi since he was the most qualified leader from the region to take up that job. “He has a huge experience which no other leader in the region has. That is why I am supporting him and he should be officially declared as a leader of the region,” Kiraitu said. He said Mt Kenya East has been performing poorly in politics with none of its sons and daughters sitting “at the national high table where the national cake is being discussed". However, others say Mt Kenya East, where Muturi comes from, has recently been rewarded by naming Martha Koome as the country’s new Chief Justice. Kobia said those fighting Muturi are unfair because the speaker has voluntarily stepped out to lead the region and deserves support. “Because no one else asked to be the region’s spokesman it is only just that Muturi is supported. He is the third senior most leader in the country by virtue of his position. He is a team player in addition to having many years of political experience," she said. However, several political leaders from Central Kenya dismissed the ceremony, signalling a looming political split in the region. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru said though one cannot begrudge the Speaker's coronation, it has little meaning politically. “It will not give him an upper hand because the people of Mt Kenya never had cultural kingpins and spokespersons until the colonialists came and installed the generally unpopular ‘Paramount Chiefs’,” she told the Star. She said the speaker and other leaders seeking votes from the region and elsewhere will have to go to the ground and seek the support of the people who are the only legitimate determinants of leadership. “In the meantime, it must be remembered that as a political community, our leader, the President, has not vacated his seat and culturally, we don’t inherit one when they are still alive,” she added. Former Mwea MP Peter Gitau said the coronation would have no consequences for the dynamics of succession politics in the region. Gitau said the Speaker had jumped the gun and should have consulted the current leadership of the county before having the ceremony. “Who has he consulted among leaders? He just took a few elders and gave them a few coins to coronate him. Why can’t he deal with the leadership of region who represent the people?” he asked. Gitau said failure by leaders in the region to consult each other and work together are to blame for the disunity in the region. “These (elders) are people who want to feed their stomachs but it is not about issues concerning the leadership of the region. He should have met all communities before having the ceremony,” he said. Leadership requires a lot of patience and consensus among all concerned communities, Gitau said. Stephen Chege, chaiman of the sports and culture committee at the Murang'a county assembly said the county has not been involved in the coronation plans as custodians of the shrine. He said even President Kenyatta was coronated at Ihura Stadium when he was bidding for the presidency. "The event should not be done at the shrine. It has serious ramifications beyond the fact the county has not been consulted on the activity," he said on Thursday. Kiama Kia Ma national chairperson Ndung’u Gaithuma separately told the Star  the plan goes against the tradition where Ameru, Ambeere and Agikuyu community elders converge to settle on a leader. He cited 2012 when the three communities met and endorsed President Kenyatta as the successor of retired President Mwai Kibaki. “Handing over the leadership stuff from one leader to another is a process.  President Kenyatta was taken through in the required cultural process,” he said. Gaithuma said the region is still under the leadership of President Kenyatta and  they are yet to sit with him to agree on who should assume the mantle. “We can’t have two bulls in the same pen because the weaker one will get hurt. Those bringing in another bull are causing conflicts in the pen.” “They think they are helping him but they may be finishing him. Even in a home, it is the father who decides which son will take over from him,” he said. Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Wachira Kiago is among leaders who have opposed the crowning. His team coalesces around Peter Kenneth, and by extension backs ODM leader Raila Odinga. James Mwangi, an aide to Governor Wa Iria, said their concern is the attempt by the elders to mix culture with politics. “Politics and culture can be a very dangerous concoction. There are consequences of such moves. We have historically documented cases of people who have suffered from such acts of profanity,” he said. Captain Kungu Muigai, who is President Kenyatta's cousin and chairman of the National Council of Elders, said they will proceed with Muturi's coronation. “We are daring those who want to block the ceremony to try. We have enough security from the local administration.” He said those who are making noise against the event are mostly politicians who are serving their personal interests. “No one can block us from Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga, it's a national heritage site gazetted by the Museum of Kenya, and Kiama kia Ma is the custodian,” Kungu said. About 800 elders will attend, he said. Imenti Central MP Moses Kirema, also a Njuri Ncheke elder, said those opposing Muturi are not even elders and don’t even know the meaning of the role. “There is nothing wrong with a region having a leader, especially if the other leader is retiring…Uhuru deserves a rest and we cannot force him to continue staying on,” he said. “When you are resting and we come to your house now and then ask you of things affecting the community, it is not proper. What is happening in Muturi’s case is proper and timely,” the MP said. Speaker Justin Muturi said he was focused on the goal, adding there will always be "shades of opinion on any matter". (Edited by V. Graham)  