The political rivalry between Governor Sospeter Ojaamong and former Funyula MP Paul Otuoma has begun to resurface. After the 2017 General Election, the two leaders, who contested against each other in the polls, promised residents that they would bury the hatchet and work closely for the benefit of Busia people. Otuoma contested against Ojaamong for the post of governor in August 2017 but lost to the county chief. But Ojaamong, while speaking at the burial of Eusibius Adungo, a county security enforcement officer recently, said leaders keen on succeeding him should desist from making utterances that may jeopardise peace in the county. He said as governor he deserves respect. In a veiled message directed at Otuoma, the governor told the former MP to desist from lecturing him on 2022 Busia succession matters. He said if Otuoma is interested in succeeding him, he should wait for campaigns, endear himself to the electorate and wait for the declaration of election results to know whether he will be Busia’s next governor or not. Ojaamong said causing enmity among the electorate ahead of the 2022 polls was an outdated political scheme that would not work. “You are playing extremist politics which won’t take you anywhere. I heard him [Otuoma] recently issuing warnings to me. I mean you are just an ordinary person, how can you issue warnings to me and I am the governor? How do you warn somebody who defeated you?” Ojaamong posed. “I want us to play peaceful politics. I have been moving around with my deputy because I am used to him. I have been telling people if I support him, it is because I understand him. But if I give you [electorate] somebody who is new, he or she may come and disturb you.” Ojaamong has on several occasions indicated he would support his deputy Moses Mulomi as his preferred successor. The county chief was responding to remarks by Otuoma who had spoken a week earlier, saying Busia residents should be allowed to elect the next governor without anyone’s influence. Otuoma said it is the democratic right of Busia residents to elect a governor of their choice. He said the politics of leaders interfering with electoral matters is unhealthy. “Those who are in office should wind up their work. By next year they will be ordinary people who should not come here telling you [voters] who should be elected and who should not,” the former MP said. “In fact we have given them adequate support. So let them finish their work and go. They should not come here and start telling you that they will be the ones to decide who should be the next governor. It is Busia people who will elect the next governor.” Otuoma was speaking in Butula at the home of former area MP Alfred Odhiambo. Ojaamong and Otuoma parted ways shortly after the ODM primaries ahead of the August 2017 polls. Otuoma, who was defeated, claimed the Orange party primaries were rigged in Ojaamong’s favour. The former MP’s defeat led to violent protests in Busia town and his Funyula backyard as his supporters demonstrated against Ojaamong’s victory. Otuoma then contested for the Busia governor post as an independent candidate.  He lost again to Ojaamong. The former MP moved to the High Court in Busia to challenge Ojaamong's win. The court in February 2018 upheld Ojaamong’s victory. The two, after the governor’s swearing-in, declared that their rivalry had ended. They declared they would work to develop the county. Despite the declaration, the two leaders have been engaging in verbal attacks, with the primary issue being who will succeed Ojaamong. The governor has consistently said he will play a role in determining who will succeed him, a statement Otuoma says belittles Busia voters who he argues should be allowed to choose who the next county chief will be. On August 3, 2020, Ojaamong said he will manage Busia county’s succession politics to ensure a ‘friendly’ governor takes over the leadership of the border county after his departure. “We shall manage the raging local succession politics to ensure a friendly governor takes over power in 2022 gubernatorial elections. Despite belated attempts and round the clock spirited fights, we will not surrender the leadership on a silver platter,” he said. “Those who have been wasting their time fighting me will know who we are in the next few years; you are fighting us on social media wasting your time.” “In the next few months we shall be on the ground and we are not going to hand over the power on a silver platter; we are going to do our best to provide county residents with services in water, agriculture and many other areas.” Whoever Ojaamong will back as his preferred successor may face off with Otuoma during the ODM party primaries ahead of the 2022 polls. The Star has established that Otuoma, who ditched the Orange party in 2017 has reactivated his membership. Otuoma has been lashing out at Ojaamong, saying Busia has failed to develop under the governor’s leadership. The governor, on March 5 called on all aspirants gunning for the post of governor to embrace peaceful campaigns next year. “I am retiring from the gubernatorial stage after serving my two mandatory terms. Those in the race, including my deputy Moses Mulomi, Nambale MP John Bunyasi, woman representative Florence Mutua and Dr Paul Otuoma, are all my friends,” he said. “I encourage aspirants for various seats to do mature campaigns devoid of character assassination and witch-hunt. I have laid a firm foundation, especially that of uniting county residents to an extent that people are doing business peacefully without tribal inclinations.” Edited by A.N