More than one million beneficiaries under the Inua Jamii cash transfer programme are set to receive more than Sh4.3 million released by the government this week. The money channeled through the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection to cater for the January – February cycle is expected to be disbursed from Wednesday. According to the PS State Department for Social Protection Nelson Marwa, 294,023 beneficiaries enrolled in the Cash Transfer for Orphans and Vulnerable Children (CT-OVC) programme will receive Sh1.17 billion while a total of 762,885 beneficiaries enlisted under the older Persons Cash Transfer (OPCT) programme will receive Sh3.06 billion. Another 34,116 beneficiaries enrolled under the Persons with Disability Cash Transfer (PwSD-CT) programme are set to receive Sh136 million. Each beneficiary will receive Sh4,000 to cover for the two month payment cycle. “Beneficiaries or caregivers can access the payment at any time over the next six months. A beneficiary is allowed to withdraw all or part of this amount at any time during the six month period,” Marwa said. The ministry has advised beneficiaries or their caregivers to collect their money either from the nearest authorized bank agent of the bank where they opened their accounts or over the counter of the nearest branch of the bank they opened their accounts. Similarly, those with invalid BIOs and had applied for PIN from the bank through the field officer can visit the nearest ATM of their bank using the Inua Jamii payment card or through cash on Transit as shall be arranged between the officers and the branch managers in the field. “Agents must not engage in barter trade by exchanging money with goods at all cost. Where possible provide beneficiaries with face masks as part of corporate social responsibility,” Marwa said. “Payment Service Providers and their payment agents should refrain from making illegal deductions from beneficiaries’ stipends.” The PSPs include Co-operative Bank, Equity Bank, KCB and Kenya Post Office savings bank. Beneficiaries or their caregivers will be required to produce their Inua Jamii payment cards and identity cards to facilitate the payment while first time beneficiaries will be required to transact biometrically. County and subcounty officers will be required to coordinate and manage the cash transfer activities which include holding meetings with relevant stakeholders with an aim of addressing any arising issues related to the programme.