About 10 MPs pulled a surprise with their support for the BBI bill having campaigned against the amendments birthed by the President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga reforms drive. Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri, a fierce defender of the Hustler Movement and its leader Deputy President William Ruto, shocked many with his Ayes vote despite having been vocal against the process. He received applause from an unlikely corner of the National Assembly chambers during the Thursday vote that went to nearly midnight. Ngunjiri had vowed before the deputy president that he wouldn’t support the BBI but will stick to ‘the song the DP would sing during the 2022 elections.’ “I have few years to live. I have only two duties – to say the truth and plan for heaven. I am not for BBI. When you will sing the BBI with the President, we will be there,” he said. But that changed on Thursday night, albeit with talk that the handshake principals went on an overdrive to mobilize members of the National Assembly to support the bill. During voting in the third reading, the Ayes were 224, Nays 63, while two abstained. At least 320 of the 349 members participated in the vote at the second stage where 235 supported the bill, 83 for No while two abstained. Msambweni MP Feisal Bader, whom Ruto backed to dislodge ODM in the December 2020 by-election, also voted in support of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment), Bill, 2020. Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani, who was a key figure in the Feisal campaign, also voted in support of the BBI bill. Nominated MP David Sankok, Joash Nyamoko of North Mugirango, Malava’s Malulu Injendi, all who have warmed up to the Hustler side, voted in support of the bill. Observers also noted the vote by Ugenya MP David Ochieng’ considering the litany of questions he had raised on the place of the initiative in the August House. The lawmaker during the initial stages of the debate termed the BBI drive an ‘Executive initiative’ citing expenditure of public funds to facilitate the change process. Among the issues he raised were whether the bill was properly before the House and how the proposed 70 constituencies were introduced. Political observers also say the take by Kilgoris MP Gideon Konchella and Chepalungu’s Gideon Koske spoke volumes, though the latter has been leaning towards the BBI. During the debate, Koskey – elected through Chama cha Mashinani, said there was no need for MPs to spend time debating whether to amend the bill or not but instead pass it to the people to decide. Most Ruto allies rejected the bill during the vote that largely took a cue from the political alignments in the country, and others citing there was no benefit in the document for their constituents. Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro called out those who supported the bill, saying they were ‘cowards, traitors, and sell-outs.’