Burundian President Evariste Ndayishimiye landed at Kisumu International Airport at around 10:15 am aboard a Kenya Airways Dreamliner aircraft. Ndayishimiye who was accompanied by First Lady Angeline Ndayubaha was received by ODM leader Raila Odinga, Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo and other senior government officials. The President who will be the guest of honour at the Madaraka Day celebrations to be held in Kisumu on Tuesday, was later taken to Acacia Hotel in Kisumu. He arrived in a convoy of a black vehicles that left some Kisumu residents wonder who was the official arriving in their city. “.. This is the president of Burundi..no.no.. this is the President of Kenya…” voices could be heard from the residents who were watching from a distance. “We need to see him.. We need to see this Burundi president... are all these black cars his security? Eish…” Another one was heard saying that a security detail was running faster than a car. This was when it was time to open the door for the President. “Has he jumped out of the car to open the door? He is faster than that car..” another said as they looked at the spectacle that was unfolding right in front of them. For five minutes, the residents who did not expect the happenings, stood there mesmerised and asking questions. Over the weekend, State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said Ndayishimiye will then join President Uhuru Kenyatta on his development tour of Kisumu on Monday ahead of the Madaraka Day fete the following day. According to an itinerary by State House, Uhuru will arrive in Kisumu on Sunday for a development tour ahead of the Tuesday celebrations. During the Visit, Uhuru will officially commission national government projects that are complete, inspect ongoing initiatives and launch new projects. State House said the President will be accompanied by First Lady Margret Kenyatta during his visit to Nyanza region. Margaret and the Burundi First Lady Ndayubaha will be engaged in a number of programmes whose details will be shared with the media on a rolling basis, Dena said.