Newly appointed Shabana FC coach Robert Ojienda is eyeing a winning start for the Glamour Boys when they take on Mully Children’s Family (MCF) at Migori Stadium on Sunday. Ojienda has officially begun his job on Friday morning and he is raring to go. “It feels good to be back after six months break. I needed this break after resigning from Migori Youth in December,” he said. The tactician added: “I have watched the team play two friendly matches and I was impressed. However, I saw some weaknesses which I will address in due course. I will gauge them further when they take over MCF on Sunday. ” In their last two build-up matches, the former KPL side beat Gucha Youth FC on Sunday 2-1 before edging Division One side Hema Moja 5-0 at Kiendege playground. Commending on their game against MCF, Ojienda said: “Since we are the home team, my target is to win. MCF is a good team with experienced players but we want to capitalize on the home advantage.” “My aim is to ensure the team returns to the Kenya Premier League. With the huge fan base, Shabana doesn't deserve to be in the second-tier league,” said a confident Ojienda. Ojienda takes over from Joseph Ongoro who will resume his role of goalkeeper coach. Ojienda will be assisted by Kevin Momanyi. Shabana vice-chairman Nyandoro Kambi confirmed the appointment of Ojienda. “We brought him on board to help us qualify to the KPL. We have confidence in him,” said Kambi. In mid-week NSL matches, Migori Youth beat Andrew Kanuli’s Mwatate FC 2-0 at Wundanyi Stadium. Former Gor Mahia striker Dickson Raila gave the visitors the lead in the 36th minute before Micheal Bosco added the second goal. Vincent Nyaberi’s Murang’a Seal beat hosts Coast Stima 2-0 at Mbaraki Sports ground while Vihiga Bullets edged Fortune Sacco 1-0.    Four matches on the cards on Saturday, Soy United will welcome Sony Sugar at Bukhungu Stadium as Silibwet FC welcome Modern Coast Rangers at Bomet Stadium. At Camp Toyoyo, Struggling Mt Kenya United will battle it out with Vihiga Bullets while Kibera Black Stars and Kisumu All Stars will face off at Ligi Ndogo grounds.  On Sunday, APS Bomet and Fortune Sacco will collide at Bomet Stadium as Mwatate United seek to return to winning ways when they host Kisumu Hot Stars at Wundanyi Stadium. Muranga Seal will entertain Ken Kenyatta’s Talanta aat Sebastian Park whereas Coast Stima hosts Migori Youth at Mbaraki grounds. Nairobi Stima and Kenya Police will battle it out at Camp Toyoyo.  Ends