The department of health in Garissa has issued guidelines to be followed in mosques and prayer grounds across the county during the Idd-ul-fitr celebrations on Friday. Addressing the press outside the governor’s office on Wednesday, Health CEC Roble Nunow said the guidelines were arrived at in consultation with the officials of inter-faith protocols governing places of worship. Roble said social distance of 1.5 to 2 metres must be clearly marked at all places of congregation, adding that all ablution blocks will be closed. “Congregants should come with their own mushraf and or download Quran apps on their mobile devices. There will be no use of the normal Kitabs,” he said. “Children below 13 years and the elderly above 58 years, individuals with underlying health conditions, should not be allowed into the prayer grounds and mosques,” the CEC noted. Other guidelines include individuals carrying their own prayer mats to the mosques or prayer grounds and congregants must wear face masks at all time. Hand sanitisers should be used before and after prayers and the celebrations should be held preferably in open grounds rather than in an enclosed setting. The  prayer should not take more than two hours. “The guidelines were discussed and agreed on following a meeting chaired the county secretary Abdi Sheikh. The meeting was attended by officials of Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims, National Muslim leaders forum, the council of imams and the management committee of Gen Mohamud Idd Grounds,” Roble said. “I want to urge our people to continue adhering to the guidelines that have been put in place by the Ministry of Health not only during the Idd celebrations but at all times,” he added. There have been fears that the residents are dying in numbers but the same goes unreported and this has caused panic among the public. The CEC said the health department in partnership with relevant departments is prepared to identify, manage and provide critical care for any Covid-19 cases that may arise during and after the celebrations.   -Edited by SKanyara 