Residents of North Horr have appealed to the government and well-wishers to come to they battle for their lives in a drought crisis that has left many animals dead. Bubisa assistant chief Abdub Adano said more animals have died in the fields for lack of food and water. “This area particularly has been hit hard by drought. It hasn’t rained for seven months and cattle are dying in numbers,” Adano said. Two weeks ago, youths under Kazi Kwa Vijana were contracted to clear and burn carcasses that had become an eyesore near their manyattas. Bubisa is about 50km from Marsabit town and lies along the Marsabit-Moyale highway. Many boreholes in the area have dried up and only two are remaining. Golo Wario, a retired chief in Bubisa, said sustaining the remaining boreholes is a challenge as they use generators to pump water but fuel has become expensive. “We don’t have money because the economy has deteriorated in our country and the animals that we normally sell to get cash are now very malnourished,” he said. Fearing the two may also soon dry up, the residents have evacuated their cattle and driven them to as far as 80km in search of pasture and water. “Some use lorries to carry the animals, while others trek on foot for days and nights to arrive at new pasture points,” Wario said. The effects of the drought are not only prevalent in Bubisa. Along Isiolo-Marsabit road, rivers have dried up and trees are only starting to green following short rains. The deadly Mathenge trees have fully greened, but shrubs and acacia trees that camels depend on have just beginning to leaf. While some rivers like Ewaso Nyiro has some water flowing, Serolewi and Merille rivers have dried up and children herding cattle can only dig up the sand to distil water for their cattle. Around 1.4 million Kenyans in arid and semi-arid areas are facing a crisis, according to data collected during the 2020 short rains assessment by the Kenya Food Security Steering Group. Of the 1.4 million, 238,000 people are spread in Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Tana River, Marsabit, Samburu, Turkana and Isiolo counties. The data show current food outcomes for February-September 2021. The assessment was carried out between January 13 and February 18 to determine the impact of the 2020 short rains on food and nutrition security in 23 ASAL counties. Last month, Kenya Red Cross, in partnership with King Salman Humanitarian Aid and Relief Centre, distributed food in Marsabit. Flagging off the distribution, Kenya Red Cross secretary general Asha Mohammed noted that the county will be in the Crisis Food Security Phase until at least July this year. “This is only if the long rains expected at the end of this month indeed come. Otherwise, the situation will worsen and persist through October 2021,” she said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris