The hustler family is strong. It is now a national movement that is growing big, devoid of tribal politics that has characterised Kenya for years. The movement has attracted Kenyans from all walks of life and they come on board with ideas and they want to be incorporated in the movement. It is a democratic movement in which members are free to speak their minds without feeling intimidated. We can have different opinions over a matter but that does not mean there are divisions. Politics is about competition on the basis of ideas and the best idea will carry the day. Every political leader who has the passion to change the country would want to associate with the hustler movement. In recent days, we have witnessed a growing family of hustlers who are committed to walking the journey to the promised land. Nothing will derail this idea whose time has come. The idea behind the hustler movement is about ordinary people who want to make meaningful change in our society. The hustler movement is seeking to breathe new life into Kenyan politics by proposing a bottom-up economic model which will see ordinary Kenyans get empowered economically. Deputy President William Ruto has made a firm pronouncement that he is committed to ensuring the proposals are implemented. In the hustler movement the mantra is when one hustler succeeds, the rest of us have succeeded. So if in the event in the upcoming by-elections a hustler emerges the winner, be it in this party or the other, we will still celebrate. Ruto’s economic model is a game-changer and a brilliant idea that is resonating well with all Kenyans from all corners of the country. Regional leaders and groups are rushing against time to write their blueprints, which eventually will be put together into a national economic recovery programme. We have never witnessed this and I applaud the DP for coming up with such a noble idea. The economic model the DP spoke of a year ago is the same model that the US President Joe Biden has now adopted. This tells you that the DP has great ideas to change this country for good. The Bomet governor spoke to the Star