Former Nandi Governor Cleophas Lagat has joined the race to reclaim the seat he lost to Stephen Sang' in 2017. Several aspirants have hit the ground to lay campaign strategies with just over a year to the General Election in August next year. Lagat lost to Sang' in the Jubilee primaries before the last elections and took a low profile. But in the last one month he has appeared at several functions with his supporters urging him to make a comeback. The ex-county boss declined to comment when approached by the Star. His return to politics has complicated the race for Sang' who is working hard to complete projects and seek a second term. “Lagat is now the most formidable aspirant for the seat because having been governor he has wide networks and most of the projects in the county were initiated by him,” said Jane Chebet, a resident. He said Lagat’s experience and maturity was what Nandi needed to advance. Chebet said the current crop of young leaders in the county had failed to deliver and focused on petty politics and wrangles. “During Lagat’s tenure other communities in the county were recognised and given opportunities to serve. We even had a county secretary from a minority group,” said another resident, Paul Moitet. Before Lagat’s entry, lawyer Allan Kosgey has been carrying out networking and confirmed that he will challenge Sang next year. “My focus if elected will be less politicking and more delivery,” Kosgey said. Nandi county assembly speaker Joshua Kiptoo is also said to be planning to join the race. He has been carrying out a series of consultative meetings with residents to chart the way forward. However he did not confirm or deny the claims. “I am currently delivering on my mandate as speaker of the assembly and we will cross other bridges as we move on,” said Kiptoo. He has wide networks among residents and has been active in oversight matters, putting him at conflict with Governor Sang. An attempt by some MCAs to impeach him early this month was met with angry reactions from residents. The plan was dropped. All those planning to vie for the top seat in Nandi along with Governor Sang are in UDA, which is associated with DP William Ruto. The major contest will be during the party primaries ahead of the polls. UDA secretary general Veronica Maina who met the party's aspirants in North Rift last week told them that Ruto will not interfere with primaries and that all aspirants would be treated equally. Nandi is a cosmopolitan region with most residents being from the Nandi community followed by the Luhya community. 