A police officer based at Dabel police station in Moyale could be charge with the death of a tout in Ongata Rongai. Constable Edwin Oscar Okimaru was Friday arrested by homicide detectives and is to be arraigned on Monday. He is accused of assaulting Joshua Mungai and two other residents during a curfew operation. Mungai suffered injuries and died two days after he was admitted to hospital. Constable Okimaru was arrested after preliminary investigations by the DCI Homicide branch, Cybercrime and Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau forensically placed him at the scene of the murder. Forensic analysis conducted concurred with eyewitnesses' accounts that Mungai died from chest injuries due to blunt trauma. A postmortem revealed that he had also suffered broken ribs and bones, indicating that he had been tortured. According to investigations, at around 10pm on April 18, 2021, Mungai, alongside two other people only identified as Njenga and George, was arrested by Okimaru for violating curfew orders. The arrested officer had left his workstation in Moyale and went to Ongata Rongai—his former station—for the operation. He joined other officers with whom he confronted Mungai. According to the police and witnesses, Mungai, Njenga and George were assaulted before being bundled into the trunk of a private car. The vehicle was then driven to Tuala Bridge area on the outskirts of Ongata Rongai, where the victims were dumped. George who had been tied up using a rope managed to free himself, before rescuing Mungai and Njenga, who had been badly assaulted, to safety. He then hailed a boda boda rider and they helped Mungai, who could not walk, onto the motorbike. However, they could not take him to hospital for fear of coming across the two officers who had beaten them. According to police, George and Njenga limped off in different directions, leaving Mungai near Nazarene University. The following morning, a good Samaritan assisted Mungai to get to Ongata Rongai health centre where he received first aid before being transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital in critical condition. He died two days later and the police had by then been informed of his attack. Detectives are still pursuing more leads into the murder, with a view to gathering more evidence and making subsequent arrests. The officer arrested in Moyale and brought to Nairobi. He is expected in court on Monday, DCI George Kinoti said.