Vihiga MCAs have vowed not to allow political parties to intimidate them while discharging their assembly duties. They told journalists that the county assembly is an independent institution mandated to oversee the work of the executive. “What we are doing here is to oversee the executive. Once we notice there is a problem, we are free to table a motion of impeachment on a CECM,” Douglas Beru of Shamakhokho ward said. Beru said the county assembly is not a political headquarters of any party where party leaders issue directives. The MCAs were reacting to a letter sent to the assembly by ANC chairman Kelvin Lunani, asking those from the party to distance themselves from the motion to remove four CECs. The four are Public Service and Administration CEC Pamela Kimwele, Lands and Urban Planning's Paul Mbuni, Kenneth Keseko (Trade) and Amos Kutwa (Health). The county assembly recommended the removal of the four county executives from office, citing gross misconduct and failure to honour summonses by an ad hoc team. The letter from ANC chairman dated May 24 states: “While ANC has no intention of interfering in the work of the county assembly of Vihiga, the party has a responsibility to advise and guide its members at various levels of legislative representation on positions to adopt and pursue in the interest of the party and the public.” The letter urged ANC MCAs not to participate in any a flawed process that could undermine their personal integrity and the legitimacy of the house. The party said it has information alleging that the ad hoc committee formed to take up the matter regarding the four CECs was an initiative of the county executive and not the assembly. The ad hoc committee of the assembly had earlier this month recommended that the assembly should commence removal proceedings within 14 days after the approval of the report. Speaker Hasna Mudeizi said the assembly is an independent institution and does not take directives from anybody or any political party. She said they execute their mandate in accordance with the Constitution, the County Governments Act and the assembly’s standing orders. “Any decisions we make as a party, individual, executive or the assembly, we should always think of the 600,000 residents of Vihiga,” the speaker said. 