The Judicial Service Commission has defended a Meru-based magistrate after advocates demanded his transfer over alleged corruption and incompetence. The commission on Wednesday said principal magistrate Gathogo Sogomo was among the best performing judicial officers in the country. He heads Tigania magistrate's court. Some advocates on Tuesday disrupted court proceedings, protesting against Sogomo. Led by Meru Bar Association secretary general Joel Mutuma, the lawyers had complained that Sogomo was high-handed in his approach and sometimes rebuked them before their clients, putting them to shame. The Judiciary through the public affairs department said the magistrate was being wrongly accused. It said that the advocates were angry at Sogomo's firmness and efficiency and his tough stance against lawyers getting to his court late. The JSC said the protest was triggered by a lawyer who got to court late and found the magistrate had moved to the next matter whose parties were on time and ready to have their case heard. The JSC said strictness was in line with the Judiciary’s performance imperatives that require judicial officers to dispense with a given number of cases daily and Sogomo had done very well. In the 2018-2019 performance review, Tigania court was ranked number two countrywide. In courts with caseloads between 1,000-2,000, Tigani was the second-best having resolved 4,207 cases. “Performance tracking means judicial officers have to be more strict and fully take charge of their courts to ensure cases move and all stakeholders work in tandem towards delivering results,” the JSC said. “While some advocates are asking for transfer of magistrates, transfer is not a disciplinary measure. Should any judicial officer be found culpable, they are not transferred to another court because no court deserves bad services. Instead, appropriate disciplinary measures are taken by the Judicial Service Commission,” JSC said. The Judiciary said though it won't take sides on the matter as it is still being probed, it believes the advocates should have followed the right procedure. Some of the channels include proceeding with the case and appealing the judgements, filing complaints with the Judiciary Ombudsman for disciplinary action. "Instead of being quick to discredit individual judicial officers, Kenyans are reminded that there is an appeal process. If dissatisfied with a decision in the magistrate’s court, they should move to the High Court and even to the Court of Appeal. If the magistrate was unfair, the same will be revealed at the higher level and they will get justice." -Edited by SKanyara