Murang'a High, Agoro Sare High and Machakos Girls stood out as the surprise entrants to this year's academic league table. Although the schools are not the first choices for top performers, they dethroned some acclaimed academic giants. Their success was all the sweeter as the KCSE exam came four months late and in the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic. Murang'a High produced the top student nationally after Simiyu Robinson Wanjala scooped Grade A of 87 points while Wasonga Allan Udoma raised the Agoro Sare High flag, becoming the second-best student in the country. The third was Sharon Chepngeno Terer of Kenya High School which once again flexed its academic muscle and prides itself on having six of 15 top positions in the exams. Last year, the school managed to scoop three of the top 10 positions in the 2019 KCSE. Speaking to the Star shortly after release of the exams, principal Flora Mulatya of Kenya High could not hide her joy and sent congratulatory messages to the 2020 class, teachers and school management. "It was all about teamwork, God and making students believe in themselves," she said. Other institutions in the top 15 list include Alliance High School, Kapsabet Boys and Maranda High School. Education CS George Magoha on Monday termed the results better than those of the class of 2019 despite the Covid-19 pandemic that saw schools closed for nine  months. “After looking at the impressive results posted by our KCSE candidates, I am compelled to describe their show in one apt sentence: They fought their battle with resilience and ended it with grace,” Magoha said on Monday. He spoke at the Kenya National Examinations Council during the release of the exam results. “Indeed, the candidates navigated one challenge after the other in a manner that has now left all of us with mirthful faces,” the CS said. In the released results, 893 candidates scooped Grade A (plain) — this was an increase from the 627 in 2019 KCSE. The number of candidates with minimum university entry qualification of Grade C+ and above rose to 143,140 compared to 125,746 in 2019. Some 6,420 got A- (minus), 14,427 B+ (Plus), 25,207 B, 38194 B- (minus), 57,999 C+ (plus), 85,458 C, 109,454 C- (minus), 117,898 D+ (plus), 121,942 D, 137,361 D- (minus) and 28,046 with Grade E. Boys also beat girls in the top positions managing to scoop eight out of the 15 top positions; this was in contrast to the KCPE results released three weeks ago where girls scooped the majority of the top positions. In the KCSE exams, 752,933 candidates registered to sit the test but only 747,161 sat the 2020 KCSE examinations; this means 3,772 candidates missed the examination. Fifteen counties had more female than male candidates in the 2020 KCSE examination compared to 17 counties in 2019. The 15 counties were: Taita Taveta, Kwale, Nyandarua, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Kiambu, Machakos, Kitui, Meru, Nandi, Elgeyo Marakwet, Kakamega, Vihiga and Kisumu. The counties with high gender disparity in favour of male candidates during the 2020 KCSE examination included Mandera, Wajir, Garissa, Turkana and Homa Bay. “I have asked the Directorate for Quality Assurance and Standards to investigate the cause of 20 of the low female candidates’ representation in these counties,” Magoha said on Monday. Nineteen subjects recorded a significant improvement in performance, compared to 16 subjects that recorded a significant improvement in performance in 2019. Placement to University Magoha’s headache will now shift to the placement of the candidates to universities, and mid-level colleges. He said he has instructed the placement exercise to begin. Despite the delay in sitting for their examination, Magoha says they will join universities and colleges within the prescribed time. Universities traditionally begin their academic year in September which is when the candidates will join their first year. For teacher and medical training, the intake will be in August. According to the CS, the government intends to transit all learners from secondary school to institutions of higher learning. “All the candidates have a place in our education story. Our government has ensured that every child in our country has a place to pursue a career, and everyone deserves a chance,” he said. As it has been the tradition, those with C+ and above will get a government funded admission to universities to pursue degree programmes of their choice. Those who scored below the university entry cut-off mark, the CS said are eligible to apply for places in medical, teaching and technical colleges. Cheating Magoha says that during the 2020 KCSE, some invigilators, supervisors and centre managers attempted to interfere with the examination and leak it. This he says was done through the opening of the examination package in the morning of the actual date of examinations once they have been dispatched from the containers. They then would distribute them through taking photos and sharing them on social media platforms. “We are therefore cancelling individual results of 287 candidates who were involved in the various forms of cheating,” the CS said. Teen pregnancies A record 652 female candidates sat the 2020 KCSE exams in hospitals after delivery. Magoha said this is the largest number of candidates ever to take the examination on hospital bed with various experts attributing it to the eight months closure of schools in 2020. In 2019, a total of 282 female candidates sat the examination in hospitals after delivery. “We have noted that the number of cases of candidates sitting the examinations upon delivery went up showing that the long school closure due to COVID-19 may have driven our learners into many temptations at a time most households were facing enormous challenges,” Magoha said. Counties that had the highest number of candidates who sat their examination in hospitals after delivery included Bungoma (43), Meru (38), Nakuru (36), Kisii (36) and Nandi (31). Magoha further warned parents to keep a close eye on the KCPE candidates that will are remaining home as school’s reopen for third term as they await to join Form One in July. “These learners require close supervision and guidance to protect them from the many temptations that come from evil men who sexually prey on them,” he said. 