This could be Nairobi Metropolitan Services' messiest job yet -  potty management, making it free to pee. Youth groups have gone to war over lucrative toilets, so the task won't be easy. NMS is competing with developers, politicians, youth groups and cartels that have been making a mint by charging people to relieve themselves. It has started rehabilitating public toilets, two weeks after taking over the management as part of heath, sanitation and public works. NMS said the facilities will be manned by the National Youth Service and will be free. The toilets have been run by private groups, youths and and others charging Sh10 to get some tissue and use the facilities. Some toilets have been closed for renovation. They include those in the Central Business District at Koja Roundabout, near the National Archives and Aga Khan Walk. The public has been left to utilise other toilets within CBD, and slip inside th closed ones surrounded by iron sheets. The NMS announcement was received with mixed reactions by the public and the groups losing their lucrative venture. “Heko Jenerali,” Rehema Mohammed said, referring to NMS director general Mohammed Badi . "Great move but I hope you manage to maintain this," John Mandeto said. “I disagree with NMS. Let the toilets continue to be under private groups,” Edna Auko said.  Nairobi has 68 public toilets; 17 located are within the CBD. Inside the facilities are huge water tanks where people use jugs to fetch water to flush the toilets. Washing points are also set up. It is estimated one toilet can net a much as to Sh15,000 a day after operational costs are deducted. Before 2018, the facilities had been operating under a Public Private Partnership that came into effect in 1999. That was when the old City Council engaged the business community to find a solution to the deplorable condition of the facilities.  A former county official who left City Hall in 2019 disclosed to the Star private operators used to pay Sh6.2 million monthly, amounting to Sh74.4 million annually. He sought anonymity because of the sensitivity of the subject. City tycoons and politicians wanted a piece of the multi-million loo business. However, after the 2017 General Election, groups of youths started invading the toilets, trying to manage them, causing chaos. “Everyone wanted to be involved in the toilet business and politicians promised to award different facilities to different groups of youth for management," the former official said. “But not every unemployed youth group was given the opportunity. Only those who actively participated in campaigns,” the former official said. On July 4, 2018, former Nairobi Governor Mike Sonko attempted to scrap all fees paid in all public toilets and declared them free of charge. “City residents should not be charged to use public toilets. It is unfair to charge voters to use a public facility. I will give a directive that from today all toilets within the city will be free,” Sonko said. However, he took made a U-turn on the free-use directive less than a week later. Sonko urged the operators to end internal fighting and give city residents quality services or risk losing the toilets. In the same month, two warring groups scuffed in the CBD, each claiming ownership of the toilets. It was alleged the youths had connections with top City Hall officials and had been sent to take over the toilets from the private companies. They existed during the time of the old City Council and later during the administration of former Governor Evans Kidero. Police used tear gas to disperse the groups. “The founders of the public toilets associated with private companies were kicked out of business, fearing for their lives. That is how youth groups took over the toilet business," said the official seeking anonymity. In October last year, rival group clashed again over control of CBD toilets. Police again used tear gas to disperse them. The former City Hall official said many youth groups "awarded" the toilets were angered by the NMS takeover. “Of course, the youths groups will resist the takeover by NMS because free toilets won't give them any money. NMS has not yet announced how the toilets will be managed.. It is not clear how NYS will manage the facilities free of charge since the Sh10 fee is used to maintain the toilets and keep the environment clean. (Edited by V. Graham)