Succession battles in two agencies in the Roads Ministry headed by Cabinet Secretary James Macharia (pictured) have taken a nasty trajectory with candidates launching high-octane onslaughts against each other. Corridors has learned that part of the schemes includes financing smear campaigns against each. In one of the lucrative agencies at least four engineers are seeking the top position. One of the candidates, who has the backing of two MPs — one from Northeastern and another from North Rift — has pulled a bad one on his main competitors who now feel short-changed. *** A senior Judiciary staff member is in the eye of a storm after he is said to have fenced off a road reserve and planted trees. Attempts by the residents, including village elders and administration, have all not borne fruit as the man, who is always in an inebriated state, has been dismissing them with contempt. The man boasts that he knows the law. He is said to be intimidating locals by saying that they can take him away and he will still influence how justice will be served in regards to the encroachment on the road reserve. A source in the know now says it is only a matter of time before the residents take the law into their lands and bring down the fence to put the man to shame. *** Politics is all about interests, so they say. This is a saying that is applying to a section of MPs in the current  Parliament. While they attack each other so viciously while in public, something interesting goes on in private. Corridors has been told of a section of MPs who read from different scripts and then stream to the private office of a wealthy colleague of theirs for handouts. A mole aware of the happenings, said the politicians of all stripes of parties flock to office of the MP from Rift Valley seeking all manner of assistance. **** Three days ago Corridors of Power told you of a 'super chairman' in the Energy sector who is said to holding brief for some powerful businessmen and out on a mission to mortgage the company to a private investor. Now the man is said to be in panic mode after his wicked plans were exposed. Even though he has retreated on the mission that would have seen the taxpayer-owned company devalued, he is said to be bullish that at some point he will revive the plan. The man is said to be keen to use the transition period, set to kick in as the 2022 campaigns start, to execute the plan.