A total of 287 students who sat the 2020 KCSE examination will not receive their results after being over cheating. Announcing the results on Monday, Education CS George Magoha said that there was clear evidence that 287 students were involved in cheating. “Out of the 287, 211 of them had unauthorised material in the examinations room… mobile phones were 45,” Magoha said. The CS said that the examination papers are secure papers and once opened before the right time, they can be detected. Magoha added that investigations are still ongoing regarding the cases of impersonation, collusion and double scripts among the students. He said schools were given their results this year. “These candidates are very lucky because otherwise, we would have perhaps canceled about twenty other schools…we have given them the benefit of doubt but we continue to check the results, for now, they are getting their results but if we get a compelling one, we shall go and appeal to the president so that we can cancel that result.” This is a different case from the step that was taken during the release of the 2020 KCPE results, where the president pardoned those who were caught cheating. During the address, TSC CEO Nancy Macharia asked teachers to avoid involvement in exams cheating, saying the commission will not support any form of exam malpractice. Macharia said that the commission was disappointed by the reports of cheating, where its teachers were involved in opening the examination papers before the time and screenshotting them before sharing with others. “We are very disappointed by this report especially when they involve professional teachers. Teaching is a noble profession and we should uphold the ethics of this profession,” Macharia said. She said that one of the senior teachers whose phone was recovered with screenshots of examination papers will be taken through the disciplinary process by the commission. In the released exams, the 2020 candidates performed better, compared to the previous year. The CS said that all the 747,161 students who sat for their paper will be absorbed in universities, colleges as well as the Tvet institutions. Magoha said that 893 students scored As in the 2020 exams, compared to 627 recorded As in 2019 Also, 143 149 students scored C+ out of 747,171 representing 19.03 per cent of the students.