Poor KCSE exam results at Boronyi Mixed Secondary in Kiogoro, Nyaribari Chache have attracted the ire of area MP Richard Tong'i. Of the 22 candidates at Boronyi, nine had a mean grade of D, 12 had D- (minus) and the last one scored an E. Top performers in English and Kiswahili had D (plain). The majority had D- (minus) in the two subjects. In Biology all but two candidates scored D- (minus) and Es. In Chemistry, all candidates had E grades. The top candidate in History and Government had a B- (minus) while the rest scored D-. In Geography, one candidate had D (plain) and the rest had Es. The test results for Christian Religious Education were 18 D- and 4 D (plain). Three candidates had Bs in Agriculture and the majority scored an average of C. In Business Studies, most students scored D and D- (minus). Principal Happiness Patience gave phone instructions for journalists to be kicked out of the school in line with orders by the Ministry of Health to stem the Covid-19 pandemic. She had initially asked the Chemistry teacher on the phone how security guards had allowed the press into the school compound even after Education CS George Magogha gave firm orders against such visits. The duty teacher dismissed as fake the copy of the school's examination results the journalists had in their possession. "If you look at it keenly you would realise it lacks the signature of the principal and that in itself tells you it is fake," he told journalists. At the school's notice board was pinned a copy of the same results. MP Tong'i described the school's principal as a joker and called for her transfer. "It is sad that this is all we can reap after all the investments we have done at the school. It begs questions on her seriousness to lead a learning institution," he said. The MP visited the local Ministry of Education office to seek answers on the school's performance. "The quick solution is a transfer out for her so that she can pave way for the school to rise again," he said. At Rianyanyabera Secondary in Bomachoge Borabu, there was also little celebration. The school principal was holed up in a meeting with his staff analysing their performance in the examinations. He sent a staff member to tell the journalists he could not come out to see them as the "meeting could stretch into late hours of the day". The school had a 1.8 mean score, with the top two candidates scoring D (plain). The 30 candidates at the school who sat the examination scored Es in Biology and Chemistry. In Mathematics, only two of the candidates scored D- (minus) while the rest had Es. 