ODM leader Raila Odinga has condemned the use of police to mete violence on voters in the Bonchari and Juja parliamentary by-elections. He said such happenings must stop. The AU envoy pointed an accusing finger at senior government officials for using their positions to abuse police powers. Raila told off the government functionaries for turning the election arena into “an avenue to pursue imaginary and short-legged political interests.” He described the events in the by-elections as an “arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries.” The ODM boss warned the officers against taking for granted the peaceful co-existence post-2018 handshake. “The peaceful coexistence must not be taken for granted by some rogue elements wanting to confuse the handshake for an excuse to erode our hard-earned liberties,” Raila said. Police took over the Juja tallying centre at Mang’u High school on Tuesday night, kicking out politicians who were following vote counting. IEBC reported that tallying was disrupted by a group of individuals led by Kiambu governor James Nyoro, making it impossible for the process to proceed. The events prompted the police to take charge of the tallying centre and restore order. ODM stalwarts complained of police harassment in the Bonchari election, with reports cops holed up party’s Treasurer Timothy Bosire (ex Kitutu Masaba MP). There were also reports of police raids at Kisii Governor James Ongwae residence. DP William Ruto's UDA also complained of intimidation targeting its candidates, officials, and agents. Raila said the incidents were unnecessary as ‘an election process is an opportunity for the voters to express their will at the ballot.’ “Security forces exist to serve the people and not the interests of those out to conduct political experiments,” the ODM leader said in a statement on Wednesday. ODM’s Pavel Oimeke – former EPRA director-general, bagged the Bonchari MP vote while UDA's Francis Muraya won in Rurii ward. Raila congratulated Oimeke saying the win in the just concluded by-election was a clear demonstration of the unwavering support and love for ODM. "Governor Ongwae, the Kisii ODM team, the Abagusii community and the entire family of ODM, kazi mzuri!" he tweeted.