Nine Syrian crew members stranded aboard a cargo ship in Kenyan territorial waters off Mombasa for two years are likely to go home soon. Transport CAS Wavinya Ndeti on Wednesday said she will handle the problem after learning of it earlier that day.` “We are trying to resolve that,” she said, adding that soon the crew members will be heading home. She spoke after inspecting construction works at the new Kenya Maritime Authority Tower, which is 94 per cent complete and expected to open in August. Ndeti and KMA head of commercial shipping John Omingo said the Sh2 billion tower will house many government agencies dealing with the blue economy. It will be easier to solve problems and help stranded sailors. “It will be a one-stop shop where all government services will be available,” the CAS said. The MV Jinan docked at the Mombasa port in October 2019 and offloaded construction materials from Russia. The ship has since been at the channel awaiting instructions from the ship's initial. They never came. The sailors were abandoned without pay, food or basic provisions. For about two years it has been anchored one kilometre off Mombasa. If they leave the ship for good, they forfeit their three years of wages. The crew cannot go ashore due to Covid-19 restrictions and immigrations rules. The crew initially numbered 18 but nine gave up and went home after their families bought air tickets. The nine have been surviving on handouts from Mission to Seafarers Rev Moses Muli. He has been taking them food, water, clothing and basic supplies. “If they leave the ship, the risk losing the wages they are owed which go up to three years back,” Muli told the Star. Ship's cook Fares Sahuan sailed to Turkey, Romania and Russia before getting stuck at Mombasa. “I have been away from my family for three years now. I have a small child whom I have not seen all that time,” Sahuany said. Muli said many ship owners purposely leave their crew members to suffer for long, pushing them to their limit so they quit and abandon the ship. Then the owners do not have to pay wages. A Mombasa court ordered the ship sold after the nine crew members somehow managed to file a lawsuit. The ship was sold to an Indian for Sh58 million, which has been deposited Chief officer Mohammed Hassan said they have had to make do with empty words from the previous Lebanese owners for the sake of their families. “We see some light at the end of the tunnel,” Hassan said. “We got orders from the court and there is some money which we hope we will be paid with," he said. Of the Sh58 million, Sh33 million is supposed to go to paying accrued port charges, salaries and wages for the nine crew members. The money was said to have been deposited on April 16 but the crew members are yet to be paid. “We do not understand why,” Muli said. He said promises are made every day and the waiting makes the Syrian crew members even more anxious. Hassan and his crewmates said they have learnt to believe only what they see, not promises. “We have heard too many lies for too long," the chief officer said. "It is hard to believe anything now." (Edited by V. Graham)