The Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) has accused bread makers of deceiving consumers. A statement from the competition watchdog following investigations established unfair and misleading market conduct by the actors. Top on the list was failure by manufacturer to provide manufacturing dates on bread wrappers in the prescribed format with others omitting the applicable month in the expiry dates. This, according to CAK exposes consumers to multiple risks including consumption of expired products. They have also been cited for failing to provide the weight of their bread products and ingredients. In a growing trend, several manufacturers are said to be marketing their bread products as fortified, without providing specifics in terms of nutrients or ingredients used. ''They market products as fortified to simply earn a premium without giving necessary specifics. This amounts to conning consumers,'' the regulator said. According to the regulator, such actions amount to making false and misleading representations to consumers of goods and services and are in contravention of sections of the Competition Act. ''Further, the bread manufacturers, were not adhering to product information standards as prescribed by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS),” CAK said. CAK director general Wang’ombe Kariuki said manufacturers have no choice to selectively adhere to laws. The bakers have been asked to take remedial measures including compliance with requirements such as providing a list of ingredients and the net weight of products in grams. Further, the manufacturers are required to legibly print the day and month the product was manufactured on the wrapper and correctly indicate the expiry date of the bread by adjusting the information on the wrappers to ‘Best Before’ instead of ‘Sell By’. They must equally clearly specify the vitamins and minerals used in the fortification of their bread. The CAK is expected to continuously undertake spot-checks to establish compliance with all the directives.