The race for the Football Kenya Federation Premier League title took a dramatic twist after KCB thumped Bandari 3-0 at Utalii Grounds on Sunday to dislodge Tusker from the apex of the log. The bankers' emphatic triumph seemed unlikely at first, with the visitors looking a more organised side in the initial minutes of the game. William Wadri should have put Bandari in front in the 5th minute but a miserable first touch cost him the opportunity to bask in glory. In the 9th minute, Bernard Onyango thwarted Reagan Otieno's menacing advance into the area David Simiyu came on the end of Reagan Otieno's cross to put the bankers in front in the 16th minute. Otieno whipped the ball into the area for Simiyu to tap in after dashing up the left channel and pulling off a cheeky stunt on full-back Atariza Amai whom he left on the ground gasping for breath. The goal was a shot in the arm of the bankers who launched menacing successive inroads into the docker's territory, with both Alembi and Brian Ndenga coming sniffing at goal. And in the 23rd minute, Henry Onyango squandered what appeared to have been the best scoring chance in the game when he fired wide with only Ndikumana to beat. A minute later, Harun doubled KCB's advantage with a rasping shot that left Ndikumana dazzled in goal and counting losses. Sensing a further thumping, Bandari tactician Casa Mbungo tinkered his line up in the 30th minute to seal the palpable defensive loopholes, bringing on Umaru Kasumba for Brian Otieno. Kasumba had a brilliant chance to pull one back for the dockers in the 41st minute, but his resultant header from Abdalla Hassan's corner kick flew inches over the crossbar. Mbungo’s halftime pep talk must have been effective given the dockers emerged from the tunnel a rejuvenated side. The coastal side began exhibiting crisp and neatly strung passes that pinned the bankers in their own half. The pressure was piling on Zedekiah Otieno's charges and Baraki Badi was the casualty when he picked a yellow card in the 59th minute after an attempt to prevent Benjamin Mosha's advance into the area proved disastrous. And in the 63rd minute, Mbungo made further changes that saw Guelord Mwamba and Darius Msagha replace Danson Chetambe and Mosha. With time running out, Otieno effected a double substitution to consolidate the lead, bringing on Derrick Otanga, Michael Oduor and Martin Nderitu for Simiyu, Onyango and Reagan. Just five minutes to full-time, Derrick Otanga hammered the final nail into the dockers casket after stabbing Oduor's cross into the net. The win has fired KCB to the summit of the log with 46 points, one above Tusker. Bandari remain rooted in fifth with 27 points. Elsewhere, Mathare United and Nzoia Sugar played out a two-all draw at Sudi Stadium Bungoma.   