Patients admitted to the Kenyatta National Hospital-Othaya Annex will take home an avocado, mango, banana or tree tomato seedling for planting upon discharge. Parents of newborn babies at the facility will also be given a tree seedling to plant on their behalf. KNH board chairman George Ooko said trees will also be planted at the facility. "We have come up with a unique concept to plant trees and have a nursery here. So every patient who recovers and as they are leaving the hospital, they will be given a seedling to plant at home," he said. Ooko, who spoke at the facility on Friday during the launch of a tree planting drive dubbed tree for health, said if the programme is successful at the facility, then it might be rolled out in the entire country. The fruit tree seedlings are a donation from the Lotto Foundation, World Wildlife Fund and Ahadi Kenya Trust. Other indigenous trees will also be planted in hospitals. About 500 trees were planted at the hospital during the launch. Ahadi Kenya Trust CEO Stanley Kamau, who is also a board director at KNH, said he proposed the idea after realising there was some land at the hospital which could be greened and promote food and nutritional security. He said children born at the hospital will leave the facility with a fruit seedling. "This is so that as they grow, they will always remember that they were at KNH-Othaya and because we are giving good services here, we want people to always remember the hospital," he said. The trees are expected to mature in about two years and will provide the hospital with fruits. He recommended that the programme be duplicated in other health and learning institutions that have land for such projects. Lotto Foundation CEO Wangari Mwaura said the programme is one of the company’s conservation projects. "Othaya was a different concept because we have never done the project in a hospital before. This new idea whereby you give a recovered patient or a newborn a tree will give the child as they grow up,  a sense that they need to nurture and conserve the environment," she said. She called on other corporates to take part and start doing projects that will help conserve the environment and mitigate the effects of climate change. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe, who graced the occasion, lauded the project, saying it will boost the beautification and regenerate the environment. Noting that trees are critical in community wellness, the CS said urban tree cover is fast shrinking, denying those living in such areas a vital resource. "It is unique as it is gratifying that the hospital's administration plans to give each patient a tree seedling to plant at home upon discharge," he said. "This must be the only hospital on earth that gives tree seedlings to patients and newborn babies’ parents to go and plant for that baby after being discharged," he said. He expressed his gratitude that the hospital has made it their mission to combat threats posed by climate change through planting trees, saying this will greatly help in improving tree cover in the country. -Edited by SKanyara