Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o has banned the cutting down of trees, especially by charcoal merchants. Speaking on Wednesday after launching a tree-planting campaign in the city, Nyong'o directed that those flouting the directive must prepare to face the law. He said the campaign will ensure 30 million trees are planted within two years. Nyong'o said the initiative was in line with his manifesto, where he pledged to have at least 1 million trees planted in the county every year. “We are here to spearhead this campaign by planting 30,000 trees to increase the tree cover and green the city,” he said. Equity Bank also sponsored the launch by donating  30,000 seedlings that were planted along the Kicomi, Kenya breweries corridor along Pamba road. Last month, they donated 25,000 tree seedlings which we planted at Songor in Muhoroni. The governor said environmental conservation was a crucial development issue that must be given priority. “No development project can flourish in a poorly conserved and broken-down eco-system,” he said. Nyong'o said it was for this reason that the Department of  Water, Environment and Climate Change has been running a well-coordinated tree planting campaign. Environment degradation is a grave matter, not only in Kisumu but across the globe. “We are racing against time to increase our forest cover from the estimated one per cent to the required 10 per cent,”  Nyong'o said. To achieve this, the governor directed that each family in Kisumu must dedicate at least 10 per cent of its land to afforestation. “Our sub county, ward and village administrators must ensure this is implemented,” he said. “There is an urgent need to gazette more of our forests, notably Kajulu, Nyatigo and Koru.” Currently, only Koguta and Karateng’ forests are gazetted. “I  wish to appeal to more individuals, corporate entities and non-governmental organizations to join us in this campaign,”  Nyong'o said. He said the county targets schools, churches, mosques, temples and colleges in campaigns. Nyong'o also appealed to the residents to give President Uhuru Kenyatta and his entourage a hearty welcome during the Madaraka celebrations. “This is a national function which is coming at a time we are battling the covid-19 pandemic. Kindly keep safe,” he said. Nyong'o said that because of Covid-19, only 3,000 people would be allowed at the Jomo Kenyatta International stadium in Mamboleo. “The rest of us will be allowed to follow the celebrations from screens that will be mounted at the Kirembe grounds in Otonglo, at the Moi stadium and Mowlem near Nyamasaria, ” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris