Baringo Teachers’ unions and security officials clash over pushing of teachers to serve in the banditry-prone areas amid the ongoing operation. Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) and the Kenya Post Primary Education Teachers (KUPPET) on Sunday came out strongly to demand withdrawal of all teachers out of the insecurity zones. “Education is not a matter of life and death and as a union we are not ready to lose any of our members to the deadly bullets of bandits” KNUT Baringo branch Executive Joshua Cheptarus said. Currently, learning is yet to resume in about ten schools; Chemoroing’ion, Arabal, Kapndasum, Embosos, Kasiela, Chebinyiny and Sossionte primary schools, also Kiserian, Sinoni and Nyimbei primary and secondary schools in Baringo South sub-county. Teachers and students are worried to attend the schools for learning owing to the recent bandits attacks, stealing of livestock and ongoing security government operation to flash out the notorious armed bandits. Last Friday, hundreds of residents among them school-going children fled their homes after armed bandits attacked Chemorong’ion, Baringo South around 5pm and made away with 74 head of cattle. Earlier in March 25, a 65-year old man Gabriel Lekichep was shot dead and a woman Jackline Lekidogo, 36 were seriously injured with her two and a half-year old child. In April 15, a Kenya Defense Forces (KDF) soldier was shot dead at a close-range in fierce exchange of fire a few meters from their Mukutani camp, raising more fears among the civilians. This happens despite the areas being home for contingent of heavily armed security officers including KDF, General Service Unit (GSU), Rapid Deployment Unit (RDU) and the Kenya Forest Service wardens. Cheptarus, however said they will lobby teachers against teaching in insecure areas of the county if their safety is not yet guaranteed. He was backed by the KUPPET Baringo branch Chairman David Kibet and the treasurer Fanuel Kipsoi who further ordered the Teachers Service Commission (TSC) to consider withdrawing its teachers immediately from those bandits infested areas. “In fact there is no matter of discussion here. If the government cannot intervene to finish the menace of banditry, then we cannot whosoever allow our teachers to work there” Kipsoi said. Baringo County Commissioner Henry Wafula urged the teachers to go and teach without any fear for their lives. “Because as it is now we are committed as government to provide security to individual teachers, learners and our schools in the insecurity-prone areas” he said. Wafula, however assured residents their security saying enough security officers have already been deployed to quell the bandits and ensure calm in the area. “Although pursuing bandits is such a tedious exercise, so far we have managed to arrest two, seized some 70 guns and recovered 190 stolen animals” he said. Being backed by the county police commander Robinson Ndiwa, the commissioner said the culprits shall soon be arraigned in court to face criminal charges. Baringo South Member of Parliament (MP) Charles Kamuren condemned the series of attacks in his constituency blaming the government for laxity. “It is so shameful that our people are having no peace, thousands of children and their teachers are out of school under the watch of the government” Kamuren said. He said government is endowed with weapons, tax payers’ money and the capability to protect peoples’ lives and property but it is failing. On his side, Rift Valley Regional Commissioner George Natembeya breathed hope to the locals saying everything is under control. He vowed to wage a tough war against the bandits until they are all gotten rid of. “This time round we can’t leave a stone unturned” he said. The banditry even escalated further after a peace meeting held at a Marigat hotel, where the pokot leaders led by Tiaty MP William Kamket and West Pokot Governor Professor John Lonyangapuo requested the government to lift the operation and give 30 days to engage the residents and help end banditry. Also present at the meeting were Senator Gideon Moi, Baringo Woman Rep Gladwel Cheruiyot and Governor Stanley Kiptis.