Seven primary schools from Meru will participate in exchange programmes with their Chinese counterparts following a partnership by the county government and the Chinese province of Hunan. The programme is expected to provide exposure and expand knowledge for pupils in Meru as the government strives to achieve the best education standards as promised in the vision of ‘Making Meru Great’. Deputy Governor Titus Ntuchiu and Deputy Director of Foreign Affairs of Hunan Provincial People’s Government, Liu Qifeng, witnessed a virtual signing ceremony of a friendship agreement between primary schools in Meru and top primary schools in Hunan. During the signing, the schools from Hunan were represented by Headmasters, Cheng Yi,  Zhu Aichao, Tang Dongmei and Deputy Headmasters Wu Qingfang and  Liyi. The Meru schools which were also represented by their Head Teachers include Miune Primary School in Igembe North, Akui Primary School in Igembe South, Kathelwa Primary School Igembe Central. Others are Gatuatine Primary School in Imenti Central, Kionyo Primary School in Imenti South, Gakando Primary School in Buuri, and Mwithanga Primary School in Nkomo Ward, Tigania West. Ntuchiu said Meru county government,  intends to work closely with the Ministry of Education to ensure learners in primary schools across Meru achieve maximum benefits of the agreement, which will include exchange programs. The deputy governor thanked Duang Hongliang, the Director for Africa-China Culture and Art Gallery, whom he said has been working closely with Governor Murungi Kiraitu’s administration to make into reality, the relationship with Hunan Province and the milestones being achieved for the people of Meru. The signing was also witnessed by Meru County Executives Koome Miriti (Sports, Youth Affairs and Culture) and Linner Nkirote Kailanya (Education, Gender and Social Development). In December last year, Meru governor and Xu Zhengxian, the Director-General of the Office of Foreign Affairs in Hunan Province of the People’s Republic of China signed a letter on the intent of friendship/cooperation between the people and authorities of Meru and Hunan Province. The agreement is aimed at building friendly relations and collaboration between the two jurisdictions to promote education, trade, agriculture, tourism, sports, art, cultural exchange and development among other areas of cooperation.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris