Farmers from Nyanza region have petitioned President Uhuru Kenyatta ahead of Madaraka Day celebrations to make known sugar industry reforms. Kenya Association of Sugarcane and Allied Products and Kenya National Alliance of Sugarcane Farmers Organisation in a petition dated May 24, and signed by chairman Charles Atyang Atyang, noted that the performance of the industry has not been impressive. The farmers said the industry's performance has been poor. They noted that among the reasons for the poor performance is disillusionment of farmers many of whom have abandoned cultivation of cane leading to severe cane shortage especially in previous years. The farmers also requested the President to find alternative ways that will see Nzoia, Sonny Sugar, Chemelil and Muhoroni operating so that the farmers can sell their sugarcane to sustain their lives. They regretted that many court cases, some lodged by political leaders, have encumbered efforts to revitalise/privatise or lease government millers as they blocked processes of privatisation, debts write off and leasing. The farmers noted that because of this, there was need for a way out of this situation to free the government millers and to enable them move forward. "We petition your excellency to invoke the powers bestowed in the Presidency including emergencies, mercy and kindness that you may find most suitable alternative to get the three sugar companies operating," they said. The farmers in their petition also want debts write offs to government-owed sugar mills be effected to day. "That your excellency directs the sugar pricing committee to embark on the exercise of reduction of costs of sugarcane and sugar for the purpose of competitiveness." "In view of Comesa safeguards expiring in February 2022, the cost of production of our sugarcane and sugar must be reduced substantially to enable competitiveness." They also want the President to direct fast tracking of the sugar Act suitable for a liberalised sugar industry together with its related regulations. The farmers also want the re-instalment of the sugar development levy with increased allocation to sugarcane development. They noted that a majority of small holder farmers who supply 90 per cent of sugarcane to the millers are economically weak and need financial credit support from funding such as the Sugar Development fund which was unfortunately abolished in 2017. "We at the same time petition that the government tightens surveillance to stern irregular sugar imports especially through porous border with neighbouring countries,"noted Atyang. He said large amounts and untaxed sugar, substandard unaccustomed  sugar was easily entering the Kenyan market at prices much below the cost of production of the Kenyan sugar thus destabilising the markets. -Edited by SKanyara 