Migori Governor Okoth Obado has moved to control the assembly by pushing through changes in the leadership. Obado decamped from the ODM and spearheaded a move to antagonise ODM leader Raila Odinga as the Luo political kingpin through the People Democratic Movement. On Wednesday, speaker Boaz Okoth and Obado’s close political ally announced changes that set aside South Sakwa MCA Ouma Ngoro as the majority leader to be replaced by East Sakwa MCA Nestroy Owiyo. South Kamagambo MCA Kevins Keke was also replaced as the majority whip by his East Kamagambo counterpart Shadrack Nyawade. “Out of 41 MCAs from the majority ODM party, 27 signed for the removal of the two,” Okoth said in a sitting on Wednesday afternoon. However, immediately after the changes, Keke and Ngoro led several MCAs to rubbish the decision as a move to instil leadership that is sympathetic to the PDD party and Governor Obado. “We only heard of this decision on Wednesday morning. We were never involved and can categorically say this decision has been pushed through by MCAs who are sympathetic to PDP,” Ngoro said. Keke said they will resist the changes in all avenues and will never allow the assembly to be used to propagate the PDP agenda in Migori. The two said they were never given notice or alerted of the change which they said was done clandestinely. Their sentiments were shared by Muhuru Bay MCA Hevron Maira and South Kanyamkago MCA Graham Kagali who said the decision made was set to undermine ODM in Migori. “The party will not be taken for a ride not only in the assembly but also in Migori county. We have issues as MCAs on loans, car grant and management issues of funds. We will tackle to revert these changes all the way to Orange House,” Kagali vowed. In a quick rejoinder, the two newly appointed leaders Nyawade and Owiyo said the changes were done through the ODM party MCAs and insisted there was no PDP or Obado’s hand in the change. “The two were changed because their work ethic and passing through assembly agenda was not good,” Nyawade said. Obado has been at loggerheads with the ODM stalwarts after he decamped from the ODM party a decision that has already created a rift among the Luo Council of Elders after a section led by Nyandiko Ong’adi endorsed him and his move to create more democratic space in the county. Within the last month, Obado had already separately met with Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala and Kericho Governor Stephen Sang at his Rapogi home in a bid to form an alliance with ANC party leader Musalia Mudavadi and Deputy President William Ruto. Obado has already started the main grassroots mobilisation for the party in Migori and Homa Bay counties already meeting aspirants, registering members and courting opinion leaders.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris