More than 2.4 million Huduma Cards are ready and awaiting collection, Government Spokesperson, Cyrus Oguna has said. He said only 200,000 cards had been collected yet the owners of the ready cards had been informed that their documents were due for collection. Speaking at Molo Technical and Vocational Training College during the weekend, Oguna observed that Kenyans liked postponing issues until the last minute when they would be jamming Huduma centres and chiefs offices. Oguna said applicants were receiving two messages with the initial one asking those who had registered to identify the places where they would prefer their cards delivered. “It has been some time since people registered for the Huduma Namba and definitely some have been transferred or moved locations, that is why the first message is enquiring where the applicants would like to collect their cards,” he said. He observed that thousands of people were yet to respond to the first message to pave way for the disbursement of their cards. Oguna added that the second message was to tell the applicants their cards had been delivered to their desired destinations but still, even those who received them had not picked the cards at their local chiefs’ offices. The Government Spokesperson also urged the youth to exploit the Ajira Digital platform saying that they could work abroad from the comfort of their homes. Huduma Namba was launched by President Uhuru Kenyatta in November 2013 but actual registration was done in 2019 by the National Integrated Identity Management System (NIIMS). The unique number is aimed at enhancing access and delivery of Government Services to all Kenyans. Oguna urged Kenyans to quickly respond to the first message and collect the document to avoid the last-minute rush. About the delayed payment of people working under the National Hygiene Program popularly referred to as Kazi Mtaani, he called for patience and assured those involved their payment was being processed. “It is true that the payment has delayed for two weeks the government urges the beneficiaries to be patience and faith, the programme has been going on smoothly for over one year and those involved must know that payment is assured,” he said. Oguna was on a two-day tour of the country during which he inspected several government projects among them the upcoming Nakuru Airport in Lanet.