More than 30 Primary and nursery schools have been closed in Nakuru Town West Sub-County for alleged illegal operation. Affected pupils have been placed in public schools in the area. The illegal institutions which include three primary schools and 27 nursery schools were closed during a two-day operation led by the area Deputy County Commissioner, Michael Lesimam and chiefs in the area started on Wednesday. Speaking at one of the schools that were shut down, Flower Kids Academy, the administrator said his team in collaboration with the State Department of Education targetted schools that did not have National Education Management Information System (NEMIS) number, Ministry of Education Code and the Kenya National Examinations Council code. He observed that enrolling children to illegal schools was tantamount to denying them the right to education especially in the era of Competency Based Curriculum (CBC). “These schools are wasting the children’s time because unlike in the past when children were being tested on final examination, CBC is accumulating 40 per cent of the child’s overall score through continuous assessment while 60 per cent of the marks will be tested at the end of each level,” said. He wondered how the school which is goes up to grade three would submits the continuous assessment marks to the system without a NEMIS number and an examination code from Knec. Lesimam said it was very unfortunate because the children will not get their grades for all the time that they will be in the unregistered schools. The team was shocked to learn that some of the illegal primary schools did not know that there was a national examination for Grade Three commencing today. “They do not care to check the Ministry of Education school calendar and in any case it is useless to have the children write the examinations because they have nowhere to submit the results without a NEMIS number,” he observed. Lesimam said the affected children will be placed in government schools to enable those sitting examinations to do so as fast as possible. He added that the children had a right to enjoy the full benefits of the Free and Compulsory Education being offered by the government. The administrator said owners of the illegal schools would be arrested and investigations conducted to identify why most of the had reopened their facilities despite being shut in 2019 during a national swop of badly constructed and unregistered school. He observed that illegal schools were common in low income settlement areas y people purporting to help the needy. “The government is investigating this matter to find out if these operators have been receiving donor funds, their accounts are also going to be audited,” said Lesimam. He urged parents to always run and background check on schools before enrolling their children.