Kenya has urged the Covax facility to divert money intended to acquire AstraZeneca to the acquisition of other vaccines that are readily available for use in developing and middle-income countries. “We are of the opinion that there is an urgent need to redirect these funds to other vaccine manufacturers with the capacity to supply us with the vaccines. Specifically, Johnson and Johnson would be the best alternative since it comes with the added advantage of being a single dose regime, hence reducing logistical challenges,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. The CS also called for a resolution to vaccine inequity to ensure access for all. He said there is a need for diversification of the Covax facility by including additional manufacturers into its portfolio. “We must step up regional and local manufacturing of vaccines by facilitating and fast-tracking regulatory and prequalification for local production, especially in Africa in WHO processes,” Kagwe said. Kagwe was speaking during the 74th World Health Assembly virtual meeting. He also called for technology and knowledge transfer on new Covid-19 vaccines, diagnostics and therapeutics in all parts of the world with the World Health Organization assistance. “Countries must desist from engaging in discriminatory conduct and accept all valid certificates for vaccines approved by WHO for emergency use,” the CS added. As of Monday, 954,515 Kenyans had received their first dose of the AstraZeneca  vaccine. Of the number, 164,053 are healthcare workers, 150,303 are teachers, 80,718 are security officers, 289,900 are people aged over 58 years while 269,541 are members of the public. Kenya was to receive 24 million doses of the AZ vaccine through the Covax facility at a cost of Sh360 million but has so far received just 1.02 million doses. This prompted the ministry to revise the vaccination schedule by an additional four weeks. The second consignment of the doses under the Covax facility failed to come due to global supply chain uncertainties as a result of India battling the deadliest second wave However, the ministry is expected to start administering the second dose any day this week, with vaccinating centres across the country ordered to remain open this weekend in readiness for the exercise. Currently, there are less than 100,000 doses left from the 1,120,000 doses received in March from the Covax facility and an additional 100,000 doses from the government of India. “Further from our reorganisation and planning, we intend to mop up doses of vaccines countrywide that have not been used so far in this first phase. The cumulative available doses will enable the country to start off our second dose vaccination by end this week,” Kagwe said. The government has also received an additional 130,000 doses from the Democratic Republic of Congo. The vaccines from DRC arrived in Nairobi on Thursday morning. DRC has said it is unable to administer about 1.3 million doses before expiry on June 24. Edited by A.N