The Independent Electoral Boundaries Commission on Monday distributed  voting material across all polling centres in Bonchari, Kisii ahead of voting on Tuesday. At least 52,995 voters are expected to turn up to cast their vote to pick their MP. The seat was left vacant  in November last year, following the death of  MP Oroo Oyioka. Oyioka's wife, Teresa Bitutu is among the 13 candidates eyeing the seat. Stakes are high for candidates  Zebedeo Opore (Jubilee), Pavel Oimeke (ODM)) and Bitutu. Bitutu is running on the Deputy President William Ruto affiliated party, the United Democratic Alliance, UDA. Other candidates include former Woman Rep Mary Otara (United Green Party), Jonah Ondieki ( New Democrats)  Victor Omanwao (People’s Economic Development (PED), Charles Mogaka- Progressive Party of Kenya (PPK), David Ogega-(Kenya Social Congress), Kevin Mosomi-PDU, and Eric Oigo- National Reconstruction Alliance. At the IEBC tallying Centre in Suneka, Returning Officer Benson Ambuko urged the electorate to turn up in large numbers from 6am  to vote. He said security has been beefed up to ensure peaceful voting. "For now everything has been put in place and that is why we are urging every voter registered here to go and vote," he told  journalists during a media briefing. On Saturday, Nyanza regional Commissioner Magu Mutindika said he had received intelligence of a possible flare-up of violence during voting day. He said there was a van said to be carrying machetes. By Friday, at least three suspects had been arrested. Bonchari has four wards - Bomariba, Bokeira  Bogiakumu  and Riana. In Bomariba, there are 9,039 voters, while Bogiakumu has 14,338 candidates. At Bomorenda, there are 14,532 voters while Riana has 15,715 voters. Two front line candidates, Opore and Oimeke hail from Riana area while Bitutu controls Bomorenda. Campaign teams for all the candidates said they expect nothing short of peaceful polls. The campaigns, they said, had gone well except for a few incidents.