Charles Owino, the former spokesman of the National Police Service, has been moved to a new unit. Inspector General Hillary Mutyambai transferred Owino to the Kenya National Focal Point on Small Arms and Light Weapons as deputy director. The ex-spokesman was moved on May 8.  The police service is identifying a new officer for the job. Insiders told the Star some of the potential candidates to replace Owino include deputy spokesman Charles Kosgey and Trans Nzoia commander Fredrick Ochieng. The KNFP was established in 2003 to bring together the government and civil society to manage the proliferation of small arms. Representatives from ministries, civil society and international agencies sit in the committee to coordinating all actions on small arms. The office of the spokesperson is crucial as it carries the weight of image, perception and faith in police operations. Owino has been a towering defender of the police and ensured the top brass provided the morale and the equipment needed for the job. As the country heads to the next elections and referendum campaigns, the new spokesman will be crucial in guarding the image of the service. The changes come two months after Owino announced he was interested in becoming the next governor of Siaya county. His friends in the police service suspect he was moved because of his political ambitions. Owino was in 2015 in charge of security at Kisumu county government, after being moved from Ndhiwa the previous year. Before then, he had served as the Njoro police boss from 2013. Owino was the second director of communication in NPS under the new dispensation, which started in 2012. The Kenya Police and Administration Police Service were put under one command of the IGP in the new system. Past spokespersons for Kenya Police include Jasper Ombati (2004-2009), Erick Kiraithe (2009-2013), Owino (2013), Gatiri Mboroki (2014-2015) then Owino again (2015-2021). Owino served for KPS before being moved to NPS in the same capacity. He declined to comment on the latest developments.  (edited by o. owino)