A Kirinyaga farmer's cooperative is helping members make more money thanks to the acquisition of machines to roast, grind and package their coffee for sale. Mwirua Farmers’ Cooperative Society in Kirinyaga has 14,000 members and received the coffee roaster, grinder and packaging machine from the county government. Cooperative manager George Karimi said members paid for licences from the National Environmental Management Authority and Kenya Bureau of Standards. The society started roasting its coffee in December 2020 and has so far added value to 130 bags, he said. Karimi said the roasted coffee has a guaranteed market from the farmers who agreed during their general meeting to each buy at least 500g of the packaged product. The rest of the coffee is to be sold to local residents through coffee factories and local shops. The cooperative's target is to encourage local consumption of at least 20 per cent of their coffee. The sales would improve the cooperative’s income and payout to farmers. The farmers plan to gradually introduce the value-added coffee to supermarkets and other outlets in and outside the county. The cooperative serves nine coffee factories namely; Kariani, Mitondo, Getuya, Gathabi, Kiaragana, Kiambwe, Rwamuthambi, Riakiania and Ihara. Chairman Geoffrey Kinyua said that the equipment is enabling farmers to add value to lower grades of coffee, hence fetching more money. Kinyua thanked Governor Anne Waiguru for enabling the value addition initiative that is set to turn around farmers' fortunes. He said they plan to also put their roasted coffee in the international market. During the equipment handover ceremony at the cooperative's offices earlier, Waiguru said that value addition is in line with the national government's Big Four Agenda. The governor said the project will go a long way in improving the farmers’ returns from coffee and also encourage local consumption of the beverage. Waiguru said that coffee value addition would also create employment for the youth who are operating the equipment. Many others will get jobs at various stages of the coffee value chain.  (edited by o. owino)