A teacher from Kasevi Primary school in Kivou, Mwingi Central,  was attacked on his way from school by persons he identified. Joseph Mutati, a board of management teacher, becomes the second to be attacked from the same school after another died with her daughter when their house was set ablaze while they were asleep three months ago. The husband of the deceased teacher has since fled home and stays in Mwingi town with his other two children who survived the fire incident as they fear going home since no one was arrested over the incident. Mutati who was attacked on April 26, said he tried defending himself but they overpowered him stabbing him in his left eye with an unknown object. They later robbed him of his two phones and cash. He was rushed to the hospital by well-wishers and was referred to Machakos Level 5 Hospital then later to an eye specialist in PCEA Thogoto, Kikuyu. Mutati was taken to the theatre where his damaged eye was removed. His jaw bone was also broken and he still under medication. The teacher said the lost eye has inconvenienced him as he cannot see as before. He also said he has since been confused following the beating on his head and walking has been a challenge. “I have a young family and I do not know how to fend for them in this condition,” he said. Mutati said he is fearing for his life as the suspects are still at large. Peter Mwendwa, his father, alleged that his son was attacked by hired goons with unknown intentions. Mwendwa alleged that the same perpetrators who set a house on fire three months ago were the same persons who attacked his son. He urged security officers to take action as the suspect has been mentioned severally and also been linked to previous heinous acts. “I urge the national government to intervene as residents are living in fear and we do not know who will be attacked next,” he said. Julius Mutukaa, a resident said the level of insecurity is wanting. He pleaded with TSC to consider employing the attacked teacher permanently under the disability category as he has been rendered disabled. Mutukaa also urged relevant authorities to take action as the suspects are well known. He urged residents to be patient as the government does its work. Mwingi central subcounty deputy police commander Nicholas Mutua said he is aware of the incident and investigations are on top gear to have the culprits apprehended.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris