 Security agencies and civil society groups must firmly deal with perpetrators of defilement, FGM and early marriages in Garissa if the vices are to be eradicated. Gender Chief Administrative Secretary Linah Jebii Kilimo on Tuesday said the county has one of the highest prevalence and only strict enforcement of the law can reduce cases. Kilimo said retrogressive cultural practices and other forms of gender-based violence are criminal acts that call for law enforcement and decisive action from the justice system. “Garissa county is leading on FGM prevalence at 94 per cent. I urge the chiefs and police to work harder and bring all those who perpetrate these vices to book. We have a presidential directive to make sure that we end FGM by 2022,” Kilimo said. She was addressing anti-FGM stakeholders at a Garissa town hotel. “FGM and child marriages are big challenges that continue to violate human rights. There is a need for the Gender Technical Working Group to identify and implement best practice in combating FGM and child marriages in Garissa county,” she said. Garissa Gender executive Zeinab Abdi Digale urged women to take responsibility given they are both the performers and victims of the vice. "It is not men who perform the act against women, yet it is women who suffer from the act again," Digale said. A source who requested not to be named intimated there was a scheme where girls from elsewhere were being ferried to Garissa to undergo female genital mutilation. “The women who perform the cut here are paid a lot of money. Girls are coming to this region to face the cut. We also have those who are taken to the refugee camps or across Somalia for FGM and returned after the exercise,” the source said. Muslim for Human Rights coordinator for Garissa county Abdishukri Jelle said the retrogressive cultural practices and other forms of gender-based violence were criminal acts that must end. He challenged other NGOs to remain steadfast in ending the practices. He said his organisation under the social accountability project was implementing activities in responding and preventing sexual and gender-based violence. Anti-FGM board CEO Bernadette Lolojun and chairperson Agnes Pareiyo were present. The event was sponsored by Unicef and implemented by Womankind Kenya in partnership with the county government of Garissa. Officials from Refugee Consortium, Girlkind Kenya, Kenya Human Rights Commission, Muhuri, Haki na Sheria, National Gender Equality Commission, WOHED, National Police Service and the Judiciary also attended.  Edited by P.O