 Burundi President Evariste Ndayishimiye will be the guest of honour at the Madaraka Day celebrations to be held in Kisumu on Tuesday. State House on Saturday said the visiting head of state will be accompanied by First Lady Angeline Ndayubaha. They will land in Kisumu on Monday for the two-day state visit to Kenya. The Burundian president and his entourage will be received at the Kisumu International Airport. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said Ndayishimiye will then join President Uhuru Kenyatta on his development tour of Kisumu on Monday ahead of the Madaraka Day fete the following day. “President Ndayishimiye, who will be accompanied by the First Lady of the Republic of Burundi, Her Excellency Angeline Ndayubaha, will join President Kenyatta during his tour of the various national government projects in Kisumu county and the larger Nyanza region,” Dena said in a statement on Saturday. According to an itinerary by State House, Uhuru will arrive in Kisumu on Sunday for a development tour ahead of the Tuesday celebrations. During the Visit, Uhuru will officially commission national government projects that are complete, inspect ongoing initiatives and launch new projects. State House said the President will be accompanied by First Lady Margret Kenyatta during his visit to Nyanza region. Margaret and the Burundi First Lady Ndayubaha will be engaged in a number of programmes whose details will be shared with the media on a rolling basis, Dena said. “The President will be joined on the tour by several national and regional leaders among them Opposition leader Raila Odinga, Kisumu Governor Anyang' Nyong'o among others,” Dena said. She said the Madaraka Day celebrations which will be held at the new Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Mamboleo, Kisumu county will abide by the national Covid-19 containment protocols. “The President appeals to the passionate residents of Kisumu city to give the best account of themselves by avoiding situations that may compromise national efforts against the Covid-19 pandemic,” State House said.  Edited by P.O