Police in Garissa have arrested 24 people following weekend unrest caused by rowdy tuk-tuk drivers who were protesting against alleged harassment by traffic cops. Garissa subcounty police commander Joseph Muriuki on Tuesday said 18 of the suspects were charged with various traffic offences while the rest faced charges of assaulting a police officer. A police officer and a tuk-tuk driver exchanged blows during the altercation after the driver resisted arrest. His fellow drivers joined in the fracas. Sensing danger, the traffic police whose uniform was already torn because of the fight fired several shots in the air in a bid to scare away the angry protesters who were baying for his blood. Fellow officers arrived in good time and rescued their colleague. A police handcuff was lost in the melee. Angry drivers later took to the streets and lit bonfires at the famous Kismyau road causing a heavy traffic jam. The drivers claimed the traffic police officers have been extorting money from them. But Muriuki dismissed the claim saying he had not received any complaints regarding the harassment claims. Tuk-tuk operators and boda boda riders say their work has been made difficult by officers who often demand bribes. “Whenever you start working, there are traffic officers and other cops who demand bribes even when you haven’t breached any traffic rules,” tuk-tuk driver Mohamed Ahmed said. The driver said the weekend protest was unfortunate but asked police to be professional in the work, saying some actions by law enforcement officers could be a recipe for chaos. “What happened is regrettable. It should not have gotten into that. Police should learn to work with locals with humility,” Ahmed said. Kassim Abdi, another tuk-tuk driver asked the Inspector General of Police Hillary Mutyambai to order a probe into the conduct of traffic officers in Garissa. “We cannot continue working like this. Imagine every day we must have a token to give out as a bribe to the police officers. Sometimes you are forced to pay or risk facing trumped-up charges,” he said.  Edited by P.O