Living with peace and tranquillity is a divine gift that God has bestowed on human beings. Unfortunately, this divine gift is being threatened by some today and the right granted by God is being taken away from people by oppression and force. In the last week, we have seen that the blood-stained hands of the occupying Zionist regime are once again stained with the blood of innocent children, women, and civilians. This cruel act is being carried out in front of the eyes of the claimants of democracy and human rights, and they have no reaction but silence. This crime has wounded the souls of all peace-loving people around the world. The world's religious leaders are expected not to remain silent in the face of this shameful act and to take effective action following the most fundamental religious teachings, to defend the oppressed and to extinguish the blazing fire of this crime. No free human being can remain silent in the face of blatant oppression, and in the meantime more is expected of religious leaders and cultural figures whose "freedom" is an essential personality trait and characteristic of their social status. It should be remembered that, as the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Khamenei, has said, lasting peace and security in Palestine will only be possible with the return of the displaced and the collective decision of all its inhabitants, including Jews, Christians and Muslims. Therefore, as the chairman of the Council for Policy-Making and Coordination of Religious Dialogue of the Islamic Republic of Iran, who has been working for years to develop knowledge and understanding of religions and consequently, to establish cooperation between them, I invite all religious leaders and cultural figures to condemn the atrocities that are taking place in the land of Palestine and the cradle and origin of their great divine prophets and take a worthy step in fulfilling the religious and human duty for which they are responsible. May God Almighty help us in doing this important work. Abouzar Ebrahimi is the chairman of the policy-making and coordination council for dialogue of religions of the Islamic Republic of Iran