The Ministry of Education has dispatched a team of inspectors to Kakamega School to investigate alleged mistreatment of students and irregular disposal of  property. The officers are investigating claims by parents that the school management has been forcing students, who are sent home for fees but do not have bus fares, to spend nights in the cold with watchmen at the institution's gate. Parents also complained that the school releases suspended students late in the evening. The parents say this forces students from outside Western region to spend the night in the cold with watchmen and they wait for day break to proceed with their journey home. The inspectors are also probing reports of alleged disposal of broken school beds and chairs. On Thursday, Lurambi subcounty director of education Mwangi Kabora confirmed the presence of inspectors at the school. “Yes we have those issues and we have sent in inspectors to find out the true position because they may as well be false,” he told the Star on the phone on Wednesday. “Whenever you hear complaints like those formally reported, we investigate to get the facts.” The officers reported to the school on Tuesday and recorded statements from principal Gerald Orina, his two deputies, the boarding master and a watchman. But the school's board of management chairman Prof Egara Kabaji said he was not aware of the complaints. “I am having a meeting with the board on Friday. As a board, we are not involved in day-to-day running of the school but when such matters arise, we have a right to ask what is happening,” he told the Star on the phone. Kabaji promised to issue a comprehensive response after the meeting. The team is also investigating reported poor grades in internal examinations and alleged poor rapport between the administration and teachers. Kakamega School is a national and model learning institution in the Western region. It is renowned for excellence in curricular and extra-curricular activities, especially in football, rugby, drama and performing arts.  Edited by A.N  