The Mombasa county government has raised the alarm over an increase in the number of stray dogs and cats. County director of veterinary services Musembi Kioko said the region has been reporting at least two cases of dog bites per day, raising fears of a rabies outbreak. Rabies is transmitted to people from infected animal saliva and causes inflammation of the brain in humans and other mammals. The surge in the number of stray dogs has been attributed to the ban on Strychnine, a highly toxic, colourless, bitter, crystalline alkaloid used as a pesticide, particularly for killing small vertebrates such as birds and rodents. Strychnine was banned in 2014 following uproar from animal welfare groups, such as the Kenya Society for the Protection and Care of Animals. Kioko said following the spike in cases of dog bites, they have launched a one-month vaccination campaign targeting at least 3,000 dogs and cats. The annual vaccination campaign began on May 1 in all the six Mombasa subcounties and is expected to end on May 29. By last Saturday, they had already vaccinate d2,634 animals; 687 cats and 1,947 dogs. Kioko said dogs are the biggest transmitters of rabies. “The purpose of vaccinating dogs and cats in Mombasa is because rabies can be passed to humans, mainly through bites, and dogs are the number one transmitters of the virus,” he said. Kioko said that samples taken last month from two dogs turned out positive for the rabies virus. “We have rabies among a few dogs in the county, we took samples from two dogs to our Regional Veterinary lab in Mariakani and they turned out positive,” he said. Kioko said that over the years most positive cases of rabies have been reported in Bamburi, Kisauni and Nyali. He urged pet owners to take their cats and dogs to get vaccinated to protect them from the virus. Kioko said they also vaccinate horses and camels used in the public beaches, saying that they are also susceptible to the disease. Last year, they managed to vaccinate 2,400 cats and dogs in the county compared to 2,600 that were vaccinated in 2019. Financial constraints have hindered their campaign to vaccinate stray dogs within the county in a bid to avert an outbreak of rabies disease in the county, as they only received 3,100 doses of the rabies vaccine.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris