Full-scale operations at the recently launched Lamu Port will begin in July, senior officials at Kenya Ports Authority have said. So far, only two Maersk Shipping Company-operated vessels, MV Seago Bremerhaven and MV Cap Carmel docked at the port during the launch by President Uhuru Kenyatta on May 20. The port, designed to have 32 berths once complete, will handle transhipment cargo for smaller ports along the Indian Ocean. So far, berth one is 100 per cent complete, berth two and three are expected to be ready in July and October. The first three berths cost Kenya Sh40 billion. Maersk Shipping Company, Express Shipping and Logistics Company, CMA-CGM Shipping Company, Pacific International Lines Shipping Company and World Food Programme have shown interest in using the facility. Speaking to the Star, Geoffrey Namadoa, who is in charge of the shipment of cargo-handling equipment from Mombasa Port to Lamu Port, said they are working to ensure efficiency at the new facility. “By the end of June, we shall have finished the installation of cargo-handling equipment at the facility,” Namadoa said. “We are currently preparing to transport more Harbour Mobile Cranes to Lamu, therefore by July, we shall have full-scale operations.” In April and May, KPA moved Rubber Tyred Gantry cranes, skeletal trucks, Kenya Revenue Authority mobile scanners among other port equipment for the official launch. “On Monday, senior KPA officials were also held up in a meeting with World Food Programme officials to see how best they can work together,” Namadoa said. WFP is focused on using the Lamu Port for transportation of food aid meant for South Sudan and Ethiopia, which are sometimes faced with acute hunger. According to maritime experts, the Port will become fully operational when there is cargo in and out of that facility. The facility, which will be mainly for transhipment business, will need cargo from large vessels to be loaded to smaller vessels. KPA is still engaging other shipping companies to start using the facility before the road network into the hinterland is completed for local cargo. “Kenya National Highway Authority is working to finish on the road network so that the Lamu Port will be able to handle local exports and imports,”  Namadoa said. At the same time, KPA said the newly recruited 100 youths from Lamu are still undergoing induction at the facility. The youths, who will be stationed at the facility need to be enlightened more on port operations. Construction workers are also busy working at the second and third berths. Apart from the operationalization of the port in full scale, the KPA management is also working to ensure all the affected fishermen are compensated. Last week, KPA acting managing director Rashid Salim, said plans for the long-awaited compensation for the affected 4,734 fishermen during the construction of the first berth of the port have been finalized. Salim said the compensation programme will commence once the fisher folks provide the bank account details and their lawyers have executed the consent letter required to be filed in court. A total of Sh1, 760, 424,000 shall be utilized to compensate the fishers in cash and for sustainability projects. Once operational, the multi-billion Lamu Port is poised to be the biggest competition for the ports of Salalah in Oman and Durban in South Africa in the transhipment business. Lamu is naturally deep with sheltered harbours, therefore it requires minimal dredging to receive large Post-Panamax vessels. Post-Panama vessels are larger with a capacity of up to 110,000 tonnes of cargo and can carry over 10,000 total equivalent units. The vessels measure between 230m to 270m long with a draft of 17 metres. The Lamu Port berths are 400 metre-long with a draft of 18 metres. Edited by Kiilu Damaris