The Vihiga county assembly has recommended the removal of four county executives from office, citing gross misconduct and failure to honour summons by an ad hoc team. The four are the  Public Service and Administration CEC Pamela Kimwele, Lands and Urban Planning's Paul Mbuni, Kenneth Keseko (Trade) and Amos Kutwa (Health). An ad hoc committee of the assembly recommended that the county assembly should commence removal proceedings within 14 days after the approval of the report. The report by the team, chaired by Henry Asava, says the health executive is not in control of his department. It says that delayed payments and promotions were major contributing factors to health workers' unrest. The chairman of the committee in his report says there have been complaints that casual workers in the health department had not been paid their dues, whereas the assembly had approved Sh5 million in the 2020-21 financial year to pay them. The report also addressed the recruitment of 523 new health workers in May 2019, which was marred by irregularities. In the administration and coordination of county affairs department, the team says the CEC is unable to bring to an end issues of ghost workers. It also cites poor coordination of county public service, adding that this has caused conflict and disharmony in management. The report says Mbuni served as administration and coordination of county affairs executive at the time of the conception, procurement and construction of the county data centre. The team says his inability and or refusal to provide information on the project amounted to concealment of information from a committee contrary to Article 195 of the Constitution. The team says trade executive Keseko failed to honour invitations by the committee and disregarded summons. It says he had served as a chairman of a cabinet subcommittee on health workers. The team says Keseko's failure and or refusal to appear before it amounted to concealment of information and further undermined the powers and authority of the county assembly. Accountability of Covid-19 funds and the bloated wage bill were also addressed in the report. The committee raised concerns about how the wage bill has been ballooning without any proper explanation. The committee looked into issues surrounding the employment of staff since September 2017.