Ever since the arrival of Sophia, Inspector Tembo has been very scarce around the Police Post. At first, Sophia and I assumed the reason was that he had mended his relationship with his wife, whom he now refers to as “Pum’kin” and not the “Dragon”. Our theory is trashed when the Inspector walks into the Post, looking more down than a goose’s feather. “Trouble in paradise, Inspector?” I ask him. “Sgt Makini, I order you to never ever get married.” “Why, Inspector?” Inspector Tembo looks pointedly at Sophia. “Do you know what the succubus is, son?” he asks. “It’s a female demon that comes to men in their dreams and seduces them,” Sophia says. “Legend has it that repeated sexual activity with a succubus can cause poor physical or mental health. Even death.” “Could you be more graphic, Sophia?” Cringing at the thought of sex with a demon, I turn to the Inspector. “What does this have to do with getting married, sir?” “Sgt Sophia is wrong,” he says. “All women are succubuses.” “Succubi, sir,” Sophia says. “That’s the plural of succubus.” Inspector Tembo takes a step towards her. “So you agree, huh? All women do is suck a man’s very soul. You know that part in the wedding vows where they say ‘For better or for worse’? It’s never for better. Always for worse.” “Inspector,” Sophia says, “I’m never one to butt into other people’s affairs, but it seems you and your wife need marriage counselling, sir.” “You mean we should go and fight in front of a man whose marriage probably failed before Adam and Eve’s? No, thank you very much. I’ll handle my own problems. And talking of problems…” Just then, Mrs Tembo enters, handbag over one shoulder, dragging a large suitcase behind her. “Good morning Mrs Tembo,” I say. “It’s nice to see you.” “Hasn’t this schmuck of a husband already told you I’m leaving?” “Inspector Tembo,” I say, “you just said you two were working things out.” “I said I’ll handle my own problems.” “By kicking your wife out?” “He couldn’t kick me out if he tried,” Mrs Tembo said. “I’m leaving on my own volition. I’m tired of this backwater village anyway. My lungs are black from blowing into a wood stove. I never thought I’d ever say this, but I miss my electric cooker. And an iron I can plug into a socket.” “It’s not like you know how to use an iron, anyway,” Inspector Tembo retorted. “Or a cooker, for that matter. Look at me. I’ve added ten kilos since you came.” “How is that a bad thing, sir?” Sophia asks. “And how can you blame it on her cooking?” “I don’t know what kind of witchcraft she stirs into her food, but you eat it, you get fat.” In the corner of my eye, I catch Mrs Tembo’s flitting smile. Then it quickly disappears. “What now?” I ask her. “You’ll just go and live by yourself in the city?” “It’s nothing new. Goodbye, kids.” Mrs Tembo turns towards the door. “Come on, Matumbo. Make yourself useful and get my suitcase. Be a man and don’t drop it this time.” “Like I said,” Inspector Tembo says, “succubuses. All of them.” “I had come to like Mrs Tembo,” I say as I watch them leave. “I never quite understood why Tembo thought she was a dragon. What about you?” Sophia says nothing. I turn to see her looking longingly out the door. “I was wrong,” she says. “They don’t need counselling. That, Makini, is real love.”