The Meteorological Department has warned West Pokot residents living in areas prone to mudslides to move as the county is expected to receive heavy rainfall in the coming days. The weatherman said the rains are going to have both negative and positive impacts and asked residents to be cautious. County director of metrological services Wilson Lonyangole said the region is set to receive heavy rainfall from next week. Lonyangole, said areas that are likely to receive rainfall of high magnitude of more than 25 mm are Kapenguria, those bordering Uganda, Pokot South subcounty and highlands of Pokot Central subcounty. He said flash floods will be experienced in all the county's plainlands. “Probable landslides could occur in the hotspot areas of Sondany, Nyarkulian, Lelan, Muino, Batei among others,” he said. The residents in the mentioned areas are advised to be on the lookout. Contingency measures have been put in place by the county government and partners in order to reduce negative impacts. Parents have been asked to ensure school going children are helped to cross the rivers. The weatherman warned against sheltering under trees. “School going children and the aged are advised to be careful while crossing rivers and not to shelter under trees during rainy periods due to lightening,” Lonyangole said. The weatherman also advised residents to take advantage of the rains in the production of short seasoned crops and establishment of pastures and fodder crops and plant trees. “Residents should use the rains to plant and harvest fodder for their animals to help prevent migration in search of pastures during dry season. I also ask residents to harvest the waters for home consumption,” he said. He called on farmers to continue planting saying the rainfall was delayed. Last year, more than 50 people lost their lives, property destroyed and more than 1,500 others displaced in the Chesegon area following flash floods and landslides. In 2019, a landslide occurred in the county, killing over 50 people.  -Edited by SKanyara