A section of senators wants Parliament to summon Interior CS Fred Matiangi and police boss Hillary Mutyambai to explain the security preparedness ahead of the 2022 General Election. They also want the security chiefs to explain the cause of chaos that rocked the recent by-elections in London and Rurii wards and Juja, Bonchari, Matungu and Kabuchai constituencies. Senators Samson Cherargei (Nandi) and Aaron Cheruiyot (Kericho) want the Senate’s National Security and Defense Committee to summon the country’s top security bosses to explain the security lapses that have threatened the integrity of the elections. They also want the officers to elucidate the security of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission officials when carrying out future elections and by-elections. “It is only 14 months before the 2022 General Election. From all the indications, it looks like it is a hot seat,” Cherargei said in the chamber last Thursday. “We have looked at any other issues that have come up like protests, arrest, bribery and intimidation of voters.” The lawmaker said that following the recent chaos, the country risks plunging into full-blown chaos if proper measures are not put in place before the next general elections. “What measures are we putting in place to ensure that there is no loss of life and no Post-Election Violence will be witnessed again?” he posed. Charargei argued that with the security breaches, the elections may not be free, fair and credible as enshrined in the Constitution. “Is the IEBC ready to do its job? Are the security agencies prepared so that they do not make the mistakes that have been made in the previous elections and by-elections?” he asked. The senator opined that though it is a constitutional right that every Kenyan should participate in the electoral process that is a free and fair contest, the preparedness of the security agencies should be relooked at. He stressed the need to put in place measures to arrest the chaos. “I hope that the Committee on National Security, Defense and Foreign Relations will provide proper directions,” he said. Cheruiyot termed the issue as serious and important, adding that big political parties, including Raila’s ODM and DP William Ruto’s Jubilee, had publicly complained about the misuse of security officers. “The involvement of the police force in carrying out sectarian political interests is a threat to national security. As a House of Parliament, we must stamp our record and state true feelings of citizens of this country,” he said. Last week, chaos rocked by-elections in Bonchari and Juja. In Bonchari, several players including Raila Odinga’s ODM lamented the misuse of security officers to intimate other candidates in favour of others. The situation was the same in Juja where the IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati had to order the suspension of tallying at Mang’u High School after chaos erupted. ODM leader Raila Odinga condemned the use of police to mete violence on voters in the Bonchari and Juja parliamentary by-elections. Raila told off the government functionaries for turning the election arena into an avenue to pursue imaginary and short-legged political interests. He described the events in the by-elections as an arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries. “The peaceful coexistence must not be taken for granted by some rogue elements wanting to confuse the handshake for an excuse to erode our hard-earned liberties,” Odinga said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris