Agriculture CS Peter Munya asked his Interior counterpart to provide security for the new tea directors as they take office in two weeks. Munya said there has been resistance against the elected officials by factory unit managers. "We request security agencies to help ensure easy transition," the CS said. Munya said former directors should stay away from the tea factories premises and be prevented from undertaking any activities in the factory or engaging tea farmers in any way as directors. “The newly elected directors should be given access to all properties of their respective tea factories including company’s seal and other instruments of ownership to the newly appointed company secretary," he said. Interior CS Fred Matiang’i has assured the elected officers that the government will provide the necessary security to ensure the reforms happen. "These reforms will happen and we will stay on course until the farmer benefits. Those going to court can go ahead but the government will come and explain. Tea does not belong to KTDA but to farmers," Matiang'i said. He directed county commissioners to supervise and ensure the directors takeover is smooth and with no hitches. "Ensure you assist new directors to take over office immediately and throw out whoever needs to be thrown out within the next two weeks," he said. Munya said over the last few years, the tea industry in Kenya has witnessed a worrying decline in earnings, threatening the livelihoods of millions of Kenyans who are engaged in the tea value chain. He said global market dynamics, including alleged glut due to over-production of Black CTC teas, has been cited as the key factor leading to depressed prices. “However, while over-production could contribute in suppressing global tea prices, our competitors continue to enjoy good prices for their tea. I therefore refuse to accept that global glut can only affect the Kenya tea industry," he said. "It can only mean that there are certain actions that we have failed to execute towards responding to the global market dynamics and consequently have missed out on the opportunities to reap due benefits.” He pointed out that the greatest failure has been with the leadership, particularly that of the respective smallholder tea factory companies. He accused former directors of abdicating their responsibility and instead succumbing to machinations and interests of those they had employed to facilitate management of their investments, including processing, marketing and sale of teas on their behalf. “The Kenya Tea Development Agency (Holdings) Ltd, through its managing agency outfit, the Kenya Tea Development Agency (Management Services) Ltd, over the years transformed itself from being a managing agent employed by the factory companies into the principal – the owner of the factories limited companies,” Munya said. “Prior to the current KTDA leadership deciding to change focus to pursue selfish interests, the sector was thriving on the account of quality tea production and formidable marketing and promotion of tea, supported by the government.” 