Police are investigating a case in which an officer is asking that her resignation letter be accepted over frustrations. In the video that went viral on Sunday, the police woman she had written a resignation letters but they were yet to reach the Inspector General. "Sir, kindly allow me to resign peacefully from the police officer post because I can thrive elsewhere. Even if it means, resigning without pay, I will not mind," she said. She noted that such frustrations in the police force were leading to the deaths of officers who either committed suicide or resorted to killing others. "I just want a chance to resign peacefully. I have attached several letters meant for the IG but they never get to him. That is why police officers get frustrated to a point of committing suicide or killing themselves, something I cannot do," she said. "I will leave here and work like any other citizen.The internal office is not helping at all. The president should disband this internal affairs office which is not carrying out its mandate." The officer said they are frustrated due to corruption in the internal affairs unit. "They are lying to the officers. Police officers kill each other because of this. Just help me to get out of this job. I will survive outside this," she said. "You have frustrated me. I am a woman and I am being disrespected, we have problems here. One day someone will fight for us - the weak." Via text message, IG  Hillary Mutyambai said they will investigate the issue. "Checking our records to establish her station and comment from her commander. We shall then revert and act," Mutyambai said. Last week, Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Mariang’i said a team had been formed to come up with rules that will guide relationships in the National Police Service. He said among others, the move is aimed at addressing rising cases of sexual harassment and killings in the service. He said a Gender Relations office will be created under the office of the Inspector General of police to manage the issue. "If it happens that two police officers fall in love, then one has to leave the service," he said. “Some of the female police officers have filed sexual harassment complaints. I want to assure you that it won’t happen in the future,” the CS said. Some murder incidents in the service have been linked to intimate relationships among officers.