The state has pleaded with the court to overturn an order stopping a referendum to pass BBI. In its appeal filed in court, the Attorney General says the referendum to pass the Building Bridges Initiative should take place before next year's general election. The AG argues the BBI is supposed to prevent the perennial post-election violence witnessed in the past. The state hopes to get a stay order from the Court of Appeal and proceed with the BBI process as scheduled pending the hearing of their appeal. The AG, through Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, says BBI will also prevent marginalisation. "The process is geared towards national reconciliation which constitutes a legitimate national political process," the court documents read. According to court documents, the judgment has halted the political process of referendum, thereby unconstitutionally limiting the exercise of the sovereign power of the people of Kenya. “The effect of the court's findings is to unconstitutionally limit the inalienable right of Kenyans to determine their destiny,” he says. Ogeto argues that the judges made several findings which, if not suspended, constitute an unconstitutional limitation on the exercise of sovereignty by the people of Kenya to determine how they are to be governed. He argues that the impugned ruling undermines the authority and legal mandate of President Uhuru Kenyatta. Ogeto says the proceedings would serve to undermine the authority and lawful mandate of the President to the detriment of the greater public interest. “Unless stayed, this drastic finding exposes the President to immediate commencement of unwarranted adverse legal proceedings against the person of the President pending the hearing and determination of the intended appeal,” the court documents read. Ogeto argues that the orders issued by the judges were so extensive and revolutionary, claiming they were beyond the matters that were before the court. He faulted the judges for determining, without any objective basis, that the power of the people to amend the Constitution is substantively limited “The court erred in law in finding that public officers cannot participate in a popular initiative process for the amendment of the Constitution and could only propose constitutional amendment proposals through Parliament,” Ogeto argues. He faults the ruling that the popular initiative was a preserve and monopoly of private citizens without reference to any specific provision of the Constitution to support the same. The state says BBI has received the requisite constitutional approval from more than three million registered voters, the majority of the county assemblies and both houses of Parliament. “The process is geared towards national reconciliation, which constitutes a legitimate national political process,” the court documents read. He has also accused the judges of bias in finding that the basic structured doctrine applies in Kenya by basing the findings on a selective, skewed, slanted, incomplete and erroneous reading of available academic work on the subject of Kenya’s constitutional history and the making of the Constitution of 2010. Ogeto also avers that the court ruling has affected the IEBC by barring it from addressing any of the issues as regards internal processes distinct from those relating to BBI. “Unless the court grants a stay, the appeal will be rendered nugatory because by permanently injucting IEBC from undertaking any processes in respect of the constitutional amendment,” the court documents read. 