Detectives in Ruiru have seized more than Sh350 million in counterfeit currency and fake gold nuggets and bars and arrested three Cameroonians. They also arrested a Kenyan woman in Muthaiga North and recovered a Glock pistol and 28 rounds of 9mm bullets from her in the raids on Monday. The currency was in US dollars, British pounds and Kenya shillings. The blue sack of 'gold' weighed more than 250kg. Police identified the Cameroonian suspects as Paulin Francis Proper and Njikam Omar, found to be in the country illegally, and Job Kengong who holds a refugee identity card. The operation was carried out in BTL area in Ruiru, Kiambu county. Detectives later raided Proper's house in Muthaiga North, Nairobi, where the firearm was recovered. Investigations revealed the firearm belonged to a fourth suspect, Kenyan Loise Kaguongo, who was holding it illegally, since her firearms license had expired, police said. Detectives said she operates more than 10 mobile money outlets and could be the link between the suspects and a wider criminal syndicate. Ruiru head of DCI Justus Ombati said the fake money was in denominations of $100, £50 and Sh1,000 notes. Police suspect the counterfeit printing was carried out elsewhere and the fake money transported to Ruiru before it was distributed The raid came a day after police in Nyali, Mombasa, also recovered fake currency from two foreign nationals. Police said the two, Jamil Salman Abdul, 43, and Tesfawork Ermias Dogso, 30, were also in the country illegally. They had 198 counterfeit euro notes in denominations of 100, hidden between the driver's and front passenger's seats. On April 27, two Kenyan men were arrested after they were found in possession of counterfeit currency worth Sh750 million. The men identified as Samuel Maina and Boniface Mungai were arrested from an apartment in Kilimani area where they had kept the fake money in US dollars, euros and Kenya shillings. The money was kept in metal boxes. Police said they recovered chemicals and fake badges that said United Nations, N, De La Rue and the National Treasury. They found several safes. Police said the counterfeit bills were in $100 denominations totaling $6,820,000. Euros in denominations of 100 totalled €490,000. Kenya shillings in 1,000 bills totalled Sh6.4 million. Police said the men were planning to con unsuspecting customers and warned people to be on alert. Cases of handling of fake money have decreased in past months due to police operations. Dozens of suspects have been arrested and charged in court. In September 2019, Sh300 million fake money was found abandoned along  Ngong Road, Nairobi. In May 2019, nine suspects were arrested in Kilimani area and fake Sh190 million ($1.9 million) was recovered. This came two days after another group of seven was nabbed with fake Sh300 million in a house in the same area. Police investigations show counterfeit bank notes remain the top form of fraud for the increasingly growing mobile money and bank agents in Kenya. In June 2017, the Central Bank of Kenya acknowledged the possibility of a transnational fake currency ring in Nairobi and the region. CBK and other East African Community central banks held a joint meeting with the Eastern Africa Police Chiefs Cooperation Organisation in September 2016 to develop strategies to fight counterfeit crime. The bank regulator had conducted a survey in 2017 that showed 97 per cent of fraud handled by the agents involved fake notes. The February 27, 2019, discovery of a cache of fake foreign cash amounting to Sh32 billion in a house in Ruiru town was the biggest haul that followed a string of similar cases in the past few years. In June 2018, the High Court in Nairobi sentenced a Niger and Cameroonian nationals to 10 years in prison for having Sh110 billion in counterfeit currency. The two also had equipment for printing counterfeit notes. The trial lasted two and a half years following the arrests in Nairobi’s Diamond Park II in 2016. On March 19, 2019, police seized fake Sh2 billion in a safety deposit box at Barclays Bank, Queensway branch. On October 1, 2018, police in Nairobi recovered Sh1 billion fake money in a house along Brookside Drive at Brookside Gardens in Westlands.  The suspects were arrested. Two days later police arrested a Nigerian national in South B and seized counterfeit $251, 400 (about Sh25.3 million). Two suspects were arrested at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in October 2016 with fake 267 million euros in denominations of €500. They were on their way to Dubai. (Edited by V. Graham) 