Seven Kericho tea pickers have lost a bid to have a local court adopt a Scottish court order that allowed inspection of James Finlay factories following claims of physical injuries. Court of Appeal judges Rozelyn Nambuye, Wanjiru Karanja and Sankale ole Kantai agreed with Employment and Labour Court judge Stephen Radido's decision that the inspection orders issued by the Scottish court on November 22, 2018, could not be executed locally without intervention by Kenyan authorities. Petitioners Elly Ingang’a, Lucas Omoke, Vitalis Muga, Rebecca Ochoi, Joice Omwamba, Christopher Chuma and Getuna Idinga sued James Finlay (Kenya) Limited. The seven, according to the judges, were either serving or former employees and managed tea estates, including Tituet-Chomogonday factory, Marinyu, Kaporet and Kapsongoi Kitchemebe factory—all in Kericho. James Finlay is a company incorporated under the Companies Act of Scotland and has its registered office at Swire House, Souter Head Road Altens, Aberdeen, Scotland. The workers claimed to have suffered bodily or physical injuries at work in the Finlays' estates and factories. They subsequently filed suits in Scotland. They sued for damages in a personal injury court in Scotland. The Scottish court ordered inspection on the tea estates. A legal team from Scotland was to come to Kenya and make certain observations on tea picking. It was also to take certain measurements of the tea estates and factories, take videos of activities on the estates and at the factories and even photocopy documents and photograph equipment. For this to be executed, the tea pickers filed a case at the Employment and Labour Relations Court in Nairobi in 2019. They asked the court to adopt the orders of the Scottish court which was declined. Judge Radidio, who handled the matter, questioned whether a sovereign state, and Kenya is one, would allow foreigners to walk into its territory and undertake such activities without supervision or assistance. The judge found—a position supported by the Court of Appeal—that there were public policy issues involved in the case where the Scottish court had issued inspection orders to be executed in Kericho. He found that judicial aid was necessary as it would ensure the order of the foreign court was not inconsistent with Kenya's public policies. Yesterday, the Court of Appeal judges agreed with Radido and dismissed the application by the tea pickers. -Edited by Skanyara