Kiambu county government has advertised for the construction of six new markets at an estimated cost of Sh200 million in a move to boost trade. Speaking on Thursday in Kiambu town when the county received support from Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition to improve markets, Governor James Nyoro said the county is putting up smaller markets. The markets include Gitaru, Rironi, Kigumo, Gatukuyu, Kiganjo and Soko Mjinga which will have the necessary infrastructure. “We have already advertised for six markets with an estimate of about Sh200 million. These markets will not be very big because they are not blocks but will have the necessary infrastructure, trading area, more hygienic, there is shed, toilet facilities  and water is connected,” said Nyoro. He said all smaller markets within the county will be improved so that the trading environment is improved. Nyoro said the four big markets constructed under National government programme cost about Sh1 billion and are in operation. He said the county government through department of trade is looking for another Sh1 billion to put another four markets which are Wangige, Kiambu, Madaraka market Thika and another one in Githurai. Nyoro said GAIN came into the county to improve markets by conducting studies of how the facilities can continue operating safely in the wake of Covid-19. “When Covid-19 set in, we were worried whether to close our markets, but we realised we have to live with Covid-19 and our traders started observing the containment measures and now we are not in any way threatened,” he said. Country director for GAIN Leah Kagwara handed over donations of Personal Protective Equipments, sanitisers and face masks worth Sh5 million to traders in Madaraka market in Thika. The organisation has been working with the traders for eight months to study how markets can still continue operating safely during the Covid-19 period. “GAIN's main concern is that every Kenyan eats safe nutritious food everyday. We decided to collaborate with county governments to do a project called "Keeping food market working" that would help keep the open air market open,” said Kagwara. She said as part of the project, they did an infrastructural audit of the market and came up with a report that outlines what a clean, safe market should look like. “In as much as Madaraka market is set to be built, before then our organisation will spend Sh5 million to do flooring works and we have used Sh2.5 million to renovate the wash rooms, hand washing stations and installing the water reservoir tanks,” said Kagwara. She however said they have trained the traders on food handling and expect to extend the training  to as many traders as possible. -SKanyara