Shujaa winger Jacob Ojee faces a race against time to be fit for the Los Angeles Sevens slated for next month The KCB winger sustained an ankle ligament injury during the first leg of the Solidarity Sevens tournament two weeks ago in South Africa and will be out for the next five weeks as he recovers from the injury. Kenya Sevens head coach Innocent Simiyu is, however,  optimistic that the speedy winger will be available for the final pre-Olympic tournament ahead of the Tokyo Games. “Ojee got an ankle ligament tear and will be out for the next five weeks. He has already started his rehab process and we are wishing him a quick recovery and hopefully with his commitment in the game, he can come back sooner and be available for the LA 7s," he said. Menengai Oilers forward Harold Anduvate, who missed the second leg of the tournament, did not play due to a slight shoulder strain. Simiyu expects the lanky forward to be available for the Los Angles event “Anduvate got a slight strain on his shoulder ligament hence we took the precaution of resting him so that we don’t aggravate it further. However,  he’ll be fit by the time we’re resuming training back in Nairobi,” he added. Simiyu's charges for the second week running finished second to hosts South Africa, losing 31-5 in the final. Simiyu said they will now have to address breakdown, tackle completion and kick receipt for the next one month. "This are areas we need to address when we resume training next week. I think South Africa really capitalised on those areas and I believe going forward, we must be sharper in those aspects of play,” he added. Simiyu revealed the one-month training window ahead of Los Angeles will be ideal to address the shortcomings in South Africa. “Hopefully, by the time we get to LA, we will be able to tick more boxes and be able to be in a position where we can perform well at the Olympics. For us, we need to  keep working hard and improving our game as we go forward,” he said. The  former skipper thanked the government through the Ministry of Sports for the  support, saying this comes as a big boost towards their Olympics preparations. 