Electricity theft in Nairobi’s informal settlements will be a case in the past as Kenya Power partners with Community Based Organizations to curb the illegality. The Company plans to recover at least Sh2 billion in Kibra, Mathare and Mukuru  in the innovative partnership. The company’s Managing Director Bernard Ngugi early this week  revealed that they will open up offices in each of the three areas where customer issues such as bill queries, power outages, new connections and other customer-related issues can be addressed. “The CBOs will act as the company’s ambassadors and report issues to our team in the offices. We are confident that through the collaborative effort Kenya Power will achieve its goal to provide reliable, quality and safe power in informal settlements,” he added. In the Financial Year ending June 2020, total system losses stood at 24.7 per cent. System losses are divided into technical losses which occur when energy is dissipated through the network and commercial losses that happen majorly due to electricity theft. The Energy Act 2017 highlights that a minimum fine of Sh500,000 of homes and businesses that have illegal power connections or a jail term of up to one year. Last year in January, hundreds of families living in Mukuru kwa Njenga slum were plunged in darkness after Kenya Power dismantled an illegal power selling racket deep inside the area. The company had launched a nationwide crackdown on illegal connections. The campaign which began at Imara Daima Estate in Nairobi was jointly conducted by Kenya Power staff and security agencies including the police and Directorate of Criminal Investigations (DCI) officers. The crackdown comes about two months after the company rolled out the ‘Know Your Meter’ initiative that is meant to increase customer satisfaction, ensure public safety and enhance its revenue protection initiatives. During the crackdown, it was  discovered a 200 KVA ground-mounted transformer that had been hidden in a small stonewalled building from where illegal connections originated In March this year, the same crackdown happened in estates and business centres in Bangladesh slums in Changamwe, Mombasa. The Coastal Regional Manager Hicks Waso revealed that at least 20 per cent of total revenue collected was lost due to illegal power connections