Kajiado, Makueni and Machakos counties will allocate 73,000 acres to Konza Technopolis Development Authority in a newly signed partnership with the national government. The partnership was sealed through a Memorandum of Understanding signed by governors Joseph Ole Lenku (Kajiado), Alfred Mutua (Machakos), Kivuta Kibwana (Makueni) and Cabinet secretaries Joe Mucheru (ICT), Najib Balala (Tourism) and Farida Karoney (Lands). The signing was witnessed by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i at Harambee House, Nairobi. The MoU will facilitate the proper planning of the belt, the first of its kind in the country, to make it attractive to investors while enabling the development of a sustainable and resilient smart city, Konza Technopolis. Matiang'i praised the three counties for cooperating with the national government in development of the Technopolis, adding that their effort will create more value for the project and the property around it. “We are grateful to the leadership of Kajiado, Makueni and Machakos counties on the agreed MOU signed today. This will protect thousands of jobs, investments, and wildlife by preventing encroachment and uncontrolled development in the buffer zone,” Matiang’i said. CS Mucheru lauded the effort by the three counties to safeguard the planning of the belt, consequently protecting the investment that falls within the zone. To support the implementation of the MoU, the Principal Secretaries for Lands and Wildlife now joins the constituted Inter-County Joint Physical and Land Use Planning Committee chaired by PS ICT and Innovation Jerome Ochieng. Three nominees from the government, the Council of Governors and the three county governments will form the technical implementation committee. In April, the three county governments suspended the issuance of new development permits for 90 days in Konza special planning belt, the area falling within the 10km radius around the Konza Technopolis. The plan will provide basic guidelines and standards for regulation of land use and general development while controlling activities for the counties bordering the technopolis. It will also guide developers and property owners on acceptable standards. The three counties in consultation with the national government will provide a mutually agreed spatial development framework for symbiotic and sustainable coexistence between the Konza Technopolis and the adjacent areas. 