Three MPs have been ordered to report to the National Assembly chambers on Thursday to answer to allegations of disorderly conduct. Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, his Kiharu counterpart Ndindi Nyoro, and Nyali’s Mohamed Ali face charges of issuing disparaging remarks against their colleagues who voted for the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill, 2020. Speaker Justin Muturi on Tuesday issued the directive after MPs asked him to call out the lawmakers for disorderly conduct. They took issue with Kuria for claiming that some lawmakers were handed Sh100,000 to vote in favour of the BBI bill and Nyoro for calling them sell-outs. Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu raised the matter on Tuesday, saying the act amounted to disorderly conduct on the part of the Gatundu South lawmaker. He said social media and the electronic media has been awash with the claims, bringing into disrepute their standing as members of the society. “Members of this House are all honourable members. They have been elected by Kenyans and have a chance to say Yes or NO. It was very wrong that the member was saying the 235 members who voted Yes could only do that after being given Sh100,000.” Mulu added: “This is very wrong coming from an honorable member. There is a casual way of doing things in this House which is not good. Some members called others sell-outs, cowards, and traitors.” “How can a member in this House call another member a coward, sell-outs? We need your (speaker’s) intervention so that we remain honourable members,” the MP said. Nominated MP David Sankok backed the call, saying the claims emerged even before members walked out of the chambers after the Thursday night vote. Majority leader Amos Kimunya said that by the sentiments, Kenyans are looking at MPs and saying the only reason they voted yes was because they were bribed. He said that since the tweets were put on record and sent worldwide, the act brought Parliament into disrepute not only in the country but internationally. “It is horrible to insinuate that for MPs to vote in a sudden direction, they do for inducements from a certain leader of the House. We need to take serious action. Kuria should be named. And all those in his coattails should follow as they exit house,” Kimunya said. “These people require to be disciplined so that we have some decorum in this House. This loose talk for cheap political mileage ought to be stopped,” the House leader said. Minority leader John Mbadi said the terminologies were unfortunate, more so for the historic event that described the BBI vote, adding that acts demeaned the House yet the members often walked scot free. “This is a time the country should have celebrated unity of purpose but now one of us decides to exercise immaturity by behaving disorderly. I request you to find that disorderly conduct was in this House.” “We should not let this continue. I urge you to find this member to have acted disorderly and another member to move a motion to have Moses Kuria suspended,” the Suba South MP said. He said losers should take the results in their stride but not scandalize MPs for any reason, adding that parties have the right to take a decision on a constitutional amendment. “I ask that this member be named and then we follow it through procedurally and we vote on it,” the MP said. Kiminini MP Chris Wamalwa said members must have respect for each since they belong to a House of debate and voting. Wilberforce Oundo of Funyula supported the call for the punishment of the said lawmakers saying it was unacceptable for anyone to insinuate MPs can be bribed to vote for the amendment. “We were humiliated back in the constituency and were being asked to share the Sh100,000 we were allegedly paid that night. I support my colleagues that we must put this bad habit to an end,” he said.