Five Pakistanis arrested in Kisumu on suspicion of links with terror groups have been transferred to Nairobi for interrogation. Anti-Terror Police Unit and their DCI counterparts made the arrests on Saturday and Sunday. Kisumu county police boss Samuel Anampiu told reporters the suspects will be interrogated to ascertain their mission in the country. On Saturday, two of the suspects were apprehended at the Kisian area in Kisumu West subcounty. Others were arrested at the Ahero junction. "Today again, along Kisumu-Ahero road, we had an operation and we managed to arrest three more aliens bringing the number to five so far," Anampiu said on Sunday. He appealed to the public to share information that could help the police apprehend any suspicious persons in their midst. "Let us feel free to give the police as much information as possible," he said. "There should be no cause for alarm as we are on the ground firmly, alert and vigilant." Hundreds of motorists were caught up in the operation that caused a huge traffic snarl-up on the Kericho-Kisumu highway. The arrests come as preparation to host the June 1 Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu gathers pace. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga are expected to attend the fête. The event will be held at Jomo Kenyatta Stadium in Kisumu located at Mamboleo show ground. Over the weekend, Sports CS Amina Mohamed said the Sh415 million facility will be completed by this week. "The contractor assured that the stadium will be completed by 15th May and ready for handover on 23rd May," she said on Twitter. Amina's visit comes a week after Interior PS Karanja Kibicho said that preparations for celebrations in Kisumu were in top gear. Kibicho was accompanied on his tour by PS Jerome Ochieng (ICT), Joe Okudo (Sports), Gordon Kihalangwa (Public Works) and Governor Anyang Nyong’o. “We are satisfied with the ongoing preparations and we have assured that the construction works will be complete by then,” he said. This is the first time Kisumu will host a national celebration day which is expected to spur economic activities in hotel and transport sector. Kibicho said that they will observe Covid-19 protocols by restricting access to the stadium to invited guests. He said Kenyans will follow the celebrations virtually. “We will have live celebrations and have various points where Kenyans will access to follow the celebrations,” the PS said. Already, works on Mamboleo Road are ongoing ahead of the event. It is part of the 63km Mamboleo-Miwani-Chemelil-Muhoroni-Kipsitet road being tarmacked at a cost of Sh4.9 billion.  (edited by o. owino)