The government held its eighteenth National Prayer Breakfast on Thursday at  Parliament’s Buildings with adherence to the Covid-19 guidelines. The prayer was different from the usual celebrations, whereby speeches from various leaders across the political divide are given a chance to make their remarks. This is the first National Prayer Braekfast since the virus struck the nation in March, 2020. The occasion was led by President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto and some few legislators as well as guests, as others followed it virtually. Wiper leader Kalonzo Musyoka had an opportunity to pray for a hopeful future in the midst of the Covid-19 pandemic, as ODM leader Raila Odinga missed the event. While addressing the meeting, the president asked the speakers of both Houses to expedite the passage of bits of proposed legislation that will allow the government to ensure that citizens can all access proper healthcare. In his address, the DP said that even in this pandemic, the country has made some positive milestones like the appointment of the lady Chief Justice Maratha Koome, the first woman to serve as CJ. Touching on the issue of the court’s ruling on BBI, Ruto said that it’s the time that the country should jointly have a discussion, adding that it could be a sign of God telling us to ‘come, let us reason together. “Much has happened but as things stand today, there has been a stop to all political activities, and this is a sign that we need to listen to our religious leaders.” Former AG Senator Amos Wako vividly described how Covid-19 affected his diet and eating habits after e tested positive for the virus. Speaking during the national prayer breakfast meeting, the Busia Senator said his experience with the viral disease made him realise that he could die easily. “This was the result I least expected. This is because I went the extra mile by having regular exercises taking vitamins such as zinc, vitamin C, and D, taking Dawa and going to the sauna, getting steam baths while breathing hot air,” he said.