Mombasa county is on high alert after three people tested positive for the highly infectious Indian variant of Covid-19. The B.1.617 Covid strain was first detected in India in October last year, and it has spread faster across India and other parts of the world, compared to the South African and United Kingdom variants. It has spread to at least 40 countries. In Kenya, the Ministry of Health reported the first case of the Indian variant on May 5, days after it was detected in neighbouring Uganda. In Mombasa, the two of the three patients who tested positive had arrived in the country between April 18 and 19, through Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi. They later travelled to Mombasa by road, however, it has remained unclear how they managed to arrive in Mombasa. A presidential directive was in place, barring movement out of and into Nairobi at the time. One of the patients is a Kenyan to had travelled to India to attend to a patient and returned on April 18; the other is an Indian national who works in Kenya and arrived on April 19. Speaking exclusively to the Star, Mombasa county’s public health chief officer Pauline Oginga said  the two started manifesting symptoms days after arriving. They were placed in isolation as samples were taken to Kemri in Kilifi for testing. They tested positive for the Indian variant. Oginga said when the two arrived in Kenya, their results were negative but a few days later they developed symptoms and got tested again. He said the surveillance team has intensified tracing of those who interacted with them and also those who interacted with their contacts. The third case was another individual who had travelled with a sick patient to Mombasa and later developed symptoms. One case has also been reported in Samburu village, Kwale county. The chief officer said hey were working closely with the national government to ensure contact tracing is done for all the passengers who arrived with the two patients. They were on different planes. Oginga said there is a challenge of international crew coming into the country through the airports and the Port of Mombasa. Recently, she said, 25 members of a ship's crew tested positive for Covid-19. International flights landing at Moi International Airport on Mombasa have also put the city at high risk of imported cases. Oginga said measures are in place to ensure all international passengers arriving by air must get tested. Those from the UK have to go for compulsory quarantine. “Recently, a passenger from the UK refused to go into compulsory quarantine, accusing us of discriminating against her. These are the same regulations we are subjected to when we arrive in the UK,” Oginga said. Inter-county movement is also a problem as the numbers of people entering Mombasa during the day is double the population residing in the county, which is slightly more than 1.2 million. Unlike international travel in which passengers are tested once they arrive, no one is tested entering and leaving counties. (Edited by V. Graham) 