 Embu county is grappling with a debt of Sh1.2 billion, including Sh143.19 million that was spent on travel by county officers. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu says the travel expenditure could have been lost. The county’s own source revenue performance has dwindled causing 22 projects worth Sh88.76 million to stall. Some 26 county vehicles have been grounded. The revelations emerged during the five-hour grilling Governor Martin Wambora by the Senate County Public Accounts and Investment Committee. Wambora appeared before the committee chaired by Migori Senator Ochillo Ayacko to respond to 2018-19 audit queries flagged by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. According to the audit report, the county government could not support the expenditure amounting to Sh21.41 million on domestic and subsistence travel. There were no supporting documents such as imprest requests and back to office reports to prove that the money was properly used. The county disclosed spending Sh4.89 million on fuel. However, the supporting documents were not availed for audit. The county also spent Sh49.99 million and Sh66.90 million on the purchase of specialised materials and services and other operating expenses respectively. However, supporting documents including payment vouchers were not availed to auditors, triggering concerns the money could have been misappropriated. Wambora, who is also the chairman of the Council of Governors, said his team had difficulty tracing documents from a dilapidated building that was leaking. He said they had finally found the documents. “We had a serious problem with the building. We had a serious challenge. But we have managed to get the documents,” he said, adding “We have attached surrender documents for audit verification and confirmation.” But the auditors said that out of Sh21.41 million spent on travel, some Sh4 million had not been supported even in the latest documents submitted by the county. The committee members took issue with the late production of the documents, questioning why the county government had taken long to avail the documents to auditors. “This is unacceptable and somebody ought to take responsibility for failing to produce these documents in time,” Isiolo Senator Fatuma Dullo said. Ayacko reminded the governor of the stringent provisions of the Public Audit Act and penalties therein for late production of the documents. He gave Wambora 14 days to provide the documents or the committee indicts his administration for breaching the law on the production of documents and circumventing accountability. Wambora was also at pains to explain why his administration had accumulated but failed to clear pending bills amounting to Sh1.2 billion. The auditor said the county did not provide creditors’ ledger to ascertain the authenticity of the pending bills. “Why did you have to accumulate all this debt? Isn’t it giving you sleepless nights?” Taita Taveta Senator Johannes Mwaruma asked. The governor attributed the accumulated debt to failure to meet revenue targets and delayed exchequer releases by the National Treasury. “The county government is committed to preparing detailed creditors ledgers as per the auditor’s recommendations by consulting widely with the National Treasury towards implementing ledgers in the IFMIS system,” Wambora said. He attributed the stalled 22 projects to late releases of cash by the National Treasury. “In the financial year under review, there were challenges of exchequer releases which made it difficult to procure the said projects in good time,” he said. Wambora was also asked to explain why 26 vehicles belonging to the county government had grounded. The governor said the vehicles belonged to the defunct council but indicated they had refurbished some and donated others to vocational training institutes. But the senators demanded to know why all the vehicles have not been serviced and put to good use. “If they now belong to you, why are they still in that particular state? You now own all the vehicles, why are they that way?” Ochillo asked. “This is a serious issue. The county must put these vehicles to use. They either use them as scrap metals, or they service them and stop buying new vehicles, it is a very worrying situation," Dullo said. But Wambora said the number captured by the audit was old given most vehicles were now in operation.  Edited by P.O