After the second test run, it appears the major issue at the Green Park Terminus is whether it is big enough. It's supposed to accommodate all 300 PSVs plying the Ngong Road and Mombasa Road routes. The second test on Friday from 4pm to 8pm was picking up passengers after work. The first test on April 27 was for dropping passengers from 6am to 9am. The park, at the site of former Luna Park and next to Uhuru Park, is one kilometre from the busy Railways Bus Station. That's where commuters on the Mombasa and Ngong routes usually go. Matatu drivers generally complained the terminal was too small for all vehicles to fit. As a result, there were many traffic snarl-ups as matatus waited their turn to pick up passengers at the park. They urged NMS expand the park if it wants to have all Ngong road matatus on board. “It’s a brilliant idea but if you look at the capacity the terminal can accommodate, some matatus will be left out,” Simon Mutua said. “The space at the park will bring traffic problems. We need more space for the matatus operating Ngong road are very many," Wanjohi Kimemia said. On the arrival at Green Park , commuters were guided by screens similar to those at airports with information on the exact point to board the bus for a specific destination. At the passengers' shed, NMS had placed 'mini dashboards' that were reading destinations such as Kitengela, Athi River and others.  Police officers were stationed along Uhuru Highway and outside the terminal to guide the matatus and commuters towards Green Park. As in the first run, some commuters  complained they were caught off guard. Through though a public notice on Wednesday, NMS  announced the second test run and times but some people said they never saw it. “It's confusing and if I’m complaining about the long distance from Railways to Green Park , what about the ‘shosho’ who is over 60 years but still hustling like me?" Alex Lugwe asked. “I had left my workplace in Parkland only to reach Railways and find no buses. I was told by hawkers  matatus today are at Uhuru Park. They could have alerted us from Monday so we physically prepared to walk,” Jane Wabere said.  NMS transport director Engineer Michael Ochieng said the concerns raised and challenges encountered will help them know what to correct at the terminal. “Definitely, we expected some challenges but this will assist to bring in corrective measures as we near the final stage ahead of commissioning ," he said. The date has not been set. Last month NMS announced the test run will be carried out in four phases; dropping off, use of the electronic app systems, picking up and enforcement. Green Park Terminus is among six termini NMS is setting up for Sh350 million to decongest the Central Business District. The agency led by director general Mohammed Badi is implementing the decongesting strategies of the Nairobi Integrated Urban Development Master Plan. At this stage, termini have been set up and all stakeholders will assess their preparedness. The Sh250 million Green Park terminus is so far is the biggest drop-off and pick-up point for matatus on the Ngong' and Lang’ata routes. Phase One of the Green Park Terminus was infrastructure and furniture, a dispensary and a police post. The ablution block has been built, along with a seating bay for commuters. Phase Two, which is ongoing, includes a supermarket, restaurants and trading places. The traders who had been displaced for the terminus will be given first priority of occupancy in the new facility. Early this month it was also announced that a Smart Bank Blood Collection Centre will be set up at Green Park. (Edited by V.  Graham)