 Medicins Sans Frontières have asked Homa Bay residents to strictly adhere to Covid-19 protocols amid rising cases of infections in the region. The organisation says at least two out of 10 patients seeking medical services at Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital are positive. Doctors without borders coordinator Roshni Mahida attributed the sudden rise in Covid-19 infections in Homa Bay to residents' reluctance in complying with health safety protocols. “Let Homa Bay people avoid relaxing the laid down procedures on Covid-19. They may look very simple but they are the best weapons to fight the disease,” Mahida said. Some of the protocols by the Ministry of Health include wearing masks, regular washing of hands, keeping social distance and avoiding crowded places. Speaking to journalists in Homa Bay town on Saturday, Mahida warned residents against carelessness, saying such behaviour would make it difficult to contain the contagion. She said the situation may overwhelm the county due to the current go-slow by health workers over delayed salaries. MSF which manages the High Dependency Unit (HDU) at Homa Bay County Teaching and Referral Hospital says the facility is likely to stop receiving more patients because of beds shortage. “We can’t transfer covid patients to various isolation centres because health workers are engaged in industrial action,” Mahida said. She said the HDU ward at the hospital was already full. Most of the patients walked there to seek normal services before they were found to have Covid-19. The hospital has 22 beds in the HDU. Mahida said the ward could admit only four patients between January and March but has increased its bed capacity owing to the growing number of patients. “We have been increasing the number of beds every day to a point where we cannot add extra beds in the wards because of shortage of space,” Mahida said. She said some residents had infected their family members with the virus without knowing they were positive. “Such situation reveals the extent at which any loophole can make the virus spread faster and become difficult to manage.” The organisation asked the county government to ramp up its efforts in containing the spread of the virus and provide PPEs. “Let’s not do anything that can comprise the fight against Covid-19,” Mahida urged.  Edited by P.O