Nyeri Governor Mutahi Kahiga has appealed to the Ministry of Health to expedite the installation of a regional Covid-19 testing facility in the county. Nyeri was earmarked for the installation of the equipment to serve the Mt Kenya region. Governor Kahiga said the lack of a testing facility remains the major weak link in the management of Covid-19 in the county and region. "This was to be completed in July 2020 but to date it has not been achieved, despite the department making all the necessary preparations, including deployment and training of staff, identifying space and procuring computers and furniture," Kahiga said on Thursday in a press briefing on the status of Covid-19 in Nyeri. Other challenges he cited included  shortage of rapid diagnostic kits, high PPE cost, poor compliance to guidelines and directives on Covid-19  and reduced bed-capacity due to physical distancing in hospitals. Others are inadequate medical drugs in health facilities due to challenges with cash flow from the equitable share. "This is, however, being addressed in the immediate by engaging Kemsa to supply as we await for the funds," he said. "I also believe that the new county health services fund will address this in the short and long-term by ensuring all health facilities in Nyeri county have both basic and specialised medical supplies all the time." By Wednesday, the county had recorded 2,057 Covid-19 cases and 118 deaths. Of these, 57 per cent, which is 1,167 , have been reported in Nyeri Central subcounty. Some 36,378 people, 19,191 females and 17,175 males, have received the first dose of the Oxford AstraZeneca Vaccine. The governor thanked AMREF Health Africa and other parters who have continued to support the county in fighting the pandemic. "AMREF has supported the county in provision of personal protective equipment, Covid-19 testing, training and even now in Covid-19 vaccine deployment," he said. He called on residents to continue adhering to Covid-19 containment measures to reduce the number of infections.