Teacher Alice Njeri, her five-year-old son and one-year-old baby had just moved in to their rented house in Nakuru 12 days ago. She had returned from work on Wednesday evening at about 5.30pm. Not long afterward, Njeri, her son and the house help were strangled and stabbed to death. The house was torched and the baby was left to die in the flames but he was rescued by neighbours. Nakuru police are searching the the killer or killers who struck in the Mzee wa Nyama area on the outskirts of Nakuru town. Alice, a teacher at St Maria Veronica School, was found in her sitting room, strangled and stabbed in the back. “Njeri’s body was right at the main entry door, the son's body lay a few two metres away in the sitting room while the baby was found crying on the seat,” Nakuru deputy county police commander Joseph Tonui said. The house help, 45-year-old Ann Wangari, was bludgeoned and stabbed in the back as she was preparing supper, police said. She was slumped over the kitchen table. A scarf used to strangle the victims was left on the slain boy's neck. Tonui said they found no bloodied knives, yet the victims had been stabbed, indicating the killer or killers took the weapons. All mobile phones were taken. The three were killed by a person or persons who had trailed the woman from her place of work, police said. They said the house could have been torched to conceal details of the murders and also to kill the baby. Neighbours who sought anonymity said the Njeri had just moved into the house on May 15 and wondered who could have traced her to hernew residence. One said she had only been there for 12 days and then she was killed. Neghbours said a woman had visited the area asking if anyone knew Njeri and where she was living. The woman was a stranger. "It is as if the attacker were trailing the woman. Because she had just arrived from work when the family was raided," a neighbour said. A month ago, a househelp and two children died in a house fire in a suspected arson murder in Elementaita, Nakuru county. Wangari's husband, Simon Kimani, said he was informed about the deaths through a telephone call by a neighbour. He urged the police to  ensure justice for the victims. (Edited by V. Graham)