The Homa Bay government is on the spot over the poor state of roads leading to Sukari Industries in Ndhiwa. The firm said it pays the county government Sh16 million in cess annually to improve roads leading to the factory situated in Riat, Ndhiwa constituency. But the roads, which residents in Ndhiwa, Rangwe and Homa Bay Town, use to transport sugar cane to the factory, are still in a sorry state. Farmers have for a long time been counting losses because they are unable to ferry their produce to the factory due to poor roads. Ndhiwa MP Martin Owino asked the county government to explain how it utilises the money it collects. Owino said many sugar cane farmers in his constituency are wallowing in poverty because they do not benefit from the crop. “Many farmers suffer because their canes don’t reach the factory. The losses are blamed on poor roads but Sukari Industries says it pays revenue to Homa Bay government,” Owino said. Speaking to journalists during a meeting with farmers’ representatives and Sukari Industries officials at Riat market, Owino urged the county government to address the challenges facing residents. The MP said 40 per cent of the money collected by the county government should be used to improve the road network in the constituency. “All roads that bring the hullabaloos belong to the county government. The Homa Bay government should henceforth stop collecting cess if it cannot improve access roads.” Sukari Industries general manager David Okoth and transport manager John Okinda said the firm pays at least Sh4 million after every three months to the county treasury. “We opted to regularly pay the amount after we agreed with the government to be working on the roads. The money has never been delayed because we are obligated to do so,” Okoth said. Okinda said they have not been able to collect sugar cane from some farms because their tractors and trailers get stuck in the mud during the rainy season. He said all parties should come together and find a lasting solution. “It’s difficult to reach other farms to collect cane because the roads leading to them are impassable,” Okinda said. Roads executive Akoko Nyaoke said the roads only get inaccessible during the rainy season. “We’re consistent on improving access roads not only in Ndhiwa but across the county. We’ve roads which have been earmarked for repair once the rains subside,” Nyaoke said. Edited by A.N