 When KCPE results were released in 2016, Hassan Abdullahi Osman scored just 168 marks out of a possible 500. It did not dampen his determination to join secondary school and better his education. On Monday, Education CS announced that Osman was the most improved candidate in the 2020 KCSE exam. He scored a B- (minus). Osman sat his KCSE exam at Wayam Secondary School. He was recognised alongside Cheruiyot Bett Dennis and Maluti Tom Miti who both scored B- (minus) grades after obtaining 190 and 199 marks respectively in the 2016 KCPE exam. Others who registered remarkable improvements were Kipees Siomit Charity who scored C+ having posted 151 marks in KCPE four years ago. Sadera Sempeyo Shalvin got B- (minus) after scoring 168 marks in KCPE while Kamar Abdullahi Jimale scored a B- (minus) after posting just 163 in the primary school test. Musharaf Kerow Adan scored C+, a big improvement from 140 marks that he scored in KCPE while Abdullahi Daud Maalim also scored C+ from 137 marks four years ago. Ruweitha Abdikadir Hassan scored B- (minus) after getting 193 marks in the 2016 KCPE. “When I released the 2019 KCSE examination results, I disclosed a list of candidates who had made the greatest improvements in their academic abilities based on their KCPE scores. Our decision then, as it is now, was to try and explain the fact that candidates who score low marks in the KCPE can still do well in the KCSE given the right environment, teaching and learning,” Magoha said. He added, “This move now appears to have motivated even more candidates who scored lowly at the KCPE four years ago to even do better in the 2020 KCSE exam.” In the schools' category, Kaaga Girls High School in Meru county was the most improved. Magoha commended the school for a job well done in improving the performance of some of the students who obtained low marks in KCPE exam. The extra-county school recorded an impressive 73.98 KCSE performance index in the last year’s exam. “In the same spirit of illustrating that schools can add value to student cohorts, I now name some of the schools that admitted candidates with lower KCPE mean scores but did a commendable job at improving their overall mean performance to aspiring levels,” Magoha said. He added, “After looking at the impressive results that have been posted by our 2020 KCSE candidates, and taking into account the most trying environment in which they prepared for this examination, I am compelled to describe their show in one apt sentence: They fought their battle with resilience and ended it with grace.” Other schools with best improved performance were St. Joseph Girls – Kitale which recorded 71.57 per cent from 21.22 per cent in KCPE, Kisasi Secondary School which improved from 20.43 per cent in KCPE to 68 per cent and Oriwo Boys which improved from 31.07 per cent to 78.9 per cent. Riokindo High School, St. Joseph’s Rapogi, Light Academy, Moi Gesusu High, Saye Mixed Secondary, St. Edward Nyabioto, Wiobiero Secondary, Chuka Boys High, Strathmore School, Bushra High and Mahiga Girls Secondary were also among the most improved schools.  Edited by P.O