Celebrations after the High Court quashed the Building Bridges Initiative started well but ended in tear gas in Kabarnet town, Baringo county, on Friday. Leaders led by county assembly speaker David Kipkerich amassed hundreds of residents who breached the Covid-19 protocols to cheer and dance after the five-judge bench on Thursday declared the BBI Bill unconstitutional, illegal, null and void. "We stood for the truth as Baringo assembly to become the first county to vote out BBI, although we were marked red but guess who's right now," Kipkerich said adding, "BBI is now dead." But before the meeting ended, a contingent of anti-riot police officers arrived in Land Cruisers to disperse the crowd with teargas and bullets. "Go mind your own businesses or do your meetings elsewhere not here in town," a police officer shouted as he ordered the residents away. Some youths threw stones at the officers, forcing them to shoot in the air to scare them away. The majority of MCAs braved teargas casters thrown into the house to reject the constitutional amendment bill. "As Baringo no one can stop us from standing for the truth. We always set the record straight. When we cough the entire country must catch the flu," Kipkerich said. He was backed by Tenges MCA Silas Tochim, Reuben Chepsongol (Bartabwa), John Tarus (Sacho) and Kipruto Kimosop (Mochongoi). The leaders lauded the judges for annulling the BBI document on Thursday, saying it is a clear demonstration that the Judiciary serves independently without being compromised. "All that is giving us hope as hustler nation that the journey to State House with our team leader the Deputy President Dr William Ruto and UDA party is real and unstoppable," Chepsongol said. They said they have no problem with President Uhuru Kenyatta but he should consider changing his legal and political advisors who misled him. "Uhuru should stop listening to the likes of David Murathe and Cotu secretary general  Francis Atwoli," Chepsongol said. Others blamed for not standing with the locals against BBI were Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Tiaty MP William Kamket, Joshua Kandie (Baringo Central) and Woman Representative Gladwel Cheruiyot.