Police in Teso North, Busia, have launched investigations into the killing of a woman whose naked body was dumped in a bush. Teso North subcounty police commander David Muange said the woman is suspected to have been killed in Bumula, Bungoma county, and her body transported to Teso North. Preliminary investigations into the incident show the woman lived in Bumula. Muange said the body of the woman, who appeared to be in her mid-twenties, had no bruises. This, he said, showed she did not struggle with her killers before she breathed her last. Her body was taken to Kocholya Level 4 Hospital mortuary where a postmortem will be conducted to establish the cause of her death. BURGLARIES Meanwhile, police in Teso North are reviewing a CCTV footage to help identify a gang engaged in burglaries in the subcounty. Muange on Friday told the Star the footage captured on CCTV cameras at St Joseph’s Kocholya High School contains crucial information that may help in the identification and arrest of the burglars who have been terrorising residents. The CCTV footage review is being undertaken by the subcounty security team led by Teso North deputy county commissioner Peter Karanja. On Thursday night, burglars broke into Kocholya High School and stole a television set. That same night, a man was killed at Harizona Club at Kocholya market, about 200 metres away from Kocholya High School. By Sunday, no one had been arrested in connection with the three incidents. An officer attached to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations said police are following crucial leads that will help in apprehending the perpetrators. Teso North’s main town, Malaba, has of recent experienced increased burglary cases. Burglars have been breaking into business premises and private homes. Cases have also been reported in Angurai market where police recently shot dead a suspected burglar. Amagoro, Kocholya, Moding and Malakisi towns have also experienced similar incidents. Muange said police are intensifying night patrols to contain run-away insecurity in the subcounty that borders Uganda. Edited by A.N