They had written an open letter to President Uhuru Kenyatta seeking his intervention, which was their last hope. But on Saturday, that hope was dashed. In its place, a bitter feeling of betrayal, sorrow and hopelessness filled their hearts. The over 2,000 people who were forcefully evicted from 610 acres at Bonje and Mwamdudu in Kinango, Kwale couty, watched in despair as bulldozers brought down their remaining structures. The demolitions, following the initial one on May 7, and supervised by a contingent of heavily armed police officers, was the last nail in the coffin. “My life is over,” said Zainab Rehema, who was until the demolition the village elder. “I am now looking for a place to lie down and wait for my death.” There is no more village to be an elder of. The latest move to clear the remaining structures is intended to pave way for construction work by a private developer. The residents’ spokesperson Ramadhan Lewa on Saturday said many of the residents have lost hope. “We tried to appeal to our President’s inner core, his humanity. It has been futile. Now all we can do is wait for God to work a miracle,” said Lewa. He said the parcel is their ancestral land. “We have grandfathers and great grandfathers who were still living on this land when they were displaced under unclear circumstances,” he said. A woman who had given birth hours before the demolitions on May 7 cannot be traced. “We have tried looking for her in vain. Her phone is off. We don’t know whether she is safe and where she is,” said Lewa. Juma Bakari, a matatu conductor, wished for a vacation after he lost all his belongings in the demolitions. “I just want to clear my head. It is not working right now,” he said. Nuru Mwalukonje, a widow, said she has to start from scratch some place else. “Even if it is in Tsavo or in any Kaya forest. It is better to live with animals than bank on human beings,” she said bitterly. Kwale Woman Representative Zulekha Hassan and her Nairobi counterpart Esther Passaris had earlier made a passionate appeal to Uhuru to do something about demolitions in the country. They said they reflect badly on his legacy. Hassan, who donated food worth Sh300,000 to the victims who have been spending nights in the cold after the demolitions, said Uhuru must ensure evictions,if at all, are done in a humane way. Passaris said the Mwamdudu and Bonje demolitions in Kwale county and the mass demolitions in Nairobi could easily plunge the country into chaos. She called on Uhuru to ban demolitions, saying they are tainting his image. “If you have to demolish, you do it in a manner that every family doesn’t feel aggrieved,” said Passaris. The Nairobi Woman Representative said the demolitions negate Uhuru’s housing legacy that he wants to create. “You have a vision to give houses to everyone. Do not lose sight of this vision. You can’t give housing by destroying housing,” she said. She said every woman whose house is destroyed has her inner core destroyed as well. The stability of her family and future of her dependants are destroyed in the demolitions, she noted. “As you build houses, can’t we have a strategic and systematic way of acquiring government land?” she said. Edited by Henry Makori