Uasin Gishu is threatening to seize and sell plots whose owners have not paid rates amounting to more than Sh1.2 billion if they don't pay up by June 30. Officials say they will be forced to take the severe action against residents who have defaulted on land rates for many years, despite constant reminders by the county. At the minimum, business permits will not be issued and properties will be clamped. County executive for lands Nelson Maritim said although Governor Jackson Mandago had offered 100 per cent waiver on interest and penalties on land rates, defaulters had failed to turn up and clear the pending rates. Maritim said when the waiver period ends, the county will enforce the law, seize the properties and sell them. The county has issued demand notices to landowners within Eldoret municipality to pay before the waiver period expires. Speaking at county headquarters on Saturday, Maritim said since the announcement of the waiver, residents had not ignored calls to pay and benefit from the waiver. "As soon as we are done with the municipality, we will visit other townships because we want landowners in all areas to comply," Maritim said. He warned that after June 30, all penalties and interest will be reinstated. "If you cannot pay your rates before 30th June, we will come for you and the consequences will be dire," he added. The county will not issue business permits for plots whose owners have not cleared pending rates, he said. “We also will clamp the buildings and sell the property as per the law,” the official said. A section of the business community sued the county government to stop its plan to review the land rates upwards. Mandago has directed that those who sued the county should not benefit from the waiver offer. Residents, led by Kipkorir Menjo, argued the county did not carry out public participation before the plan to increase the land rates by more than 300 per cent. Director for revenue management Jonah Lamai said they are projecting to collect more than Sh700 million from the land rates by the end of the financial year. The county is on course to meet its target to collect more than Sh1.2 billion as internal revenue during the 2020-21 financial year, which ends on June 30. By last week it had collected Sh890 million. (Edited by V. Graham)