Makueni County leaders have eulogised former Kibwezi MP Kalembe Ndile  as a human rights activist. Several leaders from Makueni described the ex-MP as a generous person and a strong human rights activist. Speaking to the Star Makueni Governor Kivutha Kibwana recalled his times with Kalembe during the agitation for land rights particularly in the then Kibwezi constituency.​ While sending his condolences to the family of the ex-lawmaker, Kibwana said he joined forces with Kalembe to fight for the land rights of the people of Kibwezi who were being disposed of their land by senior people with connections in the national government.​ Kibwana said Kalembe was a fearless land rights activist who made his name while fighting the well-connected land grabbers in Nguu and other parts of Kibwezi.​ “He was a man of the people. He identified himself as a son of a squatter and his message resonated well with the locals who felt he represented their cause,” said the governor. He said it is this aggressive spirit that Kalembe, a man of mean education, would find himself elected as the mayor of the defunct Makueni county council, after being elected as a councillor. He would later become MP for the larger Kibwezi due to his resilience. ​The governor also recalled how he helped Kalembe overcome his academic challenges when he decided to run for a parliamentary seat. Kibwana said he personally tutored Kalembe at his home until he sat for his KCSE exams as a private candidate. ​“By that time he was living in my house and we encouraged him to register for KCSE exam. We then got him books and homeschooled him until he sat for his exams,” Kibwana recalled, adding that on many occasions, Kalembe had run ins with the authorities due to his agitation for land rights. Makueni County MP Rose Museo described Kalembe as brave and  outspoken person who always fought for the rights of the disadvantaged people in the society. Museo said she met with Kalembe back 1998 while working with his NGO Ngulu wa Ngao fighting for human rights. "I went to see him last Wednesday before he was taken to hospital.  Kamba region and Kenya at large has lost an hero. Rest in peace our son," said Rose Museo. On her side the deputy Governor for Makueni Adelina Ndeto Mwau termed Kalembe as voice for the voiceless. -Edited by SKanyara