The KCSE exam class of 2020 will this week review their university, college and course choices ahead of their placement set for July. Education CS George Magoha on Monday opened revision of the candidates' choices to give them a chance to align their choices with their grades and cut-off points. “All applicants will know the universities and colleges they have been selected to by the end of July 2021," Magoha said on Monday. He spoke at Joseph Kangethe Primary School where he oversaw the donation of masks and school bags made from recycled billboard posters used during the rebranding of ABSA Bank. Some 160,000 places have been identified in public and private universities, making available more places than the number of candidates who made the cut for degree slots. This means all candidates who scored C+ and above will proceed to university. For those who seek to proceed to technical colleges, the placement agency says 331,045 slots will be allotted. A total of 747,161 sat the test, with 143,140 candidates making the cut-off mark of C+ (plus) and above and are eligible for government sponsorship. “I wish to reiterate that all the 143,140 candidates who scored a mean grade of C+ and above will be absorbed by our universities and TVET institutions by choice,” Magoha said. The CS also noted that those who had not selected institutions and courses they would wish to pursue in the first selection, can do so now. "Candidates who were not able to apply in school will use the opportunity to submit their choices," Magoha said. However, this will spell doom for 269,114 candidates who will have to scramble for places in colleges as self-sponsored students because government sponsorship is capped at 331,045. The review will include those seeking to join technical colleges. The candidates will be admitted to universities in September. “This will enable our higher education institutions to admit the students in the new academic year beginning September 2021,” Magoha said. The placement comes at a unique time when the sector is facing uncertainty over shutdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Magoha asked universities to contact the new students, give them joining instructions and fast-track the start of their academic journey. Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement Service will place all those with C+ (plus) and above in universities to pursue degree courses. KUCCPS chief executive Mercy Wahome said the placement will be done based on a candidate's choice of institution, availability of places, and cut-off points. -Edited by SKanyara