A public inquest into the fatal shooting of a Form 4 student in Tsavo West National Park in 2019 has begun. Benedict Kyule, then a KCSE exam candidate at Kiuani Secondary School in Kibwezi subcounty, was shot at Komboyoo on September 18, 2019, under unclear circumstances. He was 17. Makindu resident magistrate Benson Ireri will lead the probe to establish if three Kenya Wildlife Services officers on duty when the killing happened will be charged. Some 17 witnesses have been lined up to testify. The boy’s father Francis Kioko Muli and KWS officers Ibrahim Godana and George Otieno last Tuesday gave their account of what transpired on the day of the shooting. Muli told the court that he received a distress call from his son at around 4.45am telling him he had been shot and required immediate help. The son did not disclose where the shooting had occurred. “He told me he had been shot by KWS officers on his leg and hand and wanted me to assist him,” Muli said. Muli headed to Mtito-Andei police station and reported the incident at around 6am. “When I went to the police station KWS had not made any reports of a shooting incident. Police officers from the station proceeded to the park and I was left waiting at the main entrance to the park for hours,” he said. At around 10am, a vehicle carrying the body of his son arrived at the gate. He said he asked what had transpired but was directed to check the body. He identified it as that of his son. He said the body had another gunshot wound on the chest. The two KWS officers said at the inquest that they had recorded a statement at Mtito-Andei police station following the killing. The report showed that rangers were on routine patrols when they encountered two armed suspected poachers. The statements said the poachers shot at the rangers who returned fire, killing one while another escaped with gunshot wounds. They said the statement had been changed. In their new submissions, the officers said they heard gunshots directed at them and they reacted by shooting randomly in that direction. Two officers fired 30 rounds of ammunition — one 17 bullets and the other 13. They produced only four spent cartridges from a 303 rifle, a homemade gun allegedly from the poachers who shot at them. The officers said on that day they had a G3 rifle and an Armcom AK14 ‘punisher’ gun. The officers could not directly link the gun allegedly from the poachers to the boy. “The gun recovered was not held by the boy but it was near where his body lay,” said one of them. There was no evidence also to prove if the gun was used on that day and if it was from the student. The boy was buried in 2019, days after a postmortem was done. Results of the autopsy at Makindu Subcounty Hospital mortuary showed he died of excessive bleeding from two gunshot wounds on the chest that damaged the lungs. A report by the hospital’s medical superintendent Dr David Kasanga showed the velocity of the bullets that went through the chest resulted in lung damage. The boy had been hit by four bullets and none of them was found inside the body. The first bullet went through the right lower limb, leaving a fracture of 12 centimetres above the knee while another hit the left limb. The report from Dr Kasanga also showed the victim was most likely shot from the back and on the sides by either three people or one person who was changing positions. The inquest will resume on September 23, where more witnesses, among them a KWS ranger, police officers, a pathologist, and crime scene investigators will testify. 