President Uhuru Kenyatta has called for debt swaps and restructuring to help Africa cope with the financial burden occasioned by Covid-19. He equally suggested an accelerated access to alternative sources of financing as part of new approaches to financing of Africa's recovery from the pandemic.. This comes as the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) nears its expiry on June 30, 2021. A debt swap is where a foreign debt owed by a developing country is transferred to a particular organisation, typically in return for the country committing itself to specified conservation measures. With the DSSI almost coming to  an end for Kenya, a debt swap may allow the country to pay less debt to it's creditors by transferring the debt to another organisation. In the DSSI offered by the Paris Club in January 2021 for instance, Kenya  got Sh32.9 billion in potential savings for the six-month period. Kenya's debt crossed the Sh7 trillion mark last year, or 65 per cent of GDP, up from Sh5.81 trillion the previous year. President Uhuru spoke  at State House, Nairobi on Tuesday in his virtual address to the summit on financing of African economies hosted by President Emmanuel Macron of France. Macron called for a change of tack in financing African development by enhancing the Special Drawing rights (SDRs) to boost the continent’s capacity to combat the Covid-19 pandemic as well as recovery efforts. The French President emphasised on the need for debt cancellation to accord African countries the requisite liquidity to build better post-Covid. “We should turn this emergency into an opportunity to boost Africa’s economic growth,”  Macron said. President Felix Tshisekedi of DR Congo  said African leaders expect a swift and bold action from the international community especially the G7 and G20 to accelerate Africa’s economic growth. During the summit signatories from the Paris summit said they would push for the rapid general allocation of $650bn worth of special drawing rights (SDRs) by the IMF, of which approximately $33bn would go to Africa. SDRs are a reserve asset used to bolster the financial position of IMF members, based on a basket of currencies, which can be converted for much-needed dollars. According to IMF Boss Kristalina Georgieva, once this is approved it will boost Africa's reserves and liquidity, without adding to it's debt burden. Uhuru also suggested innovative financing solutions that crowd in the private sector to assist in the financing of the African countries. These include the issuance of private sector-backed financial instruments such as green bonds, supporting the issuance of local currency instruments, structuring guarantees to lower financing costs; and, developing and deepening public-private partnership opportunities. "Kenya welcomes commitments from bilateral and multilateral agencies to support emerging and low-income countries in response to the COVID-19 pandemic," Uhuru said. "We need to move beyond traditional measures and implement truly transformational financing options that are commensurate with the enormity of the crisis." Uhuru also welcomed ongoing efforts by development partners to cushion the continent from adverse effects of Covid-19 saying Africa needs more resources to fight the pandemic, tackle debt vulnerabilities, and address poverty among other pressing needs. "Kenya appreciates the extra-ordinary efforts from development partners to finance economic recovery and reduce debt vulnerability,"