The US Anti-Terrorism Assistance has donated two vehicles to the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to boost their capacity in explosive incident counter measure and post-blast investigations. The vehicles—a Toyota Land Cruiser and an all-terrain Gator—will also boost operations for the DCI’s Bomb Disposal and Hazardous Materials Unit. The donation follows a specialised course offered to 15 detectives recently. It was sponsored and facilitated jointly by the Kenya-US governments at the Border Police Training Camp in Kanyonyo in Kitui. While receiving the vehicles at the DCI headquarters, DCI boss George Kinoti expressed his gratitude to the programme’s officials, adding that their support in offering specialised training and technical assistance, was bearing the desired results. "We are greatly honoured as a directorate, for the longstanding partnership that we have continued to enjoy, especially in building the capacity of our specialised units to respond to contemporary security challenges,” Kinoti said. ATA programme manager Mark Solis lauded the collaborations and assured the DCI chief of even more support, especially in kitting and equipping various tactical units. This comes two months after the US government donated 39 four-wheel-drive cars to be used by the BPU personnel. A team of more than 200 Special Forces have been deployed to the Kenya-Somalia boarder to tame the growing terror threats. The combined team has been combing several places in the area stretching more than 700km to address terror threats and attacks. Kenya is constructing a security wall at the border to deal with terror menace amid resistance from some residents. According to officials, the wall has helped reduce cases of attacks in places where it has been erected. For instance, the officials say 90 per cent of Mandera county is peaceful apart from the stretch from Arabia to Kotulo where they termed as volatile, unpredictable, challenging and ambiguous. The incidents have also dropped in the Lamu region where the wall has been built. -Edited by SKanyara