Will it be Toyota Gazoo Racing, M-Sport Ford, or Hyundai Motorsport? This is the million-dollar question rally fans have been asking in the run-up to the FIA WRC Safari Rally Kenya slated for June 24-27. There has been a palpable sense of excitement and some good-humoured rivalry too as purists escalate the banter over who will have the last laugh on Kenyan soil. Mombasa-based co-driver Victor Okundi reckons that Safari will require absolute control from World Rally Team bosses and cucumber calmness from the drivers. Whoever wins this will have won the first Safari under the current WRC format!! Hyundai Motorsport Team Principal Andrea Adamo when asked about his expectations, opined that Safari could elicit surprise. Adamo admitted that the event will be different from what the current generation of WRT drivers is used to. "I will not be shocked to see surprises in Safari Rally. I have never been to Africa despite the fact that I have worked with teams that rallied in the Safari but never had a chance to be there. Even in 2007 when I was the Abarth Technical Director, I was unable to come there when Safari joined the all-new Intercontinental Rally Challenge (IRC). Even during the last WRC Safari to be run at the International level in 2002, I was not there. "So I'm very curious to see  how much the event has changed from the past and the difference from the old memories of the old Safari that used to cover thousands of kilometers across the Savannah." Speaking via Zoom to  Motorsport411, Adamo added that the Safari will be a different 'ball game' because Africa has its own different gravel conditions. "It's a special feeling, so I'm really looking forward to it. To race in the Savannah is something special." KCB Bank Kenya is the official financial partner of WRC Safari Rally, thanks to a KSh100 million windfall announced recently by its CEO Joshua Oigara. Toyota Kenya is also a co-sponsor of the event with a Sh30million boost. The Safari is returning to the global circuit after a 19-year hiatus. What's more, Hyundai has indeed named its Safari Rally lineup and will field a three-car team featuring Belgian Thierry Neuville, 2019 champion Ott Tanak (Estonia), and Dani Sordo of Spain who will drive the third car. "I have a contact with Neuville and Tanak that they will run in every rally. For Dani, we have to see the overall split of events and for an event like Safari, he definitely fits the bill." Tänak and Neuville have led  Hyundai's 2021 attack, with Sordo and Craig Breen sharing the third i20 car. 