Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has defended the degazettement of Isaac Mwaura as nominated senator and subsequent declaration of a vacancy in the seat. In a communication to the House on Tuesday, Lusaka said he strictly followed the law in gazetting the vacancy following the removal of Mwaura’s name from the Jubilee Party membership list. Lusaka said he received all the necessary documentation as provided for in law, adding that there was no court order that barred him from issuing the notice. “I wish to reiterate that by issuing the gazette notice, I followed the law and there was no court order barring me from declaring the vacancy,” he said. Last Monday, Mwaura became the first lawmaker to lose his seat after the speaker gazetted a vacancy in the position. The move triggered a barrage of complaints with some senators accusing the speaker of ignoring a court order. But the speaker insisted he had not been served with any court order and promised to issue a detailed communication on the events that preceded the publication of the gazette notice. In the communication, Lusaka told the House that he received a judgement by the political parties dispute tribunal, a letter from the Registrar of Political Parties as well as Jubilee Party confirming the successful removal of Mwaura’s name from the party register. “On May 10, 2021, I received the judgement of Political Parties Dispute Tribunal in complaint No E002 of 2021 Hon, Isaac Mwaura Maigua vs Jubilee Party and another upholding that expulsion was conducted in accordance with the law and dismissing the complaint by Mwaura against the same,” he said. “On the same date, I also received a letter dated May 10, 2021 from the registrar of political parties and addressed to secretary general of the Jubilee party confirming the removal of the name of Mwaura from the Jubilee Party membership list effective March 29, 2021,” he added in his communication. The speaker said the events leading to the declaration of the vacancy dated back to March, 2020 when his office received a letter from Jubilee Party secretary general requesting for a declaration of a vacancy. But, then, he declined to publish the notice following the application for a stay order filed in the High Court by Mwaura pending hearing and determination of the substantive case in the tribunal. “On the basis of the High Court, I made a decision not to take any action with respect to the request to declare a vacancy in the seat held by Mwaura pending the determination of the appeal,” he said. The tribunal delivered the judgement in favour of the Jubilee party on May 10. “Consequently, in view of all these documentation and based on the law, I declared a vacancy in the Senate of a seat of member elected under Article 98 (1)(d) of the Constitution and held by Mwaura,” Lusaka said. -Edited by SKanyara