Two police constables charged with killing a businesswoman at City Park three years ago have been found guilty of manslaughter. Police constables William Chirchir and Godfrey Kirui were charged with fatally shooting Janet Waiyaki on the morning of May 20, 2018. She was in a car with her nephew, Bernard Chege, at 10.30am.. High Court judge Stella Mutuku on Tuesday ruled the force used by the officers was not proportional. The intention was not to kill the woman, as officers were reacting to a terrorism alert in the area. “This brings me to the conclusion the offence proved by the evidence before me is that of manslaughter and not murder by dint of absence of the element of malice aforethought," she ruled. The judge said the accused persons acted recklessly and shot at the vehicle without considering their actions might result in injuring or killing an innocent occupant. She said no offence had been committed by the victim and there was no threat from her and the other occupant after the vehicle drove off to flee the area. Chege and Waiyaki did not resist the attempts by the police to arrest them, in fact, they were fleeing from the police. The court said using firearms to stop the car was use of disproportional force to stop the vehicle. “The accused persons acted contrary to the law. They contravened the Constitution that requires them to preserve life," Mutuku said. She said the officers had not identified the occupants, nor did they shoot in the air or shoot out the tyres. The victim was in the passenger seat when she was shot. As the officers were armed, they should have acted with caution and used other means to have the vehicle intercepted. "I found the two accused persons guilty of manslaughter and not murder," the judge said. The case will be mentioned on Thursday for mitigation. Last year, Mutuku put the two officers on their defence, saying they were at the scene where the killing took place. Chief Inspector Moses Shikuku, then OCS Parklands, told the court the police officers were deployed in the area following a terror alert. “At about 10 am I was called by the duty officer who informed me there had been an incident within City Park area. I immediately proceeded to City Park and found officers who had come from a different area to help us,” Shikuku testified. The officer, who is currently in charge of traffic in Kasarani subcounty, said he found the injured persons inside in the car. The officers who briefed me when I arrived told me they were patrolling near the market area and a member of the public told them there was a suspicious vehicle,” Shikuku told the court. He said the officers informed him that when they approached the vehicle, they realised it had tinted windows and it was driven off when they tried to have the occupants come out. According to submissions filed in court in February 2021, Chege who was with Waiyaki when she was shot, testified she was screaming when the shooting happened but she was unresponsive when a policewoman came to check. They also said Chege told the court that when he asked the officers for help after being shot, they just looked at him and did not offer any assistance. They waited until Inspector Mary Nderitu from Parklands came and offered help by opening the door and checking on the victim. “It took about 10 minutes to get help. In all this time, if they had acted promptly upon realising they had shot the two, they probably would have saved the deceased’s life. Their omission led to the death of the deceased‚” the family said. Family lawyer Edward Mbany said, “A police officer shall always attempt to use nonviolent means first and force may only be employed when non-violent means are ineffective or without any promise of achieving the intended result.” He said the threshold had been attained and the act of shooting was intended to cause death or grievous injury. The force used by the officers was way too excessive and the use of firearms was reckless and uncalled for, he said.  (Edited by V. Graham)