Suspect in NLC officer Jennifer Wambua's murder - Peter Njenga alias Sankala - is not fit for prosecution, the state prosecutor said on Wednesday. The suspect's lawyer Dorine Mwau told the court that her client was scheduled to go for a second mental assessment review on June 24 after the first test done on him revealed that he was mentally unstable. The matter was heard before Machakos High Court Judge David Kemei, who ordered that the matter be mentioned on June 22. Njenga did not take plea. Kemei ordered that the suspect be returned to Muthaiga police station in Nairobi where he had been held. Two weeks ago, police narrated how they nabbed Njenga. DCI director George Kinoti said homicide detectives through a painstaking forensic dragnet which involved Njenga's sister made the arrest possible. Kinoti said the detectives through criminal intelligence first forensically placed the suspect at the scene of crime. "They managed to establish eyewitnesses who saw the suspect with the deceased the last time she was seen alive on March 12th 2021," Kinoti said. Njenga was seen at the scene and thorough repeat combing of the scene they stealthily managed to pick crucial exhibits. "The forensic results are finally out, positively matching the suspect," Kinoti said. In a murder most foul, the deceased’s body had been found half naked by detectives, who suspected that she had been sexually assaulted, before being murdered in cold blood. A report issued by the government pathologist confirmed that there was sexual contact with her killer/s. "Following detailed forensic investigations, detectives established that the suspect had indeed interacted and spent quite some time with the deceased at the location where the body was later discovered.," Kinoti said. "It was also established that the area is often visited by pilgrims for spiritual intentions. " According to the police, the suspect preyed on the deceased as she prayed, before he made his move to sexually assault her and strangle her to death.