Kenya is at a crossroad as it strives to grow into an upper-middle-income country by 2030. This follows the re-basing of the economy in 2014 which raised its economic status into a lower-middle-income country. There are growing demands for additional resources to finance critical economic projects. Additionally, the government’s zest to improve service delivery in critical sectors of the economy including infrastructure, education and health is putting a strain on the limited resources available to the country. Vision 2030 is underpinned by transformation across three pillars namely, economic, social and political pillar. The achievement of the objectives set out in Vision 2030 blueprint is pegged on the implementation of enabling policies. A strong foundation and an enabling environment is required to support the ambitious target of providing a high quality of life to every Kenyan. Generally, the main sources of domestic resources that are readily available to finance development projects in a country are taxes and savings. The ability of the government to tap and accelerate the growth of the two sources play a critical role in determining the pace of development in a country. Kenya’s performance in these critical sources of domestic resources has been below par and this has contributed to the exponential growth in external public debt in the recent past. According to the World Bank, Kenya’s gross savings as a percentage of the GDP was estimated to have averaged 10.9 per cent over the last decade. This was the lowest in East Africa and much lower than Ethiopia which was around 30 per cent. The general trend over the decade is also not encouraging with savings as a percentage of GDP having declined from a high of 16% in 2007. Pension funds and insurance companies oftentimes provide a reliable source of local financing to plug the current infrastructure deficit. Savings into pension funds and other long-term investment plans, therefore, have a direct relationship with the level of local resources that are available to finance development projects in the country. On the other hand, according to the National Treasury, tax revenue as a share of GDP declined from 17% in 2013/14 to 14% in 2019/20. The total revenue collection excluding Appropriation in Aid (A.i.A) amounted to Sh 1.38 billion  which was equivalent to 13.6% of the GDP. The Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) has rolled out Revenue Enhancement Initiatives (REI) to boost tax collection measures. This comprises of a raft of tax policy measures that have been introduced or are in the offing to improve compliance and boost revenue collection. The digitalisation of tax administration is one of the key initiatives the KRA has rolled out to bring into the ambit of taxation certain segments of the society that were hitherto untaxed. This has also made it easier for taxpayers to pay taxes and hence increased the level of compliance by slightly reducing the size of the shadow economy. Customer service has also been revamped to improve the taxpayers experience in their interactions with the KRA. Outreach and education programmes are nowadays a common phenomenon to sensitize taxpayers about their tax obligations. This has bridged the perception gap that over the years hindered the collection of taxes. Timely payment of taxes is being encouraged and touted as the only means to self-sufficiency in the country. Dispute resolution has been reinvigorated to speed up the process and unlock the taxes that have been tied up due to disputes between the KRA and taxpayers. This has seen the establishment of alternative dispute resolution mechanisms as well the Tax Appeals Tribunal which is charged with the sole duty of hearing and determining disputed tax matters. The digital economy has emerged as a key player in the country and this has not escaped the attention of the KRA. With the contribution of the digital economy towards total revenue collected still being low, digital service tax was introduced targeting players in the digital space. It is, however, important that the introduction of new taxes is cognisant of the prevailing economic conditions to avert instances of overburdening struggling businesses. By and large, concerted efforts towards domestic resource mobilization will play a big role in taming the current exponential growth in public debt which has hampered the implementation of key policy measures. Robert Maina is a Senior Tax Manager at EY. The views expressed herein are not necessarily those of EY.