A Kenya Forest Service ranger was admitted to the AIC Kijabe Hospital after he was attacked at dawn by illegal loggers at Kinale forest in Kiambu on Saturday. Kiambu ecosystem conservator Paul Karanja said Constable Francis Mwololo was cut three times in the head with a panga after a logger overpowered him. The assailant then fled. He had spent the whole night with his colleagues, led by Kinale forest station manager Simon Mwema. They were patrolling the Soko Mjinga area when five loggers entered the forest at 3am. Karanja said the loggers were armed with pangas, axes, ropes and a cart pulled by three donkeys. They intercepted them as they began cutting a tree and they immediately scattered, but Mwololo pursued one and arrested him. “Before he could handcuff him, the logger kicked our officer; he fell onto the ground and the logger started slashing him. He started screaming for help when he noted another logger joining,” Karanja said. “Our officers tried to stop the loggers who were driving back donkeys. They threatened to kill the officers, who then started shooting even as a colleague screamed for help. The three donkeys were shot dead.” The rangers assisted Mwololo and took him to hospital. “He was bleeding too much and he was in pain. We took him to hospital where he was admitted,” Mwema said. Karanja said Mwololo was out of danger after undergoing surgery. The attack came two days after tree-planting exercises in the area. On Friday, Kijabe Environment Volunteers planted more than 1,000 seedlings in Kinale forest. On Thursday, Interior CAS Winnie Guchu and Environment PS Chris Kiptoo led the country in marking International Day of Forests and planted 6,000 trees in neighbouring Uplands forest. Karanja said they reported the incident to Kijabe police and Lari DCI officers. They pulled the cart to their KFS offices. “We are appealing to residents of Kinale and our community forest association members to help us identify who is the owner of that cart. So far, no one has come to claim it and no one has been arrested,” he said. Karanja said they will not tire of guarding the forests. He warned loggers that their efforts will fail and they will be prosecuted if arrested. Conservationist Benjamin Ndung’u appealed to the Environment ministry to add more allowances to KFS rangers, saying they deal with armed loggers who can attack them anytime. “For more than five years, we have never heard a tree being felled from Kinale forest, owing to patrols,” he said. Environment CS Keriako Tobiko banned logging, but loggers have been dying to enter the forest to continue wanton destruction. All their strategies have, however, failed.