At least 400 children from terror prone areas in Lamu have not been reached in the just concluded polio vaccination due to the imminent threat of the al Shabaab. The affected areas are Basuba Ward in Boni forest, Dide Waride, Chalaluma and surrounding areas all of which fall within the Boni enclave security operation zone. The polio vaccination campaign was launched by the government targeting 3 million children in 13 counties after the virus was confirmed to be circulating in Garissa and Mombasa counties. The five-day exercise commenced on May 22 and ended on Wednesday May 26. Counties targeted were Lamu, Garissa, Isiolo, Kajiado, Kiambu, Kilifi, Kitui, Machakos, Mandera, Mombasa, Nairobi, Tana River and Wajir counties. The Daadab refugee camp was also reached. Speaking on Thursday, Lamu county health promotion officer Mohamed Muhsin said they had achieved a 98 per cent coverage in vaccinations. He however said most children in terror prone areas of the Boni forest could not be reached for the vaccination. He said areas such as Basuba, Milimani, Mangai and Mararani had proved impenetrable. These areas have borne the most brunt of terror attacks that have happened in Lamu over the years resulting in their branding as terror hotspots. At Dide Waride, Chalaluma and surrounding villages, the exercise was disrupted after a fight erupted between herders and farmers leaving several injured. The incident resulted in the suspension of the vaccination with over 100 children missing out on the polio jab. It is such incidents that have created fear among community health volunteers and field officers undertaking the vaccination hence their refusal to venture into such areas where their security is not guaranteed. Muhsin however said they were waiting on the security department to make the necessary arrangements that will enable them reach the areas. “We are done with the first phase of polio vaccination in Lamu county. Our target was to reach at least 25,401 children. We covered 98 per cent. It’s unfortunate that we couldn't reach some areas in Boni due to security concerns but we hope to do a when security measures are in place,"said Muhsin. He said of all terror prone areas, the team was only able to cover Kiangwe area as it is accessible by sea. Parents from Basuba ward on Lamu East have expressed their frustration after their children missed out on the Polio jab. This isn't the first time their children are left out of such an exercise on similar grounds. They have urged the government to intervene and ensure their children get the jab. “It is both unfortunate and unfair that this keeps happening every year. The government knows the situation in our areas, why can't they make plans beforehand? This needs to stop," said elder Yusuf Khatib of Basuba. Area MCA Barissa Deko admitted that health workers are reluctant to venture into the area for fear of being targeted and attacked by militants. All dispensaries in these areas have remained closed since the first terror attack in 2014 where most were raided, looted, vandalised and torched by militants. The Bonis are among Kenya’s last forest communities and are concentrated majorly on the Lamu-Somalia border. -Edited by SKanyara