The Speakers of both the National Assembly and the Senate have assured the new Chief Justice Martha Koome of their support as she assumes the office. Koome assumed the office on Monday at the Supreme Court, replacing her predecessor, David Maraga. Koome took her oath of office last Friday. During the ceremony, Koome received two reports on the state of the Judiciary and the flag of the Supreme Court. Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka and Maraga were among the leaders who attended the ceremony. Lusaka congratulated the CJ for her new role, saying that through her, Kenyan women firmly have their hope for achievement restored and reaffirmed. “You come into this space with pomp, celebration and acclamation not only for yourself but the women of Kenya…At the Senate, we will continue to lend our support to your office in its pursuit of fairness, equity, and equality before the law and access to justice,” Lusaka said. Muturi also assured CJ Koome of the support from the National Assembly through his Twitter account. “Hearty congratulations to CJ Martha Koome upon her assumption of office as the Chief Justice of the Republic of Kenya and President of the Supreme Court. At the National Assembly we wish you all the best and will render you our unreserved support as you endeavour to deliver on your mandate,” Speaker Muturi said. Deputy Chief Justice Philomena Mwilu took to the stand and thanked God for giving her the chance to serve as acting CJ for 162 days. She thanked the Judiciary staff and judges for doing their part in delivering justice to Kenyans under her watch during the period she was acting as CJ. Mwilu presented two reports on the state of the Judiciary to the incoming CJ which highlights the challenges faces together with its plans. In her speech, the CJ acknowledged her mother and women in whose footsteps she has walked, such as Priscilla Ambwao, who represented Kenya at Lancaster house, and the first female magistrate Effie Owuor among others. Koome called her work a calling, saying she juggled the roles of being a young mother and law student.