Over 280,000 Youths from across the country are in protest over the delay of last month’s Kazi Mtaani payment. Many have raised concerns that the delay has made it worse to meet their basic needs and way of livelihood. When reached for a comment, the State Department of Housing and Urban Development PS Charles Hinga noted that efforts were being made to finalise and effect the payment and has urged beneficiaries to remain patient. “Budget allocation process for this phase is ongoing. The payment process is a high priority and we are dealing with it,” Hinga said “We appeal for patience as we process payment to the youth who are doing a splendid job in making the programme successful,” Hinga added. However, youths have continued to express their disappointment over the delay. “The delayed payments to Kazi Mtaani cohort A is not only disappointing but demoralising to the youth workers who depend on it 100 per cent for meeting their needs,” said James Muriuki “What's not happening with the payment of Kazi Mtaani cohort A payments, cohort B is scheduled to finish up their routine round tomorrow yet the other group is yet to get their dues, what is it with these delays when it comes to payments? posed Jacinta Njeri. “What is happening to youth wages in Kazi Mtaani ....COHORT B completed their 11 working days and yet COHORT A hasn't received any penny ??? It's tough out here,” said Dennis King’ori “I know the economy is hurting mostly for us, jobless and slum youth who depends solely on Kazi Mtaani. Am a supervisor and I truly know how it is frustrating and so annoying not to have been paid till now,” Bosco Wafula The same delay happened in March to all Cohort A Kazi Mtaani youths but was paid after a day. The National Treasury in February allocated an additional Sh7 billion for the Kazi Mtaani programme to pay thousands of youth and scale up the initiative to cover the affordable housing project. This was after the Government extended the programme. The supplementary budget that was tabled in Parliament highlighted that Sh1 billion will be used to pay youths who have gone without pay or received partial payments since last year. “Sh1 billion is for the budget shortfall for the Kazi Mtaani programme for payment of youth engaged in the programme and “Sh6 billion for consolidation of Kazi Mtaani programme under the State Department for Housing and Urban Development,”  read the budget in part. More than 280,000 youths heaved a sigh of relief after the national government extended the programme in March. This was after beneficiaries across the country pleaded for an extension and President Uhuru Kenyatta intervened. Many youths had decried their lives being at stake if it came to an end as they had solely been relying on it to support themselves and their families, hence ending it will put them out of work. Some noted that the programme had kept them away from the indulgence of criminal activities and drugs. The Kazi Mtaani programme employs 283,210 youths as workers and supervisors countrywide for 11 days every month earns Sh455 daily while supervisors take home Sh505 each per day, according to the State Department of Housing and Urban Development. Payment is via M-Pesa only after Safaricom waived the recovery of Fuliza loans to save indebted youths from the automatic recovery of loans from the earnings. In the wake of Covid-19, Kazi Mtaani has kept the 18-35 age category youths across the country engaged in access road construction, clearing of drainages, tree planting, and garbage collection in their localities. Phase one of the programme was rolled out by President Uhuru Kenyatta on April 25 as an economic stimulus to mitigate the adverse effects of Covid-19 in the informal settlements. Phase Two was launched in July with the focus on sustainable work in public spaces like schools, libraries, toilets, footpaths, painting, and paving roads with cobblestones.