Pius Ochieng retained his seat as Executive Board member of Weight-lifting Federation of Africa (WFA) during the elections held in Nairobi yesterday. In his victory speech, Ochieng who is also the Kenya Amateur Weight-lifting Association (KAWA) President said: “My plan B is to get weights for the counties because opening weight-lifting centres without weights is next to impossible.” “As a WFA board member, my first target is the national Olympic Academy that is coming up. I’ll ensure we get a lot of weights for the youths who will be training,” Ochieng added. During the elections, KAWA secretary general John Ogola was also elected into the WFA technical committee. Khaled Mahalhel of Libya retained his seat unopposed as WFA President after he garnered all the 16 votes. Meanwhile, Anti Doping Agency of Kenya yesterday took the over 100 weight-lifters through lessons on how to operate clean in international tournaments. The lessons included testing procedures for drugs, anti doping rules, doping consequences, prohibited/banned substances, therapeutic exemptions and the athlete’s roles and responsibilities. “We want this Tokyo Olympics qualifiers to be free and fair. Kenyan players, who qualify for Olympics will undergo doping tests by ADAK.” “We hope all players will make informed decisions as far as doping is concerned,” said Martin Yauma, ADAK’s Principle Research and Development Officer. NEW WFA BOARD President: Khaled Mehalhel (Libya);  Secretary General: Manareddin Eshelli (Libya); Treasurer: Manareddin Eshelli (Libya);  Vice Presidents: Kevin Durant Plooy (South Africa), Ahmed Chahnaoui (Madagascar), Chimdi Ejiogu (Nigeria), Mahmoud Mahgoub (Egypt), Boukar Tikire( Comoros); Executive Board Members: Pius Ochieng ( Kenya), Salim Musoke (Uganda), Robert Rose (Seychelles); Technical Committee: Horst Sayler ( Swaziland), John Ogolla ( Kenya), Monien Magarajen (Mauritius); Coaching and Research Committee: Alex Rankwe (Botswana),Milad Agila (Libya), Armand Pambou (Congo); Medical Committee: Hesham Brekaw (Libya), Christopher Adomako (Ghana) and Mohamed Gouda (Egypt)