Trade restrictions between Kenya and Uganda have increased illicit and informal trade between the two countries. The April Food Security Monitor report by the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa said smuggling from Uganda into Kenya has increased since March. Smuggling is mainly along the Sofia, Marachi, Buteba, Buhehe, Lumino, Majanji, Busime and Masinya border points. Kenya banned import of Ugandan and Tanzanian maize due to high levels of aflatoxin. But on May 5, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Ministry of Agriculture to clear maize trucks at the Tanzanian border points within two weeks. The directive followed the state visit to Kenya by Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan and commitments by the two countries to renew trade relations. The Ministry of Agriculture through the Agriculture and Food Authority maintained that Tanzanian maize importers must take stringent food safety measures to be allowed to import. The Food Security Monitor released on Wednesday also reported increased smuggling of Ugandan poultry products despite an import ban in January this year. The Directorate of Veterinary Services banned importation of poultry and beef products to protect Kenya farmers from competition during the Covid-19 pandemic. The Kenya Poultry and Breeders Association said the total dressed dressed frozen chicken inventory rose by more than 60 per cent. To curb smuggling and reduce revenue losses, most East African counties are beginning to adopt digital taxing solutions. After Kenya and Tanzania, Uganda recently became the third country to adopt this new technology through digital tax stamps on sugar and cement. Despite challenges, trade relations are improving as Kenya and Uganda are resolving sugar trade disputes. The Kenyan government will revert to the March 2019 Joint Ministerial Commission Decision that allowed Uganda to export to Kenya duty-free 90,000 metric tonnes of sugar that originates and is entirely produced in Uganda. The reported stated Kenya and Uganda have agreed  to end a sugar trade dispute and Kenya will import 90,000 tonnes from Uganda. (Edited by V. Graham)