Huawei Kenya in partnership with several business partners have collectively launched graduate recruitment programs creating over 30 job and internship opportunities. The positions were unveiled during the Huawei ICT Job Fair that was held online on May 12th. Huawei organized the job fair virtually for the second year running for employers to introduce their job openings to a pool of over 150 highly qualified ICT graduates to apply to. During his speech, ICT CS Joe Mucheru lauded Huawei for its collaborative effort forged with the government to build Kenya’s ICT infrastructure. “With programs such as the Huawei ICT Academy and Huawei Management Trainee Program, the ICT local talent and broader ecosystem will be boosted”. “Kenya’s rich human resource is an asset that sets it ahead regionally and moves us closer to becoming a knowledge based economy,” he added. Director for University Education and Research Darius Mogaka, commended Huawei on his behalf for their efforts in fostering and growing Kenyan skills and talent. He also highlighted that as digital skills continue to evolve and become even more critical, we must continue to keep abreast, partnering with the private sector to make sure the relevant skills are developed and that other opportunities for learning or gaining experience are provided such as internships. “The Huawei Job Fair is an excellent initiative in providing various organizations present here today with a pool of qualified personnel to select from.” he added. Will Meng, Huawei’s CEO spoke about the youth unemployment challenge facing the country. “with the evolving technology we need to make sure as employers, we keep transferring skills to lecturers and to students so they are prepared for these jobs.” The Digital Economy Blueprint was launched by the government in 2019 to improve Kenya’s and the continents ability to leapfrog economic growth, and the Digital Economy Strategy is expected to be launched this year. Both documents highlight the need to train a range of Kenyans on digital skills, and note that a highly skilled digital workforce will be critical to actualizing the other pillars: starting digital businesses, building digital infrastructure, and developing e-government systems, amongst others. Dean of Students Office of Career Services at the University of Nairobi  Johnson Kinyua said it has played a huge role in recruiting students to sign up for Huawei certifications therefore enhancing their competency and skills. "...this ensures that the students remain relevant and marketable.” He also commended Huawei for training over 5,000 university students during the pandemic and its collaboration with the Ajira program.