Parents have raised fears over a possible hitch in preparations for the reporting of 2020 KCPE candidates to secondary schools. The  Ministry of Education on Monday announced it had postponed the Form One selection that was set for May 28 to June 15. Education CS George Magoha has not given a reason for the postponement but says there is no cause for alarm. However, the delay in selection will not affect the admission to secondary schools set for July. This means the selection will be conducted a fortnight to the reporting date set for July as primary and secondary schools begin the 2021 academic calendar, raising anxiety among parents over a possible delay in preparation to report. Speaking to the Star on Monday,  Kenya Parents Association chairman Nicholas Maiyo said the change of the selection date will affect the parents’ preparations. Maiyo said the period between the selection and the admission was too little in contrast to the demanding nature of admission to secondary schools, especially boarding schools. “Parents need time to look for school fees and purchase other items that are required during the reporting of new students,” Maiyo said. “The move by the education ministry is likely to cause anxiety and ill preparation.” The CS spoke at Joseph Kangethe Primary School during the donation of 4,000 school bags and 20,000 masks by the Absa group to children from low-income households. Magoha said that the process will be free and fair. Like in the past three years, the CS promised to allot a secondary school place to all the 1,179,192 candidates who sat 2020 KCPE examinations. “I wish to stress that all the candidates who sat the examination will find places in secondary schools in the spirit of our 100 per cent transition policy,” he said. The selection process was set for May 28 and the students are expected to join secondary schools in July. The Star has established that national schools will admit some 30,000 candidates while 123,400 slots have been identified in the extra-county schools. Placement to national schools will give priority to those with over 400 marks and the first five candidates in each subcounty across the country. Those from marginalised areas and affirmative action are also employed where vulnerable candidates will also be considered. Another 142,358 slots have been set aside for the Form one admission while day schools, otherwise referred to as sub-county schools like it has been the tradition will carry the bulk of the admission. The Education ministry conducts Form One selection for the KCPE candidates based on their school choices, performance and affirmative action.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris