Africa Boxing Union middleweight champion Rayton 'Boom Boom' Okwiri has now trained his fists on pro-boxing after seeing his quest for a second Olympic Games berth go up in smoke. Okwiri boxed at the 2016 Rio Games but could not go past the continental qualifiers in Senegal last year and has revealed he is now targeting titles in the next five years before hanging his gloves. The 35-year-old Nairobi Industrial Area-based Kenya Prisons Sergeant said: "I have had unfinished business in the Olympics Games. I lost in Rio under controversial circumstances and again lost a fight that I really deserved in the Senegal qualifiers which to me was an outrageous and demoralising decision." "I have been boxing for the last 18 years and played at the highest level in amateur ranks. In the next Olympic cycle, I will be 38 years which means I will be approaching the maximum age of 40 and will be left with just two more years to fight as an amateur as stipulated by AIBA. Therefore, my priority will be to win a world title before retiring," said Okwiri, who returned to Hit Squad last year. Okwiri will savor a shot at the World Boxing Organisation (WBO) International Middleweight title in August in Nairobi. Kenya Professional Boxing Commission (KPBC) Secretary Franklin 'Kuka' Imbenzi said Okwiri’s title bout will headline a packed card fight organised by betting company 22Bet. Imbenzi said plans are also afoot to have celebrated heavyweight icon Mike 'Iron' Tyson feature in an exhibition bout on Okwiri's WBO International title fight. 22Bet Chief Executive Officer Sam Malonza noted that Tyson will be in the country on his way from Rwanda as part of his corporate social responsibility tour in Africa. 22Bet have sponsored Okwiri to the tune of Sh350,000 to enable him train at Florida's Raynelo Promotion stable where he is also envisaged to feature in a non-title bout ahead of his planned WBO fight. "The planned Nairobi fight night will enable me to pursue a world title, which is my plan. Hopefully, I can defend it over and over again," said Okwiri. Okwiri wants to nurture young budding talents when he retires. "I have plans to nurture young budding talents and start gyms in Mombasa, Nairobi, Kisumu and Kakamega," he said.