The Tuesday by-elections have exposed the soft underbelly of the handshake, with both sides trading accusations. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s handshake partner and ODM leader Raila Odinga on Wednesday blasted Uhuru's men for misuse of police in the Bonchari and Juja by-elections. This was the first time since the 2018 handshake that Raila was launching an attack on the Jubilee government for using state machinery in the by-elections. There was heavy police presence in both areas with opponents claiming that the elections had been militarised. In Kisii, local leaders accused government officials including the provincial administration of pushing for one candidate. In a statement, Raila warned that some rogue elements in Uhuru’s administration were taking for granted the handshake deal and misusing the police for selfish political interests. “What we have witnessed in the by-elections in Bonchari and Juja is an abuse of police powers and an arrogant display of impunity by a few overzealous and bellicose government functionaries,” Raila said. “An election process is an opportunity for the voters to express their will at the ballot and not an avenue to pursue imaginary and short-legged political interests.” ODM candidate Pavel Oimeke won the Bonchari seat beating by a small margin Uhuru’s candidate Zebedeo Opore, while UDA's Teresa Bitutu came third in a charged poll marred by arrests, bribery claims and voter intimidation. Opore had the backing of One Kenya Alliance coalition of Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Moses Wetangula (Ford Kenya) and Gideon Moi (Kanu). In Juja, Jubilee’s candidate Susan Waititu lost to George Koimburi of the little known PEP party linked to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria. “The peaceful co-existence post-2018 must not be taken for granted by some rogue elements wanting to confuse the handshake for an excuse to erode our hard-earned liberties! This must stop!” Raila warned. ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna speaking exclusively to the Star also blamed some senior civil servants he said were working day and night to create a wedge between the two principals. Sifuna said it is unacceptable that one side of the partnership could go to the extent of using state resources to intimidate its partner in an electoral contest. Sifuna and ODM treasurer Timothy Bosire were among party officials whose hotel rooms were surrounded by police on the eve of voting day. “We are happy that at the end of it all ODM was able to defeat all that intimidation and was able to secure victory for the party. We have to leave it at the foot of the President to tell us whether indeed everybody in his government is on board with this handshake,” Sifuna said. “Our position was that it was possible to have a friendly contest between the two political parties but there are elements within the state who have taken this thing personally as we saw in Matungu and now in Bonchari.” He said Uhuru must rein in his men before "they threaten this entire relationship and yet they don’t even understand where this thing (handshake) came from". The cabal, Sifuna said, are not advancing the interest of the President or Jubilee Party but their own selfish interests. On Tuesday, both ODM and UDA protested what they termed unwarranted use of police force to hunt and arrest supporters of the rival candidates.  Edited by Henry Makori