A Kenyan and a Nigerian who allegedly obtained more than Sh18 million from an Italian man by pretending they would transfer 2,000kg gold to Dubai were charged on Thursday. Gideon Nuka and Seth Okute appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi and denied obtaining the money by pretending that they would supply Lewis Ikenna gold and take it to Dubai, which they knew to be false. The charge sheet says between January 1 and April 30 this year at DTB bank, Jomo Kenyatta Airport branch—with others not before court—with intent to defraud, they obtained $185,00 from Ikenna, an Italian citizen. According to police records, Ikenna claimed he was invited to Kenya by the Nigerian who was introduced to him at a church programme by a well-respected pastor in Port Hartcourt, Rivers State, in Nigeria. He claimed Nuka told him he was an international business man dealing with petroleum and crude oil and that he was the CEO of Giotor Integrated Services Limited. In January 2021, Nuka called and told him he had 2,000kg of gold and he was looking for a buyer, he used his contact in Dubai and got a buyer and a sale agreement was signed between the buyer and the Nigerian company. The duo were released on Sh600,000 bail or a Sh1 million bond. The case will be mentioned after two weeks. Meanwhile, a Nairobi court deferred plea taking of Abdirashid Abdul Sharifow to Friday. Abdirashid,60, was to take a plea on charges involving obtaining registration by false pretences between January 7, 2018, and June 29, 2020, at the Ministry of lands headquarters Ardhi House. He is charged with impersonation with intent to deceive. The accused's lawyers presented two applications in court on his medical condition; one was denied, the other agreed upon. Abdirashid said he is suffering from liver problems and was not given medication after being arrested on Wednesday. He said he does not feel well because he has not had his medication. He also said he felt as though he had been exposed to Covid-19. “I need some time to get medication before pleading to charges,” he told the court. The prosecution opposed his application, saying the accused did not indicate to police that he was sick and needed medication. Abdirashid was been released on a bond of 200,000 and bail of 100,000, with plea-taking deferred to Friday. (Edited by V. Graham)