Amidst the economic ravages of the Coronavirus pandemic that has seen a decline in economic growth, collapse of businesses and loss of livelihoods, procurement fraud is reported to have thrived by Transparency International (TI) in their annual Corruption Perceptions Index (2020). Delia Rubio, TI chair, indicated that “Covid-19 is not just a health and economic crisis. It’s a corruption crisis. And one that we’re currently failing to manage.” Corruption is further reported to have greatly undermined equitable responses to the pandemic worldwide. Indeed, Kenya has not been spared with the government having been confronted with its fair share of allegations relating to procurement corruption, specifically, alleged circumvention of procurement processes on supply of Covid-19 equipment. These allegations have necessitated investigations by government authorities with procured items necessary for front line workers such as masks and PPEs unfortunately stuck in warehouses under the consideration of being crucial investigation evidence. However, disaster-related fraud is not a new phenomenon as relief activities by governments and NGOs during crises have historically been linked to increased corruption. A good example of this is the corruption allegations that shrouded the Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) resettlement process carried out from 2008 to 2011. At the time, the Kenya National Human Rights Commissions (KNHRC) reported significant malpractices around the procurement of IDP materials and disbursement of Sh10,000 and Sh25,000 to the IDPs as start-fund and reconstruction fund respectively. These fears were later confirmed according to the April 2012 Report by a Parliamentary select committee on resettlement of IDPs that concluded the profiling, payment and settlement of IDPs had been characterised by a lack of transparency with provincial administration being accused of registering fake IDPs leading to double or triple payments thus crippling the resettlement exercise. Procurement cycles have traditionally been high-risk processes that have not only exposed government institutions but private (both large and small) institutions to financial and non-financial risks. In order to mitigate the inherent risks associated with procurement, organisations have over time developed robust procurement processes with adequate segregation of roles between process owners within the organisation as key control. However, these processes are often flexed during crises, rightfully so, in order to cater to the unique challenges present. Covid-19 is not any different, with procurement practitioners and suppliers both struggling with disrupted global supply chains and an unprecedented increased demand for crucial health care supplies such as masks, PPEs, sanitizers etc. Unfortunately, flexed procurement methods, if not done so properly, tend to reverse the gains of robust processes by extending increased discretion to procurement staff and limiting segregation of roles within procurement. This provides fertile grounds for override of controls by procurement practitioners. The fraud triangle created by American criminologist Donald Cressey has been a buzzword in the accounting industry for years. It is commonly used to explain an individual’s decision to commit fraud by suggesting three key elements; opportunity, incentive and rationalization. The opportunity represents just that, circumstances that allow perpetration of fraud. Incentive, alternatively referred to as pressure, relates to the employee’s mindset, or society’s mindset to fraud (is it generally accepted in a society). Lastly, rationalisation represents the individual’s internal justification such as everyone is doing it, why not me? While flexing procurement methods, management should be keen to ensure that the new processes do not provide for these three elements. An example of a flexed method is the emergency procurement method. This method primarily focuses on direct awards to suppliers once they have confirmed their intention to supply. Such arrangements, though fast enough to respond to urgent needs, may at times pose unforeseen challenges like sub-standard materials, incompatible and over-priced materials. Making the process both sensible and daft. In order to effectively address the reduced checks and balances when procuring during a crisis, it is therefore important to introduce compensating controls during and post the procurement cycle. One effective control that could be utilised is the application of continuous monitoring systems that are set up to review the set milestones against their outcomes. This includes the review of the following: actual delivery times against previously agreed timelines, the continuous status of quality delivered against set standards, after-sales service offered against contracted obligations. Such reviews should be done independently by individuals not involved in procurement, preferably internal audit, to ensure reduced chances of collusion. Adoption of an e-Procurement system that allows for complete documentation of all procurement cycles, especially for governments and NGOs. This would also deter procurement practitioners from exploiting their increased latitude. This information where applicable should also be made available for public scrutiny thus increasing transparency in the process. Interestingly, this is envisioned in the Public Procurement and Asset Disposal Regulations, 2020 which provides elaborate procedures for the establishment and use of e-procurement systems by the government. In conclusion, businesses and governments must remain alert to risks posed by relaxed procurement processes during a crisis and ensure accountability during and beyond the crisis. Njoroge Wanjihiah is a Forensics and Integrity Services Associate at EY. The views expressed herein are not necessarily those of EY.