A woman was arrested and 600 litres of illicit brew destroyed during a crackdown by local administrators on Saturday in Mlolongo, Machakos county. Josephine Moraa, 35, was locked up at Mlolongo police station after she was allegedly found in possession of 30 litres of chang'aa. Mlolongo assistant county commissioner Dennis Ongaga said the suspect was arrested at Mlolongo Phase 3 estate during a crackdown on illicit brew dens. The swoop was conducted by National Government Administration Officers. They included chiefs and their assistants from Mlolongo division. "A total of 620 litres of busaa, 20 litres Kangara and 15 litres of muratina were  destroyed. The owners escaped arrest,” Ongaga told the Star on Saturday. “One chang’aa seller was arrested with 30 litres and booked at Mlolongo police station awaiting to be arraigned at Mavoko law courts on Monday." He said they won’t relent in the fight against illicit brew, drugs and substance abuse in the division. “The crackdown will continue, especially in Kathagaitha, Sabaki, Katani shopping centre, Kicheko and Mlolongo Phase 3 where the crime is alarming,” Ongaga said. The administrator said they have been informed that some of the illicit liquor was ferried from Nairobi to Mlolongo. “We have put on notice boda boda operators and private vehicles used to ferry illicit goods including hard drugs and illicit liquor from Mukuru in Nairobi to Mlolongo division," Ongaga warned. "We have already held a meeting with boda boda operators to emphasise on fixing all operators in a Sacco for easy management of such crime.” Ongaga cautioned residents against consuming the brew, saying it is prepared in unhygienic conditions. He said two panties were found inside the brew that was destroyed. “The chang'aa is transported from Mukuru but busaa, muratina, kangara are prepared here. We destroyed all the cooking materials and equipment,” Ongaga said He warned that stiff action would be taken against anyone aiding illicit liquor brewers – be it an administrator or a police officer. “Landlords have been put on notice against letting their houses be used as breweries. They will be arrested alongside the brewers," Ongaga warned. 