Parliament has started a probe into the whereabouts of contraband sugar seized by a multi-agency team in 2018. Members of the Trade and Cooperative Committee on Monday had a preliminary meeting with Dagoretti South MP John Kiarie who had sought a statement on the whereabouts of the seized goods. The committee chaired by Mandera South MP Ali Adan Haji will on Tuesday be in Mombasa to visit the warehouses where the impounded goods were kept. The team will also meet with the multi-agency team which included Kenya Revenue Authority, Anti-Counterfeit Authority, Directorate of Criminal Investigations and Government Chemist. Kiarie had asked Parliament to take stock of the seized goods and ascertain that none of the products, which had been declared contaminated, finds their way to the market. He called for speedy disposal of the substandard goods, arguing that the continued holding of the contraband poses public health risks. “The committee should ascertain measures being implemented or pursued by the government to safely destroy the contaminated goods. This is to avoid the possibility of access and resale of the goods by criminals considering that the continuous storage of goods laced with heavy metals and toxic impurities raises grave health and safety concerns,” said Kiarie. On Monday, the committee said it will not leave any stone unturned in investigating the matter that saw disruption in the import trade. Nyando MP Jared Okelo who chaired Monday's session confirmed that the committee will be in Mombasa from Tuesday and will visit all stores where the goods were kept. “It is puzzling that two years down the line, goods that were found to be substandard are still kept in stores. As a committee we will physically count to determine that what was declared are the same as those that are in the stores,” he said. Okelo added: “We are making an undertaking as a committee that no stone will be left unturned.” In 2017-18, the multi-agency team seized substandard sugar, fertiliser, and other food products at the ports, go downs and market outlets. Also impounded were over 200 containers of edible oil which were held in Nairobi and Mombasa. -Edited by SKanyara