Wading through muddy paddles, residents of Kakwanyang in Lodwar Township ward try to retrieve carcasses of their livestock. Others stare in despair as they count losses brought about by flash floods which left a trail of destruction in Turkana Central. More than 7,000 livestock were killed by raging waters caused by heavy rains on Saturday. At least 100 families have been affected by the floods. Area Napetet Patrick Lorogoi said he was still receiving reports from residents about the effects of floods. Lorogoi confirmed that more than 7,000 livestock have been killed by floods in Kakwanyang, Monti, Nang'omo, Chokchok and Nakadukui villages in Turkana Central. He urged the government and humanitarian agencies to provide the necessary support to the affected families. "Cows, camels, donkeys, sheep and goats have been killed by floods. Pastoralists have been left with nothing to support their livelihoods. It's my appeal to humanitarian agencies and the county government to provide relief food for the affected families and also start the livestock restocking programme," Lorogoi said. Ekaru Lokit, a pastoralist and resident of Kakwanyang village is among those affected by the floods. He said he had lost everything. Majority of residents in the area depend on pastoralism to support their livelihoods and sometimes get food aid from well-wishers, humanitarian agencies and the government when supplies run out. "We had prolonged drought in the region and we thought the rain would help us but we are now counting losses. The livestock that we depend on for a living have been killed by the raging waters," he said. Lokit said they have not had rains since August last year. "The prolonged drought in the region dried up water sources. We lacked water and pastures to feed our animals. When the rains came, our animals were emaciated they could not withstand the wrath of the raging waters," he said. Another affected resident, Calvin Lodunga, said the loss of their livestock will affect household incomes and payment of school fees for their children. "We are still battling drought and hunger in the region. We don’t have food to eat. Pastures for our animals and sources of water have dried up due to biting drought. Now the floods have come and swept away our livestock," said Maxmillah Apem. Apem said these calamities keep them in perpetual poverty. She appealed to humanitarian agencies and the government for relief food and restocking of livestock to enable them to survive. The heavy rains came after the Turkana county government last week disclosed that more than 600,000 people are at risk of starvation due to drought. Turkana Deputy Governor Peter Lotethiro said the county is affected by drought and hunger as it had not received rainfall since August last year. He said 50 per cent of the population (about 640,000 people) were facing starvation due to the persistent drought. The county department of livestock production had also said that 4,193,462 goats and sheep were at risk because of the drought. Agriculture, Pastoral Economy and Fisheries executive Philip Aemun said the drought had forced herders to migrate to new areas in search of water and pasture, making them vulnerable to both diseases, hunger and insecurity. The regions hard hit by drought include Lakezone, Kaeris, Kaaleng/Kaikor and Lapur wards in Turkana North, as well as Kerio, Kalokol and Kangathota areas in Turkana Central. Others are are Loima and Lopur wards in Loima and Turkana West constituencies respectively.  -Edited by SKanyara