ODM Nairobi assembly membership is mired in confusion following conflicting communications over the Minority whip position. During a special sitting last Thursday, a letter read by the speaker said Makongeni MCA Peter Imwatok had been replaced with his Lower Savannah counterpart Nicholas Okumu. Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi attempted to read the letter, but deputy minority whip Moses Ogeto interrupted, claiming the letter was not authentic as a genuine one ought to have been communicated by the speaker as per the Standing Orders. However, the brewing storm was swiftly calmed by Ruai MCA John Kamangu—the sit-in-speaker—who then read the letter. “The office of the speaker is in receipt of a letter from the minority party on changes of leadership… I, therefore, wish to communicate that the minority party has communicated that Peter Imwatok be removed from the office of minority whip and that Nicholas Okumu has been elected as the minority whip,” it said. Kamangu noted that the Speaker’s office was in receipt of the minutes, signatures and attendance list of the meeting that made the decision. “…Accordingly, the changes are hereby communicated and take effect today May 20, 2021,” he said. The speaker added that Okumu would hold the post in an acting capacity to allow ODM to consult and nominate a substantive whip. Status quo But as the plenary proceeded, a letter later emerged purportedly from ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna stating that the party had not made any changes to the assembly leadership. In the letter dated May 20, 2021, and addressed to speaker Benson Mutura, Sifuna said he was conducting a probe into the actions of ODM members but requested that the status quo remain. “While my office attempts to ascertain the propriety or otherwise of the actions taken, we urge that the status quo ante be reverted to immediately,” he said. Nominated MCA Mary Arivitsa, who was contributing to the debate via zoom, opposed the alleged changes, claiming she was never called for any meeting that made the decision. Kayole South MCA Fredrick Okeyo, however, said they had a physical meeting and followed all the procedures provided for in the Standing Orders on the removal of a minority whip from office. “As MCAs, we did our part and once the speaker communicated on the floor the changes were effective immediately. As for the party, we are waiting for the nomination of another whip,” he said. The development comes shortly after a falling-out between Imwatok and the assembly’s top brass, as well as Deputy Governor Anne Kananu, regarding payment to suppliers and legal firms. Witch-hunt? The falling-out within ODM started on April 13, 2021, when Imwatok bashed Deputy Governor Kananu and Nairobi Metropolitan Services director general Mohammed Badi over City Hall’s administration and Covid-19 funds use respectively. A day later, Kananu paid a courtesy call on ODM leader Raila Odinga at his Karen residence in what was seen as an attempt to seek his help in pacifying assembly critics. Last month, Imwatok invited the Director of Criminal Investigations and the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission to investigate circumstances under which the county paid more than Sh400 million to suspect law firms. Early this month, Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi claimed to have led 32 ODM MCAs in appending their signatures to remove Imwatok from his position. This came at a time when a section of his ODM counterparts accused him of intimidating county executive officials. Imwatok was also accused of wheel-dealing within county government circles in ODM’s name. Imwatok has, however, dismissed the claims as witch-hunts, saying his critics are uncomfortable with his being at the forefront of exposing corruption at City Hall. He says he always has the county's best interests at heart. “I don’t remember how and when I became corrupt. As far as I can remember, [the allegations emerged] immediately I exposed the corruption at City Hall. As you know, the guiding creed for me is the truth, no matter what," he said. 