Only last Wednesday in this column, I weaved a diatribe about the floundering fortunes of Kenyan champions, Gor Mahia. Little did I know that a day later, another tragedy would be knocking right on the door of the chaotic Kenyan football arena once again. As we lay helplessly on the ground writhing in pain over K’Ogalo's self-inflicted misfortunes, a second thunder roared and lightning struck right in our midst. The world football governing body, Fifa, had banned and relegated Zoo Kericho from the Football Kenya Federation Premier League after finding them culpable of match-fixing. Comedies of errors abound so much on the Kenyan football scene to an extent one is left in stitches and tears at the same time. I’m not here to indict or vindicate Zoo over what befell them. I harbour no intentions, whatsoever, to cast aspersions on the jurisprudence of Fifa and FKF. That notwithstanding, I choose to ride on the back of professional responsibility to whip up some hard queries on behalf of football stakeholders who might not be enjoying the privilege I have on this platform. Did Zoo actually manipulate their matches? Since it takes two to tango, who are their accomplices and how come they suffered the wrath of Fifa alone? Again, why is it that FKF rushed to implement Fifa's recommendation to send Zoo packing without according them a forum to appeal against the decision? Why was it necessary to punish the whole club when, perhaps, only a few players were involved in propagating the vice? In 2019, four Kakamega Homeboyz players and their coach were found guilty of match-fixing, yet the entire club wasn't flushed out of the system. This raises the question of double standards in the application of the law. All in all, an elaborate exorcism should be pronounced over the wayward Kenyan officials and players who are gradually bringing the game into disrepute. Let FKF not pull the wool over our eyes by claiming they are at sea with the inner intrigues of this sickening slime. They most definitely possess the adequate mechanism needed to plough through the puzzle and put the pieces together. To start with, they should move with a flounce to weed out the culprits fond of putting the cat among the pigeons. Ironically, the same officials who allegedly lure players into match-fixing episodes, are the same who've driven them to abject misery after embezzling colossal sums of money meant for salaries and development, subsequently. They are entirely responsible for turning players into paupers. The philosophy of good leadership cuts across the board. Methodological approaches employed in politics to identify leaders who punch above integrity tests should likewise be adopted in the world of sports. People with integrity issues should be barred from contesting in federation and club elections. In addition, all the proponents of match-fixing, including players should be handed life bans. It's the only way we can reclaim our beautiful game from the corrupt, whose main agenda is to line their filthy pockets with ill-gotten gains. 