Experts have tipped current world champion Sebastien Ogier, Ott Tänak, Elfyn Evans and Thierry Neuville to dominate World Rally Championship Safari Rally proceedings. Service park manager Anthony Gatei notes that the quartet possesses requisite cockpit ability ‘that should come in handy on the Kenyan tough conditions’. “If you look at the drivers who have dominated Mexico and Argentina, then you have a rough idea of what to expect on Safari,” said Gatei. “If you look at the performance of the four drivers in rough events, I expect them to settle in well on Safari.” Phineas Kimathi, the Safari CEO said it’ll be exciting to have two world champions (Ogier and Tanak) debut at the Safari. “Among the current drivers, none have driven on Safari, so it will be a whole new experience in the Great Rift Valley. But having two different world champions alongside Neuville, who has finished as runner-up on several occasions, is a great feeling for Kenyan enthusiasts. It will give us the much-needed attention as world rallying focus shifts to Kenya,” said Kimathi. Neuville and Tänak have since renewed their contracts and have the chance to help develop Hyundai’s brand-new 2022 hybrid car, which is set to begin its testing phase soon. Belgian star Neuville has played a significant part in helping Hyundai win two manufacturers’ world titles after joining the squad in 2014. He is currently second in the 2021 drivers’ championship standings behind Toyota Gazoo Racing’s Ogier. Tänak made his Hyundai debut in 2020 after clinching his maiden drivers’ world title the year before with Toyota Gazoo Racing. He has claimed two victories with his i20 machine so far and hopes to add to this success. “I am looking forward to the new era of the WRC, but we still have a job to do this year - making sure we send off the current generation of WRC cars in the best possible way,” the Estonian told www.wrc.com. It is not yet known who will drive Hyundai’s third car beyond 2021. Craig Breen and Dani Sordo will alternate drives in a shared i20 for the remainder of the current season, with Sordo set to take the wheel at Vodafone Rally de Portugal later this month (May 20 - 23).