What happen when religion and culture collide with progress? It's anathema to cut down a sacred mugumo tree, and when these fig trees fall naturally, it's considered a bad omen. So the Kirinyaga Council of Elders and the public at large were distressed to find a 600-year-old tree, home to spirits and place of worship, was smack dab in the ritual, was smack dab in the path of a dual carriageway vital to progress. Construction works on the Sh14 billion Kenol-Sagana-Marua dual carriageway were halted in March but the contractor was unable to find a suitable detour. After reflection and prayers, the Kirinyaga Council of Elders decided the tree had to go, but only after sacrifices and approval of the Agikuyu god. The tree will be cut on Monday. On Friday, Elders from the council first conducted a religious ritual, begging the Agikuyu god to allow the contractor to uproot the tree to continue the works. Wearing brown matching tunics and trousers, the elders led by chairman Cyrus Githak slaughtered two rams, one of them of a solid colour which was sacrificed and burnt to ashes. The other roasted whole and eaten by the elders. Githaka said the ritual was necessary to counter misfortunes that could befall the community as a result of desecrating the mugumu tree shrine. They walked twice around the tree, facing Mt Kenya and reciting prayers. They observed the direction of the smoke. “The smoke that rose above and into the leaves of the sacred tree is a response that our god was pleased with its aroma and he gave his approval," Githaka said. A fig tree seedling and other two  indigenous tree seedlings had been planted a few metres from the old tree to be cut down, and they are growing well. They will eventually replace the 600-year-old shrine. “Planting seedlings symbolised the transfer into a new shine of the old one and the movement of spirits lying under the old tree to be uprooted to the young tree. "The new site should not be used for agriculture, lest calamities befall those who attempt to do so," Githaka said. The uprooting of the ancient tree will take place on Monday. Residents were forbidden from using the  pieces of wood from the tree. They should be allowed to rot away. “The only people allowed to use the wood are the extremely needy people who will use it only to build their homes," elder Frederik Mbutu said. They praised the government for expanding the road. Former Mwea MP Peter Njuguna Gitau, an elder, said the road will end traffic jam and ease transportation of passengers and food to and from the county. Administrator Dorcas Mwangi said completion of the rituals had lifted a weight from their shoulders as they had sought a solution for two months without avail. Finally, we can heave a sigh of relief as the contractor can now resume work. We are optimistic the project will be completed on time," she said “I appeal to all the locals to strictly adhere to all warnings by the elders.” Rachel Mithamo, the contractor's representative, expressed excitement, saying the contractor could now work freely. She praised the government and elders for assisting in making way for progress. Environmentalist Achuti Mochama praised the Agikuyu elders for their efforts in preserving the fig tree. He said religious observation has greatly contributed to the sustenance of the tree that has helped preserve the ecosystem. The 84-kilometer dual carriageway  is set to be completed in June. The  road will connect the Northern Corridor from Nairobi to the Lapsset Corridor in Isiolo. (Edited by V. Graham)