Even as different regions conduct pre-trials for World Athletics Under-20 Championships trials on July 2-3, Athletics Kenya are exploring options of a specialised training camp for athletes specialising in javelin, shot put, hammer and pole vault. AK director of youth development Barnaba Korir said the federation plans to engage the government in setting up a training camp in Nairobi for talented field athletes identified during the ongoing pre-trials. "The areas we have identified so far from the pre-trials are the sprints and the field events. For example, there is a group of javelin athletes from Kapsabet and we are looking at how to assist them in their training. If we identify more athletes talented in these field events, we could liaise with the government to put them in a camp in Nairobi so they can prepare in an environment with enough facilities and equipment," Korir said. He said lack of proper field events facilities at the grassroots is one of the core hindrances to AK's objective to prepare a strong team for the biennial world championships set for August 17-22 at the Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "One of the problems we are facing is with regards to polevaulters because of the lack of efficient facilities in some of the regions. Of course, there is the option that the event for pole aulters could be held here in Nairobi during the trials but if they have not been training, then that becomes another major problem," he said. Apart from a training camp in Nairobi, Korir said Iten is another possibility AK are exploring for a bubble camp because of the presence of a tartan track. "The specialised camp would also focus on sharpening the sprinters because that's one of the weak areas identified during the pre-trials in Machakos. For example, there is a sprinter from Kilifi known as Kombo who we are thinking of bringing to Nairobi as part of this camp," he said. Nonetheless, Korir praised the youngsters for the effort put in training despite the constant disruptions occasioned by Covid-19 restrictions in the past one year. He said the federation have been monitoring other countries' preparations for the event and noted that the Kenyan youngsters have done great considering the circumstances. "Other countries have selected their teams without conducting pre-trials or trials. Compared to us, athletes in these countries have access to better equipment and training grounds," he said. "Strength and conditioning is a regular exercise rather than wait two months to a competition to do the same. So, when you consider the discrepancies, our youngsters deserve a pat on the back for the great performances against these advantaged competitors."