Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru on Wednesday did not testify in the Sh791 million NYS case after the court was told the lawyer representing Ben Gethi and another suspect had died. Waiguru was to testify against former PS Peter Mangiti, former NYS director general Nelson Githinji and 22 others. The governor is expected to shed light on how millions of shillings were lost while she was Devolution Cabinet Secretary. She has called herself a whistle-blower in the case. Waiguru is listed as a crucial witness  and has been bonded by the DPP to give evidence. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi was told lawyer Joseph Wagara, who was representing Gethi and a ninth accused person, had died. He is yet to be buried. "On grounds of passing on of the lawyer and for lack of representation, the hearing can't proceed today," the court ruled. Andayi also dismissed a bid to bar the media from covering the governor's testimony and the entire proceedings in the Sh791 NYS case. The Director of Public Prosecutions through prosecutor Jalson Makori had sought bar the press from covering the proceedings, citing fear of misreporting. “I have an application to request the court bar the media from covering the proceedings because we are apprehensive that some of the statements may be misreported and taken out of context," Makori told the court. The defence objected to the application saying previously such an application has never been made in court, adding the reasons given by the state lawyer to bar the  media barred are wrong. "We don't know whether Makori wants to protect the integrity of the proceedings or the witness,” court was told. Lawyer Kirathe Wandugi said that a court is an open court and the media is allowed to cover proceedings. The defence, however, requested the court to reschedule the hearing to another date for more time. Wandugi claimed the DPP had served them with three different witness statements from Anne waiguru. He asked the prosecution which one will be used in the trial. Some other defence lawyers said they were given a nine-page witness statement and have not had time to read it. Other lawyers complained of not being given all witness statements from the prosecution. The prosecution objected to having the case adjourned, saying the date was taken by consent and all counsels were present. "We had to reschedule the dates to accommodate her [Waiguru]." Three civilian witnesses and five investigating officers are yet to testify Waiguru will testify on August 5 and 6. Last year in July, the suspects were ordered to surrender property worth millions of shillings. (Edited by V. Graham) 