Kenya's eight-year trophy drought at the Women's African Club Championship is worrying. Kenya Prisons was the last team to win the continental prize in 2013. Before that, the wardresses were victorious in 2008, 2010, 2011 and 2012, while Kenya Pipeline last tasted glory in 2004 and 2005. The standards have since dropped. Prisons managed a bronze in the 2021 edition that ended last week in Kelibia, Tunisia. Their Pipeline counterparts were contented with a fifth-place finish. Kenya Prisons coach David Lunga'ho links Kenya's struggles to lack of a clear development strategy. Compared to their North African opposition who tweak their squads with one or two experienced players from Europe every season, Lung'aho says Kenyan clubs depend on raw talent from schools who require time to play at the top level. "The time Prisons was winning there was a clear structure within the team. We try to inject youth who need time to get accustomed to playing at the highest level and we need continuity," he says. "The 2013 players are still there and are waning. They offer guidance to the young players who improve gradually. At the same time, I don't advocate teams going for ready made athletes because they offer a short term solution. Patience is needed to get the junior players firing. "Young players need thorough training and enough exposure to produce results which has been lacking. Players need to play international friendly matches but with the pandemic, even local friendlies are hard to organise." As for Daniel Bor, the Directorate of Criminal Investigations coach, says there is lack of investment at the club level. While the men are neglected, the Covid-19 pandemic denied teams an opportunity to travel with their best players who are in a bubble training camp at Kasarani Indoor Arena in readiness for Tokyo Olympic Games. "Dependable players are training with Malkia Strikers but even with a depleted squad, Prisons managed bronze which is not bad. The pandemic affected training programmes and there was not enough time to prepare. Egypt and Tunisia finance their teams well as opposed to us," Bor says. National men's team coach Moses Epoloto believes lack of volleyball centres of excellence is demotivating and the lack of effort from players out of school doesn't help. "It true results have been frustrating. I thought the trend would change after KCB turned semi-professional but we are yet to see it. The nursery is dying—we only count on Kwanthanze. Height is now an added advantage in the game and the scouting department needs to cast their net in the talent-rich Mt Elgon and Nyanza regions."