Baringo Central MP Joshua Kandie has urged the National government to reintroduce school feeding programme to help retain children in class. The MP noted that thousands of children, especially in the arid and semi-arid  regions of the country, are likely to drop out of school in masses due to hunger. “It is sad and embarrassing for a country like ours, to see our children, especially in Baringo, unable to concentrate in class because their stomachs are empty,” said Kandie. The legislature was speaking while launching five modern classrooms constructed through National Government Constituency Development Fund at Kasore primary school in his constituency on Saturday. The institution had earlier been highlighted by the Star over its myriad of challenges including dilapidated infrastructure, water shortage and jiggers infestation. Alongside building modern classrooms, Kandie also donated a 10,000 litres water tank recently to assist the school harvest rain water. The MP said the feeding programme will keep children in remote areas in class and ensure they are at par with their counterparts in urban areas. “I appeal to my colleagues in Parliamentary to pass the bill urgently to reinstate school feeding programme to salvage our children from dropping out of school,” he added. He was backed by nominated MCA Francisca Cheburet who said majority of the children fail to return to school in the afternoon as they have to help their parents fetch water and look for wild fruits to feed on. “Beside food shortage, it is sad to also note that residents in most parts of Baringo still trek long distances in search of water,” Cheburet said. Apart from school feeding, Kandie also appealed to the government to consider distributing relief food to feed the hungry population in Baringo and its environs. The legislator said most poor families experience difficulty raising and even taking their children to school. He said the hunger situation was aggravated by the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic which struck the country in March last year. “Majority of the people are struggling financially after losing their jobs and businesses activities hence are unable to provide basic necessities like food, clothing, shelter and school fees for their children,” Kandie said. Worst hit areas are Tiaty, Baringo North, Mogotio, Baringo Central and Baringo South subcounties. -Edited by SKanyara 