Olympics Kenya president Paul Tergat says Team Kenya's preparations for the Tokyo Olympics on July 23-August 8 are on schedule despite additional financial burdens occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. Tergat said setting up bubble training camps for athletes preparing for the event as well as those participating in Olympics qualifiers has come at an extra cost for the committee. "The disruptions also meant that we as the National Olympics Committee have been operating under a very difficult environment as we work to prepare our teams for the Games. The heavy logistical requirements as a result of the need to protect our athletes, including having them in a bubble during their training means that we have to dig deeper in our pockets," Tergat said. The president also acknowledged the ravaging impacts of the virus on many athletes who have been unsure whether the quadrennial games will proceed or not as the rate of infections continue to rise worldwide. "The 2020 Games as was the case with many other sport events had to be postponed as the world struggled to fight the global scourge of Covid-19. This was a difficult time for many athletes especially bearing in mind that the Olympic Games is a dream event for any athlete to participate in. The fact that the Games are finally set to be held this year is therefore a reprieve to many," he said. Tergat was speaking at Moi Stadium, Kasarani where Kenya Breweries Limited unveiled a Sh45 million sponsorship towards Team Kenya's preparations and participation in the Olympics. Through Tusker, its flagship beer brand, KBL will be the official partner for Team Kenya during the games. Tergat hailed the company for their selflessness in supporting sports growth and development despite the financial hardships brought about by the pandemic. "This sponsorship speaks to the brand’s continued commitment to the growth and development of athletics and sports in the country. We are pleased that KBL has continued to stand by us, even now, under the tough Covid-19 environment. It shows that, indeed, KBL is passionate about sports and the value it brings to the country," the former five-time world cross country champion said. At the same function, KBL Managing Director John Musunga said the company did not need to think twice about supporting the Olympians owing to the prestige and honour they bring to Kenya via their performances on the international stage. "Our athletes always brings us together as Kenyans and put us on the global map. "It is always a proud moment for every Kenyan every time our athletes take on the world stages, smashing and setting new world records and raising our flag high. "Athletics therefore continues to mirror KBL’s goals and objectives making it a natural partnership platform for us because Tusker as we know, has over the years endeavoured to bring people together so that we can each stand tall," Musunga said.