The Taita Taveta county health department will work with the community health volunteers in a campaign to end obstetric fistula in the region. The county has partnered with the Fistula Foundation and Bomu Hospital to sensitise and offer solutions to women suffering from the ailment at the Moi County Referral Hospital, Voi. Coast region Fistula Outreach coordinator Safina Ramadhan said the sensitisation exercise is aimed at creating awareness on this condition and restoring dignity to residents at the grassroots level. “There shall be a series of sensitisation and screening exercises at Moi County Referral Hospital and Bura Health Centre ahead of a free obstetric fistula medical camp to be held at Bomu Hospital on May 26,” Safina said. Ramadhan urged the participants to be ready for an intensive campaign to end fistula, saying no woman should lead a life of misery for trying to bring a child into this world. She further insisted that expectant mothers avoid giving birth at home to minimise chances of getting and prevent any other infection to the mother and baby. Obstetric fistula is caused by complications resulting from obstructed labour, sexual violence, and lack of access to maternity care, cancer, radiation therapy and surgical complications. Other causes include harmful traditional practices like female genital mutilation and poverty malnutrition thus stunted growth. More than 3,000 new cases are reported in Kenya annually, with research showing that only 7.5 per cent are treated. The data is however grossly inaccurate due to underreporting, poor and nonexistent data keeping in most hospitals. The disorder can be prevented by delaying the age of first pregnancy, the cessation of harmful traditional practices and timely access to obstetric care. Health Services executive John Mwakima said the department will embrace the partnership which will ensure that this essential service is offered to citizens, regardless of their socioeconomic status. “We acknowledge strategic partnership with Bomu Hospital to have our citizens access this essential service at no cost. In most cases, patients with vesicovaginal fistulae have been forgotten and are living without hope,” Mwakima said He said there will be a creation of awareness for early detection and treatment of fistula and capacity development of healthcare workers. “To succeed in this campaign we will work together with your healthcare workers who we consider to be very important in the exercise,” he said. Mwakima requested families and friends with relatives suffering from the condition not to stigmatize them and visit the nearest health facility for treatment. He said the condition can affect the mental, physical, social and sexual life of the patients.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris