Nyanza MPs will hold a meeting with President Uhuru Kenyatta on Friday to take stock of the handshake projects amidst growing concerns of underfunding. The multi-billion-shilling projects are part of the memorandum the leaders presented to Uhuru during their meeting in Kisumu. The leaders, mainly senators and members of the National Assembly, on Wednesday held an afternoon meeting at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Foundation in Nairobi’s Upper Hill to audit the progress of projects. The MPs will meet President Uhuru Kenyatta at State House, Nairobi, to discuss the emerging concerns ahead of his five-day tour of the region. Uhuru is expected to land in Kisumu on Sunday. Sources at the Wednesday afternoon meeting told the Star that concerns were raised on the pace and budgetary commitment that the government has shown towards the project and which has seen no meaningful work ongoing in the identified works. During the meeting, leaders raised concerns with underfunding of the projects raising fears on the possibility of realizing them in the remaining one year. For instance, Sh2.8 billion ring road that runs from Sori to Magunga to Mbita has only received Sh75 million to date. During today’s meeting, the leaders will be pushing for at least Sh1 billion allocations for the project. “The amount allocated is too little and even that little they were not releasing. Now is when they have released Sh75 million and what we want is at least Sh1 billion for that road because the entire project is Sh2.8 billion,” an MP who attended the meeting told the Star. “That type of project if you don’t put reasonable budget, the contractor will be there but not working.” According to another lawmaker who was also part of the meeting, the budgetary challenges has derailed the realisation of meaningful goodies to the region. The underfunding concerns have been worsened by the fact that the President has only one budget to preside over before his constitutional term elapse Speaking to the Star, Suba South MP John Mbadi who will be leading the delegation to State House confirmed there were concerns but explained that will inform their discussion with President today at state House. “Yes there have been concerns of funding for some projects and this is going to be discussed in our meeting with the President,” Mbadi said. The Minority leader said they will be pushing to have at least one-third of the funding for the crucial projects in this year’s budget. “We are just going to revisit these projects, thank him for the ones that are ongoing and some which are ongoing and facing challenges we press upon him to have government push for their implementation,” he said. “We are going to revisit our memorandum with him in Kisumu to see those being implemented and those which are not being implemented and then we decide whether the ones that are not being implemented we should shelve them for now.” “At least the ones that are being implemented should have a proper budgetary allocation to see them through, at least for this one year remaining we see serious works going on.” Star has established that the underfunding has led to the postponement of the launch of some handshake projects in the region which are yet to take shape because of the exchequer challenges. They included Mamboleo-Muhoroni, Siaya-Usenge, Sori-Mbita, Migori-Mihuru Roads and Mbita Causeway which connects Mbita mainland and Rusinga Island. The lawmakers will also put a strong case for the only operating public miller  Sony Sugar to get more funding. They will also put a case for the Sh20 billion Kori-Soin Multipurpose Dam that is meant to mitigate flooding in Muhoroni, Nyando and part of Karachuonyo sub-counties which is yet to take off. Last week, Water PS Joseph Irungu urged Parliament to intervene to unlock a stalemate where two Chinese firms are tussling over the River Nyando dam project tender. “We are going to discuss with him Sori/Mbita Road, Lichocha airstrip in Migori, Homabay Airstrip, Sony sugar which has resumed crushing, we want to request for some allocation for that factory to put it back to normal operations,” Mbadi said. In the MP’s list is also the issue of the Kisumu Port which will be unveiled during the President’s visit. They want Uhuru to order the transfer of some ferries idling in Kwale to help to connect Mbita and Mfangamano.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris