Visiting Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu on Wednesday told a joint sitting of Parliament that the two countries are like conjoined twins and must stick together to thrive. In an afternoon address broadcast live, Suluhu said her two-day visit was to repair strained relationship between the two neighboring countries. Nairobi and Dar es Salaam had been having troubled relationship over a number of issues, trade included. “Anybody who is plotting to bring division between us let them be told that Tanzania and Kenya have coexisted peacefully in the past and will continue to live in harmony,” Suluhu said. Suluhu told MPs to use their mandate as people’s representatives to strengthen diplomatic ties between the two countries. “You are people’s representatives, your role in enhancing the relations between the two countries is crucial. You have the ability to make the relations better or worse through the policies you, people, put in place,” she said. “I have come to tell you that under my government, we shall do everything to restore the relationship between the two countries. I have come to Kenya to repair a strained relationship.” Suluhu revealed that Kenya is strategic to Tanzania and that is why she considered Nairobi as her first destination for official state visit since she took over from the late John Magufuli. After the address, President Uhuru Kenyatta and his visitor released a joint communiqué detailing areas of corporation between the two countries. They agreed on, among other plans, development of a natural gas export project from Tanzania to Kenya, non-tariff barriers between the two countries volume of trade and ease of movement within the tourism corridors. The leaders also agreed to fast-track implementation of air, railway, maritime and road transportation network, as well as enhancing cooperation in culture, arts, social integration and national heritage. “The heads of state reiterated commitment to continuing strengthening bilateral cooperation in various sectors such as trade and investment, mining, energy, livestock, transport, defence and security, including combating terrorism and transnational organised crimes, for the mutual benefit of the two countries and their people,” the joint communiqué read. In Parliament, Suluhu clarified that the two-day state visit to Kenya is her first since she was sworn in as President of the neighbouring country, saying last month’s visit to Uganda was not a state visit but for the signing of trade deals. Suluhu disclosed that since taking over office, she has received many invitations from different counties but prioritised Kenya given the historical ties the two counties have enjoyed over the years. “I was in Uganda to sign a deal but my official state visit is to Kenya,” Suluhu said, amid applause from the lawmakers. “I received many invitations but decided to start with Kenya because of the historical ties between the two countries.” She said the Wednesday's address was her first time to address a joint sitting of Parliament. The visiting head of state also lauded Uhuru for standing with Tanzania when they lost President Magufuli. "I am delighted to get the opportunity to address the joint sitting of Senate and National Assembly of Kenya," she said. Suluhu is the second visiting head of state to address a joint sitting of Parliament in the history of independent Kenya. Retired Tanzania President Jakaya Kikwete was the first visiting president to address a joint sitting in October 2015. On the fight against Covid-19, she called for concerted efforts in dealing with the global health challenge. Last month, Suluhu announced creation of a Covid-19 technical committee to advise her on measures to take as a country to protect Tanzania against the pandemic. She noted that her administration will implement the recommendations of the taskforce in combating the pandemic. Suluhu also invited President Kenyatta to be the main guest as they celebrate 60 years of Independence in December. She said they will be honoured to have Uhuru during the celebrations.