Impeached Wajir Governor, Mohammed Abdi, will on Thursday know whether he will face an 11-member team or appear before 67 senators to defend himself. Some 37 out of 47 Wajir MCAs voted to impeach the governor last Tuesday for alleged gross misconduct, abuse of office and gross violation of the Constitution. The powerful Senate Business Committee chaired by Speaker Kenneth Lusaka has recommended formation of a panel to investigate the charges against the embattled county boss. However, the proposal is subject to approval by the plenary. Majority leader Samuel Poghisio will on Thursday move a motion for the establishment of the team allegations leveled against the governor. “Pursuant to Section 33(3) (b) of the County Governments Act, 2012 and Standing Order 75(1)(b)(i), the Senate resolves to proceed on this matter by way of establishment of a special committee to investigate the proposed removal from office by impeachment of the Honourable Mohamed Abdi Mohamud, the Governor of Wajir County,” reads a motion set to be moved by Poghisio. Should the motion flop on the floor, the governor will have no option but to plead his innocence before all the senators. In December last year, senators rejected proposal by the Senate Business Committee to form a team to probe former Nairobi governor Mike Sonko’s ouster. This was the case with former Kiambu governor Ferdinand Waititu whose impeachment was heard in the plenary. Section 33 of the County Government Act, 2012 provides for either the formation of the committee to hear impeachment case or trial by the whole house. If a committee is formed, the team will have 10 days to investigate and file a report to the house recommended his removal or not. If six out of the 11 members reject the removal, the impeachment bid flops. However, if the majority endorse the removal, then the case will subjected to a debate and a vote taken at the end on the floor. However, if the case is heard before the plenary, both the parties will argue out their case before all the members. Finally, a vote would be taken. At least 24 of the 47 delegations (elected) senators must vote to uphold the impeachment.