Wajir Governor Ahmed Muktar, who was sworn in on Tuesday last week, has hit the ground running as he tries to stamp his authority. Immediately after he was sworn in, he met staff from the department of heath to try and find a solution to the health workers strike. Health staff were led by executive Adan Sugow. The governor was accompanied by county secretary Abdullahi Maalim. Muktar, who spoke to the press after the meeting, hinted at major changes in the department. A day later, he presided over the first county executive committee meeting. He asked the executives to ensure staff in their departments are effectively supervised. On Thursday, he met county assembly members, led by speaker Ibrahim Yakub. The governor said they "discussed in detail ways of driving the county developmental agenda to greater heights while addressing the inherent setbacks." Even as he was doing all this, former Governor Mohamed Abdi, who was recently impeached, on Friday attended a Council of Governors meeting in Mombasa. It is, however, not clear in what capacity he attended the meeting. The council said it was not happy with how senators handled the impeachment motion against Governor Abdi. CoG chairman Martin Wambora claimed the process violated the law, saying the Senate did not investigate the matter as provided for under Section 33 (4) of the County Governments Act. All eyes will be on Muktar as his supporters and critics closely monitor his actions and moves, with sources intimating that he is planning to carry out a major reshuffle with the main target being those holding senior positions. A senior county official told the Star it was a matter of when and not if Muktar would make changes. “He has flown to Nairobi to hold a series of meetings with the county leadership and elders with the main subject of discussion being to make changes. He wants to weed out people who are sympathetic to his former boss and bring on board those who will be loyal to him during the period that he will be in office,” the source said. In 2017, Muktar 39, who is from the Ogaden community, wanted to contest for the governor seat, but elders from his clan prevailed upon him to step down. He then decided to go for the MP seat, but the clan endorsed current MP Mohamed Omar. It was at this point that the ousted governor’s clan (Degodia) settled on him as a running mate.  