The National Treasury needs a stronger revenue forecasting capacity to avoid over-ambitious budget plans( IEA) that have driven the country into debt, the Institute of Economic Affairs has said. In a report analysing the national government spending and fiscal reporting commissioned by the National Democratic Institute (NDI), the IEA criticised the government for more than tripling revenue forecast from 5.5 per cent in 2014 to above 19 per cent in the last financial year. ''The exchequer should improve the predictability of public funds for improved budgeting and execution. This will reduce the need and frequency of budget revisions,'' said Noah Wamalwa, a Public Finance Management expert at IEA. He added that the Legislature should oversight and rein in optimistic revenue projections that are used to “understate” the magnitude of the budget deficit and as a way of curbing borrowing appetite by the government. Kenya has failed to meet domestic revenue targets for the past five years, a situation that has seen it opt for borrowing to bridge budget deficits. According to the latest weekly bulletin by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK), the country's total public debt is now at Sh7.3 trillion. Last year, Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) missed its target by Sh350 billion, the highest in five years that saw the Government net Sh1.43 trillion in taxes in the last financial year. The exchequer had given the taxman a target of Sh1.8 trillion, but KRA  missed this by a wide margin as Covid-19 devastated the economy. As a result, the government borrowed Sh786.8 billion to plug the shortfall in tax revenue, pushing the country further into debt distress. A similar fate awaits the country fin the current financial year ending June 30, having lost a considerable amount of revenue in the first half of the financial year on Covid-19 effects before regaining traction. The revenue agency has since surpassed the monthly collection targets for the past four months consecutively.  It is expected to collect Sh1.7 trillion by end of next month. The National Treasury continues to set high budgets and ambitious fiscal deficits despite shrinking revenues. According to the draft budget policy statement for the financial year starting July 1, Treasury is optimistic that the budget deficit will contract to 7.5 per cent of the GDP. The deficit currently stands at 8.7 per cent of the GDP. Credit rating agency Moody's agrees with IEA findings on Kenya's huge expenditure appetite, calling on the country's authorities to set reasonable budgets and exercise responsible borrowing. The firm projects the country's debt and interest burdens to peak to 72.6 per cent of GDP and around 28 per cent of revenue by 2023, up from 65 per cent in 2020. Even so, it expects the fiscal deficit to narrow gradually, from 8.7 per cent of GDP in fiscal 2021 to 6.8 per cent of GDP by fiscal 2023.