Leaders of the One Kenya Alliance have criticised the High Court ruling discrediting the drive to amend for a referendum through the Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020. In a statement signed by the alliance co-principals, Musalia Mudavadi, Moses Wetang'ula, Gideon Moi and Kalonzo Musyoka, they urged Kenyans to be patient and wait for the appeal process. They expressed hope that the Appellate court will uphold the need for the process to continue. The Thursday ruling, made by a five-judge bench, termed the Constitution amendment process illegal, irregular, and unconstitutional; throwing the changes that have been two years in the making in to disarray. It came as a blow to a process that had sailed smoothly through the National Assembly and the Senate after the passing of the  bill. President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga, unveiled the initiative as part of a truce to calm political temperatures after the 2017 election. The initiative proposes, among other changes, the expansion of the Executive, to accommodate more Members of Parliament and a Prime Minister. The two leaders termed the initiative a vehicle for cohesion and unity in the country following years of politics laced with ethnic divisions. However, Attorney General Paul Kihara intends to file an application for a stay on the judgment at the Court of Appeal. Meanwhile, the Alliance expressed concerns over a potential breakout of a fourth wave of Covid-19 in the month of July and called on the Health ministry to intensify mass testing and vaccination. The principals also regretted the devastating effects of floods across the country that have led to the loss of lives and destruction of property, calling upon the relevant authorities to put in place urgent measures to curb the situation. They also called upon the government to intensify the distribution of subsidized seeds and fertilizer to farmers to take advantage of the ongoing rains. The principals also lauded the Senate for its decision to impeach the Governor of Wajir, terming it a bold step in the fight against corruption and impunity in the counties.