Directorate of Criminal Investigations have arrested an officer based at Dabel police station in Moyale on suspicion of being the mastermind behind the torture and murder of Joshua Mungai. Until his death, Joshua was a tout at Stage One, in Ongata Rongai. The DCI said constable Edwin Oscar Okimaru was arrested on Friday night after investigations involving the DCI Homicide branch, Cybercrime and Crime Research and Intelligence Bureau, forensically placed him at the scene of the murder. In an earlier tweet by DCI, the family of Joshua had requested them to take over the matter from Ongata Rongai police station, where the case had been reported. DCI said that in their findings that involved interviewing eyewitnesses, forensic autopsy analysis by Chief Government Pathologist Dr Johansen Oduor and combing of the scene, the detectives concluded that the suspect was at the scene of the murder that night. On April 18 at around 10 pm, the deceased alongside two others only identified as Njenga and George were arrested for violating curfew orders. The three were assaulted before being bundled into the trunk of a private car. “The vehicle was then driven to Tuala bridge area, where the victims were dumped. However, George who had been tied up using a rope managed to free himself, before rescuing the deceased and Njenga who had been badly assaulted,” DCI stated. DCI further said that George then managed to stop a Boda Boda rider and together helped the deceased who couldn’t walk onto the motorbike. However, they couldn’t take the deceased to the hospital, for fear of coming across those who had beaten them. George and Njenga limped off in different directions, leaving the deceased close to Nazarene University. DCI said that the following morning, a good Samaritan assisted the deceased to Ongata Rongai health centre, where he received first aid before being transferred to Kenyatta National Hospital, in critical condition. “Unfortunately, two days later Joshua died while undergoing treatment. Forensic analysis later conducted, indeed concurred with eyewitnesses accounts that the deceased died as a result of chest injuries due to blunt trauma,” DCI said. The deceased also suffered broken ribs and bones, indicating that he had been tortured before his death. Detectives are still pursuing more leads into the murder, with a view of gathering more evidence and making subsequent arrests. “We shall leave no stone unturned, in the investigation of this heinous murder, irrespective of whether the perpetrators are officers or not,” DCI said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris