 Former Nairobi county assembly speaker Alex Ole Magelo will be remembered for his efforts in the conservation of Mau Forest. Magelo died on Friday night at the Nairobi Hospital after a short illness. He had been calling for the safeguarding of the Mau Forest, Kenya's largest water tower after it was encroached on. In August 2018, Magelo was at loggerheads with former Bomet Governor Isaac Rutto over the destruction of Maasai Mau Forest. Magelo said the move by Rutto to oppose the eviction of illegal settlers from the forest was a clear indication that he does not support the restoration of the forest. “I was shocked by his remarks that the settlers should continue staying in the forest. Rutto is now using the Mau issue as a campaign tool and gets political mileage out of it,” Magelo said. Also in the same year, the former AFC Leopards chairman had threatened to mobilise the Maasai community to invade the Mau Forest to evict the squatters after the government failed to do so. “The Maasai community from Kajiado and Narok counties will be moving to the forest and we will starting replanting indigenous trees which have been cut down by illegal loggers and charcoal dealers,” Magelo said. He said the community had been silenced on the matter and that they were tired of the massive destruction of the forest. “I will spearhead the Maasai community to save the Mau Forest and if anyone will bar us from accessing it, we will deal with him accordingly. Already we have started receiving bulls, tents and grants for the operation to safeguard the forest.” The depletion of the forest will endanger the existence of wildlife in the Maasai Mara Game Reserve, which is the eighth wonder of the world. “This means the economy of Kenya will be affected greatly because the multi-billion tourism sector, which depends on these forests, has been killed,” Magelo said. He had promised to ensure the destruction of all illegal structures within the forest and urged politicians to keep off the matter. “The move is not political or targeting a particular tribe but purely to save the Maasai Mau Forest because if left unchecked, it will threaten the livelihoods of more than three million Kenyans,” he said. He had promised that the campaign would be peaceful and that some organisations had pledged support. “We will conduct the peaceful campaign and we will not allow people who will try to cause disharmony. I urge Kenyans to join us in the process.” Magelo had also called for a blockade of all the routes to the forest to stop illegal logging and charcoal trade. In January 2017 during the burial of his father Letoya Ole Magelo at Olokirkirai in Narok North, a section of Maasai leaders rejected calls for former Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery to be made the community's spokesman. They instead endorsed Magelo for the post, saying he is best qualified to succeed the late William Ole Ntimama. Magelo ventured into politics, serving as the speaker of Nairobi between 2013 to 2017. He tried his luck in the Kajiado West parliamentary seat in 2013 and 2017 but was unsuccessful.  