Two businessmen were on Tuesday charged with possession of Sh14 million fake money. Samuel Maina Wakaba and Bonface Mungai Mwaura denied the charges before Kibera senior principal magistrate Renee Kitagwa. The duo was also charged with four counts of forgery contrary to the penal code, a charge they also denied. According to the charge sheet, the two committed the offence on April 27 at Makaazi apartment, Kilimani area in Nairobi county. They were charged with possessing 68,000 pieces of paper resembling US dollars in 100 denominations, possessing  4,900 pieces of paper resembling Euros in 100 denominations, 6,400 resembling Kenyan notes in 1,000 denominations. The prosecution also charged the duo with four counts of forgery where they are accused of forging two Equity bank  Lavington branch stamps, three United Nation stamps, and two county government of Kitui stamps. Yesterday, their lawyer asked the court to release them on a lenient bond term. Kitagawa released them on a Sh1 million bond or a cash bail of the same amount. On Thursday last week, the two accused were remanded for five days pending investigations. Kibera court magistrate Phillip Mutua allowed investigators the requested days to complete investigations. Investigating officer Stephen Kibei had told the court that the suspects were arrested following  reports that they were in possession of fake currencies. When the police arrived at the house, they recovered six locked steel boxes, several steel safes, two bottles, and a reflective jacket. Detectives told the court they also recovered a jerry can containing an unknown liquid, KRA customs reflective jacket, National Treasury stickers, and printing machines. They also recovered fake US dollars in 100 denominations totalling Sh6.8 million and fake Euros in 100 denominations amounting to Sh490,000. The officer also seized Sh6.4 million in 1,000 denominations, five mobile phones, several sim cards, and CDs that have been taken for forensic analysis. While seeking more days to hold the suspects, the detective said they wanted to liaise with Interpol to ascertain whether they were wanted persons. But the suspects' lawyer objected to the application on the grounds that it lacked merit. -Edited by SKanyara