Nairobi’s flooding disaster exposes years of zero or little use of funds to control the deluge that turns parts of the capital into rivers, lakes and swamps. The heavy rains expose the poor drainage system, despite the county having millions to cater for such calamities. Over the weekend, Acting Governor Anne Kananu set up a  disaster management committee to help coordinate emergency response in the wake of deaths and destruction. Kananu, who is deputy governor, has been serving as chief officer for disaster management since 2018. "The committee will come up with immediate measures to mitigate the current emerging disaster and emergency situations in Nairobi," Kananu said. In the past three years, at least Sh800 million has been spent on disaster management in Nairobi, with nothing to show for it. At least seven people have lost their lives and a large amount of property has been destroyed during the latest heavy rains, which are persisting. The situation is the same, or worse, in other parts of the country. The committee has been tasked with putting in place measures to mitigate the flooding. The team will be chaired by acting Nairobi county secretary Jairus Musumba and chief of staff Mutunga Mutungi. Members include Finance, Health, Roads, Public Service Management, Disaster Management and Environment chief officers, as well a key  CECs.` In the Kibra slums, at least four people lost their lives in raging floods after a  downpour in Nairobi and environs on Thursday. The four — a boda boda rider and pillion passengers — were swept away as they tried to cross a bridge on Mutuine River in Kibra. Three other people also lost their lives in Mukuru slums. The deluge caused power outages. Worst-hit were Nairobi West, South C, parts of Langata Road, parts of Mbagathi Way, Dam Estate, Civil Servants Estate, Five Star Estate, Parts of Lower Hill and environs. Each year, more than 1 million shillings is allocated to the disaster management department for unclogging  drainages, draining water and controlling floods. In 2018, Governor Mike Sonko and the directorate of urban and metropolitan development set aside Sh194 million to fix the flooding problem and avoid future disasters. About Sh32 million was to be used to improve the drainage system and mitigate the damage. The county has mapped flood-prone areas in the capital and it came up with a comprehensive programme to control flash flooding. City Hall and the national government have announced they will construct major outfalls and rehabilitate drainage systems countywide. These improvements will be made at Catherine Ndereba Road, Lang’ata South Road, Kayole Spine Road, Popo Road and Mai Mahiu Road, among others. Sonko said in the short term, the county would set aside an Emergency Fund, the bulk of the Sh194 million, for rain-related problems. In 2019-20, Sh371 million had been set aside for disaster management, but the millions did not end disastrous flooding. In the current financial year, the county spent nothing on development between July and September. Nothing was spent on recurrent expenditure by the emergency fund, which was allocated Sh100 million. The county's non-spending was reported to the Controller of Budget for the first quarter for the financial year 2020-21. During this period, the county was operating on Vote on Account after Governor Sonko refused to sign warrants to implement the Sh37.7 billion budget because he opposed the money for Nairobi Metropolitan Services. In 2019-20, Sh371 million was again set aside for disaster management. It was slashed by Sh65 million in 2020. The budget stalemate caused paralysis in operations, which was only resolved when assembly speaker Benson Mutura become acting governor last December. He signed the warrants that allowed the budget to be implemented. In the next financial year, Sh140 million has been allocated to the  Emergency Fund. (Edited by V. Graham)