Since Independence, pregnant women and the sick from the Ogiek community in Mt Elgon Forest had to be carried on people's backs, wooden stretchers and donkey carts to the nearest hospital, 23km away. Many of them died as they were being taken to Kapsokwony Subcounty Referral Hospital. Women delivered on their way to the hospital. Some survived with their newborns, while others lost their lives. The struggle has lessened since the Bungoma government set up the first dispensary in Mt Elgon Forest to serve the marginalised Ogiek community. The Chepkitale dispensary serves 400 patients a month from a population of about 7,000 people. The facility offers, among other services, antenatal and postnatal clinics. It has a consultation room, a pharmacy, a labour ward and a laboratory. It is built on 30 acres at Labot trading centre. Elder Phillip Cheluget, 85, said the facility has offered relief to pregnant women who in the past died while trekking through the forest at night to deliver babies at Kapsokwony hospital. “We used to carry pregnant women and the sick on wooden stretchers, donkeys and on our shoulders, but we were relieved after the establishment of the facility," he said. “Some women delivered at home with the help of midwives but most of the women and babies lost their lives before getting to Kapsokwony hospital, a reason for our small population as a community.” Cheluget urged the county government and President Uhuru Kenyatta to build wards and post health personnel to the facility to take care of the growing population. He wants the hospital equipped with beds. Cheluget said the dispensary only has three beds. Residents also want the government to rehabilitate the road leading to the facility. The dispensary can only be accessed via a poorly gravelled road that is used by donkeys, motorbikes and county government vehicles that take pharmaceuticals to the facility. The county government started building the dispensary in January 2018 after requests by the Ogiek elders to ease the trouble of travelling long distances to Kapsokwony hospital, 23km away. The dispensary officially opened its doors to the public in September 2019. It was opened by Bungoma Governor Wycliffe Wangamati. The areas served by the dispensary include Kimoson, Kampy, Chepilat, Chepng'atip, Komool, Sokoroon, Chemnyikis, Kapsorey, Chemuyoo, Taboo and Kaptokoing'. Others are Chepengoly, Kapng'atatia, Muimet, Kasatany, Toboywo, Kewoi, Kapotioo, Etabei, Iya, Laboot, Tomoi, Singsingmwel, Kapcheramic, Kapsang and Chebomweny. Health chief officer Patrick Wandili said the county government decided to build the facility after realising the community had been sidelined by successive regimes as far as healthcare is concerned. He said the county government prioritised health facilities in Mt Elgon, so the area could be at par with other subcounties in Bungoma. "We are going to equip the dispensary and upgrade it in the long run," Wandili said. Laboratory technician Esther Chemochir said the facility offers clinical services to five primary schools in the area. "We pray that the government equips the labour ward and builds other wards too,” she said. Edited by A.N   