Preparations for August's World Under-20 Championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, will be complete by July at least, the local organising committee chairman Jack Tuwei has assured. Tuwei said the organisers have shrugged off the challenge of Covid-19 pandemic and are working tirelessly to meet all the targets ahead of the arrival of World Athletics inspectors to evaluate Nairobi's readiness to host the biennial event. "We are at 80 per cent in as far as the stadium is concerned and we hope to be ready in the next one month. At least we are somewhere and there is light at the end of the tunnel. We have had our challenges with the main one being Covid-19, but judging from the progress, I am happy to say we are very much on course,” Tuwei said. The Athletics Kenya president said the LOC's offices and the warm-up field are ready whereas the media tribune and centre are on course. Tuwei also sought to calm the fears of Kenyans as well as other visitors in the country who may be discouraged by the rapid evolution of the coronavirus pandemic. "There is no cause for alarm. We successfully hosted the 2017 World Under 18 Championships here at Moi Stadium, Kasarani and we hope to enhance security during the World Under 20 Championships in August,” he said. He was speaking on Tuesday at the stadium when he received sports kits from World Athletics, to be used by volunteers and officials. Tuwei revealed they are expecting more consignments for technical, training and competition equipment by July. Also present was the committee's CEO Mike Rabar, who affirmed his boss's assurances about the preparations for the rescheduled event — initially planned for last year. “We are now looking at the milestones and the timelines. This equipment that we have received is for specific groups, and we will distribute it at the right time to the right users,” Rabar said. Preparations for the championships — slated for August 17-22 — have been hampered majorly by the coronavirus pandemic, which has twice prompted the suspension of sporting activities countrywide.