KCB head coach Zedekiah Otieno says he is worried about their next fixture against Bandari despite his charges coming from behind to edge Mathare 2-1 in a closely contested Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Ruaraka Grounds on Wednesday. Otieno said his players had shown they were capable of conceding easy goals in their encounter with the Slum Boys. “Definitely you have to be happy as a coach if you collect maximum points. But again I'm disappointed we gave away such an easy goal, meaning we might have a challenge in our next match against Bandari given they are a better side. Moreover, they had a chance to rest as we broke sweat on the pitch,” said Otieno. “We are very focused as a team and trying to win every match on our way.” Despite marking the beginning of his era with a loss, Mathare's Frank Ouna remains optimistic he'll pull off a major surprise to salvage the Slum Boys from the jaws of relegation. “I think the biggest positive is the attitude of the players. Though we lost three points, it's a good match to build on. Our players were technically and physically good and I'm impressed,” said Ouna. “A step at a time. The league is not stopping tomorrow and I believe we still stand a chance to evade relegation.” Mathare looked composed and sharp on the offensive right from kick off, and barely two minutes into the game, Daniel Otieno broke the deadlock after pouncing on a loose ball in the area. The Slum Boys looked headed to the break with the slim advantage but a concentration lapse in the dying minutes of first half ruined the party. Vincent Wasambo restored parity for the bankers at the stroke of halftime with a superb strike 20 yards out. Eager to collect maximum points from the balanced affair, KCB coach Zedekiah Otieno tinkered his lineup to fire up his charges. The changes injected some zest into the side and soon they began launching inroads relentlessly into their opponents' territory. Their persistent attacks almost paid off in the 69th minute when Victor Omune’s thunderous shot rattled the woodwork, following a superb combination between him and Reagan down the right channel. Derrick Otanga proved a worthy substitute when he lobbed the ball over a rooted Job Ochieng to put the bankers in front in the 74th minute. Following the win KCB are now second on the log with 33 points, one below leaders Tusker. Mathare United are still rooted at the bottom with seven points. Today, Sofapaka will be hosting Gor Mahia at Wundanyi Stadium in what is expected to be a tough encounter given both sides will be heading to the battlefield on the back of wins in their previous matches. Sofapaka humbled Wazito 2-0 at the same venue whereas K'Ogalo made their title defence intentions clear, with a 1-0 win over Nairobi City Stars. Gor are currently sixth on the table with 22 points and a win may propel them to within two points of fifth-placed Bandari, who have 27 points. Sofapaka are ninth with 19 points and a win could take them to seventh.