Kenya Premier League defending champions Gor Mahia shrugged their off-field problems to thrash Mombasa-based Division One side Congo Boys 3-0 in a FKF Shield Cup round of 64 clash  at the KPA Mbaraki Sports Club on Sunday afternoon. South Sudanese forward Tito Okello opened the floodgates in the first half as he rose unmarked to head in a Fred Nkata cross. K'Ogalo winger Samuel Onyango was sent for an early shower after receiving a straight red card for a rash challenge on Hussein Abdulrahman. However, the numerical inferiority did little to slow Gor's momentum as John Macharia volleyed in a second after a poor clearance from a free-kick two minutes into the second half. Clifton Miheso put the result beyond doubt when he headed in an Okello cross past a hapless Edward George in goal. Their hosts, however, put in a strong shift, restricting their rivals to few chances in the beginning of the tie. Former Gor Mahia left-back Maqbul Abdulkarim was their main attacking outlet, taking on Gor’s defenders and whipping in quality crosses that only found K’Ogalo’s green shirts. His combination with Salim Ramadhan on the left flank made Gor defenders jittery although the Mombasa-based side started to tire as the game wore on. K'Ogalo coach Vaz Pinto gave debuts to goalkeeper Caleb Otieno and midfielder Nicholas Odhiambo. "It was an important game for us. It gave us an opportunity to gauge other players  and also give us that winning momentum. The FKF Shield is as important a tourney as any other Caf Champions League tie, so we had to put out a strong side.," Pinto said. Congo Boys gaffer Abdinasser Kassim said inexperience cost his boys the game but praised them for their effort. “Gor Mahia will always be Gor Mahia. They knew how to play with 10 men and we did not. We lacked maturity. The experience garnered here will be helpful for our match against Buruburu FC on Friday. We will approach the game with more courage and knowhow,” he said. This was Gor’s fourth consecutive victory after the resumption of football activities a fortnight ago after all sporting activities were halted due to Covid-19. They next face  Vihiga United on Thursday in a league encounter.