Multiple scars on his head and chest are a stark reminder of how he had fought al Shabaab militia while he was posted in Mombasa. Corporal Robert Omwoha, who is attached to DCI’s Anti Terror Police Unit, almost paid the ultimate price when terrorists he and his colleagues had arrested at Likoni in Mombasa, hurled grenades at them. One of his colleagues from the General Service Unit unfortunately lost his life in the attack, while Omwoha suffered head and chest injuries. According to the DCI magazine released on Tuesday, Omwoha has a shrapnel still lodged on the right side of his lungs and shoulder to date. The doctors told him that he would live with the metals lodged on his body for if they were removed, he would not survive it. How it happened It was on November 28, 2002 when al Shabaab targeted Israeli owned paradise hotel in Kikambala and a plane belonging to the Arkia Airlines while taking off from Moi International Airport. On that day, an all terrain vehicle loaded with explosives exploded killing 13 and injuring 80. It was during this attack and many more that occurred at the coastal region that cost Corporal Omwoha his scars. Since 2012, he has spent most of his time fighting death in hospitals on a wheelchair, walking using crutches or grounded in the house. Omwoha who hails from Essongolo village in Vihiga county, says he was happy that he was still alive. “Everyday I wake up feeling more healed than the previous day. The lord has been working miracles in my life. My life was completely changed by the grenade attacks,” he says as quoted by DCI magazine. In his first brush with death, Omwoha and his colleagues were blown up by grenades hurled by terrorists they had arrested at Likoni in Mombasa. He got a blackout and suddenly seethed in pain and sorrow in the twin blast at Majengo Mapya in Timbwani village. The explosion from the first grenade ripped his chest while the second disfigured his face. In 2012, Omwoha received a call from his boss that he needed to arrest a group of terrorists during a security operation. “I had spent the whole day doing office work and never had time for lunch. At 4pm I told my boss I was going home, hoping to have a meal there,” he recalls. But before he removed his key from his pocket, his boss told him he was needed at the site to join a team of officers from recce and ATPU who had come from Nairobi for an operation. The officer was required to go to Chaani chiefs office in Changamwe to meet his colleagues. “I was only armed with a pistol and handcuff and because I was fighting hunger pangs. I immediately turned and passed my wife’s grocery to inform her I was going for an operation,” he said. The corporal left and found four ATPU officers and others from NIS waiting for him. At around 10pm the officers were instructed to proceed to Mikanjuni in Changamwe where they stormed the house and found a man and a pregnant woman. They searched the house and found two grenades concealed in a woman’s handbag. They also found a pistol loaded with eight rounds of ammunition and one AK-47 rifle bullet in the house. “The Officers arrested the duo and was informed that the woman was the wife of a colleague and that they had gone for a terror attack but the plans aborted when they got wind of police.” The two were arrested after the man said they were with two other men who were not in the vicinity. Omwoha and the other officers walked the suspect up to another house where the two men lived. “He said he did not have the key to the gate. I had used my handcuffs and I was holding the suspect. When we reached the gate, he called out some names and requested they open the gate. One of the men behind the gate demanded to know who they were,” he said. But the two men who were asking questions from behind the gate were the same ones who had earlier fled from the place they planned to attack. “We heard the gate lock click open but the two men used their bodies to keep the gate firmly shut. I whipped my pistol and pointed it at the two men. As we were struggling to force the gate open, I heard something drop on our feet. I sensed danger,” he said. “Before any of us could figure out what had been dropped. I felt my body turn numb. There was a feeling of shock running through my chest. That was when I realised there was an explosion and my chest had been ripped off.” Omwoha said in the confusion, the handcuffed suspect slipped away. “I woke up and saw that I had a gaping wound.. I told my colleagues to remain silent since I felt that there could be more attackers lurking in the darkness," he said. The second near fatal incident happened on March 10, 2020. The corporal had been transferred to ATPU office after he had partially recovered. On this day, he was riding a police motorcycle on the Kisumu-Busia highway heading to Busia Town to gather intelligence on a terror cell when a truck veered off its lane and smashed him and other road users. “He woke up from a coma several days later in ICU at Tanaka nursing hospital,” the DCI said. Omwoha who has a wife and seven children, underwent multiple surgeries and got more than 250 stitches to rehabilitate him and bring him back to life. “The deep scars on my face, chest and legs tell my painful story. They remind me of the two near encounters with death and how God saved my life,” he says.