Gichugu residents have had to grapple with the carnage on the Kithure-Nyamindi–Kithii road for the past year. They say the situation has been getting out of hand and urgent intervention was needed. Thus, a group of residents on Sunday turned to God for a solution. A congregation of more than 10 Pentecostal churches in Ngariama ward held their service at the black spot in an attempt to rid it of the evil spirit 'responsible for the accidents'. They conducted an elaborate service marked by prayers, songs and dance. They then dowsed the spot with spiritual oil and holy water. Lead pastor Peter Muchiri thanked the government for constructing the road, saying it has eased transport, but equally blamed it for not inviting religious leaders to pray over it. "We believe inasmuch as the government has a role to play in sensitising its citizens to traffic safety guidelines, religious leaders, too, need to be incorporated in such lifesaving programmes. We need to pray over the infrastructures so that they help in achieving the intended purpose for which they have been put up," he said. Muchiri noted that over the last few months, there has been a lot of bloodshed on the road. It was built a year ago. He says each month, at least two people have died while a handful of others have had to live with injuries resulting from accidents. He said many boda boda operators are nursing injuries in hospitals and at homes. Pastor Douglas Mwangi shared similar sentiments and underscored the need for the government to adopt religious practices for the effective use of roads and other infrastructure. "We are not representing or fighting anyone within the political circles. This event was purposely for dedicating and spiritually cleansing the road. We as religious leaders were concerned over the number of accidents witnessed and so we decided to take part in the best way we can—which is to lead the faithful in prayers.” Mwangi recounted how a chief from the area got involved in a road accident after his car collided with another vehicle and how a boda boda suffered injuries on the road. Both victims are recuperating in hospital. The faithful hailed the move by their clerics and urged road users to adhere to traffic rules. Joyce Wangare expressed optimism that the number of accidents will reduce drastically going forward. “We are hopeful the road will now help us. We urge motorists and pedestrians to be responsible road users so that we don’t lose more lives on the road,” she said.  Edited by F'Orieny