Kericho Governor Paul Chepkwony was on Thursday tasked to explain why he dished out Covid-19 tenders through direct procurement. Senators also questioned the governor on the expenditure of Sh4 million meant to fight the pandemic on electricity. Appearing before the Senate Health committee that is investigating queries raised by the Auditor General on the use of the funds, Chepkwony was at pains to justify why his administration awarded tenders worth Sh23.04 million through restricted tendering. Kericho received a total of Sh288.77 million from the national government, donors and county's own allocation to aid in the fight against the contagion. According to a special audit report by Auditor General Nancy Gathungu on the utilisation of Covid funds, Kericho used direct procurement for several items. They include construction of generator house at Ainamoi sub-county for Sh1.15 million, supply, delivery, installation, testing and commissioning of a prime generator and rehabilitation of medical infrastructure at Kericho County Referral Hospital. The governor said the county had a contract framework with the suppliers and contractors for different categories of goods and services. He said the county selected and awarded the tender to companies listed in the framework contract. “Because of the urgent nature of services under the Covid-19, spending using other procurements methods would have negated the urgency of the services required,” Chewpkwony said. Senators, however, raised issues with the procurement and demanded a list of companies that were listed under each category where the county picked the suppliers and contractors from. “Framework contracting requires that there must be more than one company per category where the county can pick from. Can we be shown the names of these other companies?” Kericho Senator Aaron Cheruiyot demanded. He was backed by Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali and his Narok counterpart Ledama Ole Kina. Acting chairman Fred Outa (Kisumu) gave the county seven days to provide the list or the committee indicts the county for abusing the guidelines on restricted procurement. The governor, who was accompanied by a team of officers including health and finance executives, was also pushed to explain why his administration spent Sh4.69 million meant to fight the virus to pay electricity bills for Kericho County Referral Hospital. Chepkwony defended the expenditure, saying the facility is the nerve centre that played a critical role in fighting the virus. He said the hospital served as an isolation and treatment centre, receives referrals from other facilities from the county and beyond and thus needed an uninterrupted power supply. “The hospital is the main medical facility in the county and offers services across the entire county and to other patients who may be referred from neighbouring counties,” he submitted. He told the nine-member committee that the expenditure was captured in an integrated Covid-19 work plan. “The Covid-19 emergency response team came up with a contingency plan which included payment of all outstanding utility bills,” he said. Chepkwony was also hard-pressed to explain why his administration spent an extra Sh24.46 million on frontline health workers allowances. According to the report, the county received Sh36.18 million for the allowances but spent Sh24.46 million more. The governor explained that the cash disbursed to the county by the Treasury was not enough as it left out 714 health workers who were on contract. The county had to cater for the remaining workers in its budget. In total, the county spent Sh60.64 million in allowances on all its frontline health care workers with the extra expenditure captured in a supplementary budget.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris