Kenya Ports Authority engineers have been trying to balance several cranes, heavy scanners and other assorted lifting equipment on a barge, in a 24-hour voyage in the Indian Ocean. This comes as the final batch of port equipment is deployed to Lamu. A barge is a long flat-bottomed boat for carrying freight on canals, seas or rivers, either under its own power or towed by another. In this case, the KPA barge is towed by two pilot tug boats. The ocean can be unpredictable because of the rough waves, therefore the captains towing the barge need to be extra careful while in the deep seas. KPA has sub-contracted Comarco, a leading marine and specialized contractor, with over forty years of experience, to provide the barge and additional manpower. About 20 engineers from KPA and Comarco have been deployed in Lamu and Mombasa ports to ensure the transfer of the equipment. On Saturday, the KPA engineers started disassembling Mobile Harbour cranes and the Rubber Tyred Gantry cranes, which were stationed at Berth number 5 at the Port of Mombasa to transfer them to Lamu Port. A single RTGs weighs about 45 tonnes, whereas the Mobile Habour cranes weigh about 100 tonnes. Because the equipment cannot be transported by road or air to Lamu, they were loaded onto a barge and transferred via the Indian Ocean. The loading exercise, that started on Saturday, was completed on Monday before the barge sailed off from Mombasa in the afternoon for a 240-kilometre voyage to Lamu. The cranes were loaded in an upright position. KPA’s captain Geoffrey Namadoa has been tasked to ensure the equipment is safely delivered to Lamu, ahead of the commissioning on Thursday by President Uhuru Kenyatta. “We have to ensure the equipment is delivered safely in Lamu. We have been working round the clock to ensure that the operation is successful,” Namadoa said. This second shipment required a lot of preparation because of the sensitivity of the equipment. “The equipment on the barge requires a lot of stability,” he said. The first shipment of equipment, which included; four-terminal tractors, eight skeletal trailers, two forklifts, two low-bed trailers, four lateral mark buoys and assorted lifting equipment was done on April 26. The second shipment was expected to be done on May 6, but KPA had to carefully consider the rough waves that were brought about by the southeast monsoon winds. Namadoa said the second batch of equipment, which left Mombasa port on Monday, was expected to arrive in Lamu on Tuesday afternoon. “The RTGs and the Mobile Harbour Cranes are very key to the operationalisation of the Lamu Port,” Namadoa said. “They will be helping in loading and offloading the equipment.” The equipment will be installed on Berth number one at the Lamu Port.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris