Nominated MP Maina Kamanda has said ODM leader Raila Odinga is best suited to succeed President Uhuru Kenyatta for a five-year transitional term. The influential lawmaker warned that any other option would reverse the gains the handshake has made in the last three years. "We need someone who will be able to consolidate the gains made since the March 2018 handshake. Raila deserves even five years to set the country on a steady trajectory of peace and stability," Kamanda said. Speaking at Radio Jambo on Tuesday night, the former Starehe MP regretted that despite the sacrifices Raila has made for the country, some people are still hell bent in blocking his ascension to the country's top office. "Raila has fought hard for the peace, stability and the democracy we enjoy in this country today. Nobody should cheat us that we would be where we are today without Raila's sacrifice," the vocal MP said. The MP insisted that Mt Kenya was solidly behind Raila's 2022 candidature despite an aggressive charm offensive by Deputy President William Ruto to woo the president's backyard into his fold. "Once the Building Bridges Initiative referendum sails through, the president's backyard is going to speak in one voice ahead of the next elections and Raila is going to be our man," Kamanda said. Insisting that Raila means well for the country, Kamanda observed that given the ODM leader's advanced age, he will restore order and sanity across government before exiting from the political scene as a statesman. "The former prime minister is a great leader, we don't want to see a situation where there are schemes to block him. As a region and for me, I will die for Raila," he said. Kamanda is one of the key stalwarts of the handshake and has been dismissing Ruto's candidature as he drums up support for Raila as the best option for the country. His comments however come at a time there are claims to widening cracks among the president's allies and power men over the choice of Uhuru's heir. There are reports that while a section of the president's handlers are backing One Kenya Alliance of Musalia Mudavadi and Gideon Moi some are insisting on Raila as the best bet. Mt Kenya has also been sending mixed signals over its 2022 position with key political leaders from the region said to be waiting for the president's ultimate decision.