Former AG Senator Amos Wako has vividly described how Covid-19 affected his diet and eating habits after e tested positive for the virus. Speaking during the national prayer breakfast meeting on Thursday, the Busia Senator said his experience with the viral disease made him realise that he could die easily. It all started on February 17, at 6: 30 am when he was tested and found with Covid-19. "This was the result I least expected. This is because I went the extra mile by having regular exercises taking vitamins such as zinc, vitamin C and D, taking Dawa and going to the sauna, getting steam baths while breathing hot air,” he said. Wako said he however ignored some signs such as occasionally having difficulty in breathing and dizziness. “... I had attributed this to a major operation I underwent in 2018. It was a normal occurrence to me,” he said. Wako narrated that during the funeral of Garissa Senator Yusuf Haji, he could not recall the name of former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. “...as I was sitting, Raila came to where I was and I asked him who he was. And he asked me back who I was. He then removed his mask and his cap and we all laughed,” he said. “But that was part of the disorientation. When I went back that evening, I thought it was morning and yet it was evening. This forced me to go to Nairobi hospital to be tested for something else, not Covid-19.” Wako said the delay of treatment contributed to the seriousness of his case which doctors said was touch and go affair. “I appeal to Kenyans to get tested immediately if you have the symptoms. Chances of survival are much higher in early detection if you delay it becomes very deadly,” he said. Wako said his kidneys were temporarily affected but are now functioning 100 per cent. “For the first time, I was transported into the ambulance. I was forced into it because I knew that I would ride comfortably in my car. There were six people. One of them was holding a gas cylinder because I could not breathe,” he said. During the journey, Wako said he started thinking about the news items on how some people being transported in ambulances were declared dead on arrival. “I wondered whether we shall arrive while still alive. I remembered the people dressed in white who were burying dead people as a result of Covid-19 and here we were surrounded by the same people. I recollected the good bible.” Giving a vivid recollection of the happenings, Wako said from his experience, it hit him that death can come so unexpectedly and so easily. “Fellow Kenyans, let us pray to God to teach us to number our days so that we may gain a heart of wisdom in our lifetime,” he said. He said that treatment can be very positive depending on the seriousness of the case. “I was able to meet the expense because I had a policy which covered the risk. I am aware that there are private hospitals which demand a deposit of Sh300,00 and Sh600,000 before they can start treating you for Covid-19,” he said. “This is way beyond the abilities of most people. Some of whom have died and are dying because of lack of access to health care services.” He appealed to the government to redouble efforts in ensuring that all have access to medical facilities.