The KCSE class of 2020 will this week know the universities they will join. The Star has established universities that have declared 147,000 places, making available more places than the number of candidates who made the cut for degree slots. Vacancies are spread across 500-degree programmes in public and private universities. All candidates who scored C+ and above proceed to universities. A total of 747,161 sat the test, with 143,140 candidates making the cut-off mark of C+ (plus) and above and are eligible for government sponsorship. In technical colleges, over 100,000 slots have been identified for placement for diploma and certificate courses. The placement comes at a unique time the sector is facing uncertainty over shutdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Education CS George Magoha asked universities to contact the new students, give them joining instructions and fast-track the start of their academic journey. Kenya Universities and Colleges Central Placement service will place all those with C+ (plus) and above to universities to pursue degree courses. Magoha said admission to universities will not be affected. This means the students will join the respective institutions in September. Mercy Wahome, the KUCCPS chief executive said the placement will be done based on the candidate's choice of institution, availability of places, and cut-off marks. She spoke to the Star on Sunday. Private universities, like it has been the tradition will admit students under government sponsorship. In the 2019 KCSE, 125,463 got a mean grade of C+ (plus) and above and were placed to university as government-sponsored students. University of Nairobi, Jkuat, and Mount Kenya University were the biggest winners in terms of enrolment numbers. Jomo Kenyatta University of Agriculture and Technology took the lion’s share with 6,006 enrolled under the government sponsorship programme. The University of Nairobi got 5,894 students. UoN also doubled as the institution with the most competitive courses sought after by the top performer. Last year, private universities admitted the highest number of State-funded students as 17,368 students joined the institutions. Mount Kenya University was allocated 4,400 students outweighing traditional giants like Egerton. Kabarak University is second among private universities getting a high enrolment with 2,327 students, Kenya Methodist University 2,268, Catholic University of Eastern Africa 2,091 and KCA University closes the top five list with 2,062 students. International Leadership University admitted only two students despite declaring a capacity of 150.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris