Farmers from Kacheliba constituency are counting losses following deaths of their animals that fed on a poisonous shrub. The farmers have lost 859 animals that ate the shrub. The most affected areas are Alakas, Ngotut, Kapeyon and Nakwapuo. The shrub has spread to over 7,000 acres of land. Some of the farmers have been forced to migrate from their homes and seek refuge in neighbouring Uganda to save the few remaining livestock. The Star saw carcasses of animals lying all over the fields. Farmers were feeding calves on porridge to try to save them. “All of my animals died and I was left with the calves. I have been forced to feed them on porridge since I have no milk to feed them,” Cheptende Lomerilima said. Lomerilima said her animals left in the morning to the grazing fields and came back in the evening while healthy. “In the morning when I woke up to milk, I found all of them dead. I screamed to alert my neighbours. We had lost all our animals," she said. Marko Lokuki, another resident, said he was awoken by screams from her neighbour. When he checked on his animals he found five were already dead. “I only lost five. I moved the remaining to the neigbouring country," he said. Peter Autok from Nakwapua village lost 34 animals in one night. Autok who was respected in the community for having many livestock has been left poor. “It will now be history that I was among farmers in this village who had many animals. My pride and source of livelihood has just gone in one day," he said. “When I went to sleep in the evening I checked on my animals and they were healthy but the following day I was shocked to see my animals lying dead," he said. Dogs that feasted on the carcasses have not been spared. Autok said that three of his dogs that fed on the animals died after some hours. The farmers said that they have been left poor since they mostly depend on livestock as a source of livelihood, and the loss has greatly affected them. They said the shrub is spreading very fast in the area. "We are still losing animals since the shrub has spread to most areas in the constituency. The government should come to our aid," he said. The farmers said that the animals that fed on the shrub had swollen stomachs, blood oozed from their nose before they collapsed and died. Dr Benson Ririmpoi, a private specialist in animal production in West Pokot, said that it will be hard for farmers to control spread of the shrub in the region since it was carried by floods from Kabolet Forest. Ririmpoi said the shrub known as Xanthium Strimariam is poisonous in early stages of growth. “Farmers should prevent their animals from grazing in areas near the stream and rivers where the shrub has been deposited after flooding, since the plant is poisonous in its early stages of germination when it has cotyledons," he said. The doctor said that when the shrub is fully grown it will not have any effects on the animals. The farmers have now called on the government and well wishers to help them in restocking as they wait for a permanent solution. Edited by Henry Makori