The Jubilee candidate in the Juja by-elections, Susan Njeri , her agents and supporters on Wednesday walked out of the tallying center at Mang'u High School in protest against the ongoing tallying process. Njeri, who was accompanied by the Kiambu Members of Parliament Caucus Chairman Jude Njomo, stormed out of the center claiming that the entire process was rigged. Njeri who spoke to journalists and said that she lodged a complaint with the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission over her votes allegedly being dumped in four polling stations - Jomo Kenyatta primary school, Gachororo, Theta and Kalimoni. She said that her complaints fell on deaf ears and the Commission went ahead to count the votes. "This is so unfair. Ballot papers marked in my favour were dumped in polling stations and despite alerting the IEBC, they did nothing about it. All I want is fresh counting of the votes and I will accept defeat if all votes are counted fairly," she said. Susan said that she will be seeking legal redress to have the by-elections held afresh should her complaints be left unaddressed. Kiambu town MP Jude Njomo faulted IEBC for declaring that there are undisputed votes in the exercise "despite being provided with evidence of the dumped ballot papers". He also claimed that there was intimidation of voters and voter bribery across all the 184 polling stations. "We won't accept the results. We are peace loving citizens and that's why we have walked away peacefully in protest. All we want is justice," Njomo said. Earlier IEBC Chairman Wafula Chebukati directed the tallying process to resume after it had been halted for close to six hours following chaos. Three goons stormed the center on Tuesday night and tried to attack the IEBC officials but were restrained by police officers. However a melee ensued between Jubilee candidate Susan Njeri's supporters led by Nyoro and Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and PEP candidate George Koimburi's supporters led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata and Witeithie Ward MCA Julius Macharia. Governor Nyoro claimed that votes belonging to Njeri were dumped in a school in Juja calling for a halt of the counting and tallying. Nyoro said that unknown individuals were out to rig the elections in favour of Koimburi. Chebukati on Wednesday morning said that the commission will launch investigations into the chaos and ensure that the perpetrators are apprehended and prosecuted. "We are going to write to the DPP to ensure that those who caused chaos are prosecuted accordingly. But in the meantime tallying will resume," he said. He also warned that no foreign materials will be introduced in the tallying process noting that counting ended on Tuesday. Returning officer Justus Mbithi said that the results will be ready in the afternoon.