Mombasa county has committed to settling the Sh39 million owed to the Kenya Medical Supplies Authority by the end of this financial year. This was agreed upon in a meeting between Governor Hassan Joho and the newly appointed Kemsa board chairperson Mary Mwadime. Mwadime paid a courtesy call at Governor Joho’s office in one of the series of meetings aimed at fast-tracking clearance of debts owed to the agency by counties. Joho instructed his officers to cut the red tape, review pending issues and expeditiously clear monies owed to the authority. “I have heard what the chair has said and I am directing my officers to sit down and quickly look into this matter with an aim to resolve it," the governor said. Joho said he was keen to improve healthcare service delivery at public hospitals so that they are on a par with private hospitals. Mwadime observed that the monies paid would enable the authority to meet its financial obligations. The chair explained that Kemsa was ready to further its engagement with Mombasa county by actively listening to their views and implementing their suggestions to improve service delivery. “I appreciate the opportunity to meet and interact with the governor. Kemsa and Mombasa county have been collaborating for years and we want this to continue," Mwadime said. She sought to know what challenges the county health officials are facing with a view to resolving them. Medical Services chief officer Dr Khadija Shikely while lauding Kemsa for its last mile distribution, urged the authority to improve its order fill rate. Kemsa acting chief executive officer Edward Njoroge noted that the authority has operationalised the Mombasa Regional Distribution Centre and this will bring services closer to the people. He explained that the Mombasa RDC would serve six counties in the region in a more efficient manner. Further to this, Kemsa is already at an advanced stage in operationalising the Kisumu RDC, which will take care of 15 counties. -Edited by SKanyara