The fight against asthma disease in the country has received a major boost after Astrazeneca donated 300 nebulizer units and 300 nebulization stations to the Kenya government. The machines, received during the marking of World Asthma Day at KNH on Wednesday, will be availed to various health institutions across the country and will help in easing symptoms in asthma patients. The donations were handed to Health CAS Dr Rashid Aman by the Company President for the African cluster Barbara Nel. Asthma is a chronic lung disease that is charaterised by persistent or recurrent symptoms of wheezing, chest tightness, shortness of breath and coughing. The support under the hospices of Astrazeneca’s Africa PUMUA Initiative aims at improving paediatric and adult asthma management across Africa as part of the company’s commitment to implement innovative approaches to strengthen healthcare systems, and broaden patient access to quality asthma care. “The ministry of Health welcomes this partnership on behalf of all Kenyans living with asthma, and our healthcare workers who take care of them,” Rashid said. This year’s theme is ‘uncovering misconceptions about asthma’. “This year’s theme provides a call to action to address widely held myths and misconceptions concerning the disease that prevent persons with asthma from enjoying optimal benefit from the major advances that have been made in the care and treatment of this condition,” the CAS noted. He has called on people with the disease to adhere to Covid-19 containment measures at all times to prevent being infected with the virus by observing social distancing and proper wearing of face masks. “Our advice to people diagnosed with asthma is they should continue with asthma treatment as prescribed and develop communication channels with their health care providers for advice on their asthma care and treatment. They should also seek medical assistance promptly," Aman said. According to the ministry, it is estimated that 10 per cent of the population or an equivalent to 4.5 million people suffer from asthma. “It is a major contributing factor to missed time from school and work. When the disease is uncontrolled it can lead to attacks requiring emergency room visits and hospitalisations. Sometimes these asthma attacks can be fatal,” he noted.