The Communication Authority is targeting to provide mobile and internet connectivity to an extra 635,000 people in underserved areas by 2022 through the Universal Service Fund. Giving an update on projects undertaken through the fund, the manager Emma Otieno said at least Sh2 billion will be spent in the third phase of the infrastructure project. The USF was established under the  Kenya Communications (Amendment) Act, 2009 to support widespread access to ICT services, promote capacity building and innovation in ICT services in the country. It is mainly financed through mandatory contributions of 0.5 per cent of the gross revenue from licensed operators, which provide services in the various communications market segments, with provisions for complementary financing from other sources. Other funding sources include levies on licensees, appropriations from Government as well as grants and donations. The fund targets national projects with a significant impact on the availability and accessibility of ICTs in rural, remote and poor urban areas. The first phase targeted to connect 1,000 public secondary schools with the Internet and 202 sub-locations in remote areas with voice services. The Ministry of Education Science and Technology provided a list of 896 public secondary schools, out of which 885 have been connected. The 202 sub-locations targeted for voice infrastructure were floated for tendering. Only Safaricom and Telkom Kenya participated in the tender, with the former taking up 50 sub-locations and the later 28. The 78 sub-locations are in Garissa, Wajir, Mandera, Marsabit, Turkana, West Pokot, Baringo, Samburu, Isiolo, Kwale, Kilifi, Kitui, Bungoma, Narok and Kajiado counties. ''To date, the two contracted operators have provided communication services in 74 or 95 per cent of the targeted 78 sub-locations,'' Otieno said. The 11 outstanding sub-locations, mainly in Mandera, Garissa, Marsabit, Turkana and West Pokot, are at different stages of completion having faced delays due to insecurity challenges and approvals. In February, the Communication Authority awarded Sh1.57 billion to five companies to set up infrastructure in 101 marginalised sub-locations across the country. Safaricom, Airtel, American Towers Company (ATC), Seal Towers and Alan Dick and Company (East Africa) were awarded contracts to set up infrastructure and services under the second phase of USF projects, targetting 101 sub-locations. The 101 sub-locations are spread across 19 counties including Turkana, Baringo, Garissa, Samburu, Kilifi, Kitui, West Pokot, Mandera, Wajir and  Marsabit. Safaricom won the lion’s share of the active component of the tender with 21 lots valued at Sh295 million while Airtel won five lots valued at Sh14 million. Network infrastructure firms Alan Dick and Seal Towers each won eight lots valued at Sh372.5 million and Sh165.7 million respectively. ATC won 18 lots valued at Sh256.6 million while Airtel won two lots valued at Sh12.5 million. Otieno said that network connectivity is capital intensive and appealed to various stakeholders to help in pulling resources.