The Kenya Magistrates and Judges Association have faulted a section of leaders for attacking its members after the BBI ruling. In a press statement to the media yesterday, the association through its secretary-general Derrik Kuto also called on the Interior Ministry to investigate the utterances made to its members. This comes after some leaders across the country waged war on the five judge bench that made the BBI ruling on Thursday last week where they halted the referendum push. ODM leader Raila Odinga has since said that the verdict was disappointing but never criticised the judiciary. "We wish to condemn the utterances as ancient, irresponsible and retrogressive. I call upon the Inspector General of Police to immediately investigate the said utterances to prosecute the culprits,” Kuto said. Kuto also called upon Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi to ensure that all judicial officers are safe given the sensitive nature of their assignments. “We also urge the relevant officers of the government to immediately engage the Judiciary to ensure the security of all judges, magistrates and kadhis,” Kuto said. He assured Kenyans that politicians' threats and cowardly acts will not deter them from doing their job independently and within the law. “Kenyans would recall that in 2007-2008, this country plunged into chaos partly because there was no faith in the Kenyan courts then,” he said. “The voice of Kenyans on the independence of the Judiciary in the Constitution of Kenya 2010 cannot, therefore, be ignored.” The association said that the Kenyan Judiciary was widely respected globally and the same need to be considered and be proud of judges for offering jurisprudential leadership worldwide. “An independent judiciary does not mean independence from the laws that they have sworn to uphold; it does not mean independence from the people from whom they draw judicial authority,” he said. “It however means having judges who can make decisions purely based on the facts before them, the law and the Constitution.” KMJA called upon Kenyans to ignore some section of the politicians and have trust in the Judiciary. “We call upon Kenyans of goodwill to ignore those who wish to castigate judges for doing their work and ultimately bring down the Judiciary for their selfish interests. We continually urge those dissatisfied with any decision to follow the correct procedure.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris