Nairobi County Assembly Majority Leader Abdi Hassan Guyo has been ranked among the top-performing MCAs in the country. He is among three Nairobi MCAs, the others being Royambu MCA Peter Warutere and Anita Thumbi who were ranked top 20 among performing county legislators. This is the first time that Nairobi MCAs have made it to the opinion polls by Mizani Africa. According to the new opinion poll , Guyo who is Matopeni Ward rep was ranked in the seventh position, having scored 88.5 per cent, followed by Warutere with 88.3 per cent and Thumbi at 84.7 per cent. Guyo besides being the Majority leader, is among the most vocal Nairobi MCAs. He is serving his second term as an MCA and was also a councillor before devolution. During the tenure of former Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, he served as the Minority leader. “ The award caught me by surprise but I believe the work I do in my capacity as Matopeni MCA and majority leader is evident,” Guyo said. The Majority leader has been actively involved in being the bridge between the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and the County Government of Nairobi. Roysambu MCA Warutere has been the chairperson of the health committee at the county assembly. “I strongly believe that what I have done as chairperson for health in the radical transformation of the department are some of my highlights of success not forgetting many development projects that I have implemented in Roysambu,” he said. Nominated MCA Anita Thumbi is also a member of the health committee. Last year when the Covid-19 pandemic hit Kenya, Thumbi decided to put politics aside for a couple of months and go back to her profession as a health worker. She has also been among the vocal female nominated MCAs who contribute to plenary sessions and table motions on the floor of the house. Mizani Africa Operations Manager John Benson pointed out that the opinion poll was based purely on opinions of Kenyans basing their yardstick on the efforts demonstrated by the leaders apart from the duties they have within their normal jurisdiction. “In the matter of the leading MCA, for example, we looked at how Elijah had spearheaded the impeachment of former Kiambu governor and the BBI in the Mount Kenya region,” Benson said. The survey was conducted between March 5 and December 5, 2020 with 47,000 respondents interviewed. The poll has a margin of error of +/-3 with confidence level of 95 per cent. This is the second opinion poll by Mizani Africa after another one last year. The best performing MCA was awarded to Biashara Ward MCA Elijah Njoroge Kururia followed by Kinoo Ward MCA Samuel Kimani and Khalaba Ward MCA Majimbo Okumu closing the top three The Biashara ward rep made headlines in November 2018 when he resigned from his position as majority chief whip citing unresolved issues with the county government. Kururia  went ahead and  tabled a motion for the removal of his successor Simon Karema last year accusing him of gross misconduct and rudeness to members, especially women.