Kenya will experience partly cloudy conditions, showers and thunderstorms on Wednesday night, the Meteorological department has announced. In the Coastal region, it will be a partly cloudy night in Kwale, Mombasa, Kilifi, Lamu and Tana River counties. In its 24-hour weather forecast, Met said the counties will have mainly sunny intervals expected to prevail the entire day on Thursday. Strong southerly winds of 25 knots (12.5m/s) is expected over Tana River County. Central, Nairobi and parts of Eastern regions will experience showers and thunderstorms over several places on Wednesday night. Cloudy conditions with light rains will be experienced over few places in the morning giving way to sunny intervals. Showers and thunderstorms will be expected over several places in the afternoon. In Western, Nyanza, Central and south Rift Valley regions, showers and thunderstorms are expected over several places on Wednesday night. Rains are expected over a few places in the morning, giving way to sunny intervals. Showers and thunderstorms were expected over several places in the afternoon. In the North western and lake Turkana region will receive partly cloudy conditions are expected on Wednesday night. Rains over a few places in the morning giving way to sunny intervals. Showers and thunderstorms were expected over a few places in the afternoon. In north eastern, partly cloudy conditions tonight, rains expected over a few places in the morning around Isiolo and Marsabit giving way to sunny for the rest of the day . Strong southerly winds of 25 knots are expected over Garissa, Wajir and Mandera county. In the South Eastern, showers are expected over a few places tonight around Machakos and Kajiado counties. Sunny intervals are expected in the morning. Showers are expected over few places in the afternoon, especially around Machakos. Heavy rains are expected to continue to soak most of the country. The Met department said Kenyans should be on the lookout for possible floods and landslides. Last week, a home and a farm were destroyed by a landslide in Wanjerere area of Murang’a county. Murugu Mboko, the owner, said he noticed cracks developing in his farm two weeks ago and reported the matter to the local administrators. Springs of water flowed from the cracks. Murugu was advised to relocate. And two days after he left his home for safe grounds, his house and part of his farm were destroyed by a landslide.