As Kenyans plan for the June virtual Lewa Safari Marathon, Sh6m collected in  2020 has impacted more than 20 schools. A total of Sh35 million was collected from the marathon. Established two decades ago, Lewa Marathon brings together athletes and running enthusiasts worldwide in a race to raise funds for a range of community groups, clinics, schools and wildlife conservancy projects in and around the Lewa Conservancy. According to the conservancy, funds donated to Lewa's Education programme was spent on 23 schools is the neighbouring Lewa. They were facilitated and supported with critical and top-of-the range education facilities that are key in creating enabling learning environments. These include dormitories, sanitation blocks, kitchen and the provision of education materials for students and resources for teachers. “For conservation to be a success, young people need to be equipped with the skills and knowledge they need to access gainful jobs in the future, lift their families out of poverty, and make responsible choices as future leaders of their communities and stewards of the environment,” the conservancy said in a notice. Services offered ranged from child welfare clinics, reproductive health, management of HIV & AIDS , counselling, nutritional health alongside the treatment of the sick and injured. The Marathon support of Sh4.5 million helped the conservancy reach over 30,000 community members. "This has led to acute understanding that health services and conservation can be intricately linked," they said. Initiatives such as beadwork production, youth entrepreneurship and other social development projects within the conservancies were done through funding of Sh7.6 million from the marathon. The Lewa Wildlife Conservancy in northern Kenya is home to the annual Lewa Safari Marathon and each year participants share the reserve with several large African predators including lion, leopard, hyena and wild dog. During this year's edition, participants will have the option of running their desired amount of kilometres including 5Km, 10km, 21km and 42km. Those who complete their selected distances will receive an e-certificate and medal. Organisers and sponsors of the event include Safaricom, Tusk, Huawei and Lewa Wildlife Conservancy.