Kakamega Homeboyz head coach Nicholas Muyoti has extolled his charges for displaying character in the face of formidable opposition against Kariobangi Sharks in their Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Utalii grounds on Friday. Homeboyz went down by a solitary goal but Muyoti believes they weren't just fortunate enough to pick up some points from the closely contested match that marked the resumption of top-flight football after a long break occasioned by the outbreak of Covid-19. “I would like to thank my boys for putting up a good performance despite the loss. It hasn't been an easy game but they fought tooth and nail up to the final whistle. “We didn't make use of our chances whereas Sharks capitalised on sole chance to punish us. All in all, we failed to create clear-cut chances in today's game. We also failed to take advantage of our set-pieces. It, therefore, means we must go back to the drawing and repeatedly work on how to execute set-pieces. On the other hand, Sharks’ tactician William Muluya believes they still have some work to do despite the win but has nevertheless commended his players for a job well done. “We thank the boys considering pulling off such a slim win isn't that easy especially in a competition of this caliber. “We scored early and defended the goal well up to the final whistle. The entire team performed well but there was some individual brilliance displayed by James Mazembe, Peter Lwasa, and Eric Kapaito. “This was a game we were playing after a long time and hopefully, we'll rectify the errors we have identified. We intend to sharpen our attacking force before our next tie against Ulinzi Stars. Sharks' skipper, Patilla Omoto dispossessed Ahmed Ali Bhai on the edge of the box before firing past a dazzled Homeboyz custodian, Geoffrey Oputi, to net the only goal of the day in the 16th minute. Following the win, Sharks have scaled up to second place on the log with 31 points, just two below leaders Tusker. Homeboyz are now placed seventh with 20 points. Tusker will seek to extend their lead when they come up against KCB at Ruaraka on Saturday in a match that will precede another mouthwatering encounter between AFC Leopards and a resurgent Nzoia Sugar later in the day. Bandari have a date with Bidco at Mbaraki on the same day as Western Stima square it out with Posta Rangers at Moi Stadium Kisumu. On Sunday, defending champions Gor Mahia will lock horns with Nairobi City Stars at Moi Stadium, Kasarani while Sofapaka will settle scores with Wazito.