Gangs are motivated by politicians' money and inspired by witch-doctors who tell them they're invincible as they fan out to terrorise Coast residents. Special police squads have been formed and dispatched to several parts of the Coast to pursue gangs — and those behind them — that have been attacking residents, especially in Mombasa. The team comprised of detectives from Nairobi will specifically target witch-doctors and sponsors of the gang who motivate them before they strike. Some of the most common gangs include Shiranga, Young Thug, Watalia and Wajukuu wa Bibi, Wakali Wao and Wakali Kwanza among others. Some gangs are yet to be declared criminal. Sources aware of the plans said authorities are concerned the criminal gangs have been operating with impunity and wreaking havoc in parts of Mombasa. The squad's operations will extend to Voi, Kilifi and Malindi where some gang members are said to have escaped and are hiding. “What was witnessed in Bamburi was a shame and should never happen anywhere. It will be dealt with,” a senior government official said. On Monday in broad daylight, a gang groped women, slashed residents with pangas and stole valuables in a rampage. Residents said more than 20 attackers dressed in white robes appeared from Soweto graveyard and converged at Bashir grounds before spreading out in five groups. They then started to attack residents. Nyali police boss Daniel Mamusaba said at least two people were injured in the drama that was caught on camera. He said some of the attackers were arrested in a police operation. Residents said they believe the same gang is behind a wave of attacks that have come just before Eid festivities in the past years as a ritual. Others believe drug abuse is a contributing factor. On Tuesday, Mombasa county commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo ordered chiefs and their assistants to track down the parents of suspects arrested in connection with the Monday attacks. Kitiyo said this is part of a raft of measures aimed at dismantling networks of vicious criminal gangs in Mombasa. Security agencies have mounted operations  to restore confidence, especially in visitors to Mombasa. (Edited by V. Graham)