Lamu youths who were offered full scholarships by the national government during the construction of the multi-billion port project want Lapsset authority to consider them for employment. The 400 youths who graduated with certificates, diplomas and degrees from different institutions said they were yet to be employed since the President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned the project. Speaking in Malindi through their team leaders after a meeting with former Lamu Governor Issa Timamy the majority from poor families and some orphans said they had high expectations of being absorbed in phases during the commissioning but it did not happen. They said during the official launch of the first ship and berth last week they were not given a chance to express themselves when the President came. Ummu Bwanamkuu, an orphan who graduated with a diploma in human resource management, said she hails from a poor family and had higher expectations that she would be considered for employment once the project was commissioned. Bwanamkuu said she was given a Lapsset authority scholarship and began her course from 2014 to 2016 at Kabete National Polytechnic. “I have been brought up by a single mother who is also sick and with many problems. She had challenges educating me that’s why I hoped to get employment to help her but unfortunately, I was not lucky,” she said. Bwanamkuu said last week dockers were employed and despite them sending documents to apply they were not given a chance. “I trained, graduated and am qualified for the jobs at Lapsset but unfortunately we were locked out and those employed were Form 4 leavers with D- (minus) and D plain,” she said. Bwanamkuu urged President Kenyatta to hear their plight and intervene as she is one of the 400 seeking employment from the same institution that educated them. In Lamu, many people are poor and some are orphans, making life so difficult to survive without jobs. “I urge you Mheshimiwa to prioritise us in the job opportunities at the Lapsset to uplift the living standards of our families who depend on us,” she said. Bwanamkuu said they were initially told that after college they would go for an internship and once the port opens will be given a chance to work. Stephen Maseku Orembe, another Lapsset graduate, thanked the former governor for agreeing to hear their plight and expressed optimism that the President will hear their concerns. Orembe a graduate from the Technical University of Kenya who did Business Communication majoring in procurement logistics and supply chain management and current chairman of the union of Lapsset students said they represent the 400 who already graduated but missed out in the recruitment. He said when former President Mwai Kibaki came to launch the construction of the Lapsset in 2012 he promised to give 1000 scholarships for Lamu youth to benefit from the port jobs when it was launched. “Out of the 1000 youth he promised to give scholarships 400 have already completed their studies, and they expected to be given priority when the operations begin but we have not seen anyone getting a chance,” he said. Orembe appealed to President Kenyatta to offer them a chance because the majority are from poor families. On his part, the former Lamu governor thanked President Kenyatta for launching the first berth of Lapsset saying he was happy the President emphasized that Lamu youth must be prioritised in employment. “These youth should be given a chance because the government educated them and it's important that the government benefits from the services through the knowledge they got,” he said, Timamy also advised the youth not to give up as they will support them to ensure they get opportunities at the Lapsset.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris