The proprietors of Bidi Badu, an entertainment joint in Likoni’s Shelly Beach, have refuted claims of hiding behind the establishment to do dirty business including drugs, child pornography and prostitution. Hashim Omar, the owner, says there is a smear campaign against his establishment by business rivals because his concept has attracted residents and business rivals are unhappy. He has invited authorities to investigate his establishment and unearth the truth. “For the last two weeks, there are people who have been sponsoring propaganda against us through social media. We have nothing to hide. Our business is clean,” Omar said. On Wednesday, a business partner, Stephen Mure, said they are not allied to any political faction. “We are not involved in politics. We have only worked with the area MP for the benefit of Likoni residents,”  Mure said. Mure said the idea behind Bidi Badu is to revive Shell Beach, which was once the main attraction site in the South Coast but has since been abandoned because investors took off after the 1997 Kaya Bombo clashes in Mombasa’s Likoni. On May 17, MCA Hemed Salama led over 200 residents in protesting against the restaurant saying it operates beyond curfew hours and plays loud music, disturbing the neighbourhood. A month ago, Likoni deputy police boss Jecktone Opengo said the restaurant was ordered closed by the sub-county security and intelligence committee as a result of protests from residents against the restaurant. “The sub-county security and intelligence committee took the move to close the restaurant following complaints that were raised. We have given the owners two days to vacate the premises, failure to which necessary action will be taken,” he said then. On Wednesday, Omar and Mure said their business concept, allows the residents to enter the premises and enjoy delicious food and soft drinks at affordable prices. “That is why the business rivals, who charge double what we charge, are unhappy because everybody comes here,”  Omar said. The restaurant allows hawkers to sell things not sold by the club like groundnuts, biscuits, and others to patrons. This has proved to be popular with the residents. “Our children are employed here because this establishment is like giving back to the community,”  Mildred Odinga, a resident said. “If the restaurant was involved in the things those people say it is involved in, then we would not allow our children to work here. As parents, we would have protested.” Yassin Shee, a boxing coach, said he has been helping youth get out of drugs and some of his students have found employment at the restaurant, which has employed over 50 residents as staff. Omar said his business rivals have been spreading rumours that he was chased away from Diani, where he has a branch, a claim he refuted. “We temporarily closed the Diani branch because there are no guests due to the coronavirus pandemic,”  Omar said. He said he still operates cottages, Airport Inn, in Diani and the idea that he was chased away, was by his business rivals and only meant to portray his business in bad light.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris