Wadadia are working on their finishing and coordination to boost their chances against Oserian in their Women Premier League match this weekend, coach Godfrey Mabonga has said. The WPL resumes this weekend and the Zone 'B' side, who are chasing a playoff spot, are second on the log with 19 points, nine adrift of leaders and defending champions Vihiga Queens. The top three teams automatically qualify for the playoffs and Mabo, expects a full house training on Monday, lauded the team's chemistry and tipped the girls to finish the season strongly. Unfortunately, only six players have been in training under the coach for the past week. "The remaining five days will be fully utilised on getting the girls to full strength. We need to work on team moves, combinations and finishing if we are to finish the season strongly," said the Ugandan. "We are under pressure from the chasing pack. We have to be clinical in attack and resolute in defense.  Team unity is key if we are to realise our ambition." Mabonga took charge of Wadadia in 2016 and has seen the team make steady progress in the league with more players called up to the national team. Ruth Chebungei, Monica Odato and Miriam Chelagat were part of the Harambee Starlets squad assembled to play the Copper Queens of Zambia last month before the match was cancelled. Chebungei is in the race for the golden boot, having scored 13 goals — just one shy of league-leading scorer Tereza Engesha of Vihiga Queens. Goalkeeper Odato was part of the David Ouma-led national team which had an unsuccessful Tokyo Olympic Games qualifying campaign as well as the Turkish Women's up tournament last year. "There's a clear understanding between Chebungei and her teammates and she never disappoints. She's taken her game to another level and there's more to come from her," said Mabonga. "She's been in the team for more than four seasons and knows what we demand from her." Meanwhile, Mabonga has urged corporates to invest in the fast-improving women's football, tipping Starlets to play in the World Cup ahead of Harambee Stars. "Girls have been neglected and there's little attention in women's football. It will be a big boost If investors can come into the women's game. Starlets are well-placed to play at the World Cup if their recent performances is anything to go by," observed Mabonga.