Juja MP-elect George Koimburi has vowed to work with his political rivals  to develop the constituency. He said he will accommodate the 10 aspirants who lost in the May 18 by-election  to exchange ideas on developing Juja. They include Jubilee’s Susan Waititu, Rashid Kariuki, James Marungo, Eunice Wanjiru, Zulu Thiong’o, Dr Joseph Gichui, Antony Kirori, Kennedy Gachuma, Kariuki Chege and John Njoroge. Koimburi who contested on a People’s Empowerment Party  ticket garnered 12, 159 votes beating his closest competitor Susan Waititu who got 5, 746 votes. He also pledged to work with the office that was constituted by former MP Francis Waititu  in order to smoothly complete projects that had been initiated and ensure uninterrupted service delivery to residents. Speaking at his Juja town office on Wednesday, Koimburi who is set to take the oath of office on June 8, said he will open CDF offices within Juja subcounty including Witeithie, Kalimoni, Juja, Theta and Murera within his first 100 days in office. “I will not be making changes to the office that was formed by my predecessor. We will work together to ensure all projects that were underway are complete in time and ensure that we serve our people well. Even those who contested for the seat but lost are welcome on board so that we can take Juja to greater heights in  developments,” he said. He noted that he will fast track issuance of bursary to students as well as begin rehabilitation of schools within the constituency. “Some schools like Gachororo and Mutundu are in bad shape and that is why we will kick off the programme to give them a new face. We are determined to improve academic performance in Juja,” he said. Koimburi noted that other projects he will spearhead include rehabilitation of crucial roads across the constituency, provision of water, electricity connection and construction of a lands registry to address land matters in the region. Juja constituency manager James Mwangi said he will work closely with the new MP and assist him in serving residents. Mwangi has served under Wakapee since 2016. -Edited by SKanyara 