The PS Department of University Education and Research Simon Nabukwesi has asked universities to pursue opportunities for partnership with private investors for successful implementation of e-learning. He said the government is keen on addressing key issues of quality teaching and the challenges facing the students and lecturers as critical stakeholders in the implementation of e-learning. “The ministry will continue working with universities and partners in the education sector to support the successful implementation of online learning,” the PS said. He was speaking at Taita Taveta university on Thursday during a graduation ceremony where some 680 students were awarded with certificates, diplomas and conferment of Degree. The PS noted the commendable research and innovations being undertaken by universities in the country, further urging them to intensify research to offer practical solutions to the country. Nabukwesi asked the County government and other development partners to engage the Taita Taveta university’s scholars in research and development activities to transform the mining sector. “The university being strategically located and distinguished herself as a mining hub in the region, has the potential to change the face of the county,” Nabukwesi added. Taita Taveta university has also been designated as host of the National Mining Institute. The university chancellor Dr Sally Kosgei noted that the institution, working with other institutions and industries, aims at developing a centre of research and knowledge in mining, environmental engineering and resource management. The centre, she said, will emphasise on extractive industrial sector covering mining, oil and gas. “Although we are still a long way away from our envisaged ideal situation we have a road map albeit without resources, but we are optimistic,” she said. Prof Simiyu Baraza, the newly appointed substantive Vice Chancellor lamented that the institution is still faced with acute water shortage following delay in implementation of key water projects in the area. He said the university depends on rain and borehole water which is not enough. “The Mzima water project which was supposed to supply water here has delayed. The government should connect us with water as earliest promised,” Simiyu said. Crops and Agricultural Research PS Hamadi Boga who is a former principal at the university challenged graduants to use  the acquired skills to create jobs. Further, Boga noted that his department will link the institution with the climate smart programme to enhance agricultural research. -Edited by SKanyara 