The fight against Covid-19 got a major boost after five counties received Personal Protective Equipment donations worth Sh6.8 million. The donation by the Liverpool School of Tropical Diseases in partnership with the United Kingdom Agency for International Development with the support of the British citizens will go to Garissa, Taita Taveta, Kilifi, Uasin Gishu and Vihiga. They include 18,000 boxes of surgical masks and 7,000 face shields that are vital for use by healthcare workers. The equipment was procured from local manufacturers in the spirit of Buy Kenya Build Kenya and will be distributed by the Health Ministry directly to the health facilities in the beneficiary counties. The donations were purchased under a campaign programme that seeks to support the provision of PPEs to six countries in Sub Saharan Africa including Kenya. Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine Kenya country director Lucy Nyaga said Kenya has been given priority because of the long-standing good relationship over the past years. “This is the first batch of our support as the campaign continues and we hope that we will continue to support this initiative,” Nyaga said. “We assure you that they have gone through the Ministry of Health quality checks, they have been approved and they are fit for our healthcare workers.” Deputy Development Director from the British High Commission Richard Erlebach said the donations are a symbol of the bond between the UK people and the people of Kenya, adding that working together will go a long way in overcoming the virus. Data from the ministry shows that to date, 4,978 healthcare workers have contracted the virus in their line of duty. From this, at least 39 have died, the majority of them being nurses. “The British High Commission in Kenya is working hard to support the government response to the pandemic here in Kenya,” Erlebach said. “We are also working together with Kemri to understand the impact of the pandemic on different populations and to monitor the different variants of the virus in circulation.” Globally, the UK has invested resources in the research and development of vaccines diagnostics and therapeutics and is a major donor to the Covax facility through which Kenya has received over a million doses of Covid vaccines. Through the division of reproductive and maternal health, LSTM has worked to improve maternal and new-born health and healthcare services in the country as well as offering in-service and pre-service training to healthcare workers and students in competency-based emergency obstetric and new-born healthcare.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris