Taxpayers risk losing billions of shillings following a longstanding row between Kenya Pipeline Company and a Lebanese contractor. Zakhem International Construction Co Ltd and KPC have yet to agree on a Sh20 billion claim for extension of time on the Nairobi-Mombasa pipeline – Line 5. The High Court awarded the contractor Sh5 billion against KPC following a petition it filed after KPC failed to honour the claims. A subsequent appeal by KPC to set aside the award is pending at the Court of Appeal. Line 5 is a 20-inch-wide pipeline that runs from Mombasa to the main terminal in Nairobi and was put up since Line 1 was ageing. The tender for Line 5 was awarded to the firm in July 2014 at Sh49 billion but at completion, variation orders were amounting to Sh3.8 billion. The eight variation orders were said to have resulted from the change of design specifications and omission of works in the initial contract. KPC and ZIC are rowing over the five extensions of time claims by the latter. The project engineer contested the claims. Line 5 was completed in June 2018 An independent scheduler was hired in January 2018 to verify the claims and said the contractor was owed Sh4.5 billion and not the Sh20 billion claimed. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu, in her review of KPC accounts for the year to June 20, flagged the row citing risks to loss of public funds. “My opinion is not qualified in respect of the effects of these matters,” the auditor warned in the report tabled in Parliament on May 13. Kenyans thus stand to put more money into the contract should the courts decline the appeal by KPC. Gathungu, in her 2019 report, said the disputed part of which is under the DCI probe may affect the carrying value of the pipeline. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations had stopped Kenya Pipeline Company from paying the Sh3.3 billion claimed by the contractor. The claims arose after the contract was not completed within the original period of 18 months after which ZIC applied for the five extensions. The first extension was to run from February 2016 to September 2016, out of which the firm raised a claim of Sh4.4 billion, which the expert reduced to Sh1.3 billion. Another extension was for October 2016 to April 2017 from which ZIC sought Sh6.5 billion which was reviewed to Sh1.3 billion. The third extension was for May 2017 to July 2017 of which the contractor demanded Sh4.4 billion but was reduced to Sh1.2 billion. The fourth extension was for July to November 2017 of which the contractor wanted to be paid Sh3.4 billion but the evaluator put the figure at Sh440 million. Extension five was for a month and of which KPC was expected to pay Sh1.5 billion and is yet to be evaluated by the independent scheduler.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris