Kisumu has now overtaken Nairobi in new Covid-19 infections. The lakeside county has been alternating with Nairobi in the top spot over the last two weeks. However, the latest figures from the Ministry of Health show most infections in Kisumu this week. On Thursday, Kenya recorded 341 new infections, with 57 being in Kisumu and 48 Nairobi. However, on Wednesday Nairobi led with 111 cases, followed by 67 in Kisumu and 55 in Siaya. On Tuesday, Kisumu led with 110 cases, followed by Kericho with 37 cases. Three weeks ago, the highly transmissible Indian variant of Covid-19 was detected in the county, but Governor Anyang Nyong’o says no new cases have been reported since. "Our people are still boarding over loaded matatus, some of our friends and relatives still cram bars and continue to wear masks on their chins instead of their faces to cover their mouths and nose,” said Nyong’o. He added “I  wish to reiterate that as our resolve to fight Covid-19 in Kisumu, the rules and protocols put in place by our multi-agency team remain in force and those violating such will be dealt with accordingly,” said the governor. Kisumu will host the Madaraka Day celebrations on Tuesday. The main venue at Jomo Kenyatta Sport Complex where next week’s event will be held will accommodate 3,000 people. It's a 35,000 capacity stadium. Another 10,000 people each will be accommodated at Kirembe and Owuor grounds where the event will be watched from big screens. Last week, Nyong'o said they are well equipped to handle any surge. The county is set to open anytime this week at JOORTH, a 100-bed  comprehensive Covid-19 care centre, the only one of its kind in Kenya. Nyong'o said the centre will be fully equipped with an ICU, renal dialysis, complete with teleconferencing hall. The key rooms will be served with CCTV cameras that can be viewed remotely and the wards will have adequate supply of oxygen. He said they will also continue with aggressive contact tracing and enforcement of containment measures at all levels. “Re-activation of Rapid Response Teams at the subcounty levels priority areas and expansion of testing through use of Rdts is also being done,” he added. -Edited by SKanyara