Muhoroni MP Onyango Koyoo has appealed to the government to supply food and medication to flood victims in his constituency. The MP said thousands of families displaced from their homes by floods are in dire need of food, blankets, nets and medication. He called on Devolution Cabinet Secretary Eugene Wamalwa to ensure those affected are speedily given food to cushion them from starvation. More than 5,000 families have been displaced in Muhoroni subcounty of Kisumu following the ongoing heavy rains. The affected families are in evacuation centres, with some camping in nearby primary schools. Muhoroni constituency manager Sospeter Ngere said 2,000 households have been affected. He said several houses have been marooned by the raging flood waters which have also left crops and roads damaged. Learning in various schools has been disrupted. Areas most affected include Kigoche, Obumba and Orenge in Ombeyi ward, Orago and Simbi in Masogo-Nyangoma ward and Sanda in North East Kano. Ngere appealed to the residents in flood prone areas to move to safer grounds and evacuation centres. “We are calling upon residents to cooperate with government authorities and to move to safe grounds to avert further losses and death,” he said. The manager called for urgent intervention and support by the national and county governments to the affected families. Those displaced require food and medication, Ngere said. Koyoo said his office is working with both the national and county governments to support the families. He appealed to the county government to avail excavators, medical supplies and food and non-food items to the victims. The MP said he has contacted the ministries of Devolution and Water to avail more excavators to open up drainages and desilt rivers and streams. Last year, Koyoo received six excavators which helped in the construction of dykes along River Nyando especially in Nyamtenda, Gatundu and Obiayo Ahero areas. The dykes, he said, have helped in controlling flooding within the area. More dykes were built in Kibigori in Chemelil location, Kore in Ombeyi, parts of Kango and Obumba and Ogwodo in North East Kano location. The MP called on the government to expedite the construction of the Sh32 billion Koru-Soin Multipurpose Dam to help in controlling flooding. Already, the government is compensating owners of the lands to be affected by the multi-billion project. The approximate cost of the dam and water supply components is Sh30 billion, while Sh2 billion is for land compensation. The government has committed Sh25 billion for the project. National Water Harvesting and Storage Authority chairman Erick Okeyo said Sh2 billion has been allocated to National Land Commission to compensate landowners. A total of 360 parcels will be acquired for the project. He said 230 of the parcels will be affected in Kisumu county and 130 in Kericho. The proposed Soin-Koru Dam is a Vision 2030 flagship project located in Kisumu and Kericho counties along River Nyando. The Soin-Koru Dam was started in 1982 by the Italian government and taken over by the NWCPC in 2009. One of the major benefits of the project will be to control the perennial floods caused by River Nyando. Flooding in lower reaches of Kano plains displaces more than 5,000 people yearly, costing about Sh50 million in damages. A further Sh30 million is lost in rehabilitation measures. -Edited by SKanyara