Two Anglican bishops have lauded the High Court for derailing the BBI train and asked the proponents to involve all stakeholders in constitutional changes to ensure it is a people-driven initiative. Kapsabet ACK Bishop Paul Korir called on politicians to respect the rule of law and wait for the Appeal Court decision before making utterances that can cause rifts in the country. He said so many anomalies should be rectified and the church will take a bold step to ensure the Constitution is not mutilated at will by politicians. He thanked the Judiciary for ensuring decorum and order and applauded the President for not contesting the decision in public. Korir said the Judiciary has given a proper direction, hence sanity will prevail. However, Bungoma Anglican Bishop George Mechumo called on President Uhuru Kenyatta to abandon the BBI and concentrate on fixing the economy and fighting Covid-19. Mechumo said that BBI Bill is already time-barred. He asked the President not to spend taxpayers' money on a costly process. “The President should face issues that are more important such as importing coronavirus vaccines rather than rushing to present to us a document that will cost us a lot of money at a referendum,” Mechumo said. He castigated the BBI proponents for submitting a document with flaws, arguing that corrections should be made to avoid presenting to the people a  contested document. Anglican Diocese of Katakwa Bishop John Omuse Okude, for his part, said the political class should allow for civic education to ensure constitutional changes are mandated by the citizens. “We are not against BBI, but it should be taken back to the common mwananchi to understand what it entails,” Okude said. The cleric said the people are anticipating a document that will promote cohesion and peace going forward. Also present was Nandi Governor Stephen Sang', who called on church leaders to be at the centre of decision-making. “I want to challenge the church to use the remote control, through prayers to lead the country,” he said Sang’ said the elected politicians should allow the church to lead the country so that it can have a proper foundation. He asked voters to look at the leaders vying for the top seat and see who will take back the government to church since the country is a Christian nation “We should support Deputy President William Ruto who is a Christian to take government back to church,” he said. Sang' said that many problems affecting the country are a result of politicians overlooking the church in the decision-making process and urged Kenyans to reject tribal groupings. He blamed the national government for delaying funds meant for the counties. “If the national government can take three months without disbursing money to the county, we should ensure issues are streamlined at the Treasury so that Kenyans don't experience delayed development as a result of bureaucracy,”  he said. Meanwhile, Busia Governor Sospeter Ojamong' said the gubernatorial seat should be rotational and all communities can have a stake in the county. He said the Teso community will continue having an MoU with the Luhyia community over the sharing of positions to ensure equity and inclusivity. Sang' asked the Teso community to establish relationships with friends to develop the county.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris