The government is targeting to utilise institutions with huge parcels of land in the latest bid to increase forest cover. Kenya Veterinary Services, Kenya Agriculture and Livestock Research Organisation, Kenya Forest Research Institute, Kenya Plant Health Inspectorate Service, KDF, Agricultural Development Corporation and universities are some of the institutions with huge parcels of land. On Tuesday, Kenya Forest Service partnered with Equity Holdings Group and the University of Nairobi for a tree planting activity at the Wangari Maathai Institute for Peace and Environmental Studies in Kabete to celebrate UoN's 50 years since its formation. KFS Chief conservator Julius Kamau said increasing the forest cover to 10 per cent is an enormous task but easily surmountable with active engagement and participation of both state and non-state actors and the public. "President Uhuru Kenyatta directed ministries, departments and agencies to participate in tree planting as part of their corporate social responsibility. In addition, he asked them to allocate 10 per cent of their CSR budget towards seedling production and tree planting," Kamau said. Kenya's forest cover is currently 7.2 per cent. The state however wants it increased to 10 per cent by 2022, a move that needs Sh48 billion. The CCF said since the presidential directive, the response has been great. "We have received immense support from various public and private institutions, organisations, through concerted efforts in tree planting initiatives," Kamau said. KFS has also been partnering with Kenya Defence Forces. Under the KDF Environmental Soldier Programme, the security officers have so far planted over 23 million trees in various forests across the country including Kamae, Kipipiri, Mount Kenya, Suam, Mount Elgon and Mau Eburu. Over the years, KFS has produced up to 107,083,953 tree seedlings across all nurseries countrywide. Other government agencies working complimentarily with the KFS have raised 13 million seedlings while the private sector, including CFAs, have produced 253,594,465 seedlings. Through partnerships, Kamau said KSF have cleared a plantation backlog of 23,398ha. The CCF attributed the success to the Adopt A Framework developed to manage partnerships geared towards rehabilitation and restoration of degraded forestland. Some 18,486 ha and 742,205 tree seedlings have been planted through the strategy. During the tree planting drive, Kamau lauded UoN for making huge investments in tree planting. He said the university in November 2018 planted 4,000 tree seedlings in Upper Kabete jointly with KFS whose survival rates was 85 per cent. "In November 2020, 3,000 seedlings were planted with a survival rate of 90 per cent. In the current rain season, UoN, KFS and Hindu community have already planted 1,000 seedlings," Kamau said. He said KFS appreciates the role Equity Group has undertaken towards tree growing and supporting the country to achieve 10 per cent tree cover target. "This day, therefore, draws attention to the increasing need for collaboration by various players in tree growing initiatives," Kamau said. He said a person needs nine tonnes of oxygen every year meaning that seven trees of not less than 12 years each are needed for people to survive. He said trees also provide non-material benefits such as spiritual enrichment, cognitive development, reflection, recreation and aesthetic experience. UoN vice chancellor Stephen Kiama said the university will continue partnering with KFS and other institutions to ensure the 10 per cent forest cover is achieved. Equity Group chief commercial officer Polycarp Igathe said the bank has planted four million trees in the last one year. "In this season, we have planted 1.5 million trees," he said. Igathe said the bank will deploy its massive network to ensure the government's agenda succeed. Presently, Equity Bank has over 180 branches across the country, over 46,000 agents and 16,168 beneficiaries of the Wings to Fly programme. It also has 14,524 scholars and alumni in university, over 6,000 staff members and over 14 million account holders including corporates. On May 22, 2019, Equity bank announced plans to implement an ambitious project to plant 35 million trees across the country within a year. The announcement was made on the Bank’s 35th anniversary.  -Edited by SKanyara