A US citizen on Thursday narrated to a court how  he was defrauded of Sh29 million in a fake gold scam by men who posed as DCI boss George Kinoti. Ali Raza told Kibera senior principal magistrate Charles Mwaniki that the suspected fraudsters also asked him for cash to bribe a judge, court clerk, court store keeper and officials from the Mining ministry. “They told me that the consignment had been found and had been taken to the High Court for the judge to authorise the release. They asked for some facilitation fee for the court process and this included bribes for the judge, court clerk, the store keeper and some officials from the Ministry of Mining. I gave them 11,000 dollars,” he said. Raza said the deputy director DCI told him later that the judge refused to release the consignment moments after he gave them the cash on the ground that they had originated from DRC Congo. “He was therefore to travel there to obtain documentations from the relevant ministry in Kinshasa showing the source for the gold,” he told the court. He told the court the suspects told him to facilitate the trip to Congo for them to comply with the court. “They asked me for money to facilitate their travel to Congo Kinshasa. They wanted me to fuel their vehicle, pay for accommodation and facilitate some miscellaneous expenses and fees. I gave them some 9,000 dollars and they returned with some documentations,” he narrated. He told the court that before they left the place he was asked for some court facilitation fees. He told the court that the suspects took him to a police station in Parklands after one of them told him that he was the official driver of the DCI boss George Kinoti based at Kiambu Road. “I was taken to Parklands police station and asked about the Liberians but I knew nothing about them. After two days the driver came to my residence with another woman identified as Sharon whom they informed me was an investigator from the DCI,” Raza told the court. He said before they conned him they had informed him of 11.6kg gold, which was to be sold once the DCI got the court order. He testified that the suspects asked him if he was interested in the same and asked for 10,000 dollars. He paid the amount and they promised to bring the gold the following day. “The following day they brought a box which had some items in it. They instructed me not to open until the director DCI authorised me to do so. They said they could come the following day so that we get the judge's authorisation,” he said. He told the court that he decided to open the box after losing patience and tested the said gold items and found out that they were fake. “I called them and informed them and they told me that they had made a mistake and brought the wrong box. They came and took it back,” he testified. He told the court that one of the suspects told him later that the deputy DCI had directed that the gold should not be released until some storage fees was paid and he paid another 3,500 dollars. The case will proceed next month. 