Mizizi Africa Homes has launched the construction of responsive homes in its latest housing projects in the country. The new project allows clients to take the lead role in coming up with ideas and housing designs. According to the developer, it is responding to changing dynamics in the housing design trends that have seen a complete shift in preferences for almost everything from the size of rooms, demand for extra space to accommodate work and leisure, and generally the look and feel of the housing units. “We are slowly moving away from the tradition where architects were approximating what clients want to a new dispensation that heavily relies on customer opinions,” said Mizizi Africa Homes CEO George Mburu. He spoke during the ground-breaking of the SSS Waiganjo Estate, along Kiganjo road exit 13, off Thika superhighway. SSS Waiganjo is a 16 unit project comprising 12 bungalows and four mansionette and is the company's first project to adapt a flat roof design. According to the developer, there is a rise in demand for old-fashioned styles, art and crafts, organic and natural wall textures including those that have a rustic look. Other key features customers especially first time homeowners in the youth bracket want, are homes that offer the flexibility to accommodate work at home and a convertible space to unwind. The company has monitored these features through its digitised systems, Mburu said, and it is betting big on the recently launched WhatsApp Chatbot to continue monitoring to get insights and documenting new trends to help its architectural team fine-tune its future plans. “This is our new way of viewing things in line with our customer-first approach and we believe it will give our designers even better and clearer insights in coming with out of the box ideas to help us deliver beyond our customer's expectations,” Mburu said. All the SSS Waiganjo 16 units are sold out with the project expected to be completed within the next 10 to 12 months. The company is also developing a 25-unit modern housing project at Kimunyu town,along Kenyatta road exit 14, off Thika Superhighway. The project, Peacock Estate Phase 2, which commenced in February is projected to be completed within a year.