West African solar power provider, Starsight Energy has announced its acquisition of a 50  per cent stake in the East African operations of Commercial and Industrial solar power provider, Premier Solar Group. The firm acquired a stake in Premier Solar Group with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. The transaction will see the creation of Starsight Premier Energy Group which will offer sustainable power and cooling-as-a-service and battery storage solutions to C&I clients in Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, and Rwanda Premier Solar Solutions, the Kenyan subsidiary of Premier Solar Group, has a track record in Kenya's solar sector with five delivered projects totaling 2.7 Megawatts. The expansion into Uganda, Tanzania, and Rwanda is planned for 2021 and 2022. Starsight Energy is the leading C&I solar power provider in West Africa with 41 MW of installed generating capacity, 33 MWh of battery storage, and 16,320 HP in cooling capacity across 547 sites in Nigeria and Ghana. The new entity, Starsight Premier Energy Group, will offer clients technology-enabled power and cooling-as-a-service and battery storage solutions that significantly reduce energy costs and CO2 emissions while boosting customer profitability. Rupesh Hindocha, founder and CEO of Premier Solar Group, has been appointed Chairman and CEO of Starsight Premier Energy Group. “We look forward to continuing to deliver the standard of service and efficiency that has come to define the Starsight Energy and Premier Solar Group brands,”said Hindocha. In West Africa, Starsight Energy has 41Megawatts of installed solar PV generating capacity, 33MWh of battery storage, and 16,320 HP in cooling capacity across 547 sites in Nigeria and Ghana. “The newly formed company will deliver significant financial capacity to the region’s energy efficiency market and offer clients an unprecedented opportunity to scale their sustainable power, cooling, and storage systems,” said Starsight Energy CEO Tony Carr, “Following our recent expansion into Ghana, this investment marks a significant step in Starsight Energy’s growth story as the pan-African power and cooling-as-a-service sector moves further toward consolidation.”