The Kenya Association of Manufacturers has developed a five year-strategic plan to guide revival of the ailing sugar sub-sector. The 2021-2025 roadmap launched on Wednesday highlights excessive sugar imports, weak regulatory mechanisms, sugar smuggling, packaging and traceability and poor infrastructure and delayed payments of farmers as key action areas that must be addressed to steady the sector. The plan seeks to have reviews and development of relevant policies within the sub-sector and strengthening of the regulatory framework by 2023 and enhance counties' technical capacity to expand sugarcane production and expand products base. It outlines the roadmap to a comprehensive policy on cogeneration that will see all millers generate power by 2023 and adoption of sugar pricing formula by 2023. It also vouches for development of a framework for operation of sugarcane farmers' agencies and streamlining of management of sugar import policy by 2024. It encourages continuous value addition and diversification among other undertakings to make the sector competitive. It covers sugar sub-sector policy and advocacy, research and innovation and value chains. The sugar sub-sector  in Kenya is underperforming due to poor internal governance, corruption and heady debts among other challenges. The government has already initiated the leasing of five state-owned sugar factories in its attempt to turn the sub-sector around. There are 12 sugar companies in the country, out of which seven are privately owned. Despite government investment in sugar mills, the country is yet to attain self-sufficiency in sugar production, as several millers continue to operate below capacity. Sugar production hit an all-time record of 639,741 tons in 2016, a 22 per cent increase from 2010. In 2019 only 440,935 tons were produced against a consumption of 1,038,717 tons, resulting in a 58 per cent deficit and opening doors to imports. The once premier miller and economic hub in Western Kenya Mumias Sugar Company is currently under receivership by the KCB Group over huge debts, inadequate cane supply and corruption. The industry contributes to food security, employment creation, regional development and improved livelihoods for more than 8 million Kenyans. The strategic plan recommends effective regulatory framework and oversight mechanism for coordinating sugar import and export and stringent enforcement mechanism of 100 percent duty for sugar from the world’s market for the local industry to thrive. It also recommends that the government finalises and publishes the Sugar Act and gazettes proper sugar regulations to firm up the legal framework to guide the revival. Sugar sub-sector chairperson Joyce Opondo said the strategic plan will act as a communication tool that will enable the leadership to communicate the industry’s development strategy, goals and objectives to stakeholders and improve the connection between national policy priorities and sector level actions. “The plan will foster the adoption of policies and innovations that will result in an efficient and effective sub-sector in which member millers investments are profitable and sustainable," she said. Industrialization, Trade and Enterprise Development CAS Lawrence Karanja said the plan will be implemented through a hybrid bottom-up and top-down approach to ensure seamless coordination between strategic objectives and operational activities. “We remain cognizant of the headwinds to the sugar industry's growth. As such, we reaffirm our commitment to developing solutions, to enhance the Kenyan Sugar Industry’s competitiveness through a multi sectorial approach,” he said. “A partnership between different ministries and state agencies will help to regulate the subsector, control sugar imports, and develop and promote the value chains,” he added. Edited by Henry Makori