President Uhuru Kenyatta has extended the Nationwide curfew by another 60 days. The curfew which currently runs between 10 pm and 4 am will be in place until 27 July. "This Order shall apply during the hours of darkness between ten o’clock in the evening and four o’clock in the morning with effect from the 28 of May, 2021 and shall remain in effect for a period of sixty days thereof," read a legal notice dated May 28, 2021 signed by Interior CS Fred Matiang'i. At the same time, the government has maintained all restrictions to public gatherings, processions or movement either alone or as a group during the period of the curfew. Only those permitted, in writing, by a police officer in charge of the police in a county or a police officer in charge of the police in a division or sub-county shall be given a pass. The Nationwide curfew is part of the Covid-19 containment measures put in place by the government. Health CAS Mercy Mwangangi recently warned that Kenya faces a high possibility of a fourth wave as the numbers continue to surge. Speaking during the country National breakfast last week, Mwangangi urged Kenyans to remain steadfast in following all the laid out protocols. On Saturday, the country recorded 444 new cases of Covid-19, bringing the country's case load to 170,485. Health CS Mutahi Kagwe in a statement confirmed a positivity rate of 8.9 per cent. The country's fatalities have risen to 3,141 with a total of 104 patients in the ICU. Kagwe said 1,171 patients are currently admitted in various health facilities countrywide another 4,682 patients under the Home Based program. In terms of vaccinations, 968,733 persons have so far been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease countrywide as of May 29. The ministry of Health is expected to commence administering the second dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine this week. Kenya launched its phased vaccination against Coronavirus on March 5 with 1,120,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine. The country struggled to get the second consignment of the vaccine after receiving 1.02 million doses out of the expected 3.5 million. This is after India struggled with a surge in cases making the sole manufacturer of the vaccines, the Serum Institute, to focus on satisfying the local demand. The Indian-based manufacturer said the earliest they can resume exports is June.