Mombasa county has deployed experts from the Health Department to investigate the Aedes aegypti female mosquitoes that spread Dengue fever. Dengue fever, whose symptoms include a high fever, headache, vomiting, muscle and joint pains and a characteristic skin rash, was first reported in the region in 2017. According to experts, this kind of mosquito, which can be recognised by white markings on its legs and a marking in the form of a lyre on the upper surface of its thorax, is usually seen after the long rains. However, the Dengue fever outbreak was reported in April, when Mombasa had not received the long rains. The heavy rains began in the first week of May. Mombasa health chief officer Pauline Oginga said the experts are trying to establish why the outbreak was reported before the long rains. “The mosquitoes that cause Dengue fever normally prevail after the long rains have subdued, but we were surprised with the current trend when the mosquitoes showed up before we received the rains,” she said. Random blood samples collected from the patients suspected of Dengue fever in different health facilities from March 12 to April 7 and submitted to Viral Hemorrhagic Fever Lab at Kenya Medical Research Institute Nairobi confirmed the outbreak. However, Oginga said they have already launched plans to identify and fumigate areas believed to be hotspots for the disease. Mosquitoes thrive in areas with stagnant water; including puddles, water tanks, containers and old tires, lack of reliable sanitation and regular garbage collection. “Our officers at the department are finalising on the data to identify hotspots areas for the disease. We shall embark on a fumigation exercise as soon as the report is complete,”  Oginga said. On Tuesday, the county government launched the mass distribution of mosquito nets at Bogobogoni area in Kibarani, Changamwe constituency targeting to distribute over 760,000 nets to residents. A total of 435,000 households have been registered to receive the nets in all the six subcounties. Oginga said the move was aimed at also reducing the malaria prevalence rate in the county which stood at 8 per cent in 2018. “Our malaria prevalence rate was at eight per cent in the last survey conducted in 2018. We were able to introduce a raft of measures including net distribution and fumigation. We believe that the rate has significantly reduced since then,”  Oginga said. Riziki Khamisi, a mother of six and a resident of Bogobogoni thanked the county for availing the nets stating that it would go a long way in preventing them from contracting malaria. “I want to thank the county for remembering us at the slums. I am expecting my seventh born and the rains are here with us. This net will protect me and my child from the disease,”  Khamisi said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris