The Church and Clergy Association of Kenya has asked politicians to strictly adhere to the ban on political gatherings to contain the spread of Covid-19. CCAK said though the government revised some containment measures, political gatherings are still prohibited. In a statement, the chair, Hudson Ndeda, said the politicians should learn from the church that they, too, can and should do politics online. “Though we have an important national debate on BBI, we should remember that the lives of Kenyans come first,” he stated. Ndeda said the presidential directive to stop political gatherings is welcome and should be obeyed by all. “We appeal to politicians to hold their horses and empathise with Kenyans struggling to put food on the table,” Ndeda said. On Saturday, President Uhuru Kenyatta gave Public Order No. 3 revising some containment measures imposed at the end of March. “We welcome the partial opening of places of worship announced by the President. In future, we expect broader consultation on matters affecting the church.” “The onus now is to safeguard those gains and push even harder to put the pandemic at bay. This is undoubted as a shared responsibility by all of us,” Ndeda said. He said they have asked members and other faithful to strictly comply with the Ministry of Health directives and guidelines by the Interfaith Council. “This is the best way to quickly flatten the curve. The clergy should help the vulnerable and guide the congregation by disseminating correct coronavirus information and more so vaccination,” he said. In January, CCAK decried rising political temperature and warned that the trend could lead the nation to anarchy. CCAK said verbal exchanges being witnessed in rallies organised by top politicians risked causing divisions in the country. “The political class is on the loose and could lead this nation to anarchy, if the trend does not stop,”  Ndeda said. CCAK secretary-general Geoffrey Gichuki said it was regrettable that politicians from both sides are disregarding a presidential directive banning gatherings. “This could erode the gains made in the fight against Covid-19. Churches had to forego New Year night vigils. How come the government is unable to obey its own directives and demands Kenyans to comply?”  Gichuki asked. Ndeda said the church will not be silent on the affairs of the nation that affect the peaceful coexistence of the people. Edited by Kiilu Damaris