Narc Kenya Party leader Martha Karua has asked President Uhuru Kenyatta to work with Deputy President William Ruto regardless of their differences. Speaking during an interview on Citizen TV on Tuesday morning, Karua said Uhuru should bring the country together during the last stretch of his final term. "He should be bringing the nation together, leading by example by having good relations with his deputy even when they do not agree," she said. "Having the handshake with the former prime minister Raila Odinga does not mean that he cannot continue having good relations with his deputy.” Karua said Uhuru has set a very bad example where the president can ignore the Constitution and the law and lockout his deputy from work. “One wonders, then, who would want to be a DP in those circumstances?" she posed. Karua said previously, Kenya had some governors mistreating their deputies. “This is completely unconstitutional. The president has joined the bandwagon. It is a bad example. They should be able to agree to disagree…to differ with respect on some aspects but to continue to operate as the presidency,” she said. “They can both resign and pave way for the elections. They were elected as a unit and should operate as a unit." Karua said that if the president feels he can no longer work with his deputy the only way out is either impeach him or put up with him and develop a workable relationship. Last month, Ruto for the first time admitted that he has been forced to endure a lot of humiliation in a government he helped form in 2013. The DP revealed the extent of his deteriorating relationship with his boss, in the Jubilee government. DP Ruto, who has been seen largely as an outsider in the ruling party and government, nearly became emotional as he detailed how he was shoved aside immediately Jubilee was reelected in 2017. While he admitted he had nothing against the President's decision for a different government delivery model, Ruto said he was being subjected to immense humiliation and embarrassment. His isolation in government has been an open secret but it was the first time he came out to openly admit that his broken bromance with Uhuru had plunged him into suffering.