Developing alternative rites of passage is one avenue Taita Taveta is exploring to end FGM. The county expects progress  in reducing female genital mutilation as policy formulation is at an advanced stage. Sports, gender, culture and social services director Wallace Mwaluma said the anti-FGM policy document would give direction on interventions to end the crime. He said the county  is keen on ending FGM, urging stakeholders to join hands in protecting the baby girls and older girls from the cut. “Taita Taveta is among the counties with a prevalence surpassing the national figures, hence, the urgency to have the policy,” Mwaluma said during a stakeholders meeting in Voi. Taita Taveta is considered one of the 22 FGM hotspots in Kenya. An estimated 60 per cent of women in the county have undergone the cut. The Kenya Demographic and Health Survey, 2014 indicates  22.3 percent of women aged between 15 and 49 years have undergone FGM in the county. The survey also shows the county leads in the cutting of infants  and children, with 61.3 per cent of children under five years having undergone the cut. Another 22 per cent of children aged five to nine and 11.1 per cent of children between 10 and 14 years have been mutilated. Governor’s Gender Advisor Priscilla Mwangeka noted that FGM is a violation of girls and women rights and that stringent measurers should be taken to end it. She said it is  undertaken secretly by some unscrupulous middle wives, elderly women and parents during child birth. “In this county, FGM is a hugely practiced cultural activity and has affected many women whose homes have ended breaking up and left by their husbands,” she noted. FGM is practised widely in Mata, Timbila and Salaita areas of Taveta subcounty. Others are Kishushe and Wundanyi in Wundanyi subcounty and Maungu and Miasenyi areas in Voi subcounty. Mwangeka says many parents in the affected areas have yielded to cultural demands to circumcise their daughters for fear of being excluded and stigmatised by their families. World Vision’s cluster manager for Kwale and Taita Taveta Alfred Otungo urged more commitment to be shown after the policy is formulated, turning words into acton. He advised on alternative  rites of passage be employed. Technical committee member from World Vision, Isabella Kidede, said the policy will increase the scope to nab those who secretly practice the cut. She noted that the practice had contributed to the rise in early marriages and teenage pregnancies. “Early marriage rate is at one of the worst levels in the entire country. Many of our girls have dropped out of school,” she said. As much as 20 per cent of girls across the county drop out of school due to early marriages and teen pregnancy. The county government has been fast-tracking completion of key policies to protect the welfare of girls and women. A fortnight ago, the county assembly passed the Sexual and Gender-Based Violence SGBV policy. A Child Welfare and Protection policy is before the assembly, while the Anti-FGM policy has been validated for submission to the ward representatives. (Edited by V. Graham) 