The Supreme Council of Muslims Kenya (SUPKEM) has asked the Muslim communities across the country to strictly abide by COVID-19 guidelines put up by the government as they celebrate Idd-ul-Fitr festivities. The festival is an important religious holiday celebrated by Muslims worldwide that marks the end of Ramadhan, the Islamic holy month of fasting. Council’s acting national chairman Al-Hajj Hassan ole Naado said that the faithful should observe the guidelines while celebrating and during prayers both in Mosques and in open spaces as provided by the Ministry of Health and Interfaith Council for National Response to Coronavirus Pandemic. In a press statement, Naado said that the Muslims to pray so that the global pandemic can come to end. “As we approach the end of these exclusive days of self-sacrifice and worship, I pray to Allah (SWT) to end coronavirus pandemic which has disrupted lives and caused immeasurable suffering to humanity across the globe,” said Naado. He added that despite the enormous challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic they have fulfilled the obligation of Ramadhan. “On behalf of the Supkem, I convey my most prayerful greetings, congratulations, and best wishes to all Muslims across the world on the successful completion of the holy month of Ramadhan, which shaped our hearts with the ambiance of Mercy and Forgiveness,” he said. Naado:” We, therefore, pray that Allah (SWT) accepts our sacrifice during Ramadhan and May He reward each of us according to His pleasurable will. We also pray that the Almighty enables each one of us to get to the Ramadhan and that He lessens [he burdens that confront us.” Naado also congratulated their Muslim brothers and sisters across the globe on the occasion as these special days bring peace, tranquility, and wellbeing to their country and humanity. The council’s boss also said that it is sad that they are celebrating the completion of Ramadhan, escalation of violence between the Israeli government and the Palestinian people is being witnessed. “We call upon all the feuding parties to this senseless violence to summon their conscience, retreat from their hard-line positions, and seek dialogue to settle the conflict amicably,” said the chairman. He called upon the Kenyan Muslim community to remember the people Of Palestine in their prayers. “We urge Ike Imams who shall be leading Idd prayers (Qunut) in all Mosques and open fields to offer special prayers. We are praying pray to the Almighty to comfort all those who have been affected by the violence in Jerusalem and Gaza, and beseech Him to restore a sense of humanity in the hearts of duty bearers to the Israeli/Pa1estinian conflict,” he remarked.