Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria has admitted that receiving bribes to pass bills in Parliament is not unusual. Kuria said it was ‘not unusual for MPs to be paid gifts, inducements'  to pass bills. Speaking during an interview on BBC on Thursday, Kuria said he was paid Sh100,000 to vote for Amos Kimunya as the majority leader. Kimunya replaced Garissa Township MP Aden Duale last year. This was after a Jubilee Party's Parliamentary Group meeting chaired by President Uhuru Kenyatta at the KICC made the decision. “When the new Majority Leader was appointed because they were not elected...we went to the majority leader’s office and received the $1,000 gift,” he said. The MP claimed that some legislators were bribed Sh100,000 to pass a Constitution Amendment Bill, 2020. Asked why he was receiving the bribes and yet it was illegal, he defended himself by saying that if given the chance, he would gladly refund the money. “I’m not sure if the money belonged to taxpayers, but I’ll be refunding the most recent that I can recall to the office of the leader of the majority,” he said. Kuria who is a staunch supporter of DP William Ruto said he does not expect Parliament to admit to its wrongdoing. “These things don’t happen on camera, and I don’t expect them to admit it, but they do happen in the majority leader’s office,” he said. Kuria alongside two other MPs were ordered to report to the National Assembly chambers on Thursday over  allegations of disorderly conduct. Kuria, his Kiharu counterpart Ndindi Nyoro, and Nyali’s Mohamed Ali face charges of issuing disparaging remarks against their colleagues who voted for the Constitution of Kenya Amendment Bill, 2020. They took issue with Kuria for claiming that some lawmakers were handed Sh100,000 to vote in favour of the BBI bill and Nyoro for calling them sell-outs. Kitui Central MP Makali Mulu raised the matter on Tuesday, saying the act amounted to disorderly conduct on the part of the Gatundu South lawmaker. He said social media and the electronic media has been awash with the claims, bringing into disrepute their standing as members of the society. “Members of this House are all honourable members. They have been elected by Kenyans and have a chance to say Yes or NO. It was very wrong that the member was saying the 235 members who voted Yes could only do that after being given Sh100,000.”