A man who was allegedly assaulted with an electrical wire and forced to drink urine by two police officers from Pangani station has sought justice at the High Court in Milimani. Ali Mohamed Ally, an American citizen, has filed a petition as a victim of  deliberate and aggravated torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment allegedly inflicted by Sergeant Ahmed Rashid and Constable Liban Ali. Ali set up two businesses in Kenya in 2016 before fleeing to the United States. The first was a transportation business. He invested in a 14-seater shuttle bus to ply the route between Eastleigh and Nairobi's central business district. The second was a social club called the Fusion Shisha Lounge near Luna Park in Eastleigh. In documents filed in court, Ali claims threats, harassment and intimidation began when he set up the businesses. He says in August 2017, Rashid, then an officer based at Pangani police station, went to his club with a police entourage. Rashid demanded a weekly extortion payment of Sh15,000 for ‘protection’. Ali declined. In retaliation, Rashid escalated his pressure tactics on Ali. The officer, according to the documents, and his entourage came to Ali’s club on numerous occasions to harass his customers and disrupt business. Ali complained to the officer in charge of Pangani station about Rashid's incessant harassment and extortion. “I complained to the officer commanding station that I was being extorted by Rashid. However, no action was taken,” he says. Two months later, Rashid arrested Ali on a bogus charge of common assault and booked him in at Pangani station. He allegedly assaulted Ali while in custody. Rashid also allegedly threatened to kill him. Ali was released a day later from custody on a Sh5,000 bond. He was never formally charged in a court of law and his bond was never returned to him. Come September 2018, Ali posted on the Pangani police Facebook page about Luna Park in Nairobi in which he stated he believed that a number of illegal activities were taking place there, including drug dealing, Somali cartel, prostitution involving underage persons, selling shisha and how Rashid was protecting Luna Park cartels. On September 23, following the social media post, Rashid, in the company of Liban and several other police officers, broke into his home in Nairobi, he says. They arrested him at around 11pm and drove him around the city with a plastic bag over his head, he says. “I was physically assaulted with an electrical wire that caused a burn on my right hand, forced to drink urine, had my face covered with a plastic bag, and threatened by a pistol on my forehead. I was brutally beaten up, kicked, punched, slapped and whipped by an electrical wire and sticks,” Ali says. He says he was not informed of the reason for his arrest, the nature of the offence or the charges they intended to prefer. Ali wants the court to declare that the two officers violated the National Police Service Act. Also sought is an order for compensation amounting to Sh10 million. He wants the two officers ordered to pay him. He also wants them ordered to reimburse him the medical expenses incurred during his treatment for injuries sustained during the violent assault in 2019. Edited by A.N