Ruling party Jubilee's factional wars and the high stakes 2022 election might have combined to push Wajir Governor Mohamed Abdi Mohamud out of office, the Star has established. According to sources, the first time governor might be a casualty of a well-choreographed power play brewed in Nairobi and served in Wajir last week. Last Thursday, Wajir MCAs impeached Abdi for allegations of gross misconduct, abuse of office and financial impropriety. A total of 37 members voted in support of his impeachment while 10 voted against it. Two were absent. Sources familiar with the happenings at the county told the Star that the impeachment was mooted after the mover Tula Tula MCA Abdullahi Issack Mohamed had a consultative meeting with a section of Tangatanga leadership. The governor’s support for a truce between President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM leader Raila Odinga and the constitutional amendments is said to have rattled a section of Jubilee leaders who in turn sponsored his ouster. The bitter divide is expected to play out in the Senate where handshake politics is expected. Area Senator Abdullahi Ali who is eyeing the seat in the next year’s elections has also been linked to the governor's impeachment. This was despite clear instruction from the Jubilee headquarters to its members in the assembly not to support the censure motion, which it claimed was meant to derail Jubilee’s agenda including the BBI. Jubilee headquarters wrote to the MCAs one week before they impeached the governor and warned the impeachment motion was not in good faith and negates the gains made by the ruling party in stamping out sabotage, arm twisting and blackmail targeted at the county assemblies. “All members of the Wajir county assembly elected by popular vote or the party list shall not sponsor, second or support or participate in an impeachment motion against Jubilee Party’s elected Governor of Wajir county,” the letter dated April 21 reads in part. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Jubilee controls the assembly in terms of the elected representatives. The MCAs also ignored an order issued by a Meru court suspending the impeachment process. The embattled county boss will on Thursday face the Senators who will consider county assemblies impeachment memorandum. Meru High Court Presiding Judge Justice Edward Muriithi ordered the assembly to halt the intended process until both parties appear before him Thursday last week. Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru was saved by the handshake team in the Senate last year However, former Kiambu Governor Ferdinard Waititu was not as lucky.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris