Kiambu Governor James Nyoro on Wednesday denied claims he led a team that disrupted tallying of votes on Tuesday night during the Juja parliamentary by-election. Nyoro claimed it was the opposing side led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria who started the chaos by shouting his team down when he demanded that all votes cast be counted. He alleged that votes from two polling stations where the Jubilee candidate had a strong showing were not counted. “Votes from Gachororo were thrown in the field and not counted,” Nyoro said. “I was demanding that all votes must be counted rightly because that is what democracy is all about.” The vote tallying at Mangu High School came to a standstill when warring groups engaged in a shouting match forcing the electoral commission to suspend the process. A melee ensued between Jubilee candidate Susan Njeri's supporters led by Nyoro and Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba clashed with supporters of PEP candidate George Koimburi who were led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata and Witeithie MCA Julius Macharia. IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati had blamed the governor, calling on the DPP and the police to arrest and prosecute him. In a statement on Tuesday night, Chebukati said there was disruption of the tallying process at Mang’u High School by a group of individuals led by the Kiambu Governor occasioning the suspension of the vote tallying. Speaking to journalists, Nyoro said he was raising the issue of votes belonging to the Jubilee party candidate not being counted but the opposing team led by Kuria started shouting at them, leading to a disruption of the process. “I condemn in the strongest terms possible the insinuation that I'm a violent person. I have never been violent even during my campaigns,” the governor said. “We were not involved in creating a disturbance at the tallying centre. It is our opponents who were shouting at us,” he added. Speaking on Citizen TV on Wednesday, Chebukati urged DPP Nordin Haji to arrest and prosecute the perpetrators of the chaos. The vote tallying resumed on Wednesday, 10 hours after the suspension. Nyoro said whatever the outcome, they'll accept IEBC’s decision. He also complained that his party was not adequately involved in the by-election. “It is up to the leadership of the Jubilee party to raise any complaint about how the polls were conducted and how their opponents operated,” he said. “They should not leave it only to people like me and Members of Parliament. This is a party issue, not a county issue.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris