For the first time in 12 years, Kenya will have to qualify for the 2022 Rugby Sevens World Cup  slated for September 9-11 in Cape Town, South Africa. According to plans unveiled by World Rugby yesterday, they will battle with other African countries for one of the 16 places available in the 24-team men's tournament. This follows their dismal performance in the 2018 edition in San Fransisco, USA where Innocent Simiyu's charges finished 16th. Shujaa have been automatic qualifiers for the past two editions in Moscow (2013 ) and USA (2018) after finishing in the top eight places, reaching the semifinals on both occasions. They have also been perennial participants in the Sevens World Cup, debuting in Argentina in 2001 before returning for subsequent editions in Hong Kong (2005), Dubai (2009), Moscow and San Fransisco. The top eight men’s teams and top four women’s teams from the hugely successful RWC Sevens 2018 in San Francisco, USA, have already secured automatic qualification for the tournament in 2022. The qualified teams for the men’s event are defending champions New Zealand, England, South Africa Fiji, Argentina, USA, France, Scotland, while defending champions New Zealand, France, Australia and USA have already booked their tickets to the women’s event in Cape Town. South Africa’s women team will join them as the host nation. Teams that have not qualified automatically will do so via their respective regional tournaments held in Europe, Oceania, Asia, North America, South America, and Africa. With 16 places available in the men’s tournament and 11 in the women’s from regional competitions. Rugby World Cup Sevens 2022 will be contested by 24 men’s and 16 women’s teams. The HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series will no longer form part of the qualification pathway for Rugby World Cup Sevens. Regional qualification is expected to start in August of this year with further details to be announced at a later stage. World Rugby Chairman Sir Bill Beaumont said: “We are delighted to announce the tournament dates for Rugby World Cup Sevens 2022 alongside the unveiling of a striking new brand that truly captures the unique, fun and carnival spirit of the tournament." 