Bondeni and Kivumbini areas in Nakuru are synonymous with criminal gangs, poor housing and  flooding. However, this is about to change following a Sh2 billion affordable housing project initiated by the National government. Most of the dilapidated houses in Nakuru’s lower section all the way to Lake View, Kaloleni, Ojuka, Shauri Yako, Kivumbini crossing over to Famingo, Kimathi and Pangani were constructed more than seven decades ago with asbestos roofing. Dilapidation of houses has been blamed on high crime rate in the area which has seen authorities unable to access the area to even collect rent from the tenants. The housing project will further extend to informal settlements in Manyani and Kanyon. A political analysts and human rights activist, Joseph Omondi says the affordable housing project  by the State Department of Housing and Urban Development in Bondeni will play a major role in reducing crime. He observed that how the area is currently structured supports crime with hundreds of youths being idle and vulnerable to recruitment to criminal gangs. “How a settlement is structured can either support or discourage crime. I believe the upcoming AHP construction of 506 modern units, will pave way for many more. Even the attitude of the residents will change for the better,” he said. Omondi said the new development will create jobs during the construction and also attract investors in the future thus creating multiplier effects in terms of development and employment. He said the youths who will be employed in the King Sapphie Nakuru project which was launched by Housing PS Charles Hinga last week, can be absorbed in other similar projects within the county or be absorbed in government. “The project is a major boost to Nakuru’s journey to city status because one of the requirements of a city is decent housing with modern roofing unlike these one-bedroom and two-bedroom houses with asbestos roofing and shared external toilets and bathrooms,” he said. He noted that the nearby Jua Kali sector at Barma will be among the small and medium enterprises in Nakuru whose economic status will be improved by the housing project. “Things should work as it was envisioned in the constitution. Besides employing residents, the constructors will also be required to source their workers from the community,” he said. Harriet Wachu, a resident said she is optimistic that investors will now come to the area  which has been lagging behind in development since 1950s when most of the houses were constructed. Wachu blamed the high crime rate in the area for development stagnation. Speaking during the groundbreaking, Governor Lee Kinyanjui said Nakuru was fortunate to be the first beneficiary of AHP outside Nairobi. “When President Uhuru Kenyatta was talking about the Big Four Agenda soon after his election in 2013, to many it was an academic conversation on power point. Most Kenyans were skeptic about it but we are witnessing it coming to fruition,” he said. He said the first two projects happened in Nairobi’s Pangani and Park Road estates and it was time to spread to other parts of the country. He said Nakuru's model was unique where the government provided land and the private sector provides the capital. “Through the public private partnership, they have created a platform to ensure that the houses are surrendered to the people with a guarantee to ensure that the finances do not escalate the cost of houses,” he said. He noted that the programme will benefit many people including those living in informal settlements and police officers. “With this plan in place, in 10-20 years, the slums will be a thing of the past,” said Kinyanjui, adding that AHP is vital for food security, because lack of an organised housing programme was depleting farm lands. He said people had been buying large chunks of former wheat and maize fields and subdividing it into eighths or quarters and turning them into houses. “The county was developing horizontally taking over farmlands in Njoro, Molo, Bahati, Subukia and Gilgil,” he said. While explaining why the project was done in Bondeni area of Kivumbini, Kinyanjui said the administration decided to start with an area that desperately needed urban renewal programme. He said modern market and termini were also being constructed nearby. Hinga observed that the units in Nakuru were bigger than the ones in Nairobi, adding that proper housing was a social justice right to all. “Let us not think about the brick and mortar but about the faces of the new home owners, the people who are going to occupy the new houses, their lives and their dignity,” said the PS. He said with the investor having taken over the construction. The government in collaboration with county would concentrate on horizontal infrastructure that include roads, trunk sewer, drainage and solid waste management plan to make the estate last. King Developers Properties Limited who are undertaking the Nakuru project promised to create more job opportunities for Kenyans, provide decent homes at very affordable rates, continue supporting the local SMEs and in overall continue boosting the economy. Chairman Yusuf Hassanali said Nakuru town was one of the fastest growing towns in Kenya consisting of a multicultural and profoundly diverse economy that has witnessed increase in infrastructural development in the recent years. He said the growth had opened doors to many opportunities in various sectors and industries including housing due to a population surge. -Edited by SKanyara 