 A Kitui court has delayed its judgment on a case involving a Catholic priest, citing frustrations by frequent power blackouts. Kitui Catholic priest Japheth Mwove Kimanzi was charged with causing grievous harm to a schoolgirl he allegedly impregnated. Chief principal magistrate Stephen Mbungi was expected to deliver his judgment on Monday but pushed the matter to June 16. He said frequent blackouts within the court frustrated the writing of the judgment. The priest had also been charged with brutally attacking the child of his alleged former lover. The baby was the outcome of his relationship with the schoolgirl. The matter has dragged in court since 2015. The priest has since been excommunicated from the Catholic church. On Monday, Kimanzi was called to the dock for Mbungi to deliver his judgment but the magistrate apologised, saying he had failed to finalise the writing of the determination due to a prolonged power blackout. Mbungi asked the litigants to understand that the electricity problem was to blame. He thus said he will read the judgment in the afternoon of June 16. During the proceedings, the complainant, who is now past the age of majority, sat pensively in court, rocking the child, said to have been fathered by the former priest, in her hands. It is alleged that Kimanzi was in an intimate relationship with the victim when she was a student at Mwambiu Secondary School in Mwingi Central. Witnesses claimed the former priest had attempted to conceal his violation of celibacy through brutality. He was arrested in 2015 in connection with a brutal attack on the complainant and her child. Kimanzi is out on bond. After the court postponed the delivery of judgment, he sauntered out of the courtroom and consulted with a few people outside before leaving. The complainant said she is looking forward to the judgment so that she and her son can get justice. She now works as a hairdresser. “This case has dragged in court for a very long time making me to put on hold so many things including getting treatment for my child who has problems with her lower limbs,” she said.  Edited by P.O