New Wajir Governor Ahmed Muktar on Wednesday reshuffled his executive a week after being sworn in. He said the changes would improve services. The move comes barely a day after impeached Governor Mohamed Abdi said he was still in charge of the county, despite a trial by the Senate. He said he would return to his office. In the transfers, Ibrahim Mohamed was moved from education to finance while Ismail Sheikh was moved finance to health. Hussein Sugow was moved from health to education. He had served in the health docket for barely a month. Yussuf Abdi was moved from ICT to agriculture. Ahmed Shariff who was heading the trade docket has will now be in charge of ICT. Barre Idriss moves from investment and industry to finance, swapping with Abdullahi Mohamed. Muktar said the hand over and a report must be submitted by May 31 at the latest. But Abdi told the press on Tuesday in Nairobi that some leaders in Wajir had engineered his removal from office. “I’m perturbed by the behaviour of some Wajir leaders who orchestrated an illegal swearing-in to remove a serving governor from office,” he said. He was impeached for one allegation, running down the health system and denying people their right to healthcare. He was charge with gross violation of the Constitution. Abdi decried the violation of  court orders, given that the High Court had barred the county assembly and the Senate from impeaching him until his petition was heard and determined. In a separate interview with a local FM station, Abdi sad he would be returning to Wajir and his office "to continue performing his duties as the governor as required by the law". But addressing the press separately, Wajir leaders rallied behind Governor Muktar. “Governor Muktar is now firmly in office. Any order purportedly issued by the High Court blocking his assumption to office was overtaken by events,” MP Adan Keynan said. Last week, Abdi received support from the Council of Governors, who expressed discontent with the manner in which his impeachment was conducted. "The Senate has failed to set standards on what amounts to gross violation of the Constitution. For example, in the Kirinyaga case, the Senate acquitted Governor Anne Waiguru charged with similar violations," CoG chairman Martin Wambora said. (Edited by V. Graham) 