The Turkana county government has procured veterinary supplies worth Sh36 million for effective livestock disease control in all the region's seven sub-counties. Agriculture, pastoral economy and fisheries executive Philip Aemun said the supplies are majorly vaccines and a small emergency kitty in case of a disease outbreak. “The veterinary supplies are prepositioned to sub-counties to ensure adequate livestock vaccines and drugs for effective disease control,” he said. The executive added, “Our target is to reach out to pastoralists in the furthest region that have no access to veterinary services. Many pastoralists cross the borders of Ethiopia, Uganda and South Sudan in search of water and pastures and sometimes are left out during the intervention.” Aemun said the government is committed to reaching all pastoralists moving across the borders by strategically placing the supplies in all migratory routes and to reach all kraals to vaccinate animals. The county department of livestock production said  4,193,462 goats and sheep were at risk because of drought. Aemun said drought had forced herders to migrate to new areas in search of water and pasture, making them vulnerable to both diseases, hunger and insecurity. The areas hard hit by drought include Lakezone, Kaeris, Kaaleng/Kaikor and Lapur wards in Turkana North, as well as Kerio, Kalokol and Kangathota areas in Turkana Central. Others are Loima and Lopur wards in Loima and Turkana West constituencies respectively. While distributing livestock feeds in a programme targeting 750 households in Kanamkemer and Kangathota wards, Aemun appealed to partners to support them by providing livestock feeds. “The 37.5 metric tonnes of range cubes was procured by Peace Winds Japan organisation to cushion livestock from starvation due to limited vegetation by bridging the gap before regeneration of pasture and browse after pouring of rains a few days ago,” he said. More than 7,000 livestock were killed by flash floods caused by heavy rains on Saturday. At least 100 families have been affected by the floods. Area chief Napetet Patrick Lorogoi said he was still receiving reports from residents about the effects of floods. He urged the government and humanitarian agencies to provide the necessary support to the affected families. -Edited by SKanyara