The rainy season is here with us. But as the saying goes "come rain come sunshine, everything must go on". If everything has to go on in the rains, then it has to go on with a lot of precaution. Otherwise driving in the rains can turn into a serious catastrophe. The latest rain patterns in Nairobi have become unpredictable, pushing road users beyond their limits. Today we highlight how to safely drive in the rains. When it's pouring heavily, even the most efficient drainage systems can be overwhelmed by the floods. This causes artificial rivers to crisscross the roads and drivers are warned to make good judgement to avoid being swept away by the raging floods. Below are some tips to guide the driver on the road during heavy rains. Make good use of your wipers Rule of the thumb dictates that if your wiper blades are not squeezing off the water from the windshield then there is no need to drive until the rains stop. Worn out wiper blades are as bad as nonworking wipers. First, before you proceed with driving in the rain kindly ensure that your wipers are in good working condition and your interior heating/AC system is correctly working as discussed in our previous article for a better vision of the road. Reduce speed to below 40km/h Speed reduction ensures that the driver gets enough time to concentrate on the road to make good judgement. With this speed, the braking distance is well catered for because the car can be stopped instantly whenever need be. Making mistakes in slow motion can be quickly corrected compared to making mistakes at high speeds. For instance, too much floodwaters on the road surface covers road markings making it hard to judge whether you are driving on the edge or way beyond the centre mark of the road. Sometimes the floods may cover drainage trenches on the far left of the road making the road seem wide enough only for the car to plunge into these trenches. When the car is moving at slow speeds such mistakes can be quickly be corrected  as opposed to if the vehicle was moving fast. If the rain intensity is too much visibility becomes too unbearable especially at night. If you are not conversant with the road we recommend a night stop until the following day to avoid veering off the road or ramming into a stationary vehicle. You better stop struggling on the road and look for an alternative place to spend the rest of the night until the following day when it's safe to drive. Your life matters. Better late than never Switch on the lights The essence of switching on your lights is to be seen. Never hesitate to switch on your lights in the rain no matter the time of the day, if the rain is too heavy include hazards too. They are sharp and striking which makes it easy to notice your car, they also mark the edges of your car hence making the oncoming or the cars following you know the actual size of your car. If your car is equipped with fog lights also make good use of them in the rains and foggy weather. They come with a special colour pigment (yellow)  that easily penetrates the fog molecules making it easy for you to see. Avoid full lights. They may cause too much reflection and glare causing the oncoming not to see the edges of your car which may result in a lack of proper road size Judgement. Avoid parking in danger zones Whenever it becomes obvious that you can't drive the car anymore in the rains, halting the movement until further notice becomes the only choice. It may still pose a danger to other road users if you don't safely park your vehicle in a safe area. Blind spots, steep slopes and junctions are the most dangerous places to halt your movements during heavy rains. On corners due to too much water on the road, most vehicles tend to hydroplane, this causes them to veer off the road throwing them outward far into the corners, causing a collision with the halted car. On steep slopes, reduced braking distance may cause a rear-end if the driver sees the halted car when it's too late. Parking on a hill may also result in a head-on collision when the driver behind tries to carry out a late overtake. Junctions on the other end attract a lot of cars but with heavy rains, any small judgmental mistake can lead to a series  of accidents. Parking your vehicle in designated parking such as petrol stations or similar places will guarantee safety for other road users in heavy rains. Turn off cruise control Some cars may shut off the cruise control automatically in bad weather or poor vision but others may not. Never activate this feature in heavy rains because the vehicle may want to give optimum power regardless of the road conditions making it so difficult for better handling in such conditions. The writer is the owner of Boosted Auto car repair shop