An Ugenya parliamentary aspirant has launched Sh1.5 water million project to tame waterborne diseases. Michael Oliech has launched two water points in Sega that will serve more than 800 residents. Oliech partnered with Cater Foundation. The aspirant while launching the water projects at Marenyo and Ulanda promised to ensure more than 50 per cent access to clean water for Ugenya people before the 2022 general elections. Oliech said he had been briefed on how residents have been hard hit by waterborne diseases before approaching Cater Foundation to boost his agenda of ensuring clean water in the constituency. The aspirant said his political ambition towards uplifting the living standards of Ugenya people will not only end at the water projects but also embrace economic activities in the area. He at the same time launched Sh1.2 million poultry project at Ligega to improve the living standards of residents through poultry farming. Oliech distributed improved chicks to more than 30 groups where every member will be entitled to five hens upon maturity. The aspirants said the improved chicken grows very first and if the groups will take the project seriously then they will improve on their daily income. Oliech is vying as the Ugenya parliamentary aspirant on an ODM ticket where he will battle it out with Chris Karan and Daniel Odhiambo. The winner will face the current MP David Ochieng of MDG party in 2022. Ugenya has been elusive for the ODM party in the last two elections where David Ochieng carried the day in a by-election after he contested Karan’s victory. Oliech said he is coming in with a new agenda of empowering the poor with the available resources in the constituency. “It’s disheartening that Ugenya is the only sub-county in Siaya with no financial institution just because we have no major economic activities in the constituency to support a bank,” Oliech said. He said going forward he is geared to ensure enough circulation of money in the constituency through small-scale businesses. “Our people are subjected to long-distance to save their money and look for loans to invest hence losing the morale to do business,” he said. Oliech regretted that the high levels of insecurity in the area were brought by poverty and lack of business ideas to uplift the residents. The aspirant said he will not only focus on income-generating projects but also focus on the software bit of empowering the community through education. He said education is key as people learn from each other and once the community is educated then some of the economic activities with be multiplied.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris