President Uhuru Kenyatta’s office recurrent budget for the next financial year has been slashed by Sh3 billion compared with the current Sh24.6 billion. The office, in budget estimates tabled in Parliament, has been provided with Sh21 billion as Treasury seeks to sustain austerity measures it embarked on in 2019. Treasury has also provided the National Intelligence Service Sh3 billion less in the next financial year down from the Sh45.5 billion the agency received this year. The Health ministry is also set for a drop of Sh4 billion, having to do with the allocation of Sh47.6 billion compared with the current Sh51.6 billion allocation. Recurrent expenses by the Crops and Agricultural Research department are Sh12 billion lower than this year’s provision so is the Broadcasting department’s cut of Sh2 billion. The tourism department has also lost about Sh1 billion, but have projected more revenues compared with what was currently estimated. Treasury data shows a saving of about Sh30 billion in the expenditure cuts, with part of the Sh1.06 trillion budgeted for next years’ spending to be raised in government earnings of Sh175.1 billion. However, taxpayers will foot from the consolidated fund services, payments for debt obligations, salaries and pensions which stand to push spending up by Sh224 billion. The public debt repayment - drawn from the consolidated fund, has crossed the Sh1 trillion mark with the allocated Sh1.16 trillion budget. Taxpayers will also foot Sh153 billion for payment of pensions and gratuities as well as Sh4.4 billion for salaries and allowance from the same vote. Some state departments, books show, have continued posting trends against the austerity measures instigated by Treasury CS Ukur Yatani in 2019. The Interior Department will have its budget increased by  Sh3 billion, the same trend at Defence’s Sh2 billion, Sh4 billion more for Basic Education, and Sh4 billion for University Education department. Treasury’s recurrent budget is set to increase by Sh7 billion next year with budgets for entities such as IPOA, Gender commission, the Ombudsman, TSC, SRC, the Public Service Commission, Northern Corridor department set for a raise in the next financial year. Deputy President William Ruto, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta, and Rachel Ruto’s offices are, however, set for a budget boost this financial year, but will operate with less than what the offices normally receive. The offices were among those with sustained cuts - that hampered some of their operations, following budget realignments to raise money for Covid-19 response. National Treasury in the estimates tabled in Parliament has proposed Sh572 million for the DP’s office, up from the current Sh562 million. Ordinarily, the office’s budget ranges to the tune of Sh1.4 billion, while that of the First Lady’s office, which tipped for Sh253 million next year, was provided Sh413 million before the Covid-19 cuts. The office, though, is set to get Sh16 million more in the next financial year from the Sh237 million allocated this year. Office of the spouse of the DP has been allocated Sh235 million, up from Sh212 million in the current budget hence an increase by Sh23 million. Rachel’s office was allocated Sh281 million in the budget for the year ending June 2020, the current allocation being Sh50 million less the ordinary appropriations. DP Ruto’s initial hospitality allocation was pegged at about Sh174 million but the same has been retained at Sh23 million as was provided in the post-Covid-19 budget cuts. The DP has been provided Sh96 million for local travel and Sh33 million for foreign trips – which was once ranging at about Sh89 million. Treasury has also sustained cuts on the DP’s other operating expenses with the provision of Sh103 million, being half of what is normally provided. Ruto office’s fuel budget is Sh14 million, down from the normal range of Sh28 million in the previous years. The First Lady’s budget was in the range of Sh430 million before Covid-19 struck, with cuts in respect of her office set to remain for some time. Her office’s allocation for domestic travel was to the tune of Sh71 million but has since been reduced to Sh33.9 million, while Sh4.3 million has been set aside for her foreign trips. Rachel’s office lost Sh84 million in the drastic budget measures. 