The death of Alex Ole Magelo has caught many by surprise with the Nairobi County Assembly mourning its first Speaker. To many MCAs, the late Magelo was a father figure, a nobleman and a no-nonsense Speaker who will be missed dearly. Sending his condolences to the family, Majority leader Abdi Ibrahim Hassan alias Guyo described Magelo as a strong, dependable and firm servant leader. “I was the minority leader during the tenure Magelo served as a Speaker and I can tell you he was very firm and didn’t entertain any form of nonsense in the assembly,’ he said. He was firm in his decisions, was in control of the debates and it is unfortunate that we have lost a leader whose caliber cannot be replaced,” Guyo added. To Minority Whip Peter Imwatok, Magelo was a great man and a father to many young MCAs as he would refer to them as sons and daughters. “Magelo was a father to many of us who started in the first assembly. Some of my colleagues Moses Ogeto, Chege Mwaura and myself are the  great debtors in the assembly due to the tactics we learnt from him “I remember he called me over at Cj’s when I brought Sonko’s first motion and he told me, son, move on as history will remember you for this. Magelo never kept anything in his heart and would and his death is great loss to us and his family,” Imwatok added. Majority Whip Paul Kados said the late  Magelo never allowed fights in the assembly and treated both MCAs from Cord and TNA equally. “I met Magelo in 1992 and  over the years I can say he was a man who had a heart for everyone and what I can say is we have lost a father,” “As a speaker, he would give us equal attention and never allowed wrangles among us. I have lost a friend and may God grant his family comfort,” Kados added. Deputy Governor Ann Kananu said Magelo during his tenure served the legislative and executive with a lot of dedication, diligence, kindness and humility. “Death has robbed us of a wonderful father figure, humorous and gentle soul, who was jovial and never harboured any ill feelings towards anyone and believed in resolving issues Magelo's journey On March 22, 2013,  the late Alex Ole Magelo ushered new dawn after being elected the first Speaker of the Nairobi County Assembly. Being the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy candidate, he trounced his closest rival from the Jubilee coalition former City Hall councillor Mutanga Mutungi by one vote. Magelo garnered 43 votes against Mutungi’s 42 in the first round of votes and still pulled the same votes in the second ballot to be declared the winner. The late Speaker was in charge of Leopards when the club was promoted back to the top tier league in 2009 after it had been relegated the previous year, to the second-tier league. Towards the end of 2013, Magelo however  quit Ingwe citing sabotage and unhealthy politics within the club circles and joined politics In September 2017, Magelo surprised many after he ‘beat’  two men who he heard using vulgar language towards the President. He confessed to his actions and said he could not stand people abusing the Head of state in his presence. “Yes such an incident happened. The two men were insulting the President using unprintable words and according to our Maasai culture, you cannot insult somebody older than you. I don’t even know them. You can’t abuse the President in my presence. They said very stupid things,” he said Last year in August,  Magelo was last week appointed as a member of the Board of the Kenya Leather Development Council. Magelo withdrew from the race to succeed Beatrice Elachi as the speaker and instead threw his support behind Jubilee Party's candidate - former Makadara MP Benson Mutura. Magelo said he had decided to withdraw for the sake of unity and had faith that Mutura had all it takes to be the third Speaker of the county assembly. “I have withdrawn myself from the election. I also have a new job that was assigned by His Excellency the President. I’m in support of the Jubilee’s candidate and have confidence in him and his ability to lead the assembly, “he said. Even after leaving the assembly, the late Speaker was from time to time spotted outside City hall and in his favourite CBD restaurant, CJ’s. Magelo still remained a reliable source and never ignored the media whenever his input was needed. His portrait as a speaker remains placed along the corridors at the County assembly an indication that he was the first Speaker of the house.