KNRC Premier Class driver Eric Bengi is fully rebuilding his Mitsubishi Lancer Evolution X ahead of next month’s WRC Safari Rally Kenya. And after a thorough strip-down of his R4 machine, Bengi plans to test the car ahead of the event slated for lake side areas of Naivasha and Elementaita from June 24-27. “We are hoping to head into Safari with a sound machine. The car took quite a beating during the ARC Equator Rally which used part of the WRC Safari route.” “Everyone at the workshop is working to finish on time. We have had to work during weekends and holidays to ensure everything is done properly.” “It is a tough challenge as it requires working on the car that survived an energy-sapping Equator challenge,” explained Bengi. With the rebuilding phase almost done, the first proper test for the car —with Bengi behind the wheel— will be used to fine-tune the car’s settings to near perfection. Mechanics have had a thorough going over of every component. Bengi’s car is being prepared by Baldev Chager at the latter’s BHP Performance workshop in Spring Valley. Bengi, who is a former KNRC 2WD Division One and Group ‘N’ champion, has indeed extolled Chager’s input into his Safari preparations. “It is by choice to have Boldy (Chager) prepare my car. You learn from the best if you want to excel and work with the best if you want to be at that level. "There’s a lot of learning we get from Boldy. He’s done an amazing job on the car and he has also given us tips on how to handle the car. "Driving is one thing and learning to keep your car neater and tidy is totally different and thanks to him he’s done a good job to keep us going," he said. Meanwhile, Bengi, who is among the 10 fastest drivers in the country at the moment, says his WRC Safari debut is a dream come true. “We are very excited that WRC is back.  First, there will be a lot of knowledge transfer from these drivers coming from elsewhere and secondly, there is a lot that we need to learn from our foreign counterparts including driving, preparations of teams and generally organisations. “In a month time, this car in as much as it looks like a shell, it will be pretty much together way before then. The car is homologated and qualifies for the event just a few upgrades from the scrutineering requirements which we will be compliant,” he added. WRC Safari Rally is sponsored by the Government of Kenya and co-sponsored by KCB Bank Kenya and Toyota Kenya.