World Champion Sebastien Ogier and his partner Julien Ingrassia will lead a strong four-car Toyota Gazoo Racing line-up for the WRC Safari Rally slated for June 24-27. Other members making the team’s Safari outfit in their much-fancied Yaris 2021 WRC machine are Elfyn Evans from Great Britain, Kalle Rovanpera  (Finland) and Japanese driver Takamoto Katsuta. Toyota Gazoo Racing World Rally Team, who are widely tipped for Safari victory, became the second manufacturer after Hyundai Motorsport to unveil their team members. Hyundai Shell Mobis World Rally Team has 2019 champion Ott Tanak/Martin Jarvedja from Estonia and Belgians Neuville/Martijn Wydaeghe and Dani Sordo/Borja Rozada, who share the third car with Craig Breen/Paul Nagle completing the three-car outfit for Hyundai. Ford M-Sport, who are WRC’s third manufacturer, are yet to place in their entry but they are expected to do so before the close of entries on May 25. M-Sport Ford has the likes of Gus Greensmith/Elliott Edmondson-GB, Teemu Suninen/Mikko Markkula-Finland, Adrien Fourmaux/Renaud Jamoul –Belgium and Lorenzo Bertelli/Simone Scattolin-Italy. Meanwhile, there was excitement in the Kenyan motoring fraternity following Toyota’s entry. The Japanese brand (Toyota), which traces it’s rally roots back to 1957 when it entered the Mobilgas Round Australia Rally, is definitely the team to beat during Safari. Mombasa-based navigator Victor Okundi expressed his joy and excitement saying: “My take is that Toyota is going to take the Safari. The Toyota line-up has one of the most meticulous rally gladiator in Ogier. They also have a very reliable wing man with championship ability in Elfyn Evans.” He added: “They could be coming with the new engine that is currently being tried out in Portugal though I would argue passionately against. “Hyundai also have a chance with the quick Ott Tanak and Thierry Neuville. These two are good in their own rights but haven’t quite gelled as teammates in my view. “M-Sport drivers are young and inexperienced and these could work against them in two ways: For one, the youthfulness in them will make them want to prove their mettle to the team. “Secondly, inexperience exposes them to costly mistakes, but it’s a wait and see situation though. In both cases they don’t stand a chance against the big two.” Toyota made it’s mark in 1975 when Hannu Mikkola won Finland’s 1000 Lakes Rally at the wheel of a factory-backed Corolla. Toyota established a motorsport base in Cologne, Germany, and went on to claim more WRC victories, including three consecutive Safari Rally wins. In 1990, Toyota had its first WRC champion driver in Carlos Sainz, and in 1993 it became the first Japanese brand to win the WRC manufacturers’ title. By the end of its factory-backed activities in 1999, Toyota had collected three manufacturers’ titles, (in 1993, 1994 and 1999) and four drivers’ titles (two for Sainz and one each for Juha Kankkunen and Didier Auriol). 