The government plans to approach the international community to secure funds for compensating victims of human-wildlife conflicts. The payout backlog is Sh14 billion. In an exclusive interview with the Star, Tourism and Wildlife CS Najib Balala said the government cannot sustain the growing demand for compensation resulting from human-wildlife conflicts. "We have paid Sh2 billion since I came in, but we have a backlog since 2014," Balala said in his office. The CS said Sh3.1 billion is supposed to be paid each year for human-wildlife conflicts. "We cannot sustain it as the challenges are huge. The challenges have been made worse by the explosion of human population and climate change," he said. A task force formed last year to streamline a 2013 wildlife law recommended that claims arising from human-wildlife conflict be settled by an insurance scheme. The team proposed that the scheme be funded through the national budget, conservation and tourism levies and donations from corporate entities. It shall be referred to as The Human-Wildlife Conflict Compensation Scheme. The Wildlife Conservation and Management Act of 2013 provides for the establishment of an insurance scheme to compensate victims of human-wildlife conflict. The Act proposes other modes of intervention for mitigating human-wildlife conflicts as well as compensating victims. Balala said the option of having insurance companies compensate victims was still on the table. He said paying premiums to the tune of Sh3.1 billion was a tall order. Currently, family members of human-wildlife conflict victims get Sh5 million compensation in case of death. Victims are paid up to Sh3 million if the injuries cause permanent disability. For other injuries, the victims are entitled to Sh2 million upon approval by the compensation committee. Owners of crops, property or livestock destroyed by wildlife get compensation of equivalent value. Those not satisfied may appeal to the National Environment Tribunal or Environment and Land Court. In December 2019, the Tourism ministry shared out Sh569 million to victims of human-wildlife conflicts. Victims were compensated in three instalments of 30 per cent of the total claim and the final chunk paid once. The cash approved by the National Assembly was shared among 4,752 out of 13,125 victims whose claims have been verified. 