Pokot residents have opposed government plans to hive out their land and put up a military recruits training camp in Tiaty, Baringo county. Military officials are currently engaging the community on their intention to take up about 500,000 acres of land to establish a mega training base in the area. “Our talks are currently at an advanced stage to acquire about 190,000ha (490,500 acres) here in Tiaty for the establishment of new barracks and training ground,” KDF major general (Rtd) Morris Oyugi said. He was addressing residents who turned up to a consultative meeting at Chemoling’ot AIC church grounds on Saturday. The land is half the size of Tiaty subcounty. Village elders, clergy, professionals and political leaders who attended the meeting opposed the plan. Residents said they were not consulted and therefore they should be given more time to discuss. “Taking such a huge piece of land from Tiaty is like evicting our people,” former area MP Asman Kamama said. He said as a matter of legality before engaging the community, the land should first be registered with the National Land Commission. The area is believed to be home to armed bandits who have been terrorising residents in parts of Baringo, Samburu, Turkana, Laikipia and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties. Attacks have left several people dead, including police and military officers. Others have also been maimed and thousands of livestock lost. “This is a good move, at least it will help control and calm down the resurgence of the notorious bandits,” Bartabwa MCA Reuben Chepsongol said on Tuesday. Tirioko MCA Sam Lokales Lourien demanded to be given at least three months to consult and have the land degazetted first before making any decision. Tiaty MP William Kamket had a hard time convincing residents that he did not sell the community land to the government. “Some people are claiming I have auctioned community land to KDF which is not true. Those are lies being spread by my political enemies,” Kamket said. He  added: "It is good the military team has talked to residents about their intention and also to prove to you that I am not part of the deal." During the meeting, a group of professionals presented a letter of objection, saying the process was not conducted as per the dictates of the laws on acquisition of community land through public participation. Tiaty leaders and residents also appealed to the government to lift the ongoing security operation to flush out bandits. They requested for at least three months to allow them to pursue the criminals and force them to quit banditry and cattle rustling. -Edited by SKanyara