Nairobi's sewerage system is being expanded in a programme that will also help restore river ecosystems. Nairobi Metropolitan Services received three sewer flushing units and five operational vehicles from the national government at the weekend. The equipment is a major boost to the ongoing upgrade of the sewerage system. The vehicles are among 22 for the Nairobi Rivers Sewerage Improvement Project (NaRSIP II). Water and Sanitation CS Sicily Kariuki said the project aims to improve the sewerage system through increased revenue collection. "The project aims at reducing pollution of Nairobi's rivers by collecting and treating 80,000 cubic metres of wastewater daily," she said. The vehicles were received by NMS director general Mohamed Badi and officials from Nairobi City Water and Sewerage Company Limited. The NaRSIP project aims to regenerate the ecosystems of Nairobi's rivers and improve livelihoods. It covers the Nairobi, Kiu, Riara, Ngong, Mathare and Gatharaini rivers. Phase I of the project increased sanitation coverage from 40 per cent in 2012 to 48 per cent by 2017. Phase II is to be completed in 2023. The project started in 2017 and runs through 2023. Badi praised the role of the Ministry of Water. The project will rehabilitate and expand inlet works at the Dandora Estate Sewerage Treatment Plant. It will also construct 400km  of secondary  reticulation sewers and two faecal sludge disposal facilities. The plan is to increase sewerage coverage in Nairobi city from 48 per cent to 55 per cent by 2023. In April, last year, the Water ministry started repossessing grabbed sewer land. It reclaimed 1,600 acres in Ruai and in Kariobangi North where at least 5,000 people were homeless after their structures were demolished. Nairobi has only two main wastewater treatment plants in Kariobangi and Dandora (Ruai). The Ruai  plant is the third largest in East and Central Africa, treating as much as 80 per cent of waste from Nairobi. It treats 210,000 cubic meters per day, while the Kariobangi plant treats 32,000 cubic metres daily. Capacity  significantly declined to 11,000 cubic metres per day due to illegal occupation. The ministry said almost half of the 75 acres earmarked for the facility had been occupied by squatters and private developers. The project will also build 30 ablution blocks within informal settlements. The Athi Water Works Development Agency has constructed 15 ablution blocks in Kibera, reducing the necessity for 'flying toilets'. Independent community water supply projects have also been put up to provide free clean water to curb the spread of Covid-19 in Kibera. NMS and Athi Water drilled 193 boreholes across informal settlements. In Kibera, they drilled six boreholes and constructed elevated steel tanks, water kiosks, and water distribution pipelines producing 2.5 million litres of water per day. The projects serve Kibera DC, Silanga, Kianda and Soweto. (Edited by Bilha Makokha) 