The late former Kenya Sevens coach Benjamin Ayimba left an indelible mark on the sport in the country. The former Kenya Sevens, Simbas and Impala captain had a stellar playing and coaching career spanning two decades. The popularity of the sport, especially within the country, grew in leaps and bounds in Ayimba’s first stint as coach between 2006-11. Many have eulogised him as an icon and patriot who brought honour to the country. Kenya Rugby Union chairman Oduor Gangla—who played with Ayimba in the glory days of Impala, winning three Kenya and Enterprise cup titles—says Ayimba was an inspiration to many on and off the pitch. “His leadership qualities were plain for all to see from winning virtually everything on offer in the local game as a player to becoming the youngest ever Kenya Sevens head coach and attaining success on the job,” Gangla says. He coached the team to a first-ever cup final at the World Sevens Series in Adelaide, Australia, in 2009 and a historic semifinal at the World Cup in Dubai the same year. This culminated in Kenya winning the Singapore Sevens in April 2016, where the team stunned powerhouses Fiji 30-7 in the final. Former Kenya Rugby Union chairman Richard Omwela hails Ayimba as a trailblazer in the sport. "His dedication to the game and the effort he put was immense he and his team put Kenya sevens on the map when we were nobodies. May his soul rest in peace,” Omwela says. Ayimba’s close friend Richard Quicks Nyakwaka says death has robbed the country of one of its most iconic players and coaches. “Our friendship was made in heaven. I believe...we met in 1991 at the age of 14...we helped to develop Kisumu Rugby Club as teenage players at that time. Well, that’s when the spirit of rugby development was born in us, and we have done our best for the rest of the country over the years with our mantra of #ONGEMATEK," he said. "It’s been 30 years of solid friendship! Interesting that we argued non-stop about our rugby development projects but we always made them work without fighting.” It would seem that the two were joined at the hip from an early age as Nyakwaka explains. “I never understood how we were born in the same month of August, 2 days apart and in the same year (1976) and shared the same ancestral roots (Alego, Siaya). We also started playing rugby at the same time although in different schools; you in Maseno and me in Kisumu Boys; both schools in the same district! This was magical. You have left with a very big part of me Nyathiwa Wuod Alego. Your legacy is forever,” he said. Former Kenyan 15’s international Kiki Onyoka, who played for Quins and always had a bitter rivalry with Impala in their playing years, describes his death as a loss to the nation. “What a man. Benja, it was a great pleasure meeting you, playing against you and playing with you. I’ll cherish the memories of you in that red jersey forever. Boss! It was you! Sammy Khakame could call for the big man and you always could read and relish the chance of stopping the move," he said. "As I crashed through your centres, I’d always have an eye out for you before... an earth-shattering collision took place!” Onyoka recounted the many duels with Ayimba.  There was a case of "real recognise real" during which they would taunt each other pre-match. “Your work ethic on the pitch quickly made us close pals. Funnily, we always looked forward to those duels and taunted each other as we faced off. Benja, this is a hard one. I thought you were through the worst and on the mend, but it wasn’t to be. Chesco, we will miss you. It was surely a great honour meeting you. Godspeed and rest in perfect Peace. Hats off bro,” he said. Bill Githinji, who coached Ayimba at Impala, is full of praise for his former skipper. “Captain of both Kenya XV and Kenya 7’s, Coach of Kenya XV and also coach of Kenya Sevens, the only coach to win a series. All these made you a superman eventually but you remained humble, God-fearing and an amiable soul you had. The headlines always belonged to you, my captain. Rest well my friend, tuonane mbele!”.