The family of slain American-Somali businessman Bashir Mohamed wants the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions to order a public inquest into his murder. Lawyer Charles Madowo wrote to DPP Noordin Haji narrating developments on the saga surrounding his client’s death, saying the family does not want to cast aspersions or speculate on his death. “Your office must sanction an independent fact-finding process to run concurrently,” he said. He said his clients reiterate that justice can only be served if Bashir’s killers are arrested, charged in a court of law, convicted and sentenced accordingly. “This can only be achieved if the investigations surrounding the circumstances of his murder are done with diligence, expediency, strict supervision and oversight that only your office can offer,” Madowo in the letter dated May 25 said. He asked why it took police six days to call the family to identify the body of Bashir positively, opted to get fingerprints of his body without his family and why they called the family while they had identified him. A postmortem on the body showed he was strangled to death after being tortured. It has emerged Bashir, 36, ran a multimillion-shilling business empire and now cops are focusing on his riches, sources and those he shared with. He ran Infinity Development Construction Company based in Nairobi. According to the operations manager Leonard Makokha, Bashir who was a stickler for procedure practised an open door policy. “He followed rules and procedures to the end,”  Makokha said. Bashir was the main contractor of the Uhuru Market Complex in Kisumu County. The Sh700 million contract is complete and ready for commissioning by President Uhuru Kenyatta next week. He was also behind the construction of Eldoret town informal settlement worth Sh743 million in 2018. In 2018 Bashir also won a United Nations tender for the construction of the S.O.S children’s village in Mogadishu, Somalia, valued at about Sh200 million ($1.8 million). Last year, the company was contracted by the United Nations to undertake the construction of the Mogadishu Prisons Complex in Somalia valued at Sh130 million ($1.2 million). In a tender that was contested and settled at the Public Procurement and Administration Board, Bashir was awarded civil and other associated works for the modern housing project at Mukuru in Nairobi by the Ministry of Transport. Indications are he had the backing of the right people in both Kenya and Somalia. Bashir was last seen alive on May 13, before his car’s burnt shell was spotted at Kibiku in Ngong. The shell mysteriously disappeared later, and his body found on May 16 and taken to the Kerugoya Hospital mortuary where it was identified. A team of detectives is investigating the incident and has visited the scene as part of the probe.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris