The church has urged President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto to reconcile for the good of all Kenyans. The National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK) South Rift Region said the open political differences between the two and internal government wrangles were an epicenter for chaos and violence. Addressing the press at the Anglican Church of Kenya Good Shepherd Cathedral in Nakuru, the church leaders said Kenya is still awake to the Post Election Violence and its effects in South Rift. In the statement read by Nakuru NCCK Chairperson, Bishop Peter Muiruri, the church said it was ready and willing to mediate unity between the President and his deputy for the sake of peace and national cohesion. “The church prays that national political processes will not disrupt lives through violence and insecurity and urges Kenyans to resist any event or person who threatens peace,” he said. Muiruri urged politicians to desist from early campaigns and raising political temperatures among the people through divisive narratives such as “No one can stop reggae” and Hustlers versus Dynasty.” He said the church shall be non-partisan and deliberate in denying politicians a platform to politick in churches. Further, Muiruri warned political leaders against using money to push their respective agendas as this was a form of corruption. Muiruri said the church would engage county security teams in the region in enhancing peace and security through monitoring and reporting perpetrators and violent incidences in areas viewed as hot spots. Nakuru is seen as a haven of peace and refuge for many but it has been an epicenter of violence since the Infamous 1992/1997 tribal clashes to the 2007/2008 PEV that left more than 1300 people, thousands displaced and property worth millions destroyed. “The church shall be on the forefront in communicating early warning alerts to the authorities from action,” he added. On corruption, Muiruri said the church was concerned with the blatant theft of public money, the ever-growing national debt, high taxation, collapsed businesses, high rate of unemployment, and the rising cost of living. “All these issues related to corruption have over-burdened Kenyans and a leading to other complex problems such as high crime rate and recruitment of youth to violent extremism and illegal gangs like Mungiki and Confirm,” he said. He called on the government to continue conducting impartial investigations and prosecute all cases of corruption. “The government should also reinstate and strengthen wealth declaration for all civil servants,” said Muiruri. He also promised that the church shall continue raising concern about the lack of public participation in budget-making processes in the counties.