Civil society organisations have decried the shrinking public involvement in the budget making process in Nyeri county. This, they said, has led to low turnout of residents in public participation forums, at times even giving them a wide berth. Nelson Maina, a budget facilitator, said this is after the realisation that their proposals are not being taken into consideration. Maina said this is because the governor has his own manifesto and county flagship projects to implement, departments have their priorities while MCAs have their ward specific projects. So by the time the budget document goes to the public, there is almost no space for their input. “So we felt that as Nyeri CSOs we should come together, advocate and lobby strongly that the county gives us our space and must hold public participation forums,” he said. “Members of the public feel frustrated that their views are not taken into consideration and they believe they are doing more of rubber stamping of what has already been discussed elsewhere,” This, he observed, has led to misguided priorities by the county government, saying whereas the public believe in having more social protection activities such as stocking of drugs and commodities in hospitals, the government has been prioritising murraming of roads. He spoke during an engagement by various CSOs meant to strengthen their capacity in terms of  analysing the recently released budget estimates  for the financial year 2021/ 22. Jemimah Muthoni, a project officer with Health Rights Advocacy Forum, said they also looked at the newly enacted Nyeri County Health Services Fund Act. The meeting held at Eland Hotel in Nyeri town on Wednesday brought together Nyeri county CSOs and people interested in budget work under the umbrella Nyeri County Budget Coalition. Participants identified some areas of interest that they said need further guidance  as the Acts implementation starts. For instance, Muthoni named one of the areas as lacking the commencement date of the Act’s implementation. She said CSOs will step-up vigilance in monitoring the implementation of the Act, especially in safeguarding the interests of the vulnerable populations. “This Act may or may not reintroduce user fees in primary healthcare facilities. It may or may not be a good thing, but one of the downsides is it may limit access to quality services for persons who are not able to afford healthcare,” she said. CSOs will seek further guidance in interpretation of the Act and especially how it will impact the provision of primary healthcare services so as to understand whether the Act will deliver quality healthcare services that it was meant to deliver. However, she admitted that the Act was a good move by the county saying since the inception of devolution, CSOs have been pushing for the ring fencing of hospital revenue. The Act proposes the retention of revenue generated in Level Four and Five hospitals. About 80 per cent of the money will be retained in the facilities while 20 per cent will go towards the provision of primary healthcare service. “It is important that even as this Act gets implemented, in the CSOs space we safeguard county budgetary allocations towards health because if we are to be practical, the revenue we are targeting is not adequate to cover it all,” she said. The meeting culminated in the writing of a memo to the County Assembly of Nyeri to give their feedback and views on the 2021/ 22 budget. They proposed a specific mental health allocation in the budget proposals and another for Community Health Volunteers allowances. She said though CHV are critical in prevention of diseases, they receive small stipends. -Edited by SKanyara