The Youths United for Kenya has accused the Judiciary of being personal in their ruling on the BBI. Led by its convener Alex Matere, they claimed that the Judiciary is full of old people who do not have the youth interest at heart. “Our bench has ridiculously very old judges who are so aloof to the youths’ interests and therefore do not understand or subscribe to the “kuomoka” ideology of the modern youth,” he added. The youths on Monday said if the Judiciary remains unchecked, it will indirectly run the affairs of the National Executive and Parliament through legal jargon. They condemned the five-judge bench of going against the High Court precedents that have determined before that the BBI Committee is constitutional and that IEBC has quorum. Matara highlighted that by trashing the presidential constitutional responsibility of promoting and enhancing national unity through the handshake, the Judiciary is inviting anarchy and violent revolution in Kenya similar who what the Arab countries faced between 2011 and 2012. In a case where the Court of Appeal upholds the high court ruling, the youths suggested that they will propose an amendment where High Court judges must face the ballot and not hide under the Constitution or other laws. They added that Kenyans must reject judicial authoritarianism and break the cartel that has held our Judiciary hostage. “We shall be proposing an amendment to the Constitution so that just like the US which the petitioners would like us to hang on with their pure presidential system instead of our homegrown governance system, judges in Kenya should be elected by the people not appointed by a Commission,” Manyara noted. In the event that the Court Appeal and the Supreme Court do not overturn what the youth termed as “shoddy and reckless judgement”, they will demand that the Judiciary budget be slashed and reallocated to finance the Youth Fund, Helb, Uwezo Fund and monthly food stamps for the youth The also vowed to press through what they said were resignations of all judges and their public prosecution who they claim are bankrolled by George Soros and his local networks.