Deputy President William Ruto’s Rift Valley allies now want Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiangi to come out and explain the cause of the chaos that rocked recent by-elections. The MPs say they are discussing an action they will take against  Matiang’i in parliament should he fail to come out and explain the Bonchari and Juja chaos. Keiyo South MP Daniel Rono and Bowen Kangogo of Marakwet East claimed that Matiang’i had planned to misuse the security teams to cause the chaos and rig the by-elections. “Matiang’i has gone quiet, yet as the man in charge of the security docket, he should come out and explain to Kenyans what happened”,  Kangogo said. The two legislators who spoke in Keiyo South said such chaos in by-elections if not dealt with may worsen during next year’s general elections. Kapseret MP Oscar Sudi said they are angry with Matiang’i, his PS Karanja Kibicho and IG Hillary Mutyambai. Sudi along with more than 20 MCAs spoke at a function in his constituency on Wednesday. They blamed them for the chaos that rocked the recent by-elections. Sudi accused Matiang’i of deploying a high number of security officers in  Bonchari and Juja and attempting to use them to rig the by-elections. He said the same security team had been misleading the President on national matters including the BBI. “The same people wanted to use the police and state resources to force the so-called BBI on Kenyans but luckily the courts stood their ground and saved the country”, Sudi said. “Our police officers are innocent because they just take orders from Mutyambai but time is coming everyone will carry his own burden if they continue misusing our officers.” Sudi told IG Mutyambai that should the country slide into chaos because of allowing police to be misused then he would personally be held responsible. The MP angrily accused President Kenyatta of allowing impunity to thrive in the country, noting that the president wanted to use the BBI to perpetuate personal interests instead of retiring and going home. “We are telling Uhuru to start packing his belongings and prepare to go home because Kenya does not belong to him,” Sudi said. “He should not use the BBI to extend his stay in power.” Nandi Senator Samson Cherargei separately condemned the excessive use of force by police during by-elections. He said Kenyans should be allowed to exercise their democratic freedoms without intimidation and threats. “Even if they use force, Kenyans are not ready for that, which is why they rebelled in Juja and other areas, ” Cherargei said. Cheptiret MCA Gilbert Tenai said the loss by jubilee in Juja and Bonchari should be a lesson to President Kenyatta ahead of next year’s elections. “It’s a clear sign that Kenyans are not ready to have leaders forced on them. Let the people decide on what they want,” Tenai said. “Even the BBI has collapsed because it was not about Kenyans but the interests of some individuals.”   Edited by Kiilu Damaris