A farmhand who killed his employer in 1998 by hitting him on the head and throwing him in a well has been set free by the High Court after spending 22 years in jail. Charles Kariuki was convicted and sentenced to death for the murder of David Njoroge, a meat inspector within Nyandarua, on June 10, 1998. Kariuki appealed against the sentence. The case was dismissed by the Court of Appeal, but the sentence was later commuted to life imprisonment. Kariuki again sought to have the sentence mitigated. He submitted that he had been in custody for 22 years and had learnt valuable lifelong lessons. He further said that having been a first offender, the court ought to consider his application favourably. While releasing him on April 29, Justice Hillary Chemitei ruled that he had considered the circumstances of the case and the 22 years Kariuki had served in custody. He said the 22-year jail punishment was sufficient. The judge said it was necessary to give Kariuki another chance to pick up the pieces of his life. He was 25 at the time of the offence. “In the premises, the application is hereby allowed, the sentence of life imprisonment is set aside. The appellant is hereby set free unless lawfully held,” the judge ruled. The judge said Kariuki will be subjected to one-year probation from the date of his release at a relevant county office. During the trial, the prosecution said Kariuki was employed by Njoroge as a farmhand. Njoroge was married to Catherine Njeri, a livestock technician with Ol Joro Orok Farmers Training Centre. They were married for 16 years and had four children. The couple separated on May 20, 1998, after quarrelling over chicken feed. Kariuki continued living with Njoroge after the wife and children left the matrimonial home in Gatimu village. The court heard that on the evening of June 9, 1998, Njoroge was seen by Joseph Wanjagi and Leah Wangechi but was never seen again. Relatives and the neighbours started looking for Njoroge after he had disappeared for one week. John Karanja, Njoroge's brother, went to the home and found Kariuki. He told Karanja that Njoroge had gone on a safari. The matter was reported to the police and investigations commenced under the directions of Inspector Sarah Wanjiku. Detectives discovered Njoroge's body in a well within his home. A postmortem conducted showed he had suffered brain damage due to severe head injury. Kariuki disappeared from Njoroge's home as investigations proceeded and was treated as a suspect alongside Njeri. He was traced to Nyeri and upon his arrest helped the police recover several of Njoroge's items. Kariuki also confessed in police custody that he had killed Njoroge. He recanted the confession after the trial. In the statement, he had said he invited Kahinga and Joseph Muchai to help him demand his pay from Njoroge. He told them he would kill his employer if he didn't pay up. Njoroge came home at 9pm and Kariuki demanded his salary to no avail. Kariuki then took a hammer and hit Njoroge twice on the head. He fell down and never talked again. Kariuki took Sh3,500 from Njoroge's pockets and gave Kahinga and Muchai Sh100 each.  The three then put the body in a sack and polythene paper. They wrapped it and tied it with ropes and carried him in a wheelbarrow. The friends threw the body into a well and threw stones onto it to prevent the body from floating. Kariuki then took Njoroge's briefcase, camera, watch, radio, a hurricane lamp and a bicycle. He cleaned the house, took Njoroge's suits, shoes, two shirts and house keys and threw them into a pit latrine to cover up the offence. When put to his defence, Kariuki denied the charge and said it was Njeri who had told him that Njoroge had gone on a safari. He said  his aunt was sick and so he asked Njeri to give him Sh1,000 so that he could go and see her. The prosecution called 16 witnesses, leading to Kariuki's conviction.  (edited by o. owino) 