Uasin Gishu county wants to defy Covid-19 effects on the economy by meeting its target to collect Sh1.2 billion as internal revenue during the 2020/21 financial year ending in June. The county had by last week collected Sh890 million and officials say they are now targeting Sh1.5 billion including expected payments of pending land rates by residents. County director for revenue management Jonah Lamai says they are projecting to realize a collection by the end of the financial year because of pending payments from markets, stalls and housing points. He spoke at the county headquarters. “We are urging residents to pay the revenue due to the county government so that we can, in turn, offer them the services they deserve,” Lamai said. Governor Jackson Mandago has urged the officers to ensure they meet the revenue collection targets this year. The county is now threatening severe action against residents who have defaulted in paying more than Sh1.2 billion accumulated land rates. County executive for lands Nelson Maritim says although the governor had offered 100 per cent waiver on interests and charges on land rates, the defaulters had failed to clear the pending rates. Maritim says at the expiry of the waiver period on June 31 the county would move to enforce the law against them. The county issued demand notices to landowners within the Eldoret Municipality to pay the pending rates before the expiry of the waiver period. Maritim said since the governor announced the waiver, residents had not heeded to calls to pay so that they benefit from the waiver. “As soon as we are done with the municipality, we will visit other townships because we want landowners in all areas to comply,” Maritim said. He warned that upon the expiry of the waiver period, all outstanding penalties and interest will be reinstated. “If you cannot pay your rates before June 30, we will come for you and the consequences will be dire,” Maritim said. Among the consequences, he said the county would not issue business permits to businesses on plots whose owners have not cleared pending rates. “We also will clamp the buildings and sell the property as per the law,” he said. A section of the business community sued the county government to stop its plan to review the land rates upwards. Mandago has directed that those who sued the county should not benefit from the waiver offer.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris