Migori Governor Okoth Obado and his political nemesis Senator Ochillo Ayacko have differed over the court ruling on consolidated petitions against the Building Bridges Initiative push to amend the Constitution. While Obado celebrated the decision, terming the court and the judges that gave the verdict as heroes, Ayacko said the decision was a move by the Judiciary to hit back on President Uhuru Kenyatta. The two leaders have been political rivals from the last general elections when they both vied for the same governor post. Speaking during the funeral of Mzee Edward Okoth in Suna West constituency on Friday, Obado termed the decision as a special gift to Kenyans during the Eid Mubarak celebrations and showed that the amendment was not popular. “Those judges are heroes, they showed the world and Kenyans that while those who have been against the process like us have been intimidated, there are those who will stand up for the truth,” Obado said. He said the decision to amend the constitution was only done by two people, Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga who took their private handshake and forced it upon Kenyans. “God has heard our prayers as we have constantly said the process is flawed, it was bad and we have been vindicated,” Obado said. Obado recently decamped from the ODM party which sponsored him in his second term to the People Democratic Party (PDP) which has set out to upset Raila as the Luo regional political kingpin. But speaking at Manyatta village in Awendo constituency during the burial of journalist Philip Ochieng’, Ayacko said the court decision was shocking insisting as Raila supporters and the ODM party “they will put their heads together to navigate the hiccup.” “This move to change the Constitution is people driven and won’t be affected by five people in court who are out to settle their agenda with Kenyatta over wrangles between the president and judiciary,” he said. Ayacko said the change was going to give the people power to have a voice on their development agenda through the ward funds. “We will still work to reform the country. The courts have gotten into politics and revisted their dislike with the President,” Ayacko said. The senator’s sentiment was shared by Rongo MP Paul Abuor who said they will appeal the decision by the court and ensure the country has a referendum by September.