Farmers in 20 wards in Kiambu county have benefitted from Sh49.3 million to boost their dairy, banana, indigenous chicken and Irish potato farming businesses. Governor James Nyoro said on Monday that the money will benefit community-driven development committees and producer organisations. The programme is being undertaken through the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project (NARIGP), a national government initiative funded by the World Bank. "Apart from the boost from our development partners, the county government has allocated Sh1.2 billion to improve agriculture within the county," he said. Nyoro said farmers are in dire need of seeds and fertilisers provided by the county government, but his administration has been hit by financial challenges since the Treasury has not yet released funds. "We have changed tack by using money meant for another month for farmers to get seeds and fertilisers on time," he said. Nyoro said the county government spent Sh56 million to buy maize, bean seeds and fertilisers. He said the county has continued to create producer organisations and small farmers groups that will eventually be producer organisations. "CDDCs and producer organisations are formed by farmers in common interest groups to manage their resources and help with training and marketing of produce. Some 366 out of 795 approved common interest groups have been funded so far," Nyoro said. Agriculture executive Joseph Kamau said the NARIGP programme has cumulatively disbursed Sh251 million to farmers since its inception. "The programme covers five subcounties and other wards that are not benefitting from the NARIGP funding and are benefitting from agricultural projects supported by the county government," he said. Kamau said the final stage of NARIGP project is multi-community investments – Kamwamba irrigation project to support potato value chain and Limuru dairy to supporting the milk value chain. "This is a five-year project that is expected to end late next year and all proposals approved by the World Bank would be supported and completed," Kamau said. Nyoro said this is the fourth time farmer groups have received financing from the programme. He encouraged more farmers to form groups so they can benefit. To complement the programme, the Kiambu government has started giving farmers kienyeji chickens and construction of an animal feeds plant, the governor said.