Migori Governor Okoth Obado and his People's Democratic Party have denied removing ODM legislators from leadership positions. They denied on Thursday that they were behind the changes that strengthened Obado's grip on Wednesday. Obado and ODM chief Raila Odinga are at loggerheads. Obado ditched ODM for PDP. Earlier, ODM wanted to expel Obado. Obado, through his director of political affairs Denis Orero, denied claims the governor had instigated the changes of Raila's men. A number of MCAs on Thursday also denied the claims. “We can categorically say neither the governor nor PDP members took part in the changes of the majority leadership in the assembly. It's sad some MCAs dragged us into their move," Orero said. New Majority leader Nestory Owiyo (West Sakwa) and Majority Whip Shadrack Nyawade (East Kamagambo) led other MCAs in denying a plot to remove ODM men. “We were elected unanimously, the process was done in the precincts and within the ODM party. It is sad our rivals called us PDP sympathisers,” Owiyo said. Nyawade said all ODM legislators had several meetings to make the changes and said PDP and Obado should not be dragged into it. “We have never met with PDP or with the governor in effecting the change, we can say the decision was done by ODM members,” Nyawade said. Bukira East MCA and Deputy Speaker Mathews Chacha (North Kanyamkago), MCA George Omamba and Masaba MCA Abedi Maroa said the PDP allegations are only propaganda. On Wednesday, Speaker Boaz Okoth announced changes that replaced South Sakwa MCA Ouma Ngoro as the majority leader and South Kamagambo MCA Kevins Keke as the majority whip. “Out of 41 MCAs from the majority ODM party, 27 signed for the removal of the two,” Okoth said in a sitting on Wednesday afternoon. But immediately after the changes, Keke and Ngoro led several MCAs to rubbish the decision to make the changes as a move to institute leadership sympathetic to PDP and Governor Obado. “We only heard of this decision on Wednesday morning. We were never involved and  can categorically say this decision has been pushed through by MCAs  sympathetic to PDP,” Ngoro said. Keke said they will resist the changes by all avenues until they are exhausted and will never allow the assembly to be used to propagate the PDP agenda in Migori. (Edited by V. Graham)