A group of residents in Nyandarua headquarters, Ol Kalou, engaged police in running battles on Tuesday after they broke a gate to the local assembly premises, ostensibly to get access for embattled Speaker Ndegwa Wahome. The residents were agitated when Wahome, who was recently re-installed by the High Court in Nakuru, was denied access to the Assembly by armed police officers. They broke the gate in the presence of the police, allowing the speaker in, a move that prompted the police to throw tear gas canisters and shoot in the air to disperse the irate mob. The drama was expected as Ndegwa vowed to resume office to conduct House business which has stalled for close to five months since December last year when his impeachment circus started. The speaker has been impeached a record four times with the last one being in contempt of court as MCAs opposed to his continued tenure vowed to do everything to keep him out of office. Tuesday was the third time that Wahome was barred from entering office despite the High Court in Nakuru reinstating him late last month. He alleged that Nyandarua County was being run by "goons" who had no regard for court orders. Wahome appealed to President Uhuru Kenyatta to intervene and solve the prolonged infighting in Nyandarua leadership claiming that it was consuming vital time that would have been spent on development. “Nothing has been moving since December as senior people in the county use proxies to undermine me, I am still the substantive Speaker and they can do nothing about it,” he said. However, MCAs opposed to the Speaker led by Majority Leader, Wambugu King’ori said County Assembly business was going on as usual. Addressing a pressing conference after the chaos, King’ori said the Assembly "cannot be ruled by court orders" yet Wahome did not have the numbers. Five MCAs allied to Wahome, among them Gatimu Ward County Representative, Kieru Wahome were also barred from entering the precincts. Among the issues on Wahome’s to do list were planning for the swearing in of Rurii MCA elect, Gitaiga Miraya who was elected on a United Democratic Alliance ticket. One of the MCAs supporting him also wanted to table an impeachment motion against Governor Francis Kimemia over alleged corruption. On May 2, the estranged Speaker whose only refuge for the past four months has been the courts, claimed that his life was in danger. He claimed that there were plans to assassinate him after a group of well clad men stole the mace at the assembly.