 Learners in primary and secondary schools will begin reporting back to school on Monday for the third term of 2020 academic year that was largely disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic. The term is part of the stretch to recover lost time after schools were closed for nine months last year. Covid-19 infection rate has declined to 6.3 percent, a positivity rate that is considered safe for reopening of schools. The term will run until July 16 when learners will take a week-long break. Learners expected to report back to their schools are those in PP1 and PP2, Grade 1 – 3, Standard 5 – 7, and Form 1 to Form 3. Over 140,000 teachers have been vaccinated. Stakeholders said the vaccination was a milestone in ensuring schools are safe. Education CS George Magoha on Friday said the vaccination process will enable schools to remain open in the midst of the pandemic. Teachers and students will continue to observe Covid-19 protocols including wearing of face masks. However, maintaining social distance still remains a major challenge in most schools. Magoha in January admitted that public schools could not conform to social distancing guidelines and will heavily rely on face masks to prevent infections. On Friday, the CS announced that the ministry had released Sh7.5 billion to secondary schools in readiness for reopening. The funds will be used to prepare utilities necessary for schools to adhere to safety protocols to curb the spread of Covid-19. Managers will set up handwashing points, buy thermo guns and install fittings for proper classroom and dormitory ventilation. The cash is for secondary schools. Funds for primary schools are yet to be released. “They will have to wait a bit longer,” Magoha said on Friday. Last term, the government sent half the allocation to secondary schools although primary schools got their full allocations. Some private schools had directed parents to prepare their Grade 4 learners for reopening. But Magoha on Friday said Grade 4 learners will remain at home given that they had already covered their third term of the 2020 academic year. Grade 4 learners were part of the first batch of students, including KCPE and KCSE candidates who reopened in October last year during the phased resumption of learning. “I wish to emphasise that Grade 4 learners will remain at home until July 26, 2021 when schools will open for the first term of the 2021 academic calendar,” Magoha said on Friday He was speaking at Starehe Boys Centre during the close of the KCSE marking exercise that began three weeks ago. On Friday, private schools representatives Mutheu Kasanga and Jane Mwangi said they will adhere to the directive.  Edited by P.O