The Garissa administration has urged donors running programmes in the county to liaise with ward planning committees to serve residents better. Environment and Energy executive Habon Maalim urged partners to support the administration in creating the committees in wards without them. Maalim on Saturday told stakeholders during a workshop to also help form development plans in 15 wards where none exist. "Garissa county is vast, and the resources and expertise are limited. Our partners need to chip in and help in the formation of these important grassroots units which are key in realising devolution and development at the lowest levels," she said. The planning committees streamline governance by raising issues affecting the wards. These include peace and cohesion, land, development, environment, water, education and resource allocation. The committees' recommendations are taken to the county level to help shape the decisions at the top. In turn, they help mitigate against a waste of resources and impromptu development since every decision is guided by the ward development plan. Mercy Corps, which has supported the formation of three ward committees in Banane, Bura and Masalani unveiled a local partner called Road International Organisation to carry out a similar drive in Balambala and Waberi wards. The project is implemented under a collaboration of the county government and the LMS-Mercy Corps program. Siyat Moge, the Mercy Corps county program Coordinator, said the mandate of its LMS programme was to enhance the capacity of the local partners as they drive such initiatives in future. He thanked the county government for creating an environment conducive to achieving their milestones. During the event, the county executive commended Mercy Corps for its approach to addressing community issues. "My department took the lead in the formation of the ward-based development committees and I will tell you getting the community priorities through these process was a great lesson," she said. Deputy speaker Mohamud Abass and Balambala MCA Aden Abaile expressed optimism the new units would improve the quality of lives for their people. Abass noted the programme implements a poverty graduation model where women get grants to start-up businesses. "Having the ward plan is a twofold success to the people of Waberi," he added. Bura Abdullahi Omar said his ward was the pioneer at ward-based planning as well as on the poverty graduation model. He expressed hope that all the 30 wards in Garissa would each have their own programme. County directors Mohamed Sahal (donor coordination), Haret Hambe (livestock), Osman Aden (water) and Patrick  Okello (economic planning) were present. 