“You cannot survive in this business if you obey the law,” Andrew Mwatabu, a matatu owner, responds when asked why public transport operators are not complying with capacity limits intended to control the spread of Covid-19. “The cost of fuel is high and keeps rising. The driver and conductor must get paid. Then there are county government fees and the police to deal with every single day. I need money for insurance and maintenance of the vehicle. If I carry the maximum legal limit of passengers, I will not make enough money for all those needs and I would be out of business,” Mwatabu narrates. His vehicle carries passengers and goods on routes in Taita Taveta county. Following the outbreak of Covid-19, the government decreed that all public service vehicles carry just 60 per cent of their normal capacity. A 14-seater vehicle would be limited to eight passengers. Using the same formula, a 33-seater minibus should carry 20 people. In reality, matatu operators are loading their vehicles to their usual capacities, sometimes beyond that. Hand sanitisers and regular disinfection have long been discarded as they are viewed as extra expenses. The economic downturn brought about by Covid-19 pushed matatu operators into hard times, further pressing them to break traffic laws just to break even. The cessation of movement between the five counties of Nairobi, Machakos, Kiambu, Nakuru and Kajiado and the rest of the country made the situation very difficult for public transport operators. The cessation of movement was lifted on Labour Day but its effects will linger for a while. “There aren’t enough passengers these days. It is possible to sit at the matatu terminus all day before the vehicle fills up. That is why we have to overload whenever we are on the road to meet our daily cash targets," Mwatabu says. Stiff competition among players in the public transport sector prevents them from raising fares to match the circumstances. Boda Boda, tuk-tuks and taxis are all competing with matatus for passengers. On major highways, truck drivers are making money on the side by carrying paying passengers in their cabins. With so many options available to customers, matatu operators cannot increase their fares as they wish. That's why they must pack in as many passengers as possible to maximise revenue. A sharp rise in the price of fuel in February and March intensified the pressure on matatu operators. The price of petrol rose by Sh15 per litre during those two months, while diesel went up by Sh11 per litre. Luckily for transporters, a much-feared price increase in April did not happen. A study carried out in Kenya in 2014 and published by the Oxford University Press found that the dangerous habits of matatu drivers are caused by “financial pressures and excessive levels of competition”. “Corruption of traffic police appears to be a major barrier to improving road safety, as road safety legislation is not enforced, and bribery has become the cultural norm,” the authors Nicolas Raynor and Tolib Mirzoev wrote. This story first appeared on the digital magazine Star Sasa, accessible on Sundays for Sh10 by dialling *550*3#