Word doing the rounds that some leaders from Luo Nyanza have been holding meetings in town with the aim of joining Tangatanga is nothing to worry about. The Constitution allows freedom to associate and assemble, but this association is dead even before they hatch any meaningful plan. It is possible that the people involved think that by associating with Tangatanga they will diminish Raila Odinga's support base, especially in Western. They should prepare for a rude shock. Our people are well informed and have deliberately decided to support our party leader Raila Amolo Odinga. These are not the first such meetings. Sadly, though, participants have ended up becoming political casualties contrary to their expectations. This will not be the first time such individuals will be thrown into political dustbins. Why people do not learn from the past still baffles me. Raila Odinga remains our preferred bet as the people of Kenya if we want to turn around our economy. He is the only leader who has seen it all and who has a clear blueprint on where he wants Kenya to be. Anyone else with a contrary opinion is entitled to it. Our focus as the people of Kenya is to pass and implement the Building Bridges Initiative Bill since it contains clauses that seek to address certain historical injustices that have bedevilled this country for far too long. Anything else, including such meetings and associations, are only indicators of people who are self-seeking and politically myopic or, simply put, attention seekers. The Tangatanga wing of Jubelee has nothing to offer Kenyans and will be rejected en masse. With the looming elections, many politicians will associate with and join various political formations. As such, it is the right of every person to use their political space well. However, there will be a problem when these associations target the People's President's support base. This will be political suicide. As the party leader, he remains the only leader who can hold discussions and decide which political formations we can work with ahead of next year's general election. Anyone trying to fit into that show must rethink their strategy. Next year's election must leave us united and focussed on rebuilding the economy. The nominated Senator spoke to the Star