Talanta head coach Ken Kenyatta has sensationally claimed that the National Super League is more competitive than the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. Kenyatta made the remarks on Tuesday ahead of their crunch tie against Migori Youth at Ruaraka this afternoon. The tactician has tipped their opponents to shed off their underdog tag and give them a run for their money. "I know Migori are not in a very good position so far but it would be fatal to underrate them heading into the match. You have to understand that NSL is a very tough league, even tougher than the country's top tier and as such winning against any team isn't that easy, regardless of their position in the league," said Kenyatta. "Every team is a threat and we are viewing every match as a final match." The veteran tactician, who guided taxmen Ushuru to the Kenyan Premier League has expressed a desire to have another bite at the top tier but says he'll have to put his house in order first after the long break occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. "Covid-19 affected the league and all teams couldn't train well. We are trying to bring our players back to where we were before the pandemic struck," said Kenyatta. On his part, Migori Youth head coach Kevin Oluoch said he is not experiencing sleepless nights over the clash. Oluoch reiterated their desire to halt Kenyatta's impressive run this season. "Talanta is just like any other team. They are quite beatable as much as we respect them as worthy opponents," said Oluoch. Oluoch has, however, expressed injury concerns ahead of the tie, saying that the absence of some of his key players might slow them a bit. "Besides two of my key players being ruled out through injuries, we also got a red card in our last match and that is cause for concern given we only have 22 players in the entire squad," said Oluoch. He remains optimistic that the return of his former skipper, Clifford Ouma, might inject life into the side that wrapped up last season in sixth position to miss out on promotion. "Ouma was meant to join Football Kenya Federation Premier League side, Mathare United but the deal fell through and so, he's back with us," he added. Talanta sit pretty at the summit of the log with 35 points, same as Kenya Police, but with a superior goal difference. Migori are currently 15th on the log and they are likely to ascend to 11th if they manage to collect maximum points in today's encounter. 