The Council of Governors has welcomed the step taken by President Uhuru Kenyatta that was announced on Labour Day to lift the cessation of movement out and into the five zoned counties. In a statement on Wednesday, CoG chairperson Governor Martin Wambora said that Kenyans now have an opportunity to inject extra time into their businesses which will, in turn, boost the economy. The CoG chair urged Kenyans to take personal in preventing further spread of the virus and directed traders not to attend to the customers who do not have masks. “All businesses are herewith directed not to provide any service to anyone who is not wearing a mask,” Wambora said. Wambora has urged members of the public to continue exercising strict caution as the country continues to battle with the third wave of the pandemic, which he said is very lethal. He said that despite a concerted effort by the National and County Governments, some places of worship and the matatu sector continue to disregard the Covid-19 guidelines. The governor said that there have been 6,652 additional isolation beds in 33 counties, 327 ICU beds, and 156 HDU beds. He also said that the uptake of the Covid-19 vaccine has been positive in recent weeks and anticipates that vaccination of the target population for phase one will be achieved in the coming weeks. The Embu governor added that county governments have ensured that testing at border points is undertaken and that 660 tests have been conducted in the Namanga - Kajiado border this week. “County Governments will ensure that all the border points are able to conduct testing so as to stem the spread of the virus. We urge the Ministry of health to expedite the provision of testing kits to enable Counties upscale testing,” he said. Also, an influx of medical waste particularly from the used PPE kits that are disposed of in the dumpsites has been identified as hazardous waste which should be treated in hospitals and disposed of in a safer manner “To address the issue, County Governments have strengthened enforcement through County Environmental Inspectors to ensure integrated waste management systems are adhered to thereby limiting waste influx in undesignated areas and landfills,” he said.