Marakwet West MP William Kipsang has raised questions over the missing Sh650 million given by the government as compensation to help reconstruct six community projects. The projects demolished to pave way for Chebara Dam in Elgeyo Marakwet. Reconstruction of the relocated community projects stalled less than halfway to completion yet all the money allocated went missing Chebara dam which cost more than Sh1.5 billion was commissioned in 1999 and is the main water source for Eldoret town. The stalled community projects affected the lives of more than 3,000 people. The projects include Chebara boys and Chebera boys Secondary schools, Chebera primary school, Chebara AIC church, Chebara Polytechnic and Kaptomut primary school. “These community projects were brought down to create space for Chebara dam and they were to be reconstructed at the new sites for use by the community but to date, our people are still waiting”,  Kisang said. He said they have tried all ways to resolve the matter and have the projects completed but the long-standing row over the missing money remains unresolved. “I will not give up the fight for my people to benefit from the projects. If this time nothing is done I will come up with the issue in parliament and fight on until when my people get back the community projects”, Kisang said. In 2011 the Ministry of Water gave out the Sh650 million which was given to contractors but work stalled on the projects amid graft claims and kickbacks involving some powerful individuals from the region. In 2015 Kisang approached the Ministry of Water for extra funding to complete the projects and they agreed to give another Sh150 million. The ministry released the first allocation of Sh77.5 million to its agency the Lake Victoria North Water Services Board to oversee the completion of the projects. The board was in the process of tendering afresh for new companies to complete the projects but the initial construction firms which had been contracted before the community projects stalled went to court and blocked any progress. Kisang said all stakeholders in the projects have been discussing the way forward and the government has advised that the Sh77.5 million be given to the Ministry of Education to complete work on the stalled schools. “The money is yet to be released and if they don’t do so we will use parliament and other means to fight for our right as residents ”, Kisang said. He said the community has suffered following the non-completion of the projects and an audit on the collapse projects revealed how the money was diverted by some individuals at the expense of the community. The dam was put up through a loan from the German government to supply water to Eldoret town. The Kenyan government gave the Sh650 million for compensation for families displaced and the relocation of schools. Governor Alex Tolgos said the people were never properly compensated and the projects have stalled.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris