 Campaigns for the Bonchari parliamentary seat has entered the homestretch, with candidates in last-minute efforts to woo voters ahead of Tuesday's election. At least 52,600 registered voters are expected to participate in the by-election scheduled for May 18 to pick their MP from a pool of 13 candidates that were cleared by IEBC. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission has gazetted the Suneka CDF Hall as the official tallying centre, ending speculations of a plan to move it to Igonga Secondary School. The electoral agency said all campaigns should end on Saturday to pave way for logistical preparations by the commission ahead of the voting day. Some national bigwigs and key party leaders have stayed away from the campaign trail, leaving their troops to take charge of the vote-hunting mission. The battle is now shaping into a three-horse race as campaigns enter the last 48 hours. Allies of President Uhuru Kenyatta and his handshake partner Raila Odinga have locked horns over the campaigns. Deputy President William Ruto is also seeking to make inroads in Kisii and the larger Gusiiland that also included neighbouring Nyamira county. Uhuru's Jubilee Party is fronting former MP Zepedeo Opore while ODM is rallying behind former Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority director-general Pavel Oimeke. The DP Ruto-backed United Democratic Alliance has fronted Teresa Bitutu, the widow of MP John Oroo Oyioka who died three months ago. Analysts say the race is between Oimeke, Opore and Bitutu with the winner expected to serve for barely 13 months before next year's general election. The short term has not snuffed the appetite out of politicians who are no longer keen on pulling all the stops to win the by-election, with candidates saying they are ready to utilise the time left to serve the people of Bonchari. The leading candidates have been traversing the constituency in scaled down group meetings due to the tough Ministry of Health regulations to curb the spread of Covid-19. Many are conducting door-to-door campaigns. The trio of Oimeke, Bitutu and Opore has also deployed heavy digital campaigns on social media platforms as well as electronic media especially those targeting speakers of the Abagusii language. For instance, in the last two weeks, local radio stations have hosted the politicians on live talk shows where they have had an opportunity to sell their policies and ideas to the electorate. Issues in the campaigns have ranged from addressing road networks, increasing CDF funds for education to help children from needy families and insecurity. Some of the promises being made include pushing and working with the county government to establish a sugar cane factory and a plant targeting the banana industry. “It is clear that the people of Bonchari want change. They are tired of the old way of doing things the same way. I am the solution to the challenges our people face,” Oimeke told the Star.  The ex-corporate executive is banking on his age, 47, and grassroots mobilisation skills as well as the many projects he had initiated to turn the tables on his main rivals. Opore says his record when he served as MP for two terms speaks for itself. “The leadership of the constituency requires someone who has the ability to work in harmony with the national government. I hope our people have seen the need to partner with the Jubilee government to spur growth,” Opore said. Opore, 74, served as Bonchari MP from 1997-2002 on a Kanu ticket and between 2002-2007 on a Ford People ticket. He lost to Charles Onyancha in the 2007 polls. Bitutu who is being backed by allies of Ruto told the Star that she deserves the opportunity to complete the 'good' work started by her late husband. “I worked closely with my husband when he was alive. The people of Bonchari value the work he covered especially in the education sector. I am ready to complete the job,” she said. Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi and South Mugirango MP Silvanus Osoro are leading the UDA team campaigning for Bitutu. Governor James Ongwae, Woman Representative Janet Ong'era and ODM National Treasurer Timothy Bosire are leading the ODM brigade. The team is expected to intensify campaigns in Bonchari on Friday and Saturday with some national officials set to land there for the final leg of campaigns. There have been claims that members of the provincial administration and senior government officials from the region have been deployed to campaign for Opore. The by-election will also be influenced by voting patterns among sub-clans within the larger Bonchari. Riana sub-clan is the largest voting bloc with 14,715 registered votes followed by Bomorenda with 14,532 registered voters. Bogiakumu has 14,338 registered voters while Bomariba has over 9,000 voters according to the official IEBC register. Some of the other candidates cleared include Keraa Mary Sally Otara (United Green Movement), Erick Oigo (National Reconstruction Alliance), David Ogega (Kenya Social Congress) and Margret Gesare Nyabuto (Maendeleo Chapchap). Others are Kevin Mosomi (Party of Democracy Unity), Charles Mogaka (Progressive Party of Kenya), Jonah Ondieki (The New Democrats), Jeremiah Matagaro (Agano Party), Paul Matagaro (Mwangaza party) and Victor Omanwa (Party of Economic Democracy).  Edited by P.O