People living with HIV have a 78 per cent higher risk of dying from Covid-19 if they catch the virus, according to new data. Researchers assessed data of 21 million participants in Africa, North America, Europe and Asia. They found that HIV positive people had a 24 per cent higher risk of catching the SARS-CoV-2 (the virus that causes Covid-19) and a 78 per cent higher risk of Covid-related death than people without HIV. This is the first major study to make such a conclusion. Although it was always known people living with HIV were more vulnerable, the level of risk had not been quantified. The findings are published in the Scientific Reports journal. The study also raises concern that HIV infection weakens people's immune response even to vaccines. "People living with HIV should be followed up after vaccination, with antibody and T-cell activity measured when possible, to ensure they mount a sufficient immune response to prevent cases of severe Covid-19," the researchers advised. In Kenya, people living with HIV were not prioritised in the current Covid-19 vaccination drive. Kenya has about 1.5 million people living with HIV, according to the Ministry of Health. “We expect when more vaccines come those living with HIV can be given priority, because they are not only at a higher risk of infection, but also of severe disease,” said James Kamau, head of Kenya Treatment Access Movement, a patient’s lobby. The study’s lead researcher Dr Paddy Ssentongo, an assistant professor at Penn State's Center for Neural Engineering, said previous studies were inconclusive on whether or not HIV is a risk factor for susceptibility to infection and poor outcomes in populations with Covid-19. "This is because a vast majority of people living with HIV/Aids are on ART (antiretroviral therapy), some of which have been used experimentally to treat Covid-19," he explained in a news release. About 66 per cent of the study participants were men, with a median age of 56. At least 96 per cent of those with HIV were on antiretroviral therapy. "Our findings support the current Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidance to prioritise persons living with HIV to receive a Covid-19 vaccine,” Vernon Chinchilli, a researcher at the Penn State's centre, said in the news release. The umbrella lobby for people with HIV in Kenya, Nephak, said the findings show the current ARVs impasse with USAID should be resolved. Last week, Council of Governors chairman Martin Wambora announced that the CoG had asked counties and health facilities with more stocks to share with those that have low or no stocks. “Apart from the update by the CoG chair, there has never been any update,” says Nelson Otuoma, head of Nephak. “This past week, over 100 organisations comprising, NGOs, FBOs, and networks of PLHIV, KPs and AYP sent a letter to the CS Health, Mutahi Kagwe calling for the active and meaningful involvement of PLHIV in the that touch their lives,” he added.