An inmate serving a life sentence at the Naivasha prison and a key witness in a murder case has asked for protection. Joseph Munyiri says that his life is in danger as the murder case involves two warders who worked in the penal institution. Munyiri has called on the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights to intervene so that he can be transferred from the prison. In the case, warders Dennis Wandati and Obadiah Meriti have been charged with the murder of Simon Nduro Gitahi. The two are accused of Killing Nduro on June 15, 2019 by beating him. They were interdicted and are out on bond. Speaking through a relative, Muiru said that his life was in danger as he was considered a common enemy by former colleagues of the warders. He said that he had been oppressed in the prison ahead of the case, with calls to change his statement which incriminates the two warders in the murder. “We have spoken to Muiru as a family and he says that he fears for his life due to the murder case that was set to start last week but was postponed to next month,” said the family member. The relative called on the Kenya National Commission on Human Rights to visit the inmate and get more information from him. “All that he is asking for is a transfer from the prison or to be placed under the witness protection programme as he might lose his life,” the relative said. Officer in charge of Naivasha prison Hassan Tari told the Star by phone that the issue had not been raised with his office. Tari said that he would interrogate the inmate as the allegations levelled against the warders were serious and deserved deeper investigations. “The two officers involved in the case have been interdicted but we shall investigate this case with a view of getting the truth,” he said. The KNCHR interviewed warders and inmates after Nduro's death and documents massive violations of his rights. “After being assaulted the inmate was taken to the segregation block without being given medical attention and he died at the Prison and not on his way to the hospital as it was alleged by the officers,” reads the report in part.  