ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi has started talks with a section of Mt Kenya leaders in readiness for next year's general election. Mudavadi on Friday met former MPs as he launched a charm offensive to win over the region, which, according to IEBC figures, had about five million registered voters during the 2017 general election. Of this, Central had 2.9 million, while Nakuru and Mt Kenya East counties accounted for the rest. Mudavadi termed it important for Kenyans to understand that they have issues that unite them in their diversity. "It is clear that I'm seeking the mandate of Kenyans to occupy the presidency through a democratic process,” he said, adding that the country needs to have one vision despite having 47 counties. He said this is the only way to rid it of its corrosive ethnic politics. The leaders advised Mudavadi of what he ought to do to improve his rating in the region. Former Gatanga MP Humphrey Njuguna later said Mudavadi asked for their support as they deliberated on national leadership. He said the Mt Kenya community is open to anybody ready to have a similar discussion. “We will continue with this conversation because we think he is a leader worth his salt. We think, as a region, we should consider him among other leaders,” Njuguna said, noting that the region will play a key role in the transition to the next administration. Mudavadi is one of the four principals of the One Kenya Alliance that was formed in March. The others are Wiper Democratic Movement leader Kalonzo Musyoka, Ford Kenya leader Moses Wetang'ula and Kanu chairman Gideon Moi. He said the main objective of the alliance is to have a secure country that is well-governed and provides jobs for its citizenry. “As leaders, we have a responsibility to demonstrate that there is hope in positive politics. We must have commonality on matters of the economy, healthcare, education and other national issues,” he said. “We came to consult our brothers and sisters from this region so that we can develop our party towards that direction.” Mudavadi, however, noted that the alliance is still being developed as some of the member parties are affiliates of other alliances. "Let’s not imagine that... one Kenya alliance is a done deal. We are here because we want to broaden the space and have more people working towards a better Kenya,” he said. He said he met the leaders as an individual and not on behalf of the Luhya community but continued that his ethnic group has always led in patriotic voting by supporting different presidential candidates. Mudavadi said Luhyas vote for the candidates they believe in regardless of ethnic background. This should be seen as a positive thing that people can vote for substance and the vision presented by a leader, he said. “That is the common vision we are talking about—that we do not have to have many visions because we are diverse. Provided the vision is right, that is what Kenyans should vote for,” he said. Kakamega senator Cleophas Malala who accompanied the ANC boss said the party is keen on marketing him in the Mt Kenya region. He rooted for him to free Kenyans from the chains of impoverishment. “We know Mt Kenya people are business people who depend on a good economy and we are selling Mudavadi knowing that he will boost the economy,” he said. Also in tow was Nairobi senator Johnson Sakaja, who said the country is at a place where its people need to listen to one another more and ditch politics of insults for issue-based conversations. Kenyans want the same thing and that is to go about their lives peacefully while sufficiently making a living, Sakaja said.