Three top Kisumu health officials have been arrested following the disappearance of mosquito nets worth Sh6.8 million. Head of malaria programme and the county coordinator reported to police on Thursday that nets were missing from Nyang'ande and Rabuor subcounty hospitals. Nyang'ande had lost 181 bales of mosquito nets and another 160 were missing from Rabuor. One bale carries 50 mosquito nets. The nets were meant for distribution to households in Nyando subcounty. Kisumu county police commander Samuel Anampiu said police are also looking for the officer in charge of Rabuor subcounty hospital. Detectives are also pursuing a suspect called Samuel Owino who is  believed to be the mastermind of the nets' theft. On Thursday morning, agitated residents of Rabuor stormed the hospital demanding to be issued with the nets. The health management team at Rabuor hospital were invited to attend an urgent meeting on Thursday to discuss the loss of nets. The meeting was attended by the county malaria coordinator who sought answers by midday on Thursday. A nurse at the hospital told the Star on condition of anonymity that the hospital management team and board must clear anything to leave the facility. Such authorisation must be captured in meeting minutes. "We cannot tell when the nets were delivered to the hospital and the persons who received them. The nursing officer and the pharmacist are the persons who are required to receive the consignment," the nurse said. A source at Rabuor hospital said that when staff left for home on Wednesday evening, the nets were there. "We have raised concerns over the disappearance of items at the hospital, but the suspects are usually covered by our bosses at the county headquarters," the source said. Another source said that the nets were ferried from the facility using the hospital ambulance to an unknown destination on Sunday. More nets were later sneaked out on Monday night. An officer at the hospital who was on leave was allegedly spotted at the hospital that day. Police said on Friday that he is among those listed as suspects. Two weeks ago, police arrested a pharmacist at Rabuor subcounty hospital over disappearance of antimalarial drugs. On Friday, the county police commander said the suspects will be arraigned once investigations are completed.  (edited by o. owino)