Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria has asked county governments to consider benchmarking with each other for better delivery of services to Kenyans. The governor said all the 47 counties thrive in different areas, hence by learning from each other, they can better the lives of their people. He said Murang’a does well in dairy farming and that has seen over 300,000 families supported with dairy cows. With guaranteed milk prices of Sh35 per litre,  this provides each family with an average of Sh10,000 per month. Wa Iria spoke on Friday when a team of officials and farmers from Elgeyo Marakwet visited the county to benchmark on dairy farming. He said the county is also in the process of establishing a feed factory that will provide quality feed to farmers at a subsidised price. Murang’a County Creameries, which buys and processes milk from local farmers, is also undergoing an expansion to increase its daily processing capacity. The plant has been receiving 100,000 litres of milk daily from farmers, far below the demand. The governor underscored the need to ensure the lives of Kenyans are not disrupted by the political affiliations of their regions. “We know most of the regions are affiliated to specific political parties but that should not hinder inter-counties interactions that can help uplift lives,” he said. He said as the country heads to the general election next year, there is need for political leaders to ensure that the political environment does not degenerate to a point where Kenyans are unable to access some areas due to political differences. “Kenyans should continue being friends and co-relating because politics will come and go. We are one community. The politics leaders play should not be taken to the level of Wanjiku,” he added. The two county governments agreed to continue exchanging ideas with Wa Iria saying that his officials from the co-operatives department will work with Elgeyo Marakwet to help them establish a strong co-operatives movement. Murang’a is famed for its ability to consolidate people in co-operatives that help them to pool resources and access better markets. The governor further noted that he will be touring the Rift Valley region to popularise his party Usawa Kwa Wote while seeking presidential votes. Elgeyo Marakwet Livestock and co-operatives chief officer Benson Kibore said his delegation was surprised to learn that Murang’a farmers were able to make huge returns from farms as small as quarter acre. “We have big farms in our county but we have visited several farms in Murang’a and have seen farmers making much more money from very small farms. It has been a lesson,” he said. He said his county has already purchased milk coolers but is looking for ways to consolidate farmers into unions which he said would then help to set a minimum price. The county is also in the process of establishing Elgeyo Marakwet Co-operative Creameries that will help to further support farmers by buying their milk and adding value to it. “We are in Murang’a to learn about milk processing and the feeds factory. We have always had a challenge knowing the amount of aflatoxins and antimicrobials contained in milk in our milk and the only way to control that is by controlling the feeds given to cows,” he added. Kibore said the two counties should draw a memorandum of understanding that would provide a framework on their bench-marking forums. -Edited by SKanyara