The One Kenya Alliance could pick its presidential candidate through a conference of national delegates, the Star has learnt. The 12-member technical committee picked by the Oka principals to spearhead coalition talks has advised against consensus or boardroom negotiations. If the principals agree to the proposal, then each of the four constituent parties will be allocated a certain number of delegates and collectively they will constitute the National Delegates Conference. Oka is made up of Musalia Mudavadi (ANC), Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper), Gideon Moi (Kanu) and Ford Kenya's Moses Wetang'ula. The conference is likely to be held sometime between January and March 2022 and will also elect the running mate. This will set the stage for a titanic battle for the 2022 presidential election. The line-up will face off against Deputy President William Ruto and ODM boss Raila Odinga. However, Raila has yet to declare his 2022 ambitions despite his allies signalling that he will be on the ballot. Ruto has poured cold water on Oka as unable to successfully challenge him in 2022 but admitted that Raila remains a formidable challenger. The technical team building the alliance is said to have warned that boardroom negotiations may not be the best route to identify a presidential candidate as it is prone to 'negative perception'. On Monday, Kimnini MP Chris Wamalwa told the Star that the alliance will come up with the best, free and fair criterion for arriving at the person to bear their standard. Dismissing reports that the alliance had a predetermined 2022 line-up, Wamalwa said the Oka team will settle on the way forward on the nomination process amicably. “At the moment, we have national delegates conference as one of the options on the table. The principals will have the final say,” the MP said. Although Wamalwa did not expressly declare that Oka had given the delegates mode the green-light, the Star established that the panel had floated the idea to the principals. “We had a retreat and resolved that the nomination process would be through a delegates conference. Our proposal is with the principals to give the final verdict,” said an official who sits on the 12-member panel. Each party will be allocated a certain number of delegates through a formula that will be agreed upon later once the principals okay the delegates proposal. The team, which was established to among other things craft Oka's political strategy, has been holding a series of meetings aimed at firming up coalition talks ahead of next year's polls. Each of the four parties has three members on the panel whose mandate was last month expanded to include recommending the best presidential nomination process. Only ODM had once tried the national delegates way of picking its presidential candidate in 2007. In 2013 and 2017, it reached a consensus with other parties that formed Coalition for Reforms and Democracy and the National Super Alliance respectively. In 2007, ODM settled on the election of its presidential flag-bearer by delegates at a jamboree held in the Kasarani Gymnasium where Raila outvoted Ruto, Musalia and the late Cabinet minister Joe Nyaga to clinch the party ticket. Jubilee, as a coalition in 2013 and a party in 2017, used consensus. Last week, the four Oka principals received an update report from the technical committee during a meeting at Kalonzo's Karen office “They expressed satisfaction with the progress so far, noting that Kenyans were waiting anxiously for the same as a vehicle that carries their aspirations,” read the statement released by the Oka secretariat. The coalition has been battling perceptions that the outfit is being fronted by a section of President Uhuru Kenyatta's power-wielding men to settle on Gideon-Musalia ticket. The reports had triggered jitters in Kalonzo's camp that believes that the former vice president is the best among equals to fly Oka flag. It is understood that some principals are uncomfortable with the boardroom process, fearing a backlash from their supporters who might blame them for having been compromised. Wiper vice-chairman Victor Ogeto told the Star that the party will accept nothing but a free and fair process to pick the 2022 presidential ticket. “The Wiper party, for instance, believes that our party leader is the strongest among his peers and given his rich experience as a seasoned politician, he deserves to be the first among equals,” Ogeto said. Tongaren MP Eseli Simiyu warned that the battle for the Oka ticket will be the straw that breaks the camel's back. “The vicious battles will begin as we approach 2022 polls. Each of the principals would want to get the ticket with stakes being too high,” he warned. -Edited by SKanyara 