Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo has called for more allocation of top seats in the country to women in order to end gender disparity. In her remarks on Wednesday, while congratulating Chief Justice Martha Koome in the National Assembly, the legislator said that Koome should be deputised by the current Acting CJ Philomena Mwilu. Members of the National Assembly on Wednesday unanimously voted to approve the report of the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee that recommended her approval to succeed retired CJ David Maraga “I am hoping Mr. Speaker, that we will not then hound the deputy out of office because she is a woman. In this country, there are many men holding multiple positions and nobody has hounded them out because they are men,” Millie said. She continued, “Let us have a lady justice Chief Justice and a lady Deputy Chief Justice who is another woman. Let us not hound the other woman out of office.” She described Koome as a person who is very focused, targeted, and very clear on the things she stands for. “She is also passionate about the things I am passionate about. She is passionate about women’s rights and she is passionate about children's rights... I can vouch for her competence.” The MP could not hide the motivation that she has got since Koome was picked for the CJ’s post, and said that she will run for president after ODM leader Raila Odinga. “I will be the first woman president after Raila Odinga and I am speaking from my mouth to God’s ear.” During the debate, Nairobi Woman Representative Esther Passaris said Kenya should not shy away from embracing Justice Koome. "... let us not shy away from embracing her as a woman and saying that today we're proud that we have her as a nominee for Chief Justice," she said. "Not just for her but for the many women in this country, the girl child and the women that aspire to be leaders." Passaris said what she liked about Martha Koome is the fact that she's humble, has integrity, is grounded, and is compassionate. The Speaker is expected to communicate to the President the decision for a formal appointment.