Kenya needs a stable tax system to enhance its competitiveness and productivity, manufacturers now say ahead of the 2021/22 financial year  budget. National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani is expected to present the budget on June 10. Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) targets to collect Sh100 billion more which puts its next financial year's ordinary revenue target at Sh1.7 trillion, to help fund the Sh3.632trillion budget whose deficit will be met by borrowing. According to National Treasury CS Ukur Yatani, the2021/2022 spending seeks to strike a balance between responding to the challenges occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic and stimulating economic recovery. Kenya Association of Manufacturers (KAM) says the government must create an enabling business environment, in order to  create jobs and help meet the government's revenue targets. “Good tax systems and citizen participation in governance ultimately lead to the achievement of economic development goals,” KAM chief executive Phyllis Wakiaga said. While taxes are a major source of government revenue, sudden fiscal and taxation policy changes harm businesses and become a stumbling block to business continuity, she notes. According to KAM, the Covid-19 pandemic has forced businesses to re-evaluate their operations by focusing on building their resilience. A survey by KAM and KPMG, on the Impact of Covid-19 on the manufacturing sector, found that local industry saw a significant reduction in output, increased liquidity and logistics challenges, and a reduction of their workforce. The impact was felt more among Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). These effects were felt heavily in the second quarter of 2020 (April-June) as the country put in place measures to contain the spread of the virus. During the period, local industry’s output shrank by 3.9 per cent and 3.2 per cent in quarter three (July-September), compared to a 2.9 per cent growth in the first quarter of 2020(January-March). “It is, therefore, paramount that the government also adjusts to the changing economic environment, including its tax policies,” said Wakiaga, “A key feature of tax policies in Kenya is that they are highly unpredictable.” As the country faces the third wave of the pandemic, the economy continues to suffer from the effects of the pandemic, KAM notes. A manufacturing barometer survey by KAM between January-March 2021 found that 49 per cent of local manufacturers expect a negative performance of the sector, between April and June 2021. This is attributed to persistent uncertainty among investors, which has led to the postponement of investment activities, and the high amount of taxes, which continues to worsen the ease of doing business in the country. Additionally, the measures to contain the spread of the virus substantially slowed down economic activities. According to KAM, unpredictable policies from the government, particularly on taxation, are seen in the Tax Laws Amendment Act 2020, the Finance Act 2020 and some of the proposals provided in Finance Bill, 2021. Predictability allows investors to make projections on long-term investment decisions, the association notes. “Reliability gives them confidence in the stability of the economic policy regime and, that commitments made by government are both binding and lasting,” said Wakiaga. One way of supporting post-Covid recovery is through tax reforms, which shall build value chains and drive economic growth, it says. In its Manufacturing Priority Agenda (MPA) 2021, KAM has identified capricious tax regime as one of the hinderances to the manufacturing sector’s competitiveness. The cost associated with high taxes is passed on to the final product, thereby hindering competitiveness of the local industries. Though the Finance Bill 2021 does not introduce any significant new form of tax, according to consulting firm Deloitte, it seeks to increase the tax collected from multinationals by domesticating some of the reforms brought about by the global initiative to address base erosion and profit shifting. “The Bill also introduces measures to implement the Common Reporting Standards (CRS) aimed at enhancing revenue collection,” notes Fred Omondi, Deloitte East Africa Tax and Legal Leader. Yatani presented the 2021/22 Medium Term Budget alongside the Finance Bill 2021 to Parliament on April 29, 2021 for consideration. The manufacturing sector in Kenya contributed 7.2 per cent of the GDP and 17.5 per cent of tax revenues in the financial year 2019/20.