To meet the estimated demand of 50,000 units of blood to cater for arising medical needs, Mama Lucy Hospital has launched a smart bank Blood Collection Centre . This will be the second such public blood collection facility in Kenya apart from the Blood Transfusion Unit at Kenyatta National Hospital. This will aid to meet the monthly demands at the facility that is between 400-500 units of blood. Speaking during the launch on Wednesday, Mama Lucy Medical Superintendent Emma Mutio revealed that the smart blood bank will be able to collect 10 units of blood daily. “ The blood bank which is now fully operational Monday to Friday will be able to collect around 10 units daily as we anticipate more units as days goes by,” she said Activities at smart bank started on February 14, 2021 where 60 units of blood was collected and moving forward less trips will be made to the Kenya National Blood Transfusion Services( KNBTS) Kenya is the third county after Nigeria and Ethiopia where LifeBank has invested in blood engagement. KNBTS Director Dr Nduku Kilonzi noted that due to the Covid-19 pandemic they has been less blood donation . She applauded the Smart bank at Mama Lucy Hospital adding that it will benefit at least 2.1 million city residents. “ We have more than 50 facilities in Nairobi that rely on KNBTS for blood. With the smart bank at Mama Lucy Our work will be to ensure that the blood donated is safe ,”Kilonzi added. Nairobi Metropolitan Service Director of Health Services Ouma Oluga noted that apart from helping in collection of blood, the smart bank will also help in separation of blood and having to take blood specimen to KNBTS for screening. He explained that about 8 to 9 people daily had to cancel their surgeries due to shortage of blood at KNH. “Out of women we lost during childbirth, almost half of them were due to post-partum hemorrhage. We could save many with availability of blood. We had to discharge some to go for blood transfusion before coming back for further treatment,” Oluga added. NMS Director General Mohammed Badi noted that the county has not been able to adequately meet its blood needs especially now with the Covid-19 pandemic situation. Nairobi requires an estimated 50000 units of blood to cater for arising medical needs among 1 per cent of the Kenya’s population that reside in the City ,' he revealed. The arrival of the Covid-19 pandemic has also made it difficult to address blood collection gaps but has offered more opportunities to build more resilient and sustainable health infrastructure. Badi emphasized that NMS is committed to setting up more blood collection centres in partnership with the KNBTS and many more like minded partners. He noted that SmartBank provides a low cost and an innovative solution to some of our blood challenges in the greater NMS interventions being driven by the growing need for blood in hospitals and other healthcare facilities.