Three out of 10 women living with disability in Kenya have been sexually molested or raped. This is according to reproductive health research conducted by the Women Challenged to Challenge (WCC) network, a Nairobi-based NGO. “Unfortunately majority of the victims were either being assaulted, sexually tortured or raped by their close family members or relatives,” group chairperson Veronica Njohi said. She spoke on Wednesday during a civic education forum attended by over 20 women living with disabilities at the Kenya School of Government in Kabarnet town, Baringo. Njohi said majority of the cases were not reported or taken to court, instead they were being handled silently at the home-based level simply to avoid shaming the family. “Majority of the disabled women in Kenya are currently faced with various cases of unresolved injustices, mostly related to gender-based violence,” she said. Njohi said WCC has now hired lawyers specifically to help champion the rights of the women with disabilities in court free of charge. “We are currently conducting civic education across the 47 counties in Kenya to ensure women and all persons living with disability know their basic human rights” she said. The chairperson criticised the Judiciary, saying sometimes the judges are compromised by well-to do individuals to have cases involving PLWDs ruled in their favour. “It is even evident that most of our courts do not have favourable structures, for instance rams to let in the people with special needs,” she said. She, therefore, appealed to the government to consider giving PLWD equal treatment like every other Kenyan citizen and accommodate them in every sector. Njohi called on women living with disabilities to not shy away from political leadership, saying they should vie in elections and not wait for nominations. “Women living with disabilities should be given equal opportunity to show their leadership prowess,” she said. Njohi's sentiments were backed by  Baringo women rights activist Rongai Leakwara who said no PLWD  was nominated to represent the group in both the Baringo government and the county assembly. “We even presented our case to court, but, unfortunately, it was bungled,” she said. Rongai said having no representative to champion issues of PLWDs has seen the group mistreated and discriminated against. WCC is a national organisation that unites women and girls living with disabilities in Kenya with a goal of bringing them together to champion issues that limit their participation in development spheres. -Edited by SKanyara