The Senate's Public Accounts and Investments Committee session with Nyamira Governor Amos Nyaribo was suspended following the late submission of crucial documents by him to the auditors. Nyaribo will face the committee on Friday morning after the auditors finish perusing the documents. Committee chair Migori Senator Achillo Ayacko said it would only be prudent that the auditors acquaint themselves with the contents of reports submitted to them ahead of sitting with the governor. The committee members, he said, are keen on receiving credible and proper information in regards to audit queries raised in the 2019 financial report by the office of the Auditor-General. The Senate committee sittings are being held at the Kisii county assembly premises. They will close on Friday with visits by the committee to some projects in Nyamira. Migori Governor Okoth Obado has been scheduled for grilling on Thursday morning. On Friday, the Nyamira governor will be required to explain gaps in a slew of opaque expenditures by his administration. Some projects being looked at date back to former Governor John Nyagarama who died in office. Among the projects the committee has shown interest in is the Governor's office block. Bomet Senator Christopher Lang'at, a member of the committee, told Nyaribo that being new to the office will not give room for an alibi when he reappears Friday. He said all the while, he had been the principal assistant to Nyagarama and thus must be privy to the ongoings in the devolved unit. “You may be a new governor but as one who had been serving as the principal deputy to your boss, you could have the information required of you by the committee at your fingertips,” Lang'at said. He told him to be ready to avail all the information that can show probity in the expenditure of their money of Nyamira people. Ayacko told journalists that the committee was mindful of the constraints of time left and urged those summoned to appear before the committee to come with required documents to make their work easier.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris