National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi is currently in seclusion as part of preparations for his crowning as Mt Kenya spokesman this weekend. The Speaker cannot leave his house or see a woman and eats a special diet for the eight days while in seclusion. He is allowed to only meet certain people – elders who are cleansed -for the period. Men who can sire children are barred from meeting the initiate. The Speaker is set to be crowned in an elaborate ceremony at the historic Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Gaturi, Murang'a county. Kiama kia Ma patron Kung’u Muigai told the Star that plans for the event are complete. Elders from the Meru’s Njuri Ncheke Council, Embu’s Nyaangi Ndiriri and Ngome - from Muturi’s Mbeere backyard - are expected to attend and witness the ceremony. The eight-day seclusion, which culminates in the Saturday crowning, is part of the preparations in line with the Agikuyu traditions. Peter Kagwanja, the patron of the Murang’a elders, said the event would be more cultural than political - much as it has political undertones. “I will be among those receiving him. This is not confirmation of a spokesperson. We are identifying a leader who cannot only lead us in politics but also lead us from a moral, cultural point of view,” he said. “We are not saying there will be no political import but for now what we are doing is to have the person who was crowned by the other sections of Mt Kenya to be accepted by our region,” Kagwanja added. The Saturday event comes nearly three months after Speaker Muturi was made the spokesperson for Mt Kenya East. He was crowned in an elaborate cultural extravaganza conducted by the Njuri Ncheke at their Nchiru Shrine in Meru. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya graced the event that was attended by hundreds of elders. A highly-placed source told the Star on Monday that the Speaker has already been endorsed by the three governors from Mt Kenya East. Governors Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) and Martin Wambora (Embu) - chairman of the Council of Governors - are expected to accompany the Speaker to the event. “You saw CS Peter Munya escorting and acknowledging the Speaker during the coronation in Meru. This time, it will be bigger. The three governors from the East will be part of this final critical event,” the source said. At least 18 MPs from the Speaker’s Mt Kenya East backyard have been meeting him separately and agreed to support the cause. On Friday, a press invite indicating that the MPs would be addressing the media from Speaker Muturi’s residence was cancelled. Press teams had arrived. Nominated MP Cecily Mbarire said another presser would be called “within the week” to highlight the developments, possibly together with the governors. Igembe South MP John Paul Mwirigi said they were aware of the event and would attend once a clear communication was made. “We don’t have anyone who will speak for us when Uhuru leaves office. We are planning. He will be the person who will speak for Mt Kenya and run for the presidency,” the MP said. The unfolding scenario clearly places Muturi head and shoulders above his peers and fashions him as the more preferred leading light in the Mt Kenya political arena. It also means that he is a frontrunner in succeeding President Uhuru Kenyatta in the region. Prof Gitile Naituli, a political commentator, said Muturi was best placed to take up the mantle of Mt Kenya leadership. “By Mt Kenya getting a fresh person, they are giving the country an opportunity to redeem itself. They will also be showing maturity by embracing an individual from Mbeere,” the former NCIC member said. “Muturi is a really fresh face for the country in the Mt Kenya region. He is not soiled by corruption hence we can trust he will defend the country against the corruption.” Previously, there was tension in the region with claims that the western side only seeks the support of the east during elections where the latter plays flower girl  roles. Pundits argue that with the east now meeting the west on negotiated terms, the question of the Meru and Embu counties being relegated to bystanders appears settled. Edited by Henry Makori