Professionals from Kerio Valley, Elgeyo Marakwet County have called for an end to ongoing clashes over land ownership in the area. The Kerio valley Progressive Forum said it is saddened and disturbed by the clashes pitting various clans over land ownership in the area, saying urgent measures should be taken to contain the situation. In a statement, the group led by chairman Johnstone Kibor and Secretary Titus Kimutai particularly condemned clashes at Kisimai village, Embobut location, where arsonists believed from the Kerio Valley attacked them. They appealed to the government and humanitarian organisations to help the displaced families with food, shelter, drugs, and clothing. “We are appealing for humanitarian assistance to help the displaced families with food, shelter, drugs, clothing, and even financial support to help them especially now that the area is witnessing chilly and cold weather because of the ongoing rains,” Kibor said. “Renewed conflicts over land in many parts of the county in the last few months has led to the displacement of hundreds of residents and destruction of houses, food, and animals among others especially at a time when the country is facing serious economic challenges caused by the Covid-19 pandemic,” he added. The professionals said it’s the culture of the community that the communities living on communal land should agree on boundaries before the issue of land adjudication is carried out. “It is the responsibility of the elders to deal with land cases and it is therefore upon them (elders) to exercise honesty and sincerity on matters of land because they well understand such matters compared to any other groups of persons,” Kimutai said. “It is our desire as professionals to ensure that our people live in peace among themselves and with their neighbors and issues solved amicably whenever problems arise,” Kimutai added. They said it was the responsibility of elders, professionals, elected leaders as well as religious organizations to work together and ensure lasting peace was restored. “Peace cannot be imported from outside. Meaningful and sustainable conflict resolution requires bringing together everyone and ensuring that they participate in the process,” Kibor said. The professionals said efforts must be made to bring the culprits to book, saying it was the duty of security agencies to ensure people’s lives and property were protected. The professionals called on the government to ensure all illegal firearms in West Pokot, Baringo, Elgeyo Marakwet, Samburu, and Baringo were all confiscated. “We also urge the government to carry out a land adjudication programme after all communal land cases are solved. This is the only way to achieve a lasting solution to land conflicts,” Kibor said.