Narok Governor Samuel Tunai has defended his county’s spending of Sh3.6 million on Covid-19 beds that broke three months after delivery. The beds were acquired in response to the surging cases of coronavirus infections. A special audit showed the beds were substandard, raising questions on whether the county got value for money. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu’s report on how Narok spent the Covid-19 funds says Tunai's administration bought locally fabricated jua kali beds of low quality that are not suitable for use in hospitals. “Some of the beds were already broken and rusting barely three months after delivery. Under the circumstances, the county government of Narok will not get value for the Sh3.6 million paid to the supplier of the beds,” Gathungu said. That was despite the county’s inspection and acceptance committee giving the beds a clean bill of health when they were received on July 1, 2020. Tunai said the move was meant to promote local talent and ensure economic empowerment of the artisans at the county level. He also told the Senate Health Committee chaired by Trans Nzoia Senator Michael Mbito that the defective beds have since been repaired and put to use again. “Procurement of the beds locally was an affirmative action to promote local artisans and talent so as to create opportunities for economic empowerment at the county level,” Tunai said. “The few defective beds have since been rectified by the contractor.” The governor was appearing before the committee to respond to queries raised by the Auditor General in her special audit on the utilisation of Covid-19 funds by county governments. Narok had received Sh188 million to contain the spread of the contagion. The county received Sh50 million conditional grant, Sh7.1 million Danida funds, Sh34.8 million from government for healthcare workers allowances and a further Sh66 million for own emergency funds. Tunai said the surging numbers in the Covid-19 cases was a justification for the use of restricted tendering to procure items. “The urgency of the moment coupled with the fact that we were dealing with a rapidly evolving pandemic necessitated an adoption of a procurement method that would respond effectively to these exigencies,” Tunai said.  Edited by P.O