The Kisumu Oil Jetty is wasting away at an average rate of Sh125 million a year for non-usage, a new audit shows. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu said the jetty depreciated by Sh283 million as of June 2020, warning that taxpayers are losing money as the facility remains idle. The jetty depreciated by Sh158 million in the year to June 2019, barely 15 months into its construction to help facilitate fuel deliveries to Uganda. The facility, which cost taxpayers Sh2.1 billion to put up, was completed by the contractor and handed over to KPC in March 2018. KPC has over the years held that the jetty is not optimally in use due to delayed completion of the complementing infrastructure on the Ugandan side. Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni’s administration is yet to complete its receipt and storage facilities, hence rendering the Kenyan project a white elephant. Gathungu said there was a problem with the uncertainty of the completion and operationalisation of the Ugandan facility. “Although management indicated that significant progress has been made in the construction of one of the two planned similar jetties in Uganda, it is not clear when these will be completed and operationalised. “My opinion is not qualified in respect of these matters,” Gathungu said in her report on KPC accounts for the year ending June 2020. The report tabled in Parliament on May 13 further reveals that taxpayers are at risk of losing billions of shillings from past missteps by KPC. The company has been slapped with Sh4.69 billion demand by a Lebanese contractor who built the Mombasa–Nairobi pipeline, famed as Line 5, over pending contract variation claims. Zakhem International Construction was awarded the damages by the High Court after KPC failed to honour five extensions of time requests with claims amounting to Sh20 billion. KPC appealed the decision. The contractor was awarded the tender in July 2014 at Sh49.5 billion but the cost of the project has since risen by over Sh2 billion – largely owing to the delays. Line 5 was completed in June 2018, a time when the project engineer had submitted eight variation orders totalling Sh3.9 billion of which only Sh1.8 billion was approved for payment. Zakhem made the claims citing a change of design specifications and omission of works in the initial contract it entered into with KPC in 2014. Gathungu, in her 2019 report, said the dispute – part of which is under DCI probe - may affect the carrying value of the pipeline. KPC is further at risk of losing a prime parcel of land at Upper Hill, Nairobi, that it is yet to recover after the piece was fraudulently acquired by a private company. The pipeline company was allocated the land in 1988 for construction of its headquarters but the same was handed to the Judiciary by the EACC after the private company’s title was revoked. Gathungu pointed out that the land was reallocated to the judiciary with a new title deed number in unclear circumstances. The private company filed a petition challenging the revocation on claims they were the rightful owners of the property. The High Court in September 2013 ruled that the allocation was irregular as the land had been allocated to KPC, hence was not available for alienation. Efforts by the KPC management to have the Judiciary surrender the land to them have been in vain. An appeal by the private company is yet to be determined. The auditor further cast doubt on the expenditure of over Sh224 million in the River Thange clean-up expenses. Gathungu said it was not clear whether the company will recover the money from its insurer, which has now claimed the spillage was not part of the risk policy cover it holds with KPC. On lodging a claim for compensation, CIC Insurance asserted that the risk fell within the exclusion clause as normal wear and tear. The auditor put KPC on the spot, citing its failure to seek clarification from the Insurance Regulatory Authority for independent interpretation or arbitration. Meetings and email correspondences to CIC Insurance, the audit reveals, were never responded to. “As a result of the impasse, no compensation has been received against the insured risk. The likelihood of compensation remains in doubt,” the auditor general said. Also queried are stalled projects of Sh286 million – some of which date to 2007 - in the face of no explanation why they were abandoned. 