Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen has said that most Kenyan politicians don’t actually believe in the Building Bridges Initiative. Speaking on Monday, Murkomen insisted that the likes of former vice president Kalonzo Musyoka, ANC leader Musalia Mudavadi and Ford Kenya party leader Moses Wetangula support BBI because they want President Uhuru Kenyatta's endorsement in 2022. The senator who was advising judges after the ruling that declared the BBI unconstitutional, and null and void, said Raila Odinga is only after finishing the journey, despite being played. According to Murkomen, judges are the only sober group we have in the country. "To our Judges who may never understand politics, as your younger brother let me assure you that many Politicians don’t believe in BBI. Kalonzo, Mudavadi and Wetang'ula are doing it for Uhuru’s endorsement. Raila is for finishing the journey even though he was short-changed. You are the only sober group," said Murkomen. In a landmark ruling made by a five Judge bench in the High Court last week,  Justice Joel Ngugi cited reasons why the BBI process was unconstitutional, null, and void. The judges also ruled that the IEBC lacked quorum as stipulated in the law for purposes of carrying out referendum preparations, including verification of signatures. The bench issued a permanent injunction restraining IEBC from conducting the referendum. The ruling elicited mixed reactions from leaders from different parts of the country, some supporting the stand taken by the High Court, and others castigating the bench terming their judgement Judicial activism. Attorney General Paul Kihara has asked the High Court to suspend its decision that stopped the process of changing the Constitution through the Building Bridges Initiative. In an application by  Solicitor General Kennedy Ogeto, they have filed a notice of appeal at the appellate court and are seeking to have the Constitutional and Human Rights Division at the High Court suspend implementation of the orders issued on Thursday last week.