Tusker head coach Robert Matano says wrong calls made by the centre referee in the second half cost them maximum points in their Football Kenya Federation Premier League tie against Wazito at Utalii grounds on Friday. The sides battled to a one-all draw and the veteran tactician has lashed out at the match officials for making controversial decisions that largely disadvantaged his charges. “The referee exhibited a different character altogether in the second half," said Matano. Matano also castigated his players for shooting themselves in the foot. “My players have to fight hard. They have to realize the mistakes that have seen us register two consecutive draws (against KCB and Wazito). That's not impressive at all. “We could have won this match even by the solitary goal we got in the early minutes if both the defenders and the goalkeeper had played their role properly. But that's part of the game and we can now only look forward to our next match," said Matano. His Wazito counterpart, Francis Kimanzi, attributed their lackadaisical performance to a long spell of inactivity occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. “I wish to thank the boys for the good performance. Obviously, the long break slowed us down a bit. Getting at least a point in today's match is a satisfactory outcome given we were on the battlefield with the current league leaders. “We fizzled out in the second half and that's what cost us the match. To score more goals, we should've maintained the same intensity we exhibited in the first half, which we didn't,” said Kimanzi. “Barely seven minutes into play, the brewers earned a setpiece when Maurice Ojwang sent Chris Ochieng tumbling on the edge of the box. Sammy Meja stepped up for the job and his resultant kick bounced off the Wazito wall right into the net, leaving Levis Opiyo startled in goal. The Robert Matano charges took good command of the proceedings until in the 21st minute when keeper Emery Mvuyekure committed a costly howler that gifted Kevin Kimani an easy equaliser. Mvuyekure failed to hold the ball firmly and it landed on the ground right at the feet of Kevin Kimani who didn't hesitate to slam the back of the net. And in the 36th minute, Chris Ochieng thought he had put Tusker ahead but his subsequent header from Luke Namanda's nicely floated cross swiveled inches over the crossbar. Namanda was at it again and could have provided a splendid assist at the stroke of halftime when he teed up Kevin Monyi with a scintillating back heel whose resultant effort rattled the woodwork. Eager for a win after sharing spoils with KCB last Saturday, Tusker head coach Robert Matano made four changes all at once in the 63rd minute, introducing Jackson Macharia, Humphrey Mieno, Kepha Okoth, and Henry Meja for George Ogutu, Apollo, Hashim Sempala, and Luke Namanda. A couple of minutes later, Kimanzi responded in kind with a triple substitution, bringing on Brian Musa, Eli Asieche, Eric Otieno for Whyvonne Isuza, Michael Owino, and Amos Asembeka. Then in the 86th minute, he introduced Vincent Oburu for Musa Masika in a last-ditch effort to squeeze out an eleventh-hour winner. The outcome leaves Tusker at the summit of the log with 35 points, two above second-placed KCB while Wazito are now seventh with 23 points.