Two Kirinyaga MPs have urged boda boda riders within the county to register with NHIF to help them cater for their medical bills. The legislators also urged the riders to consider forming a sacco to enable them grow financially. Woman Rep Wangui Ngirichi noted that the boda boda sector is one of the vital small scale enterprises that aids in the growth of the economy thus needs government’s support. She encouraged the riders to take advantage of their large numbers and form groups in order to access state funding such as the affirmative action fund  and CDF kitties. “My office through the NGAAF fund will help riders who are financially constrained to undertake the necessary training recommended by the government and that will enable them get smart driving licenses,” said Ngirichi. The county MP also called on the government to provide a conducive working environment for the riders saying there exists a mutualistic dependence between the two. She cited over-taxation and high fuel prices as some of the factors that have continually demoralised many riders. To enable many riders register with NHIF, Ngirichi urged the state to consider revising the rates downwards. She also urged the government to upgrade the roads for their safety. Gichugu MP Gichimu Githinji said the boda bodas are crucial as they had eased transportation especially in rural areas where infrastructure and road network is in deplorable state. Githinji challenged the riders to form and register saccos to enable them plough their earnings and channel them to other income generating activities. “This will help riders have another source of income. They can also borrow as individuals from the sacco and invest in other ventures,” he added. The legislator also advised boda boda operators to register with NHIF as the medical cover would go a long way in catering for their medical bills in other ailments besides injuries sustained while on duty. The leaders were speaking in Kutus Catholic church during a thanksgiving mass  organised by boda boda riders. The more than 300  riders were  drawn from eight groups under the umbrella of Kutus riders operators. Patrick Waweru, the chairperson of the group, said their decision to have the event was informed by the need to give thanks as well as pray for protection due to the surge of accidents involving boda boda riders. “It was strictly a prayer event not a political one in as much as we invited our leaders. Boda boda riding is a life threatening job and as such we felt the need to ask for divine protection. We also promise to heed to our leaders' advise in forming and registering saccos and groups that can benefit from the government’s fund,” he said. Waweru also refuted claims that riders from the area are criminals and are used as goons to perpetuate chaos during political meetings. “Our member are disciplined. They comply with the law and do their work as expected. Those causing chaos in political meetings are not part of us, they masquerade as boda boda operators,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara