The Kenya Ports Authority has refuted claims that it did not prioritise residents in the recruitment of dock workers for the Lamu Port. KPA said on Wednesday said advertisement for the positions was done in 2019 and sent to every village through the chiefs’ offices. KPA human resources manager Mary Wangai said 3,426 Lamu residents applied for the various positions advertised. They shortlisted 1,114 candidates, but only 962 turned up for the interview. Speaking during an orientation tour of the new 100 recruits at the Mombasa Port, Wangai said the new staff will all be deployed to Lamu Port ahead of the scheduled start of operations on May 20. “From the interviews, we had 100 successful candidates, who were picked and trained on port operations at Bandari College. They will now be deployed to Lamu,” Wangai said. She said all the recruits are Lamu residents. The official said KPA also ensured that people living with disabilities were given equal opportunities and gender equity observed. The recruits were in Mombasa Port for two weeks for an induction and familiarisation programme before leaving for Lamu on Friday, where they will begin work on Monday next week. Wangai said to give the Lamu Port an impetus, the KPA management transferred some sixty experienced employees from Mombasa Port to the new station. “They will be working closely with the recruits,” she said. KPA’s Quantity Surveyor James Bosire said they recognise the recruits as their employees and they can be posted to work in any of KPA’s facilities across the country. He said apart from direct employment, the Lamu Port will also offer residents indirect employment, such as new houses, business, restaurants and shopping centres adjacent to the port. Abdulaziz Muhamad, one of the recruits and a person living with disability, hailed KPA for giving them the opportunity. He said he was hoping to see more people with disability given a chance. Muhamad, who comes from Amu, also urged parents not to hide children with disabilities, while pleading with other state corporations and authorities to employ them. Another recruit Mohamed Mahmoud from Mkomani lauded the region's political leadership for fighting for the opportunities for the people of Lamu. Mahmoud advised his fellow youth to further their studies as more opportunities await them once the port becomes fully operational. “I am grateful to our leaders who ensured we are given the priority as the residents hosting the port,” Mahmoud said. “I would like to urge my peers to further their studies because there will be even better opportunities for them in this port.”   Edited by Kiilu Damaris