Muslim clerics in Malindi have condemned the deadly war between Israel and Palestine that has led to scores of deaths and massive destruction. They said as Muslims they are opposed to the deadly attacks by the Israelis against Palestinians. Led by Feiswal Alamoudy who spoke during the Idd ul fitr prayers at Jamia mosque in Malindi town, they said it was sad that powerful states like the US were supporting Israel for staging massive missile attacks against Palestine. He urged all Muslim faithful in the world to pray for Palestinians who are going through difficult moments during this period of Idd. Alamoudy spoke after the Idd prayers that were led by Swaleh Muhdal of Jamia mosque Malindi and attended by hundreds of faithfuls to mark the end of Ramadhan. The cleric hit out at the Somali terror group al Shabaab for staging attacks in their home country and in Kenya. He asked them to join fellow Muslims in Palestine in fighting against the Israel. He said justice was not being done for the Palestine as many powerful states were behind Israel, including the US and its allies. “This issue is no secret, everyone knows that Palestine is being victimised whether they like it or not. Muslims not only in Palestine but even in Kenya, their religion must be respected, “he said. Almoudy said the Muslims in Kenya have no capacity to go and defend Palestine but if they were able, they could go and offer their support. He thanked the government for ensuring peace prevails in Kenya, saying there are other people who are suffering and cannot even come out of their homes to celebrate Idd. He said what al Shabaab have been doing staging attacks in Kenya is not acceptable as it is against Islam and called upon them to act and help the Muslims in Palestine. Lawyer George Kithi from Kilifi county was among those who joined the Muslim faithful in prayers at the Jamia mosque. Kithi hailed all the stakeholders who were involved in the planning the Idd celebrations, particularly the Imams at Jamia mosque. He said Islam has always emphasised that leaders remember those who are poor and support them. “I joined the Imams and other faithful in prayers to mark the end of Ramadhan and follow their teachings which insist that leaders support the poor and vulnerable in society,” he said. Imam Yusuf Shosi from Jamia mosque urged Muslims to continue observing religious teachings even after the end of the holy month of Ramadhan. The organising secretary of Supkem in Kilifi county said they were happy to have completed the month of Ramadhan safely.