If KCSE results were Oscars or Grammy Awards then Flora Mulatya would equal the likes of Adele who scooped six Grammys in 2012 or the producer of the film Chicago that won six Oscars in 2003. Kenya High school principal on Monday remained a significant figure during the announcement of top performers. She stole the show for having six girls in the top 15 position. The number doubles the haul of Kenya High's nearest competitor, Alliance High school. The ceremony was an edgy affair, sparked by anxiety for her.  At one point she was even captured rocking on her chair while seemingly praying before the result announcement; just like the footballers do before or after a match. At the end of it all, it was a big win for the institution she leads as out of 294 candidates, over 50 managed to score an A (plain) while over 100 others got A- (minus). None of the students scored below Grade C. The school managed a mean score of 10.7, making it the top girl’s school in the country and the second-best nationally. In a tête-à-tête with her on Tuesday, Mulatya acclaims the victory to the girls and God. She does not think that there is anything special about her girls other than sheer determination, hard work and remaining focused. “I would not say we are doing anything different from other schools. Kenya High has a rich history, tradition, a lot of support from the old girls and secretariat. The girls also have that go-getter spirit and want to leave a positive mark,” she said. Over the years, the institution has managed to craft criteria that ensure the less fortunate girls are not disrupted or distracted from their education for lacking anything. “We also have good support from organisations banks, parents, the board, and the endowment funds,” she added. The organisations support the girls by paying their fees. Mulatya says the institution has adopted a creative way to ensure their coffers don’t run dry. The endowment fund is held in a fixed account and the institution banks on the accumulated interests to pay the girls' fees; without touching the initial capital. “Like last year, we paid fee worth Sh908,000 purely from the interest, we didn't touch the capital,” she said. Individual learners have also some pool programme where girls from families that are willing and able purchase a bit more utilities than they would need during the term, share with those that lack. The distribution is done discreetly so that it does not affect the dignity of the girls. “We make sure that you know that when you come here,  you are here on merit. Your background should not matter or be a disadvantage to you,” Mulatya explains. “The learner does not have to worry about being sent home over the weekend for lack of school fees or anything, that also builds a sense of confidence in the girls,” she said. To keep the girls in check, the school invites alumni to speak to them. "We call the old girls who studied here, they speak to the students and tell them that they were here, slept at the same dormitories, and where they are currently in life and this excites them,” says the principal. The institution also depends on outside speakers and school counsellors employed by the board. “What the girls can’t tell me or can’t share with the parent they tell the school counsellor,” Mulatya said. During the Covid break, she said, the school remained in contact with the girls through the online platform Zoom. This was not limited to learning but also holding meetings with individual classes to know their whereabouts, encourage them and remind them to keep the books close as schools could resume anytime. The closure of schools occasioned by the Covid-19 pandemic lasted eight months. “We involved the parents as well. For example, we would send assignments and exams to the parents and they would invigilate their students with a lot of integrity,” she notes. Perhaps for her, the biggest surprise is the dedication by the teachers and involvement in the success process. She credits the teachers for always keeping the girls on their toes when it comes to understanding what they are learning. “Teachers pitch a consultation base under one of the tents and students come for help,” said Mulatya. What is unknown to many, she says, is the amount of pressure the top performers are subjected to maintain the bar. -Edited by SKanyara