There was pomp and color at the Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine as thousands of elders thronged the historical site to attend National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi’s coronation as the spokesperson of the Mt Kenya region. The elders streamed in from all parts of the region, prompting the ushers to close the gate to the shrine to avoid overcrowding. The speaker was then led to an inner part of the shrine where it is said he underwent several rituals before the elders sat him down to give him discreet information. Sources who spoke to the Star indicated that the rituals were conducted by a team of 10 high ranking elders who are ordained to conduct such ceremonies. The sources further said after the talks, the elders will clad the speaker in traditional regalia and hand him a staff of leadership to signify his authority to speak on behalf of the region. A few select elders from several other local communities such as Njuri Ncheke were also allowed to witness the rituals that went on for hours. Meanwhile, women who had arrived at the site clad in traditional attire to entertain the guests were shocked after they were informed that no women were allowed into the historical site. The women hovered at the gate of the site for hours as the rituals continued. Female police officers and journalists were also not spared and had to follow the proceedings from the fence. Scores of police vehicles and tens of officers, including anti-riot officers, patrolled the area to ensure the ceremony went on uninterrupted. Governor Mwangi Wa Iria had asked locals to come out and protect the shrine that he said should not be defiled. Wa Iria on Friday said the speaker should have conducted the ceremony in another venue as done by senior political leaders such as president Uhuru Kenyatta. The President was coronated at Ihura Stadium in 2012 in an event spearheaded by the late politician John Michuki. His sentiments have been echoed by senior leaders of councils of elders who said the right traditional procedures were not followed, and that the speaker risks attracting curses.