The EACC has asked court to dismiss Samburu Governor Moses Lenolkulal’s application challenging the commission's move for further investigatation on how he made over Sh661 million. In an affidavit before the Anti-corruption court, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission says it is conducting further investigations into the parcels of land in Karen, his two luxury cars and money in several of his accounts. The EACC claims they gave Lenolkulal an opportunity to explain his sources of income but he declined. “He has merely been called upon to explain the disproportion between his assets and his known legitimate sources of income pursuant to an investigation which has established that he is in possession of unexplained wealth valued at Sh661, 253,906 million,” EACC said. Through investigating officer Evans Ronoh, the commission said in the event the governor fails to satisfy the requirement of the notice, EACC is mandated to institute forfeiture proceedings of the assets deemed to be unexplained wealth. The investigator said the application challenging the probe into unexplained wealth, is wholly misplaced and premature and ought to be dismissed. “The fact that the applicant had recorded a statement in any other investigation is not a bar to the commission requiring his attendance on any other occasion in any other unrelated matter,”Ronoh said. He told the court that the suit before it is founded on an investigation into conflict of interest under Section 45 of ACECA. The commission investigations, he said, established that Lenolkulal had supplied fuel amounting to approximately Sh80 million to the county government in conflict of interest through his Oryx Service Station. “The suit is therefore for recovery of the aforesaid sum which constitutes the proceeds of corruption or corrupt conduct vis-ä-vis proceedings anticipated under section 55 of ACECA of unexplained assets,” said the commission. Ronoh added that the land properties in this suit (LR No. 2259/744, LR No. 2259/745, LR No. 2259/749 and LR No. 2259/750), whose consideration was established to be a sum of Sh60 million, were found to have been acquired by Lenolkulal through investing the proceeds of corrupt conduct. This he said, is the supply of fuel in conflict of interest as well as Sh14 million preserved within this suit. Lenolkulal moved to court seeking a temporary injunction to restrain the commission, their agents, servants, or any other person acting under its authority from conducting any form of further investigations on his assets, bank accounts, cars or properties. According to the governor, the commission commenced investigations into the allegations of corruption and economic crimes, conflict of interest and abuse of office against him and others officials of Samburu county government. “In the course of the investigations, the commission obtained search warrants to investigate my four bank accounts held at Kenya Commercial Bank,” Lenolkulal said. He claimed they investigated his bank account held at Equity Bank and his M-Pesa account. While conducting investigations on his properties and assets, EACC never afforded him an opportunity to provide information on any of his properties that could assist in their investigations, the governor argues. “I was never given a reasonable opportunity to explain the misappropriation between my properties and my known legitimate sources of income, if any before instituting the recovery proceedings,” he says in court papers. He said further investigations on his properties and assets currently being carried out by EACC during the pendency of the matter in court are malicious, in bad faith, unlawful and intended to deny him a right to a fair hearing before court. The matter will be heard on June 7.  -Edited by SKanyara 