Manchester United manager Ole Gunnar Solskjaer has called on fans to avoid further violent protests ahead of Thursday’s rescheduled Premier League home game against Liverpool. The match, originally scheduled for May 2, was called off after United fans protesting against the club’s American owners, the Glazer family, stormed into the stadium and invaded the pitch. Protesters also clashed with police outside the ground, with six officers injured during the demonstrations. British media reported further protests are planned ahead of Thursday’s game. Security was also increased around Old Trafford before their game against Leicester City on Tuesday. “Security measures are being looked at and I hope we can keep the protests, if there are protests, keep them down to loud voices and nothing violent,” Solskjaer said. “We want to listen, the players want to play the game, we’re playing Liverpool. We’re going to do everything we can for our fans to celebrate what we’re doing on the pitch.” United are second on 70 points after 34 games, 10 points behind Manchester City, who have played a game more. Meanwhile, striker Edinson Cavani said he has developed a great affection for the club, prompting him to agree to a one-year contract extension at Old Trafford. The 34-year-old has had an outstanding finish to the season, scoring eight goals in seven games and will now be at the club until June 2022. Cavani said: “I have developed a great affection for the club and everything that it represents. I feel a deep bond with my team-mates and the staff who work behind the scenes.” Cavani, who was undecided over whether to stay for a second year, added: “They give me extra motivation every day and I know that together we can achieve special things.” Since joining on a free transfer in October 2020, Cavani has scored 15 goals in all competitions — his latest coming in Sunday’s 3-1 Premier League win at Aston Villa. He has been one of the leading strikers in European football for the past decade, scoring a record 200 goals in 301 appearances for Paris St-Germain after joining from Napoli, where he made his name. Cavani left the French club in June 2020 following a disagreement with Brazil forward Neymar. Boss Ole Gunnar Solskjaer says he always wanted Cavani to stay for a second season. “I said when Edinson signed that he would bring energy, power and leadership to this group and I haven’t been proved wrong, he has been everything I thought he would be and more,” said the Norwegian. “As coaches, we knew about his goalscoring record, however it is his personality that has brought so much to this squad, he has a winning mentality and has an unequivocal attitude to everything he does. “Edinson is one of the last to leave the training ground and sets the tone for the upcoming youngsters with his approach to his profession every single day. “I have always wanted him to stay and experience the way our fans will respond to him as a player, and this means he will hopefully get that opportunity.”