Leadership wrangles at the Dock Workers Union is threatening to throw its elections into disarray. Sharp divisions over the elections have re-emerged between the union chair Mohammed Sheria and general secretary Simon Sang. The elections are scheduled for May 20. A national executive council meeting on May 2 resolved to allow the Dock Workers Union Independent Election Board chaired by Martin Oindo to conduct the elections. Sheria snubbed the meeting and labelled it a Kangaroo NEC. He said he was never informed of the meeting. “The union constitution says that the chair and the general secretary must consult before calling a NEC meeting,” he told the Star by phone Monday. Sang said the constitution also allows any member of the NEC to be appointed to chair the meeting if the chairperson is absent. “He wants to bulldoze issues. He cannot change constitutional arrangements. Labour officers can only act as returning and presiding officers,” Sang said. Victor Aduda, an elected executive board member, chaired the May 2 NEC meeting. Sheria insists the meeting was illegal and the decision of the March 23 NEC, which approved the Labour office-led elections board, should apply. The DWUIEB oversaw the 2016 union elections where Sang trounced his opponents by garnering 2,701 votes. His closest rival Bakari Bwetta garnered 386 votes, followed by Abdallah Randani who got 78 votes. “The general secretary only wants the DWUIEB because he hand-picked it. I do not recognise the Kangaroo NEC.” “He cannot change the decision of the genuine NEC meeting on March 23,” Sheria said. Treasurer Joseph Makero has yet to approve the release of Sh4 million for the elections. The board had been rejected by the aspirants. Makero says he will only approve the release of the funds after all issues have been resolved. “The money belongs to the union members and it should not be misappropriated because of differences between individuals,” he said. Meanwhile, aspirants challenging Sang for his post say the wrangles are frustrating them. Omar Masumbuko told the Star one of his main objectives is to review the union's constitution. “We have been seeing almost the same thing over the years during elections. Office bearers use the loopholes they created in the constitution to try and rig the elections in their favour,” Masumbuko said. The general secretary aspirant, who has been at the Kenya Ports Authority for over a decade, said the time has come for younger people to lead the union. International Transport Federation representative Gladys ChepKorir, who has declared interest in the treasurer position in the union, said they are ready for the May 20 elections. “Let them not start taking us round in circles. We need the elections to be free and fair. We have no room for monkey business,” Chepkorir said.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris