Kenyatta National Hospital will from July start attending to referral cases only as it closes doors to walk in patients. NMS director general Mohammed Badi on Wednesday said his team together with the Ministry of Health have reviewed the referral system. “To implement this strategy and Nairobi being the pilot, effective from July, KNH will close its doors to walk in patients,” he said. This means that all level 3, 4 and 5 hospitals within Nairobi will cater for walk in patients. Badi said that in partnership with the Acting Governor Anne Kananu, all efforts will be made to ensure the 24 hospitals pledged by President Uhuru Kenyatta will be fully operational. Uhuru had earlier noted that construction of the 24 hospitals proved development can be made accessible anywhere in Nairobi with very little money. “The public can now access health services without having to travel all the way to KNH. I am proud of the good work NMS director general Maj General Mohamed Badi and his team have done in building these facilities in remote areas within Nairobi," he said. In 2016, the then CS for Health Cleopa Mailu had announced plans of KNH ceasing to offer  outpatient services if county hospitals improved their services. “We want to improve the quality of services being offered in hospitals. We also intend to include inpatient services in the said hospitals, thereby creating space for referral cases at KNH,” he said. The plans are now being actualised after the President last year directed Badi to construct 24 health facilities at a cost of Sh2  billion. The additional hospitals were to reduce the burden at KNH, Mama Lucy, Pumwani and  Mbagathi hospitals. NMS was mandated to build 19 health facilities each for Sh70 million and  five would be rehabilitated for Sh300 million. Ten out of the new facilities are level 2 hospitals while the rest are level 3. President Uhuru has already commissioned four of the 24 hospitals: The Uthiru-Muthua Hospital is a level 3 while the other three — Kiamaiko, Soweto and Ushirika — are level 2 facilities. Already NMS has  employed 2,000 healthcare workers among them 44 specialists, 679 nurses, 130 doctors to ensure that human resource is not the barrier to effective service delivery in all the 24  new hospitals and other facilities. -Edited by SKanyara 