The National Environment Management Authority is seeking to rehabilitate the closed illegal and abandoned quarries in Kwale. The county director of environment Godfrey Wafula said Nema is trying to identify the stakeholders to help plan for the restoration process. "We are getting data of who are the landowners and the responsible authorities so that they can be involved in the exercise," he said. The mines had been closed following environmental and safety concerns. Last year, incidents of mine collapsing and burying people alive were rampant in the region. In Maweni quarry in Ukunda, three people were killed and several others injured after the mine caved in. Other cases were reported in different illegal quarries within the county. Most involved landslides and fallen rocks. Recently,  local mine operators have been calling for the reopening of the closed quarries. The workers decry  hardship and economic strains following the closure of their only source of livelihoods. But Nema has refused to rescind its decision. Wafula said the unauthorised quarries, Maweni being one of them, have become a threat to the environment and the communities living around it. He asked the mine workers to look for alternative jobs. "We cannot entertain further land degradation and risk more lives, it is time we consider safety first," he said. Majority of the illegal mines are along Tiwi, Waa and Ng'ombeni areas within Matuga subcounty. The environment director said local miners have encroached on private property conducting unlawful mining in those areas. He warned of stern action against ongoing illicit mining operations. Wafula asked the mine operators to move to authorised and safe quarries. He urged potential investors to liaise with the mining and geology offices for clarification on the legal mining areas. "Anyone who wants to harvest sand or stones kindly consider seeking reliable information in respective government departments for authorisation and other legal processes," he said. Wafula also advised the small-scale licensed miners to comply with the environment and land laws warning to revoke them if they go against the given demands. He said quarrying activities is one of the key aspects of achieving government's Big Four agenda but it has to be done appropriately without causing disasters. The officer said Nema is determined to protect the environment and secure the safety of the miners and residents living close by. He urged the public to take precautionary measures as they walk past the degraded mine sites. -Edited by SKanyara