Former National Treasury CS Henry Rotich has been charged afresh alongside others accused in relation to the Kimwarer and Arror multibillion-shilling corruption case. Rotich appeared before Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti on Wednesday and a new charge sheet was presented to court after the DPP amended the old one. The prosecution has removed the names of former PSs Kamau Thugge and Susan Koech who had been charged alongside Rotich. Kamau and Koech will now testify against Rotich during the hearing that is scheduled to commence. The DPP has also removed the names of 20 Italians who are still at large from the charge sheet and they will be charged separately. Rotich has denied all the charges read out to him by Ogoti alongside all the others accused who have been charged alongside him. The DPP said the evidence in the case remains the same and they will not be introducing new documents neither shall they be introducing new witnesses. “Currently there are two active cases, we had indicated we have no intention whatsoever to consolidate the two as much as they may share some accused persons, majority of the accused persons are different in the two cases,” the prosecution said. This means there are now three different cases in respect of Kimwarer and Arror dam. The first one is the current one, the one where he is charged alongside David Kimosop and the Italians case for the companies and their directors. Chief Magistrate Douglas Ogoti encouraged Rotich and his co-accused to plea bargain. While issuing directions in the graft case Ogoti further ruled that the trial court will not entertain any adjournment by parties. The court further says no defense lawyer will be allowed to withdraw from the case on the hearing date. "If that happens the matter will proceed notwithstanding," Ogoti says. The prosecution has also been directed to supply the defense with the chronology of the witnesses who will testify first and those to follow. However, if the chronology changes parties should be told three days prior. Ogoti further says parties will rely on soft copies unless for a specific reason stated to the court.