Despite being pooled in the group of death at the Tokyo Olympics, national women's volleyball team captain Mercy Moim believes they can storm into the semis if they face their opponents fearlessly. Malkia Strikers' campaign serves off on July 25 against the hosts Japan before squaring it off with bigwigs Serbia, Dominican Republic, Korea Republic and Brazil in subsequent Pool A games. "We know that the Olympics are quite different from other tournaments that we are used to. We fully understand the type of opponents we are going to face, knowing that they are stronger and more established. However, with the many things we have learned so far, we are optimistic of making it out of the group stage into the semis. We have experienced as well as younger players who are hungry to apply this knowledge," Moim said. The Kenya Commercial Bank player added that they have improved on so many aspects, thanks to the guidance of a group of Brazilian coaches who have been working with the team for the past one month. The six coaches, led by former Brazilian national team youth tactician Luizomar de Moura, returned to the country this week as part of the International Volleyball Federation Empowerment Program to aid teams' preparations for the Olympics. "We were with them for five days before they returned to Brazil and there were so many changes among the playing department. During the World Championships, we struggled a lot with our service and blocks but so far we have improved on them. We are looking forward to learning more from them and will maximise their time and knowledge during this period they will be with us," she said. National team coach Paul Bitok said the Strikers' are looking to become the first African nation to reach the knockout stag,  thanks to the Brazilians expertise. "We are looking forward to learning a lot from the Brazilians in the next two months and I am sure my players will become much better than they already are. The Brazilians are coming with modern technologies that will better us even more. Luiz is also an experienced coach and we are eager to learn from him," Bitok said. The team have just arrived in the capital after a week-long low-attitude training in Mombasa last week.