Michael Munyalo, the OCS at Garissa police station who is accused of murder, has been detained for 10 days pending investigations. Munyalo was arrested on Monday following a fatl shooting incident that occurred on May 16. He is accused of killing 28-year-old Moses Kimathi. In a sworn affidavit, lead investigator Peter Wahome asked Garissa principal magistrate Timothy Ole Tanju to detain the suspect for 14 days to complete investigations. He said that post-mortem had not been conducted to ascertain the cause of death. “We are requesting this court to grant the police 14 days because we are still waiting for the post-mortem report to ascertain the cause of death,” Wahome said. “The firearm used has to be taken to Nairobi for ballistic examination and this will take time. We also need time to collect witness statements before coming up with the charges.” However, the accused’s defence counsel led by Christopher Nzili had opposed his detention citing among other reasons that he was not a flight risk and had served diligently for 37  years. The accused was left with two years to retire. “The defence counsel prays that this court grants the accused a considerable bail. My client is willing to appear before the Garissa DCIO daily as proof that he is a law-abiding officer,” Nzili said. However, principal magistrate Tanju denied the accused bail and instead directed that he be remanded at the Madogo police station for ten days pending investigation. The magistrate raised concerns over the conflicting statements that had been presented before the court saying that it was different from the one that was recorded at the police station. On Monday, a section of the Ameru community in Garissa protested over what they termed as the brutal murder of their colleague accusing the police of trying to shield their own. The demonstrators barricaded the road leading to Garissa police station with lit tyres and logs before they were dispersed by police in riot gear. Transport along the busy Garissa-Nairobi road was briefly disrupted with business closing for fear of goons looting shops as the demonstrators engaged police in running battles. Garissa peace committee secretary Hassan Osman regretted police handling of firearms. He called for a restrain while in the line of duty. “We urge the county commander to engage his officers and sensitise them on the rights of citizens and avoid excessive use of force,” Osman said “It is unlawful to kill an unarmed civilian. At the end of the day justice should not only be served but be seen to be served to the victim’s family.”   Edited by Kiilu Damaris