Kieni Dairy Cooperative in Nyeri county is among societies in the country where farmers are earning good prices of between Sh35 and Sh40 per litre of milk. While giving the status of the dairy sector in February, Agriculture CS Peter Munya said milk prices in the country have stabilised and are currently going between Sh37 to Sh45. Munya said the average price of a litre of milk from the processors is Sh37, while the cooperatives are paying an average of Sh35 and some processors offering a high of Sh45. “Sometimes the processors pay the cooperatives and then the cooperatives pay the farmers, hence the price disparity.  But the price has stabilised where our target was at Sh34 per litre of milk.  We announced the price of Sh34 and we said no society should pay less than Sh34. The demand for milk has picked,” said the CS. Isaac Mwaniki, CEO of Kieni Dairy Cooperative in Kieni West, said poor prices of milk in the country drove dairy farmers in the area to form a cooperative society in order to market their milk. Kieni Dairy Products Limited was formed by farmers from seven cooperative societies including Mweiga, Watuka, Gataragwa, Lamuria, Nairutia, Thuruthuru and Endarasha. Mwaniki said the cooperative that started by collecting and cooling milk for farmers in Kieni West is now among dairy cooperative societies offering good prices to farmers. He said the society was started in 2010 when there was a need for the societies around Kieni West to come together to gain market forces and reap the benefits of economies of scale. By then, he added, milk prices in the market were unstable and that is when farmers in various cooperative societies came together and formed the dairy cooperative. “Initially, Kieni Dairy was primarily a cooling centre and the milk was just being transferred to bigger processors in the county. But the forecast changed in 2018 when we received Sh10.6 million grant from the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition-GAIN to start pasteurising our milk. This has expanded our market niche and increased farmers’ incomes,” he said. Leah Kaguara, GAIN country director, said they have assisted Kieni dairy in technical support and market research to determine the opportunity for the business to increase the processing and distribution of milk through new milk dispensing outlets. She explained that through the Marketplace for Nutritious Foods project, GAIN convenes a business networking forum where businesses and other stakeholders exchange ideas and focus on solutions in the food industry, especially for small and medium enterprises. Mwaniki said the grant went towards purchasing and installing milk processing equipment in support of their expansion strategy. The processing equipment comprises a continuous flow milk pasteuriser (500LPH) and milk cooling 5,000 litres tank at the company. Mwaniki said before they started pasteurisation, milk prices were low with a litre going for less than Sh30. Now they are able to sell a litre of milk from Sh35 to not less than Sh45. “The support we have got has seen us grow and compete with other middle-level processors in the market. After we started pasteurising, we have been able to reach more customers from as far as Nairobi, especially in the informal settlement where we are able to deliver safe quality milk that is pasteurised.  We are now able to pass that financial benefit to the farmers,” said Mwaniki. He said on average the dairy centre is able to bulk 18,000 to 19,000 litres a day from the 3, 000 farmers who are spread across the seven cooperative societies that form the Kieni Dairy Cooperative. Since 2018, they have been changing focus and expanding their activities. They now pasteurise part of milk they aggregate and sell at their production facility and also through automated milk dispensing unit or ATM milk machines in Nyeri and other towns, including Nairobi. He said besides pasteurisation and fermentation of milk, the dairy cooperation is also making yoghurt which they sell locally. “We make 200-300 litres of yoghurt daily and package it in different quantities. The prices range from Sh600 for five litres, Sh330 for three litres, Sh220 for two litres and Sh70 and Sh40 for 500gm and 250gm respectively,” said Mwaniki. He said in order to prevent adulteration of milk, they have invested in extension services to ensure farmers are taught the correct way of handling dairy cows from feeding to the delivery stage.