 A Chinese company is set to invest Sh16 billion to construct a factory to manufacture ceramics in Miwani, Kisumu county. Keda Ceramics International Limited has already acquired 150 acres for the project. Company’s managing director Ruiqin Li said construction works for the first phase of the project will start next month. Ruiqin, who led a delegation from the company to meet Governor Anyang' Nyong’o on Thursday, said they have obtained all the required licences, including the environmental impact assessment from Nema. Keda will manufacture products such as wall tiles, porcelain floor tiles and semi-porcelain tiles. Ruiqin said the project will create 2,500 jobs for locals upon completion. “The factory will use modern technology to manufacture tiles,” he said. The mega project, he said, entails five production lines. In phase one, the MD said they will produce wall and floor tiles. Some 500 people will be employed. The tiles will measure 200 by 300mm, 300 by 300mm and 400 by 400mm due to market demand. The first production line will be ready by the end of 2021. Keda has been operating a branch in Kajiado on 60 acres, where it invested Sh7 billion. In Kajiado, Ruiqin said the company has drilled more than 70 boreholes for the community as part of their corporate social responsibility. It also has in place the Maisha Bora scholarship programme which benefits 50 students annually. Ruiqin said Kisumu is strategically placed in East Africa for trade. It also enables the company to access raw materials in Kisumu and its surroundings. Keda has other branches in India, Italy, Ghana, Senegal and Zambia. Nyong’o praised the project, saying it will bring numerous benefits to residents as well as help improve the economy of the county. He urged company management to prioritise locals when employing staff. “They can only outsource very technical jobs,” Nyong’o added. “We have done due diligence with the relevant authorities and are convinced that the company is committed to the project.” Nyong’o said the company will use the Kisumu port to export the finished products to other parts of East and Central Africa. He said Keda came at the right time when his administration has commenced a campaign to woo local and international investors to boost the county’s economy and create more job opportunities. “We have organised an international conference in September this year to give us an opportunity to demonstrate the opportunities we have in Kisumu,” the governor said. The conference is scheduled for September 24-29 and will showcase Kisumu as the investment hub for East and Central Africa.  Edited by A.N