TSC has promoted 16,152 teachers after holding interviews between December 2020 and Feb 2021, CEO Nancy Macharia has announced. In a notice on Friday evening, Macharia said the interviews are part of the final phase of the 2017-2021 Collective Bargaining Agreement. “Letters on the outcome of the interviews are in the process of being sent to all teachers who were interviewed,”she said. Among those who have been promoted  are teachers who will  serve as Deputy Principal 1(T-Scale 13- D3), Deputy Principal II (T-scale 12,D2), Senior Lecturer I (T-scale 12,D2), Deputy Principal III (T-Scale 11-D1), Curriculum Support Officers (T-scale 10-C5) Head teachers (T-scale 10,C5), Senior Master IV( T-scale 9C4), Deputy Head Teachers II (T-scale 9-C4), Senior Lecturer IV (T-scale 9-C4)  and  teachers in  senior Master I (T Scale 9- C4) job groups. Others promoted include head teachers and deputy head teachers II, Secondary Teacher I and II serving under the Career Progression Guidelines and those in ASAL areas. Macharia further warned teachers against falling prey to fraudsters purporting to have the ability to influence the outcome of the interviews. Last year, the Kenya National Union of Teachers opposed a plan to promote 15,000 teachers in January 2021. Knut secretary-general Wilson Sossion said the union's legal team will file a contempt of court case against the Teachers Service Commission for ignoring the schemes of service. In the schemes of service, teacher promotion was pegged on merit and ability as reflected in the teacher’s work, performance, and results; seniority and experience, the existence of a vacancy; academic and professional qualifications. In a TSC circular dated May 2, 2018, the teachers' employer introduced the career progress guidelines and abolished the traditional schemes of service. The circular was however quashed by the Labour Court in July 2019. The court said TSC had gone against the agreed promotion guidelines and ordered that they revert to the schemes of service.