A Jubilee lawmaker could have been pocketing millions in irregular mileage allowances. Sources whisper to Corridors of Power the MP, whose home is not far from Nairobi, was receiving mileage claims meant for those hailing from Lamu. He pocketed the cash for years until he was smoked out recently. To make matters worse, the man has been in trouble with his party. It’s said that Directorate of Criminal Investigations detectives were swiftly called in and when the man realised he was in trouble, he hastily returned the cash, claiming it was a mistake by parliamentary payroll. He is said to have borrowed heavily to return it. *** A senior politician in Kenya has resorted to manufacturing and responding to a false story about his health. Ironically, the man has blamed it on his political enemies for fear of tough days ahead in his political career, apparently seeking sympathy. The man is known for his dismal performance in his career as a politician. He is always hanging onto national government and donors. Those in the know say he is now staring at a backlash from his constituents in next year's general election. *** A communications officer from a county in Nyanza is angry. The man, known for his highhandedness, is furious with journalists for exposing to his boss, the governor, his unbecoming behaviour. Recently, after a press conference addressed by the county chief, the scribes pressed for a brief meeting with the boss. It was at this meeting that the journalists, who were fed up with the communications boss’s conduct, spilt the beans. They exposed how the officer has made their lives unbearable – rarely responding to phone calls, sometimes resorting to abuses if pressed for a comment. The governor dressed down the officer in the presence of the scribes, promising radical changes soon. *** An MP in Nairobi is facing the wrath of his constituents for abandoning 'priority' projects initiated by his predecessor. The MP is said to have ordered the new constituency development team not to fund the projects, saying they were not viable. But the residents, who had prioritised the projects during public participation conducted by the former MP, have insisted that the projects must be completed before new ones are initiated. They have petitioned the legislator and are threatening to collect signatures to recall him if he abandons the projects. The legislator is said to be been keen to start new projects that assure him of kickbacks.