Two million tree seedlings will be planted during this year's devolution conference in Makueni county in August, Kitui Kefri director Albert Lavanda has disclosed. The conference will be held between August 23 and 26. The annual event draws delegates from all the 47 counties, the national government, legislators and the private sector. “When 47 counties come together and congregate in Mukueni for this year's devolution conference, we will leave the county with an additional two million trees,” Lavanda said on Tuesday. He spoke when he presided over the national tree planting campaign day in Kitui. During the event, 1,000 tree seedlings were planted at Ithookwe Primary School. Lavanda also called on the people of Kitui to take up tree planting seriously to ensure the county attains the recommended 10 per cent forest cover. “We need to attain 10 per cent forest cover to mitigate the adverse effects of climate change and global warming. We have to plant trees in big numbers so that our environment becomes friendly and attracts more rain,” he said. Lavanda said the Kitui forest cover stands at seven per cent and every effort must be made to ensure it reaches 10 per cent as targeted by the national government. “We need to bring everybody on board be it farmers, students or ordinary folks in order to achieve the 10 per cent forest cover,” he added. Kitui county Kenya Forestry Service conservator Joyce Nthuku said since the onset of the March-May rain season over 100,000 trees have been planted in the area. The tree planting campaign in Kitui has also been boosted by the 'We The Trees' community-based organisation from Muthale area of Kitui West subcounty. The group has so far sourced and distributed 49,530 tree seedlings to families and self-help groups. CEO Francis Kavisu lamented that human activity had drastically reduced forest cover in most parts of Kitui to about four per cent. Kavisu, the founder of 'We The Trees', said the group seeks to plant at least one million trees by 2023 in memory of his mother, who passed away in 2019.  Edited by A.N 