Muguka farmers in Embu have requested the government to explore new markets and set aside funds to support them This comes after Muguka prices dropped by 70 per cent in one year, leaving them in debts. The prices of Miraa and Muguka variety have been depreciating since the Somalia government first banned imports in 2016. Peterson Njeru, chairman of Siena Muguka Sacco said, last year at this time, they were selling a kilo of Muguka at Sh500 within local markets but are currently selling it at Sh100. Farmers attribute the current low prices to influx from the wetter, upper side of Embu where there is more water, compared to the dry lower side. Muguka is a Khat variety that does well in the semi-arid lowlands of Embu county, where farmers have large tracts of land. However, farmers from the upper side and other parts of Mt Kenya region are also cashing in on the trade. During the long rains season, a glut in the market often sends prices tumbling. “Muguka requires less rainfall and during the rainy season the quality goes down and the produce floods the market,” Humphrey Kinyua, a farmer in Mbeere North said. “Kenyan government needs to hold talks with Somalia’s to solve any issues, it is hurting our businesses, we are incurring losses,” another farmer from Siakago said. However, the Embu county government advised farmers to diversify into other farming practices. It has been distributing fingerlings to Muguka farmers to encourage them to diversify. About 65,000 farmers are growing the crop in Embu, making the stimulant one of the highest income earners apart from tea and coffee, according to the county agriculture and cooperatives docket. The county government through the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project has been educating and funding farmers to venture into poultry, dairy, mango and green grams farming as a way of diversification and loss mitigation. Embu Governor Martin Wambora said that more than 50,000 Embu farmers have benefitted from Sh211 million kitty from the National Agricultural and Rural Inclusive Growth Project. “Agriculture is our number one pillar, the breadbasket that feeds the nation and brings in foreign exchange,” Wambora said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris