Baringo leaders have appealed to the government to conduct a thorough disarmament drive in the county to mop up illegal firearms and flush out bandits. Baringo South MP Charles Kamuren said they were tired of losing and burying people killed in frequent banditry attacks. “If we are really Kenyans, then for how long should we continue losing our people’s lives and their property?”  Kamuren posed. He spoke in Marigat on Saturday while touring the area to assess the security situation and launch phase two of the school bursaries disbursement. Two days prior, armed bandits believed to have come from Tiaty subcounty shot dead a 70-year-old man Lokuyalem Lemilita and his 10-year-old grandson, a Grade 4 pupil, at Kiserian Primary School on Thursday, May 20. “The victims were herding their animals at Bartulo Hill when the bandits ambushed and attacked them around 3pm,” Baringo South subcounty police commander Benjoliffe Munuve said on Friday. Munuve said the bandits made away with 67 head of cattle towards Ramacha, Laga Mbaya and Mlima Karau. He said the police and youths from the area pursued the attackers and recovered 37 animals. Thirty are still missing. “Tension is still high, but our officers have intensified patrols to pursue the bandits. The raids are almost becoming a routine exercise in the area,” he said. Munuve said enough security officers had been deployed to calm the situation, pursue the bandits and recover the stolen animals. He said bandits are believed to have come from Chepkalacha, Silale and Akwichatis in Tiaty. On March 25, Gabriel Lekichep, 65, was shot dead and Jackline Lekidogo, 36, and her two and a half-year-old child were seriously injured. On April 15, a Kenya Defence Forces soldier was shot dead at close-range in a fierce exchange of fire a few metres from their Mukutani camp, raising more fears among civilians. Security officers, including KDF, General Service Unit, Rapid Deployment Unit and the Kenya Forest Service wardens have been sent to the area, although nothing much is going on currently. Kamuren also said children from 10 schools are yet to resume learning. The schools are Chemoroing’ion, Arabal, Kapndasum, Embosos, Kasiela, Chebinyiny, and Sossionte primary schools. The others are Kiserian, Sinoni and Nyimbei primary and secondary schools in Baringo South subcounty. Four MCAs – Reuben Chepsongol (Bartabwa), Kipruto Kimosop, Renson Parkei and Joseph Ole’Parsalach – backed Kamuren's call on Sunday in Kabarnet town. “The government should get serious and repossess the numerous firearms in the hands of civilians which are being used to cause insecurity in the region,” Kimosop said. He said the menace, which has been ongoing in the region for over 20 years now, will only come to an end if a forceful disbarment is carried to seize guns in the hands of criminals. Perkei said it is unfortunate that in the 21st Century people in the area are living in fear of losing their lives and properties any day. “I want to tell the government, especially the security apparatus, to up their game because we are losing our people day in, day out,” he said. Chepsongol said the bandits have since 2005 been killing people and stealing livestock in his Bartabwa ward. He said such bandits must be pursued and apprehended. County commissioner Henry Wafula said his security team will not relent in the fight against criminals who kill, maim and steal livestock in Baringo North and Baringo subcounties. Edited by A.N