Sauti Sol guitarist Polycarp Otieno and his wife Lady Mandy have shared the story of their delivery process. The two were featured in a recent episode of 'Sol Generation', aired only on Showmax. Speaking during the episode, Lady Mandy explained why she chose home birth. "It felt like it was just the right thing. I wanted to allow my body to do what it is meant to do without interference," she said. She said the pregnancy journey wasn't easy especially being her first pregnancy and happening during a pandemic. Before the delivery date, the couple was taken through a series of activities to do to help in the contraction of muscles. "We had the classes and that helped us so much. I learnt very quickly but I did not know how to breathe. Two weeks passed and our midwife tells us we need to be induced into labour naturally." Polycarp added that he was advised to put cloves in his wife's food and give her raspberry leaf tea. He said the decision of going for home births came as he also remembered a friend of his who had given birth through that method. "I remember Mandy mentioning about someone asking about home births and that there were midwives around the country." Mandy said, "What sealed it for me is that I have had to make decisions that are for the best interest of my child by taking care of myself because I am growing a human being inside me." According to medics, one can have a home birth when her condition and that of the baby is well. Mandy says from the time she went into labour, they had an ambulance outside their home. "The ambulance was a proper back-up plan and that made us safe and that everything was going to be okay," Polycarp said. They ended up giving birth in their bedroom. "The moment the midwife said she could see the head of the baby. I think that was the magical word I have ever heard. Coz I knew finally, this is our end." She added, "The plan was never to give birth in the bedroom in the first place but we did it from there. No word in the whole world can ever explain labour," she said. Their son is currently seven months old. Polycarp said his son usually wakes up at 6am and he has to wake up with him to give his mum time to sleep. "We usually have that first hour vibing and having a good time together, staring at each other."