The Pest Control Products Board has set up a task force to review toxic pesticides in use in the country. The team was formed in response to a directive by Parliament's Committee on Health following a petition to withdraw toxic pesticides. Uasin Gishu Woman Rep Gladys Boss Sholei presented the petition that called for withdrawal of pesticides banned in the European Union. The Biodiversity and Biosafety Association of Kenya, Kenya Organic Agriculture Network, Resources Oriented Initiative Kenya and Route to Food Initiative prepared the petition in 2019. The task force will give recommendations on and suggest ways for implementing the directives. The pesticides cited will be analysed first by the agrochemical companies and then by PCPB. The molecules will go through both hazards and risk assessments tests. “So far the committee has held talks with the agrochemical industry and set out two-stage molecule analysis of the pesticides products: by the company and by PCPB. ... The agrochemical industry has also been trained on how to do both tests,” Paul Ngaruiya, PCPB pesticides registration manager said. He spoke during a virtual roundtable for journalists organised by the Route to Food Initiative to assess the progress PCPB has made on the directive by the committee. Ngaruiya said the board is constructing a laboratory meant for carrying out residue analysis tests for food crops and soil. “The lab will go a long way in assessing pesticide residue in crops, help improve their quality as well as ensure the food safety of Kenyan produce,” he added. He asked development partners to help equip the laboratory for effective analyses of residue level of crops for both local and export markets. Margaret Maumba, assistant manager for compliance at PCPB said that food safety is an inclusive responsibility. The mandate is shared by other agencies including Kephis, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Agriculture and the agrochemical industry. "To ensure that farmers and consumers are safe we need to work together,” Maumba said. She urged farmers to work with the regulatory institutions to improve their pesticides management skills and report fake agro-dealers. “We would like to assure the public that we are ready to work together with the other state agencies to implement the recommendations,” Ngaruiya said. Parliament had in December 2020 given the PCPB and other agencies 90 days to analyse of harmful pesticides and withdraw them from the market.  (edited by o. owino)