Harambee Starlets skipper Dorcus Shikobe says the Kenya Women's Premier League offers no meaningful competition at all. Shikobe, who currently plies trade for Thika Queens in the women's top tier, said competition had been compromised from the time the league was split up into two zones. “The teams we have in our zones are not a threat to us at all and most of the time we've been winning our matches without much of a struggle,” said Shikobe. “There isn't sufficient challenge in the competition to prepare us adequately for international assignments. Local clubs and players need to up their game,” said Shikobe. Football Kenya Federation reached the contentious decision to split the league into Zone ‘A’ and Zone ‘B’ in order to minimise transport costs that made it difficult for teams to honour their matches. The centre back, who joined the Thika-based side from Oserian Ladies at the beginning of the season, still believes defending champions Vihiga Queens are the biggest threat to their title dreams. “Honestly, I don't think there is any other threat apart from Vihiga. They've won the title back-to-back for the last three seasons and still look to be in their best form,” said Shikobe. “Having six national team players has made our work in the KWPL so easy owing to the vast experience they possess,” added Shikobe. Thika recently enlisted the services of Jereko Adam ‘Dogo’ whose efforts to join the pro ranks ended in a heartbreak after she was denied a visa. The side currently tops the Zone ‘A’ standings after an impressive run that has seen them run over their opponents without much ado. Asked why she deserted Oserian after many years of dedicated service, Shikobe attributed her decision to Covid-19 related implications. “At Oserian, I wasn't getting any proceeds from playing football but the company employed me on their flower farm. “When Covid-19 broke out, the management gave us a forced unpaid leave. Since I had important needs to cater for, I decided to make the bold move,” he said . Shikobe, who skippered Harambee Starlets to their Cecafa Senior Women Challenge Cup maiden title in Tanzania in 2019 believes Kenya still stands a good chance at defending their trophy. “Tanzania have some very good players and I think they still have the capacity to give us sleepless nights.” She was included in the provisional squad named by David Ouma before Charles Okere took over the reigns. The Starlets, who are already in camp, are preparing for their African Women Cup of Nations qualifiers that will also double up as World Cup qualifiers.