KCPE candidates who scored high marks and are from poor backgrounds will receive scholarships from the Murang'a county government to join their schools of choice. Governor Mwangi wa Iria said his government is in the process of selecting 1,000 candidates for the scholarship programme who may otherwise miss out on quality education. The governor said the vetting process will be carried out by primary school head teachers, boards of management and church leaders to ensure only the deserving children are enlisted. “We decided to use primary schools and the church because they have a history of each of their pupils and know which families are destitute,” he said. Each primary school provides two beneficiaries from disadvantaged backgrounds who receive admission letters from boarding schools. The programme, called ‘Nyota Zetu’, was started in 2019 and supports a new batch of 1,000 students every year. The programme was invented after the county government discovered that many parents were transferring their children from extra-county schools to day schools due to lack of fees. This, the governor said, locked bright children from poor backgrounds from accessing good quality education despite posting good grades in KCPE. Each of the students receives Sh54,000 per year and is expected to post good performances and steer away from indiscipline or risk being dropped from the programme. Students who perform poorly but indicate some consistent improvement are however exempted from the cut off. The governor said bursaries that are normally offered by NG-CDF kitties often leave parents struggling to raise the extra fees required to keep their children in schools. “Even with the bursaries, most parents struggle to raise fees to keep their children in boarding schools and many end up transferring them to day schools. That is why we decided to offer full scholarships,” he said. Though the county government has not received its revenue allocation from the national government, wa Iria said the devolved unit had to source for funds to ensure the beneficiaries received their cheques as the schools reopened. “We are hoping to produce professionals who would otherwise not be produced without the bursary. I hope the governor who will come in next will increase the programme’s allocation to benefit more students,” said the governor who is in his second term. Wa Iria said this at Murang’a High School on Friday during a mentorship forum carried out by Robinson Simiyu, the student who emerged the best nationally in KCSE 2020 exams. Simiyu said his role was to prove that it was possible for the school to produce top performers and challenged the students to perform even better to continue the legacy. “I am grateful to God for my performance. It was a long journey but I would be lyig if I said it was my sole effort because it was a team effort. I thank my teachers and parents for contributing to my success,” he told the students. He encouraged those who did not perform to their expectations to not give up. Getting a good grade, he said, is not a guarantee of success. “ When a door closes, God opens many more. It is not the end. Though success is the end result, there are many paths to it. Let them not be discouraged, they still have an opportunity to steer their lives in their desired direction,” he said. The school’s principal Willy Kuria said the institution has been celebrating Simiyu’s win and hoped to continue with the good performance. The school has topped the county for five years consecutively and posted a mean score of 9.86 points,with 30 students scoring an A while 86 had an A- and 71 scored a B+. The last three students score a C-. Edited by Henry Makori