Do they attack for thrill, drama, fun? That's what's scary because they steal nothing but batter and stab villagers with pangas, pitchforks, rungus, metal rods and other weapons. Many are left for dead but so far no death has been reported Increasing teen gang attacks on residents of Githima village and Ngoingwa area in Thika East and Thika West are puzzling because theft isn't the motive. Valuables are left behind. In Githima village, teens between ages 15 and 19 have been waylaying resident at night. Residents are nervous, not wanting to be out at night. Thika East deputy police commander Muthee Nyaga told journalists police are working round the clock to arrest them. “We are increasing patrols in the village to boost security and our officers will work closely with the area community policing and Nyumba Kumi officials to ensure that all criminals are brought to book,” Nyaga said. In Ngoingwa Estate, eight boys were arrested over the weekend after residents raised the alarm. They had been breaking into houses and burglarising them. They also sell drugs. Those aren't the most frightening cases, the ones of senseless cruelty in which the perpetrators themselves seem to have been desensitised. The violence has attracted the attention of the Counter Violent Extremism, Kiambu chapter, headed by Thika-based counsellor and psychologist Gladys Chania. She told the Star in Thika the reasons teens join gangs include alcohol and drug abuse, peer pressure, financial gains, physical protection and excitement. “Being in a gang also appeals to some adolescents' fantasies of rebellion and desire for high-octane drama," she said. Youth consider gangs as a form of social club. Low self-esteem and academic failure also lure them into illicit gangs, she said. Chania also said poor parenting contributes to increasing cases of gang violence. Parents should be vigilant and alert to any change in the behaviour in their children, she said. There are many signs youth may be fraternising with gangs. Parents should be on the lookout for change of friends, boys wearing the same colours, flashing hand signs, being secretive about their movements, loss of interest in school and having money without a known source. Tattoos too can convey messages and signal solidarity. Chania said parents and all stakeholder need to be involved to counter increasing criminality and extremism. They include local authorities, community policing, Nyumba Kuma and others to break up teen hubs. “This is a great way of curbing the radicalisation. Since since its drivers are within the community citizens need to be involved," she said. “A lot of vigilance is needed as well as working closely with security agencies to ensure the area is free of threats." She said sensitisation campaigns will be launched in Kiambu to counter and shatter teen gangs. Kiambu is a vulnerable to radicalisation and youth crimes due to its proximity to other hotspot counties. Poverty and unemployment are also high and there's a long history of illicit liquour abuse," Chania said. "We must aggressively sensitise our youth about this so  we can eliminate the blossoming gang and crime  menace,” she said. (Edited by V. Graham)