Two former police officers who were charged with the killing of a woman at City Park in Nairobi have been sentenced to seven years in jail. Geoffrey Kirui and William Chirchir were convicted of manslaughter. Justice Stella Mutuku on Thursday said the seven-year imprisonment was appropriate for the two. They were accused of killing Janet Waiyaki on May 20, 2018. Waiyaki was in a car with her nephew Bernard Chege at about 10.30am when they were shot at by the officers. Mutuku said although the former cops were first-time offenders, they did not deserve a non-custodial sentence. "Given circumstances of the case, a non-custodial sentence is not appropriate. I sentence the two to seven years in jail each," Mutuku ruled. The court said it considered the fact that life had been lost and nothing can be done to bring it back. Accused persons failed to follow the law on the use of force, the court said. Waiyaki's family was not satisfied with the sentence. They wanted a stiffer sentence. "The real murderers are still out there enjoying life. I want to remind them that Janet in her grave will fight for her justice," Waiyaki’s brother said Edward Mbanya, the lawyer representing the family, said he was happy the matter was heard expeditiously unlike other cases that take longer in court. "We are happy justice has been served despite the interference by police in the evidence as noted by the judge," Mbanya said. Two weeks ago, the convicts told the court that they were deeply sorry for committing the offence. "My lady, if we could turn back time, a lot of things would be done differently," they said through their lawyer said. While praying for a lenient sentence, Chirchir said he had been in service for 10 years without any criminal record. The 36-year-old said he has acute ulcers and has been taking care of his two siblings. His family, the lawyer says, relies on him. His mother, a widow aged 75 years, also has ulcers and requires medical care. Kirui, 28, had been in service for six years before the incident happened. He is married with two children aged seven and one. "We are pleading for mercy your honour as you make your sentencing. If they were on a mission and their mission was to protect the country, the circumstances they found themselves in on that day were not usual. Terrorism does not occur every day,” their lawyer said. The two had asked for a non-custodial sentence saying the incident was not intentional. The lawyer argued that there was very limited time for anyone to act as dictated by the oath. "They are deeply and genuinely remorseful,” he added. Waiyaki's husband had asked the court to consider the victims as the death of his wife was a premature one. Life cannot be brought back, he said. "A young life was lost. We call on you to make sentencing that will serve justice," he said. “Consider she was 41 years old, left very young children, the eldest being 12 years old. The children will live the rest of their lives without the care of a mother. The young one aged four has been waiting for the mother to come back all this time.” Mutuku convicted the ex-officers on May 11 when she ruled that the force they used was not proportional. The judge said the intention was not to kill the woman, as the officers were reacting to a terrorism alert in the area. “This brings me to the conclusion the offence proved by the evidence before me is that of manslaughter and not murder by the absence of the element of malice aforethought," Mutuku ruled. The judge said the convicts acted recklessly and shot at Waiyaki's vehicle without considering their actions might result in injuring or killing an innocent occupant. She said no offence had been committed by the victim and there was no threat from her and the other occupant after the vehicle drove off to flee the area. Chege and Waiyaki did not resist the attempts by the police to arrest them, the court ruled.  Edited by P.O