The advent of Covid-19 came with its fair share of challenges on the healthcare system but it helped improve hygiene, Health CS Mutahi Kagwe has said. The CS said most people are now washing their hands regularly. He said this has significantly reduced killer diseases such as diarrhoeal diseases among children aged below five years, acute respiratory diseases in all age sets and intestinal worms among schoolchildren. “Another gain has been the increase in the capacity of health facilities to handle critically ill patients including in provision of oxygen and ventilators. These are gains that must be sustained,” Kagwe said. According to the CS, before the pandemic, Kenya had realised significant gains in the health sector. For instance, maternal mortality had declined by three per cent in two year and, the overall prevalence of malaria had reduced by 43 per cent to 5.6 per cent in 2019.  Also, HIV incidence had dropped by 48 per cent to 1.4 per cent while TB incidence had reduced by 40 per cent in 2019. “Additionally, we had started to deal with the increasing burden of non-communicable diseases,” the CS noted. The pandemic however interrupted the healthcare system, Kagwe said. He said though there have been gains, the number of mental health cases have increased by nearly 30 per cent from 1.8 to 2.3 per 1,000 patients. Also recorded was a marked reduction in the outpatient visits, attendance of child welfare clinics as well as reports of maternal and child deaths. “There was also a disruption to routine health services such as immunisation and non-communicable disease clinics. Clearly, Covid-19 disease has the potential to jeopardise health systems and stall progress in the sector," the CS said. Kagwe reiterated the need to continually increase the number of medics and skills to ensure the healthcare needs of the population are met. Kenya has 13 healthcare workers per 10,000 population after recruiting more than 8,000 health workers over the last one year. The CS said the strengthened health system in the country has enabled Kenya to deploy the Covid-19 vaccine to nearly one million people in nearly three months. Similarly, Kenya has been able to deploy the first malaria vaccine, RTSS, to more than 190,000 children.