The Kenya Private Sector Alliance has appointed Flora Mutahi as the first female Board Chair. Jaswinder Bedi was appointed the Vice-Chair. Mutahi is part of the new leadership team unveiled during Kepsa’s 17th Annual General Meeting which was held virtually. During the AGM, Kepsa appreciated the outgoing leaders for all the successful initiatives they spearheaded while in office. Kepsa also released its annual report which documents all actions and outcomes of year 2020 projects including the upcoming plans detailing the shift into the new Simba II Era. “My appointment as the first ever female chair is a testimony to Kepsa taking a giant step in the right direction of entrenching inclusivity and meritocracy in our leadership. We should continue with this drive and include not just women but also youth, persons living with disabilities, and MSME owners and leaders.” Mutahi affirmed. Kepsa CEO, Carole Kariuki Karuga, highlighted part of the efforts that KEPSA has embarked on to support businesses during the Covid-19pandemic period. She also applauded the outgoing leaders and entire KEPSA leadership for their determination in steering the organization to the next level. “We appreciate our members for standing with and believing in us even through such times.” Kariuki said. Adding, "Going forward our start-ups, micro and small medium enterprises (MSMEs)who form the largest number of our new members, can feel at home in our newly-established SME Club at Kepsa. As members they can more effectively formulate proposals and solutions to issues affecting them.” After deliberations, the nominated directors to serve for the next two years were confirmed as Flora Mutahi (Chair), Jaswinder Bedi (Vice Chair), Darren J Gillen, Stephen Gatagama, Troy Yue, John Gachora, Macharia Muthondu, Mucai Kunyiha, Allen Gichuhi, Graham Shaw, Elizabeth Wala, Catherine Musakali, Eva Muraya, Bimal Kantaria, James Mwangi and Nicholas Nesbitt (ExOfficio). Patrick Obath was appointed as the Kepsa Foundation Chair and Gloria Ndekei will serve as the Vice-Chair.