Nairobi City Stars coach Sanjin Alagic has extolled his charges after handing Sofapaka thorough hiding at Ruaraka Grounds on Monday. The Football Kenya Federation Premier League returnees shrugged off their underdogs' tag heading into the match to thump the 2009 champions 3-0, their heaviest defeat of the season. “Of course, it was a big match. I have to congratulate my players for winning. We have dislodged Sofapaka from position 10 on the table and this win will be a good push for us,” said Alagic. Alagic said the return of midfielder Peter ‘Pinchez’ Opiyo had injected some life into the side after disappointing outings against Tusker and Gor Mahia. “We missed Opiyo against Tusker and Gor Mahia and you can see how important he was in the match today. Every player is important for us but, honestly speaking, we really missed Opiyo in our previous matches,” he added. Despite the disastrous results, Sofapaka gaffer Ken Odhiambo sounded bullish as they plot for a clash against leaders KCB. “I’m not afraid of KCB and I believe we shall have prepared well enough to tackle them in our next match,” said Odhiambo. He said his charges quacked in their boots after conceding an early penalty. “Immediately we conceded, the penalty things didn’t work out as planned. The players panicked,” said Odhiambo. “I believe it's something we can work on. What matters is how we pick ourselves up and move on. It is just the first match of the second leg and I believe we have a good team, all we need to do is motivate them.” City Stars took the fight to Sofapaka right from the first whistle, threatening their goal at whim. Four minutes into play, Sofapaka buckled under the mounting pressure when Stephen Otieno handled the ball in the box to gift City a clear penalty.  Opiyo, gladly stepping up for duty, hurled the ball into the upper left corner of the net to open the floodgates. In the 15th minute, Davis Agesa latched onto Rogers Okumu’s low cross into the area to double their advantage. In the 27th minute, skipper Lawrence Juma squandered a chance to pull one back from the spot after Bolton Omwenga handled the ball in the box. Juma cheekily dispatched Moubarak Aigba to the wrong side only for the ball to rattle the woodwork. Edwin Sifuna’s infringement on Nicholas Kipkirui on the edge of the box proved costly as Salim Abdalla rose unmarked to head in Omwenga’s resultant delivery from a set-piece in the 37th minute. Sofapaka custodian Moubarak was sent for an early shower on the stroke of halftime following an off-the-ball incident with Kipkirui. Coach Odhiambo had to tinker his lineup to create room for a new goalkeeper. In the 60th minute, Sifuna sent Okumu tumbling to the ground and Libese pointed to the spot. Goalkeeper Kevin Omondi was the toast of the day, denying Anthony Kimani a chance to get his Batoto Ba Mungu back into the game. Sofapaka’s midfielder Sven Yinda also received his marching orders in stoppage time after picking a second yellow card following an ugly spat with Juma. Following the win, City Stars have ascended to 10th on the log with 20 points, consequently dislodging Sofapaka who have 19.