The Kenya Forest Service in Kwale has warned against the illegal cutting down of trees for charcoal burning and timber. The development comes after KFS last month embarked on massive planting of indigenous and food trees to restore the lost forest cover in the region. County KFS station manager Edwin Misachi said illegal charcoal dealers and loggers risk huge fines and jail terms. “We will arrest and prosecute anyone if they attempt to destroy the forests,” he said. About 40 million trees are expected to be planted by next year. So far, over 25, 000 trees have been planted. Misachi said people must value the importance of forest conservation to counter the drastic weather climate changes. He said illegal logging has led to the destruction of indigenous trees in Matuga, Kinango and Lunga-Lunga fearing the situation might worsen the already dry condition experienced in some areas. The national government imposed a ban on reckless felling of trees to hit the countrywide target of 10 per cent forest cover. The illegal charcoal business is rampant in Lunga-Lunga and Kinango sub-counties and is mostly sold in big and small sacks that range from Sh150-Sh1500. Sometimes the charcoal business thrives out in the open along Samburu-Kinango and Lunga-Lunga highways. During the weekends, school-going children and women are seen carrying sacks of charcoal on their heads seeking potential buyers around Kwale town. The officer, however, said the fight against the illegal charcoal business has yielded positive results in the region. Last year, the KFS intercepted a county government tipper engaging in unlawful transportation of 400 bags of charcoal in Lunga-Lunga. Misachi told the residents to jealously protect the ancient trees as they contain the medicine value and help preserve history. The officer said the only way people can prevent soil erosion, floods among other disasters is by conserving and planting more trees. “Trees play a crucial role in protecting land degradation, purifying the air and ensuring water sources remain alive,” he said. Misachi warned that the constant destruction of forests also poses a great threat to agriculture and fishing activities.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris