Most of the minivan drivers popping up in Kisii used to operate 14-seater matatus. They know their ups and downs. While still working with the matatus, they spotted an opportunity to do business differently, and they seized it. These drivers have come in with smaller vans whose passenger capacity is five, and they are taking Kisii town by storm. They are slowly but surely taking over various routes from Kisii town and stamping their authority. This has not gone down well with their colleagues still in the 14-seater matatus. Already, the minivan drivers have the Kisii-Kemera route under their grip, and now they are creeping into the Kisii-Keroka route. With most passengers preferring the minivans to the older matatus, a business war has erupted, pitting former colleagues and even best friends. As Covid-19 delivers blow after blow to the economy, business returns are dwindling by the day, and the matatu sector is feeling the pinch. With this reality, drivers of traditional matatus have threatened to report their rebranded brothers for doing business unfairly and illegally. The stage has been set for a bruising battle. "Before these new cars' entry, I could do an average of four trips per day," said Benjamin Makori, a 14-seater matatu driver. "These days, things are bad. I do one or two trips the whole day. They have taken all our customers. To make things worse, they came to our stage and are competing with us here." Samuel Onkoba, the chairman Kemera stage in Kisii town, says the competition is fair and that the minivans are using the stage rightfully. "They pay for the stage fees like any other matatu," he said. The Toyota Sienta minivans swept away the Probox cars that were the signature cars on the Kisii-Keroka route and were notorious for speeding and carrying excess customers. Having phased out the Probox almost completely, the Sientas are now battling for the little remaining ground with Nissan matatus. GO-TO MEANS Minivan driver Daniel Ogeto said, "There was only a single Sienta on the Kisii-Kemera road. That was early last year. By the time Covid-19 hit the country, they were already many." Adding, "In fact, currently there are about a hundred of them. That's because most drivers realised that the smaller cars were much liked by passengers, especially because they get full quickly and leave the stage almost immediately. I'm one person who ditched my former shuttle employer for this car." Until the coronavirus pandemic arrived in Kenya, Ogeto used to work as a driver in one of the companies that ply the Kisii-Eldoret route. He says while some of the drivers are still employed by bosses, others have bought their own minivans for this business. Joseph Onchiri is one such person. "I had been driving people's cars for quite long. When I saw that my friends are doing well in these smaller vehicles, I borrowed a loan and bought mine," he said. Most passengers we talked to said they prefer the minivans to bigger traditional matatus because the smaller vans are quick, reliable and neat. "Ever since these minivans came, I have never boarded a Nissan matatu. These ones are very comfortable. You sit and wait to be taken home pleasurably. And they are on time," said George Okemwa. The bigger, older vehicles still have their fans, though, including Samuel Omwamba. "I don't like these new cars because they can lie to you that they are going to your home only to drop you midway," he said. "That's why I always take these matatus. Besides, the driver is also a good friend of mine and he does his work well. In addition, his matatu takes me into my home village. For those reasons, I am always ready to wait until it gets full, however long it may take." BREAKING THE RULES? As the business enmity between the two parties takes shape and deepens by the day, accusations and counteraccusations emerge. For example, the operators of the 14-seater matatus allege that their Sienta counterparts do not adhere to the rules and regulations set by the National Transport and Safety Authority. "The minivans have an insurance cover of personal vehicles and they pay once in a year, while we pay Sh9,000 per month," said Paul Mochache, a driver. "Besides, they don't pay for the Council's sticker, while we pay Sh2,500 per month. With all these unfair advantages over us, still, they operate in our very own stage. In fact, they have taken over this stage. It's no longer ours but theirs, and unfortunately, we can do nothing as they are many now." Mochache said the new entrants should be operating as personal vehicles or at the worst, taxi for hire, and have their own stage. Joseph Obchiri, a driver and owner of a Toyota Sienta, who's also in charge of discipline at the stage, denied that they are operating illegally. "We, of course, pay for all that is supposed to be paid for. It's only that it's more affordable for one to pay for insurance for a whole year when they have these smaller cars than the bigger ones," he said. One of the minivan drivers however admitted that they operate as public service vehicles illegally. "Truth be told, we are private vehicles even if we do public transport," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "And I am sure the authorities know it because sometimes we even ply the Kisii-Nairobi route, when there's a high demand for vehicles." Besides doing day-to-day public transport, Ogeto says their vehicles also get hired to carry people to various ceremonies. "Another advantage of having these new cars is that we get preferred when ceremonies such as weddings arise. After all, our cars look classic and one would rather hire many but classic vehicles than few old ones," he said. Edited by T Jalio