Elders have clarified that they coronated National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi as their spokesperson and not as the leader of the Mt Kenya region. The elders said they chose the Speaker because of his leadership capabilities saying he will be the link between them and the President. Kiama Kia Ma national patron Kung’u Muigai said the Speaker will become their voice and will be representing them. He said should the elders want to have a meeting with elders from other communities, it is Muturi they will be using to plan such forums. “Muturi was made the spokesperson by elders for elders. If others want other people, they can go ahead and get them,” he said. “We want to be sending him to the President when we have issues because we know they spend time together. When the President wants to reach us, he can also go through the Speaker,” he added. The elder said this during an interview in a local TV station on Sunday, just two days after the Speaker was coronated at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a. The event sparked a heated debate across the region with some elders and political leaders dismissing it. Kikuyu Council of Elders chairman Wachira Kiago said the event was political and should not have been conducted at the shrine. He said the elders would be forced to cleanse the shrine which he said is reserved for prayers and cultural ceremonies. Murang'a Governor Mwangi wa Iria also condemned the Speaker for failing to heed to calls to not conduct the ceremony at the shrine. Wa Iria who addressed journalists immediately after the coronation, said he would sit down with elders to organise a cleansing of the shrine to rid the county of negative consequences that could arise from the rituals conducted during the coronation. The Speaker underwent rituals that were conducted by a team of 20 elders at the shrine. Kung’u said the elders had cleansed themselves for 21 days prior to the event and had also cleansed the shrine in preparation for the ceremony. He dismissed the governor’s sentiments, saying he is not an elder and has no authority to lead a cleansing ceremony. Kung’u further explained that they enlisted the services of the police following threats by the governor that he would storm the shrine and stop the ceremony. “It is the role of the police to protect. Wa Iria had threatened to bring youths to plant grass at the compound on the day of the event,” he said. “He called us cultural brokers yet we are elders. The 20 elders who conducted the rituals are all over 90 years and have great grandchildren,” he added. Murang’a county Kiama Kia Ma patron Peter Kagwanja said he made attempts to reach out to the governor but that bore no fruits. When he threatened to storm the event, Kagwanja said they recorded statements at Murang’a police station and asked for protection. The governor, Kagwanja said, disrespects elders. The two elders further condemned Agriculture CS Peter Munya who dismissed the coronation last week saying no one area can have a spokesperson. “Should other people keep quiet so he can be the spokesperson?” asked Munya. They said the CS was invited when Muturi was endorsed by Njurio Ncheke elders in Tigania last year and that he should have voiced his concerns then. Last Wednesday, elders from Murang’a county led by Kiama Kia Ma chairperson Kiarie Chombou said they had settled on Muturi after vetting several political leaders. The speaker, they said, had an unspoiled history and showed capacity to be the voice of the region. They said the decision was aimed at quelling political divisions being experienced in the region currently and ensure the communities approaches the next elections as a united front. The elders said they in no way intend to replace President Uhuru Kenyatta as the kingpin of the region and that they only want to coronate Muturi as one who will speak on behalf of the region. -Edited by SKanyara