The National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi has said that he is ready to serve the people of Mt. Kenya Region after being coronated as the region’s spokesman. Muturi was coronated on Saturday at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine in Murang’a County, an event that was attended by hundreds of elders. His coronation has however caused varying reactions from a section of the leaders from the region as some dismiss it, saying President Uhuru Kenyatta is still the spokesman. He said that he was humbled by the responsibility bestowed on him and that he is grateful to the venerable elders and the political leaders who have been a part of this process. “I am humbled by the responsibility that has been bestowed on me - to serve as the Spokesman of the Mt. Kenya Region. I am grateful to the venerable elders and the political leaders who have been a part of this process, for entrusting me to articulate the agenda of the Region,” Muturi said. He added that he now has a duty of reaching out to his fellow leaders in the region in order to collectively engage in the political discourse geared towards the furtherance of political and economic interests of the residents. "I now have a duty of reaching out to my fellow leaders in the Region, so we can collectively engage in a political discourse geared towards the furtherance of the political and economic interests of our people, with a unitary voice. I am ready to serve.” Hours after the coronation of Muturi, Governor Mwangi wa Iria said he will organise a cleansing ceremony of Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine. Murang’a governor claimed that it was wrong for the speaker to continue with the ceremony despite continuous calls by various quarters discouraging him. He said the rituals conducted as the shrine could have negative consequences and that they have to be undone as soon as possible. The governor who has publicly condemned Muturi’s plans to be coronated as the spokesperson of the Mt. Kenya region said the speaker was misled by ‘cultural brokers.’