June Wanjugu Koinange, the widow of former MP Paul Koinange, failed to secure the Jubilee Party ticket to run for the Kiambaa seat. Three other members of the influential Koinange family were also locked out of the contest. Wanjugu wanted to succeed her late husband and had hopped to Safina party allied to lawyer Paul Muite. The Jubilee ticket was handed to businessman Kariri Njama after primaries through interviews on May 22. After failing to clinch the Jubilee ticket, Wanjugu moved to Safina party but the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission rejected her papers due to technicalities. “Unfortunately, I did not make it to be among those running for Kiambaa seat,” Wanjugu said “My papers were in order only that I was locked out by the IEBC through some technicalities.” Wanjugu is said to have been time-barred. The IEBC through a gazette notice had called on all political parties intending to present candidates in the by-election through direct nominations to submit the list of persons nominated to the commission on or before May 17. Wanjugu by then was in Jubilee Party. Another politician from the Koinange family who lost in Jubilee party primaries after vigorous campaigns was Damaris Wambui Waiganjo. After being dissatisfied with Jubilee's decision, she decamped to United Democratic Alliance, which is allied to Deputy President William Ruto. She however rescinded her decision after one day and rejoined Jubilee. UDA is fielding John Njuguna Wanjiku. Lennah Koinange also did not make it through Jubilee Party primaries. The IEBC said four candidates who were to return their papers for the contest did not make it because one absconded, another did not have required supporters, another came late after the expected time of 4 pm and another did not fulfil the required requirements to contest. Joseph Kimani Gachino, a youthful candidate running as an independent, was locked out since he came late to return his papers urging his supporters to support the UDA candidate. “My papers were declined since I came late but it was a misunderstanding that I had to put the names of all 1000  supporters in excel which took time. I had fulfilled all the other requirements,” Kimani said. “Since I am a hustler, I urge my supporters to support the UDA candidate because I share the same vision.” Kariri Njama the Jubilee party candidate who was cleared by IEBC said that his campaigns will be conducted by leaders in Kiambaa and outsiders should keep off. “Kiambaa people should be left to decide who their leader will be and outsiders should keep off as we want peace,” Kariri said. Those cleared to contest are Kariri Njama (JP), John Njuguna (UDA), Willie Mbugua (Independent), David Mugo (Independent), Isaac Karomo (Federal Party of Kenya), Lucy Wanjiru (Party of National Unity), Evans Gichia (People's Party of Kenya) and Richard Njoroge (The New Democrats).   Edited by Kiilu Damaris