The government is investigating reports of anti-polio vaccine groups believed to have established themselves in certain parts of the country including Kitui. Though details about the groups remain scanty, the Ministry of Health has noted with concern the individuals involved are using WhatsApp groups. The government has been conducting a polio vaccination campaign in 13 high-risk groups since Saturday last week. The counties are Garissa, Mandera, Isiolo, Wajir, Kitui, Tana River, Lamu, Machakos, Kiambu, Kilifi, Kajiado, Nairobi and Mombasa. The exercise that was targeting 3.4 million children ended on Wednesday with the second round of the campaign expected to start on June 19. “We wish to state that health interventions including vaccination is a right to our children and not a privilege,” Head of Public Health at the Ministry Francis Kuria said. “The government will take necessary actions including enforcing the Public Health Act to ensure that all children and Kenyans enjoy this fundamental right.” As of Tuesday, 2,556, 639 children aged below five years in the target counties had been vaccinated against the target of 3.4 million in five days. Parents in the targeted counties who may have missed out on the vaccine at the end of the five days have been urged to visit the nearest health facility and have their children vaccinated. “I commend the county health teams and community teams for their dedication in fighting disease and notifying authorities in good time whenever a worrying trend is noticed,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said. “I urge those with children who exhibit symptoms of sudden paralysis of the limbs to report to the nearest health facility for immediate examination investigation. Samples from children under the ages of 15 with sudden onset of paralysis are collected and delivered to KEMRI Polio laboratory for analysis.” The campaign was launched after the Ministry confirmed six cases of polio in the country in February in Garissa and Mombasa. Three of the cases were picked from healthy children from Somalia who had crossed over to Garissa with the other three cases having been picked from the environment; one in the sewage in Garissa and two in Mombasa. Polio or poliomyelitis is a disabling life-threatening disease caused by the poliovirus. It spreads from person to person and can infect a person’s spinal cord, causing paralysis. The WHO says even though tremendous progress has been made towards the eradication of the disease and reduction of cases by 99 per cent in the last 30 years, the last steps in ending the disease are proving more difficult.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris