Kirinyaga's newly elected tea directors have condemned top KTDA officials for changing some articles in the regulations to put non-elected officials on the board. The directors said the intended action is not only illegal but also violates the wishes of tea farmers. The Zone 5 affiliated factory management team led by Ndima tea factory chairman James Mithamo has pledged to take unspecified action if the proposals to place 'strangers' and 'outsiders' on the board is implemented. “We vowed to lead from the front in protecting the farmers’ wealth by dismantling all hurdles that some compromised KTDA officials have put in their way," he said. Ngari noted the new team of Zone five affiliated factory directors elected last month have already assumed office and as such have the right to campaign for one of their own to sit in the KTDA board. “Some former KTDA officials who were thrown out during last month’s elections are now formulating their comeback into the entity and little wonder these kind of proposals have been brought forth. We want to tell them that we as the farmers’ representatives will not allow them to come back .They did enough damage for over two decades and contributed to the downfall of the sector.” The directors also unanimously agreed to elect James Mithamo as the preferred candidate to sit as a director at the KTDA board. They exuded confidence in his competence and dedication to work with the government to fully implement the new tea rules that seek to streamline the sector. Richard Magu ,Thumaita tea factory chairperson urged Kirinyaga farmers to rally behind Mithamo as he is dedicated to bring change. “We are assured that when he gets the position he will fight for the welfare of the farmers including how to get a good health care plan for them, raise farmers yields and profit,” Magu said. He also urged farmers to look beyond the 2022 general election and elect leaders who will improve the sector after President Uhuru Kenyatta’s tenure. “Rally behind leaders who support tea farmers.” He praised the current government for it’s commitment in overhauling the sector through new reforms saying they are optimistic that prices will improve. Mureithi Karuhiu another director from Kabare South applauded the office of the DCI over last month’s raid in the KTDA head offices saying the action will help unravel the truth on how farmers funds are used. He expressed optimism that financial auditing will as well trickle down to factories within the counties and as such farmers should be prepared. (Edited by V. Graham) 