The drugs problem in Mombasa is a result of frustrations that youth undergo because they lack opportunities, businessman-cum-politician Suleiman Shahbal has said. Speaking on Sunday, Shahbal said to effectively fight the drugs menace, jobs must be created for the youth. “It is our responsibility as leaders to find ways of creating jobs for the youth,” he said. Shahbal who is eying the Mombasa county governor position said the county needs elaborate structures that can scout, identify and nurture talent while still in the formative years. However, a different approach by detectives from the Anti-Narcotics Unit and the National Intelligence Service has seen a shift in the operations and arrests. The drugs menace in the county is nothing new. Bigger fish are now being nabbed. Shahbal bailed out Kenya Premier League defending champions Gor Mahia by paying for their accommodation at a hotel in Mombasa ahead of their FKF Shield round of 64 clash with Mombasa’s Congo Boys FC. He said sports can be one of the major ways of creating employment for the youth. “Apart from being a unifying factor, sports is a source of income and can be well paying if managed well,” he said. “If someone is actively involved in sports, and gets paid well, they will have no time to drown their frustrations by abusing drugs.” He motivated Congo Boys FC by awarding them some money and pledged to support them by sponsoring their kits in a month. The county, he said, needs heavy investment not only in infrastructure but also in talent. “This is what the developed countries do. We also have what it takes to do the same here,” Shahbal said. There has been a significant drop in cases of drug peddlers and users being arrested in the recent past. This can be attributed to the change of strategy that the security apparatus have undertaken. In the new strategy, ANU and NIS detectives monitor suspects and the contacts in their network over long periods of time. The method helps unearth accomplices and underworld operations of the drugs trade. The new tactic borrows from the method used to arrest and extradite Baktash and Ibrahim Akasha who are now serving 25 and 23 years respectively in the US. Last year, Mohammed Bakari and Mohamed Mansur alias Surur, a fugitive wanted for poaching and narcotics trafficking in the US, were arrested using the new strategy. Speaking to the Star in January, ANU said, “Nowadays when you brief us of a suspected trafficker, we don’t rush; we take time to gather enough information so that when we raid, we get the evidence.” They have also been given free reign to do their work, with little interference. “There is a time we used to arrest a suspect, then you get a phone call from a senior government official who demands to know why you arrested the suspect. Nowadays, we don’t have that problem,” an official said. Shahbal said once the drugs menace is tackled in Mombasa, the youth’s potential needs to be harnessed so that their energy is put to the right use.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris