 Kinango MP Benjamin Tayari has defended himself against accusations he did nothing to save the homes of over 200 families at Bonje in Mwamdudu village, Kasemeni ward. The families' homes were demolished by security agencies and the residents accused their MP of abandoning them at their hour of need. “That is why he was unavailable. All our leaders were unavailable. They are not picking our calls,” resident Hassan Mkubwa said. The residents on Saturday said Tayari knew what was going on but ignored it. Tayaru on Saturday said he was in Nairobi attending Parliament when he received information about the demolitions. “It is true we were not readily available at the time of demolitions but it is because we were in Nairobi for Parliament duties. I cannot betray my people,” Tayari said. He said he could not get the means to reach Mombasa as soon as he heard about the demolitions. Speaking to journalists at Bonje, Tayari said he does not know the private developer responsible for the eviction of the families. The land has been disputed since his school days, he said. The MP said he spoke to the authorities and they said a 30-day eviction notice had been issued to the residents. The residents deny getting a notice. “Even if it is true, they should have used a more humane way to evict people if indeed the court order was issued,” Tayari said. Reports indicate the residents had an agreement that the developer would give them 70 of the 500 acres of the disputed land. The developer would also build permanent houses for them on the 70-acre parcel. “There is no leader, both political and administrative, that knows about those agreements,” Tayari said. The MP said accused the residents of doing things behind leaders’ backs. “Most times leaders are blamed but the residents do things in secret and only run to us when things go haywire,” Tayari said. The MP said he will issue a statement in Parliament next week and seek to know who the private developer is and who owns the land. He had gone to the scene to collect facts and figures with a view to helping the residents in the short term as they await a permanent solution. He asked the county government to use its emergency funds to help residents get shelter and food. Village elder Zainabu Rehema said her house was not spared. “What I don’t understand is why does the government tell me that I am their eyes on the ground and then come demolish my house?” Rehema said. She said it is not fair to have homes under her watch demolished without notice given to her or her people. The government should verify any piece of land that is being sold before allowing a transaction to occur, she noted. Bekwekwe Katana said he was born and brought up on the land and this is the first time he has witnessed such an ordeal. “We don’t know the private developer. He is faceless,” Katana said. “This is like killing us.” Kohe Mkazabeja, 75, said this is the first time he was experiencing such an ordeal. “Where do they want me to go? I am all alone now. All my people have died,” said Mkazabeja. Zainab Ngome said: “We have lost animals and even now we don’t know where some of our children are. They ran away when the machines started flattening our houses,” said Ngome. 