Athletics Kenya Nyanza South will on June 4 conduct the regional pre-trials for the World Under 20 Championships at Kisii University. AK Nyanza South chairman Peter Angwenyi said several training camps have been invited for the one-day event, which will be used to select athletes for the national trials set for between July 1 and 3 in Nairobi. The invited camps include Mogonga PAG, Eluni, Keberesi, Boruma, Kiendege and Mochenwa. Mogonga PAG and Keberesi were part of the 21 AK and national government training camps established in 2020 to train athletes for the World Under 20 Championships to be held in Nairobi between August 17 and 22. “However, individual athletes who are within the required age bracket are welcome to participate. They must carry their original birth certificate. This event will be mainly for those who did not take part in the national pre-trials which was held at Nyayo Stadium in November last year,” said Angwenyi. Speaking to journalists in Kisii town after chairing a regional executive meeting, Angwenyi said the top two athletes in each event will qualify for the national trials. This will be the third pre-trial event to be hosted by AK. The first was staged by AK Southern Region in Machakos and the second at Eliud Kipchoge Sports Complex in Kapsabet, Nandi County over the weekend. South Rift will host their pre-trial in Kericho on June 5. However, Angwenyi — a former Athletics Kenya national public relations officer — said they must meet the qualifying standards. Angwenyi said they hope to select a strong team. “As a region, we want to have more than 10 athletes in Team Kenya. Even though the Covid-19 pandemic has affected training, we are confident they will put up a good show,” noted Angwenyi. Athletics Kenya director of Youth Development Barnaba Korir over the weekend assured that they will field a strong team for the World Under 20 championships despite the interruptions caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. He said the biggest challenge for them is in the field events and sprints. During his visit to Kisii last year, Korir said the region should focus on producing throwers and sprinters. During the recent World Relays in Poland, three former Mogonga PAG students Elijah Matayo, Mary Moraa and hurdler Vanice Nyagisera represented Kenya. Matayo was in the Kenyan quartet which clinched a silver medal in the 2x2x400m relay.