It is indeed possible to salvage some sections of the BBI Bill through a parliamentary process. We discussed this as a committee and it is a possibility. It depends on whether the promoters of the Building Bridges Initiative will be comfortable with such an arrangement. In Monday's meeting, we also agreed to conclusively look at the bills that are in the BBI report but are not part of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. We will be working on them so they also come as a bill that will not need a referendum for Kenyans to get the benefits therein. Nothing is being lost, hence, we should not create anxiety among Kenyans. For instance, the proposal on the 70 constituencies can be dealt with as a bill. The other proposals can be fleshed out and processed either as a single or omnibus bill. But even as we ponder on these critical matters, it is important to note that when dealing with constitutional amendment of this nature, it is a negotiated document — a give and take. We cannot pick one issue and drop another. It was the same with the 2010 Constitution. There were instances of picking by both ODM and PNU. But when you think that you can come up with proposals that people can pick this and not the other, then you are not talking of helping the country but becoming a mkora (crook). The negotiation bit is where the judges lost it. Some of the suggestions they were giving, like multiple questions, are ridiculous. You cannot tell us to follow a given theory, yet the Constitution allows Kenyans to come up with their theory and follow it. Our problems are unique to us and are not like those of developed countries. A judgment should be clear and enforceable. Like when you say the IEBC lacks quorum, what happens to the by-elections it has conducted and those it's holding today? A judgment should not leave the country in a confused state. The primary duty of the courts should be to give directions that help the country move forward. The Ndaragwa MP and chairman of the Constitutional Implementation Oversight Committee spoke to the Star