A three-judge bench has for the second time dealt a blow to the state by nullifying 129 appointments to parastatals and state corporations in 2018. The bench comprising justices Jessie Lessit, Chacha Mwita and Lucy Njuguna on Thursday ruled the appointments did not comply with the principles in Article 232 and were therefore unconstitutional and invalid. Petitioners Katiba Institute and Africog said the appointments were mostly rewards to losers in the 2017 General Election and there was no transparency or competition to find the best candidate. In 2018, President Uhuru Kenyatta and several CSs appointed the people as chairpersons and members of boards. In December last year, the same bench quashed the 2016 appointments made by the President and CSs to parastatals and the challenge was filed by the same lobby groups. The judges refused a stay of judgement and said the ruling applies to all other appointments made since then. Appointments included that of former Chief of Defence Force Julius Karangi, former Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi, former MP Augustino Neto and Margaret Saitoti. Others include former IEBC vice chair Lilian Mahir Zaja, Washington Makondigo, former MP Joseph Lekuton, Major General (Rtd)  Joseph Kibwana, lawyer Hillary Sigei and Judith Kibaki. The judges ruled: "It is plain the President and Cabinet Secretaries made the appointments without regard to the Constitution, a move that also violated national values and principles of governance in Article 10 of the Constitution." They said there was no evidence of any form of competition prior to making the appointments. "The state will not even attempt to show there was any semblance of some form of transparency and accountability in the appointments," the court ruled Without complying with transparency, fair competition and merit, the appointments cannot be said to have met the constitutional standards in Article 232(1). “August 27, 2010, ushered in a new regime of appointments to public office. Whereas the past was characterised by open corruption, tribalism, nepotism and political patronage, the new dispensation requires a break from the past,” the judges ruled. The court said it was clear  there were neither advertisements nor vacancies nor were the appointees subjected to interviews before being appointed “Without advertisements and interviews it cannot be said that the requirements of competition and merit were complied with,” the court said. The court also invalidated various post-2010 statutes that allow appointments to parastatals without requiring fair competition or merit. The court further said there was no demonstration the requirements on gender, ethnicity and persons with disabilities were complied with in the appointments. “A declaration is hereby made that the appointments to various parastatals and state corporations by the President and Cabinet Secretaries on the 5th and 6th of June 2018, which were notified through Kenya GAZETTE NOTICE no 5569 to 5621 and 5622to 5623 are unconstitutional to Articles 10 and 232 of the Constitution [and] are therefore invalid,” the court ruled. The Attorney General has asked the court to stay the judgment for 30 days. However, lawyer Dudley Ochiel for the Katiba Institute that has opposed the application asked the court to order them to file a formal stay application. The judges declined to stay the judgment and directed the AG to file a formal application giving reasons for his request. In the case, the Katiba Institute and Africog had sued the state, arguing it was illegal for the President and his Cabinet Secretaries to appoint the 129 people to parastatals. They said the state was rewarding politicians who lost in the 2017 General Elections and former army chiefs. The terms for the 129 individuals end this June but the petitioners argue the judgment applies to all other appointments made since then. This is because the court nullified some sections of the Constitution on appointments. (Edited by V. Graham) 