A Nairobi trader accused of defrauding an Austrian businessman of Sh13.7 million while pretending to be able to sell him 7kg gold will on May 31 know the verdict. Kevin Obia, alias Kevin Kleigh, is charged with obtaining €127,000 (Sh13.7 million) on May 1, 2015, at the Hilton Hotel, Nairobi, from Christian Gallati by pretending he was in a position to sell to him the gold. Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi had on February 12 put Obia on his defence, saying the prosecution had proved a prima facie case against him. The accused, who is out on bond, denied ever receiving any money from Gallati through false pretences. Obia is also facing a second count of attempting to defraud Gallati of $570,000 (Sh54.1 million) on May 18, 2015, claiming he was in a position to sell him 13kg of gold. Obia, who gave a sworn defence, told the court he was framed by the police and that he knows nothing about the fake gold trade. He said that on May 18, 2015, he was driven to the Hilton Hotel by his driver  Samuel Ndung’u Muturi to attend business meetings. He said that he had a brief meeting with his first group of guests at the hotel but was arrested immediately after the visitors left. Obia said the officers who arrested him took him to the Central police station where they charged him with the offences. Asked by prosecuting counsel Angela Fuchaka whether he has ever handled gold bars, Obia said, “I have never handled gold bars, neither am I in the gold business.” The trader told the court that he only read in the media how unsuspecting international traders have been conned out of millions of shillings in fake gold deals. “I have never engaged in that illegal gold trade,” Obia said. While testifying in defence of Obia, driver Muturi said he did not witness his boss receiving any money from anybody on the said date. But on cross-examination by Fuchaka, Muturi said that on May 1, 2015, he was not working since it was Labour Day. He said on that day he was at home and cannot categorically state whether or not  Obia received the money from Gallati.  (Edited by V. Graham) 