Kisumu residents want the government to redesign Daraja Mbili-Kisian stretch of Kisumu-Busia road to tackle road carnage. They said the stretch near Ojola is an accident black spot and has claimed several lives and left many other people paralysed. The calls came barely a day after a fatal accident in the area. A 27-year-old woman died on the spot, while seven people sustained serious injuries. The accident involved a matatu, a tanker, a lorry and a tuktuk. Kisumu county police commander Samuel Anampiu said, “A lorry heading to Kisumu from Busia rammed into the rear of a Toyota matatu. In the process, the matatu hit the rear of a tuktuk, which then hit the rear of another vehicle. The impact made the matatu to hit an oncoming tanker.” The road is narrow and sloppy and has sharp corners, making it prone to fatal accidents. Kisumu Residents Voice Association chairman Audi Ogada led calls to Infrastructure Cabinet Secretary James Macharia to swiftly fix the road. “We cannot continue to have Kenyans killed on the road. It is high time the government took up the matter seriously,” Ogada said. He said accidents have been rampant on the road, yet no action has been taken by relevant government agencies such as Kenya National Highway Authority to fix the problem. The driver of the tuktuk sustained a fracture on the right leg, while his passengers suffered injuries. A 29-year-old man sustained leg injuries and complained of chest pain, while  a 28-year-old woman sustained leg bruises and a cut in the forehead. Another passenger aged 30 sustained cuts in the mouth and left shoulder and yet another one aged 32 had leg cuts and complained of chest pain. The driver of the matatu sustained leg cuts and complained of chest pain. His passengers Everlyne Akinyi and Zacus Oduor (18) sustained bruises on both legs and complained of chest pains. The victims were rushed to Masaba Subcounty Hospital then referred to Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital. The body was taken to Masaba mortuary. 