AFC Leopards tactician Patrick Aussems has expressed disappointment after Posta Rangers held them to a barren draw at Ruaraka Grounds on Saturday. The 13-time Kenyan champions squandered a perfect opportunity to ascend to the summit of the Football Kenya Premier League log after leaders Tusker failed to widen the gap on Saturday following their one-all draw against Wazito at Utalii Grounds. Aussems attributed the outcome to three factors—a bad pitch, biased officiating and a barrel of missed opportunities. “We were not only deprived of numbers after the red card but the officiating was also not up to scratch,” said Aussems. Despite putting up a spirited fight to hold off the marauding Leopards, Posta Rangers head coach, Stanley Okumbi, said he was not entirely happy with the outcome but, nonetheless, gave his charges a pat on the back for exhibiting character in the match. “To me, it's not enough. We are getting open opportunities but not utilizing them. We still need to work on composure and precision. Okumbi said he was still in the process of moulding the side to a winning outfit. "I've been working on some key aspects of the game, including making the defence compact and I can give my players six out of ten after today's match. “We can't give the players targets but we want to finish in a respectable position,” said Okumbi. Just a couple of minutes into the second half, Aussems tinkered his line up, bringing on Collins Sichenje for off-colour Eugene Mukanghula. Five minutes later, his charges were reduced to ten men when skipper Isaac Kipyegon received marching orders after sending Francis Nambute tumbling down to the ground on the edge of the box, effectively denying him an obvious goalscoring opportunity. In an apparent reflex reaction geared at sealing the glaring loopholes occasioned by the red card, coach Aussems introduced forward Hansel Ochieng and defender Robert Kamura for Bienvenue Shaka and Caleb Olilo respectively. Determined to capitalise on the numerical advantage and seal a win, Okumbi effected a double substitution to sharpen his attack. Francis Nambute and Josephat Lopaga made way for Amos Kigadi and Evans Maliachi respectively. Maliachi’s inclusion almost bore fruits in stoppage time when Ochan was forced into the full stretch to parry away his well curved goal-bound delivery from a setpiece. Rangers' fullback Simon Mbugua picked a yellow card in the 84th minute after he protested bitterly against the decision to award Leopards a free-kick about 19 yards out. The outcome has left Leopards in the third spot with 33 points, two adrift of leaders Tusker. Rangers are now 12th with 18 points. In other matches, hosts Kakamega Homeboyz walloped Western Stima 4-0 in a one-sided affair at Bukhungu Stadium, Kakamega, with Stephen Opoku, George Odiwour, David Okoth and Steve Wakhanya scoring a goal apiece. Ulinzi Stars secured their fourth win of the season after upsetting Kariobangi Sharks 2-0 at Narok Stadium. 