Media firm GroupM SSA and WPP’s Choreograph has announced the expansion of proprietary Audience Origin data service into 12 markets in Africa. The firm said that the move was in response to a growing need from clients for a better quality of data and insights around consumer attitudes, preferences, and behaviour. This means the Audience Origin, formerly known as LIVEPanel, will be available in 12 countries in Africa, including Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Cameroon, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Morocco, Nigeria, South Africa, and Tunisia. Audience Origin is an integral part of WPP’s newly-created Choreograph, a global data products, and technology company operated by GroupM, purpose-built for an era that demands a new approach to data management, usage, and brand growth. According to Federico de Nardis, GroupM Sub-Saharan Africa CEO, the Audience Origin provides an unprecedented depth of understanding of the human mindset. “Audience Origin provides an unprecedented depth of understanding of the human mindset, through a connected global data foundation that uses privacy-first data collection via our proprietary consumer survey. This is a great opportunity for our key clients to gain insights into the lesser researched African consumer segments,” Federico said. Audience Origin Research Director Ramona Daniel added that the Audience Origin product is even more relevant and urgently needed in Africa, wherein many markets advertisers have historically lacked robust and reliable consumer research data, that is not only local but can be also aggregated for a global point of view. According to GroupM and Mediacom MD East and Central Africa Serah Katusia, the firm has had a strong and direct presence in all key markets in Africa for a long time. She said that by extending the Audience Origin offering to more markets, it will empower its clients to be able to access locally relevant, and actionable data. “This ultimately helps them understand their consumers at an unprecedented level of depth, and as a result, run more impactful campaigns and grow their businesses,” Katusia said.