Turkana University College has partnered with the county department veterinary services to help pastoralists in livestock routine management. Principal  George Chemining’wa said the institution, besides its academic affairs, exists to support the community and to ensure the community around it develops. Chemining'wa said they have partnered with the county government to offer livestock routine management to the residents living around the institution in Kanamkemer, Turkana Central. “We have partnered with the department of veterinary services from the Turkana county government to help the pastoralists with livestock routine management activities. We have managed to deworm and trim livestock hooves to ensure they are healthy for productivity,” he said. He said the institution will work with the community to help members increase livestock productivity because they depend on livestock for livelihoods. School of Science and Technology dean Peter Edome said livestock farming is one of the economic pillars of the country, hence target at least 300 animals for routine management. He said they will continue to serve the pastoralists so that they are able to be major contributors of revenue for the county and national governments. "Drylands farming is the main agenda of Turkana University College and is part of the main courses we intend to start. Livestock routine management is our core activity because of the pastoral economy, and if we take care of livestock, it will contribute to revenue,” Edome said. Peter Ejore, a resident of Canaan, Kanamkemer ward, thanked the institution's management and the county government for deworming and trimming hooves of his livestock for free. “We have been battling with drought for long but we thank God it rained few weeks ago and now pasture has started sprouting. It’s normally hard for us to afford drugs for our livestock but with the support of the university our animals will be healthier and more productive,” he said. Ejore urged the county and the university to offer animals feed to help pastoralists who have been struggling with drought and famine. The Turkana government recently procured veterinary supplies worth Sh36 million for effective livestock disease control in all the seven subcounties. Agriculture, Pastoral Economy and Fisheries executive Philip Aemun said the supplies are majorly vaccines and a small emergency kit in case of a disease outbreak. “The veterinary supplies are prepositioned to subcounties to ensure adequate livestock vaccines and drugs for effective disease control,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara