Farmers have been asked to incorporate bee management plans in their farming systems. As the world marks the International Bee Day, farmers have been urged to use less toxic pesticides and ensure proper timing of application. The UN designated May 20 as World Bee Day under the theme-bees matter, to raise awareness on the importance of pollinators, the threats they face and their contribution to sustainable development. Entomological Society of Kenya chairman Dr Kasina Muo said said excessive use of pesticide is a major threat to the bee population in the country, but cited that the problem is not on the pesticides but on the use. “It is about the choices people or farmers make about the use of the pesticides. This includes timing of the application and how much we apply because the pesticides are also important in management of pests,” he said. Muo urged the government to be stricter on pesticide use and create awareness on the safe use of insecticides. “We also need to encourage farmers to use biological control which have been found to be effective and have no effect on the pollinators,” he said. Remy Tuey, director heading the Api-culture institute based in Marigat, Baringo county emphasised the role of bees as pollinators. He said crops such as avocado, macadamia and even mangoes have been affected due to the decreasing population. He said continued use of the chemicals to fight the armyworm infestation has interrupted bee’s productivity in major honey counties, mainly in Baringo. This led to reduced honey production. “Infestation of the armyworm has dropped and it is not as rampant as it was before, hence the use of pesticides has reduced. So in no time, we should see the population of bees picking up,” Tuey said. Facts and figures by FAO Three out of four crops across the globe producing fruits or seeds for human use as food, depend on pollinators. Over 20,000 species of bees are wild hence the need to safeguard their biodiversity. Improving pollinator density and diversity boosts crop yields. Pollinators affect 35 per cent of global agricultural land, supporting the production of 87 of the leading food crops worldwide. Pollinators are under threat and sustainable agriculture can reduce risk to them by helping to diversify the agricultural landscape and making use of ecological processes as part of food production. -Edited by SKanyara