British High Commissioner Jane Marriott made her first visit to Mandera on Tuesday as part of a North East Taskforce in support of stability and development in the region. Marriot was accompanied by the Devolution CS Eugene Wamalwa and County Governor Ali Roba. This was her third visit to the region this year, cementing the UK’s commitment to the long-term stability and development in counties bordering Somalia. During the one-day visit, the High Commissioner launched the county’s first-ever sustainable urban economic plan, a Kenya-UK partnership that will provide jobs, and livelihood opportunities, including for youth most vulnerable to violent extremism. Marriott said through the North East Taskforce, they are supporting long-term stability and development, tackling the drivers of instability as well as the symptoms. “I’ve seen today, how economic development is key to building security and stability in Mandera County and the North East region. I’ve also been able to meet with teachers and health workers who work tirelessly on Kenya-UK projects to educate future generations and provide quality care. Through our North East Taskforce, we are supporting long-term stability and development, tackling the drivers of instability as well as the symptoms,” Marriott said. Devolution CS said that he was privileged to launch the Sustainable Urban Economic (SUED) Programme which the government will be undertaking in collaboration with development partner. The visit was part of the UK’s joint North East Taskforce, working with the Government of Kenya to tackle the drivers of instability in the region. The High Commissioner also visited several UK-supported projects in the town, including the Mandera County Hospital and Mandera Secondary School. The visit comes after the UK’s Secretary of State for Defence, Ben Wallace MP, and Kenya’s Minister for Interior, Interior CS Fred Matiang’I, signed a refreshed Security Compact to strengthen our fight against terrorism and promote security and stability in the region.