The Garissa government has begun a three-day exercise to distribute food to 2,000 vulnerable families in Garissa Township subcounty. The exercise is targeting 500 families from Iftin, Galbet, Waberi and Township wards. The food items include 12kg of maize flour, 12kg of wheat flour and 3 litres of cooking oil. Speaking at Iftin primary school grounds on Thursday, Garissa county secretary Abdi Sheikh said the County Emergency Response Plan 2020 was approved to cushion the people against adverse effects of Covid-19, lockdown, locust invasion, drought and floods. “Phase one includes helping vulnerable families in Garissa Township, especially in this last week of Ramadhan, as we seek more partners to expand to other areas in the county,” he said. Sheikh said the executive is waiting for the county assembly to debate and pass the Garissa County Disaster Risk Management Bill 2020, which will lay the legal framework for collaborating with other partners in mitigating the natural crisis. “Once the bill is passed, we will be able to get more partners on board to help us in mitigating various crisis that we are facing in this area. For now, everything we are doing is fully sponsored by the county government,” he said. However, sheikh regretted the meagre resources available that could not allow the program meto be rolled out countywide but promised it would be scaled up next to reach more people and give more food and non-food items to vulnerable families. A beneficiary Ambia Ali thanked the county government and urged other well-wishers to come in and support needy families who are struggling to put food on the table. “I am a widow and a mother of eight children. My husband died four years ago. It has been a struggle to provide basic needs for my children and it is my appeal that such families are assisted even if it means having a special kitty,” she said. Present during the function included deputy county secretary Abdirashid Mohamed, special programmes chief officer Abdullahi Mahamud and Garissa municipal manager  Abdinoor Ole Hussein.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris