Leaders allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM party leader Raila Odinga are basking in the limelight following the unanimous passage of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment), Bill, 2020 in the National Assembly. Lawmakers on Thursday gave the BBI a clean bill of health with an overwhelming vote in support of the first amendment. MPs for the first time attained the required two-thirds majority to vote on a bill to amend the Constitution. In a statement on Friday, ODM chairman John Mbadi thanked MPs for their votes. "I would wish to convey heartfelt gratitude to the Minority side and the Majority side led by Amos Kimunya for their overwhelming support and purvey of unity of purpose and commitment to the course," Mbadi said. He added; "Through us as lawmakers, Kenyans not only entrust their sovereignty with us but they also dare have a dalliance with hope, and we indulge them in that hope through legislative duty to pass laws and bills that convey a better future for this and coming generation." Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru took to Twitter to celebrate the passage. "235 votes for BBI, against 83 ... a whopping 73 per cent...  as the lawyers say, Res ipsa loquitur - The thing speaks for itself." Homabay MP Gladys Wanga posted "Reggea continues!" as soon as the win was declared. The ODM party through its official Twitter account urged the Senate to swiftly pass the Bill for a faster progress. "We thank members of the National Assembly  for reading, understanding, debating and passing the BBI Bill overwhelmingly last night. We urge members of the Senate to do the same and have the process move on to the next level. We pray the other obstacles will be successfully cleared," ODM said on Friday. At least 320 members participated in the vote at the second stage where 235 supported the bill, 83 for No while two abstained. Most allies of Deputy President William Ruto rejected the bill during the vote that largely took a cue from the political alignments in the country. Some voted in support. During voting in the third reading, the Ayes were 224, Nays 63, while two abstained. Eyes will now be trained on the Senate which is expected to vote on the bill next week.