Water and energy equipment supplier– Davis and Shirtliff is keen to expand its business in the East African region, as it marks 75 years of being operational. The company was founded in 1946 by ex-soldiers Eddie Davis and Dick Shirtliff after leaving the army, initially being based at Westlands. It started with focusing on boreholes, water supplies and the coffee industry. In the mid-1950s, the base was moved to new larger premises at the present Dundori Rd location in the industrial area. An added activity was swimming pools, both residential and commercial and water treatment was another diversification. In 1970, partner Dick Shirtliff retired and after a period the Davis family, then represented by Eddie's son Alec Davis, assumed control. The 70's and 80's saw slow but steady growth as the country grappled with various economic and political challenges, though there was a particular focus on building the pump business for which the company is so well known. “The year 1993 was a significant year for both Kenya and Davis & Shirtliff due to economic liberalisation which was the catalyst for the company's rapid growth since,” chairman Alec Davis notes. It was also the year that Pedrollo pumps from Italy were first introduced, now the group's largest supplier. According to the company, these two developments enabled a distribution strategy to be developed as supply constraints were removed and the branch network was then established, initially with Kenya branches being opened in Westlands, Eldoret and Kisumu. Subsidiaries in Uganda and Tanzania followed as well as establishing a presence at the Coast, through the merger with partner Butech. “The pump business grew hugely with Pedrollo and the now well-established Solar and Power Generation activities were then added,” Davis notes. The company is among a few strong entities with the same family shareholding. Its major initiatives include a complete redevelopment of the Dundori Rd site with expansion into adjacent plots, the opening of subsidiaries and associate companies in Rwanda, Zambia, Ethiopia, South Sudan, Zimbabwe and DRC. The company has made strides in solar energy products. It recently established a distribution centre at Tatu City that provides the resource for increased stockholding. The facility which was completed in 2020 has transformed distribution efficiency throughout the region, with the company employing over 1,000 people, operating from over 70 locations. “It is often said that success is transitory and sometimes unsustainable, though Davis & Shirtliff has managed to maintain unbroken growth for an exceptional period of time,” said Davis.