A team of four Kenyan university students beat stiff competition from 163 countries across the globe to win the 2021 Microsoft’s annual global student technology challenge, Imagine Cup. The four, Khushi Gupta, Jeet Gohil, Dharmik Karania and Abdihamid Ali are fourth-year students from the United States International University (USIU) – Africa, undertaking Bachelors in Computer Science. They developed an IoT-based infant monitoring solution, REWEBA (Remote Well Baby), which remotely analyzes infant parameters during post-natal screening and serves as an early warning intervention system. The team won $75,000 (approximately Sh8 million), a mentoring session with Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, and a $50,000 (approximately Sh5.35 million) Microsoft Azure Grant. The 19th edition of the competition brought together thousands of students from 163 countries across the globe reimagining tech solutions to impact their communities. With projects submitted in four social good categories – Earth, Education, Healthcare, and Lifestyle – the competition advanced through Online Semi-finals and World Finals rounds. The top four teams were selected to pitch their projects at the World Championship during Microsoft Build for the chance to take home the 2021 trophy. Team REWEBA emerged winners from the top four teams selected out of 40 World Finalists that presented their projects at the World Finals. The other three top teams were Protag from New Zealand, Hand-On Labs from the United States and Threeotech from Thailand. “It is absolutely gratifying that a Kenyan team would come up with a solution that could compete on a world scale and even emerge as winners. The Imagine Cup is a chance to make something that matters to you and develop your skills as part of the journey,''Kendi Nderitu, Country Manager, Microsoft Kenya said. REWEBA is designed as an early warning system that digitally monitors babies’ growth and health parameters and sends them to doctors for timely intervention. It combines Machine Learning, IoT, Analytics, and more to provide innovative functionalities for infant screening, mimicking the process of post-natal screening in a hospital. The project idea, which has taken two years to develop, came to life when we were doing community service at local hospitals. ''The future is indeed digital and I’m proud to see our students use their academic exposure to build an application that with immensely support our country to reduce infant mortality and at the same time, scale it to a global level”, said Paul Tiyambe Zeleza, Vice-Chancellor, (President) and Professor of the Humanities and Social Sciences at the United States International University-Africa Looking to the future, Team REWEBA hopes to enhance and scale their project to include additional infant screening factors and a postnatal screening device for mothers. The team is expected to launch a start-up in Kenya to enable even better access to healthcare services in marginalized areas. This year, six teams from the Middle East and Africa including Kenya, Pakistan and Tunisia made it to the semi-finals. Over the past 19 years, more than two million student competitors have signed up to build something that matters to them, make a difference in their communities, and innovate for impact. Registration for the 2022 competition is now open.