The state has failed to file its response in a case filed by Bomet Governor Hillary Barchok seeking to stop the implementation of a section in the Tea Act barring the direct sale of tea. The disclosure emerged as Justice Roselyn Korir suspended the implementation of the section pending hearing and determination of the case. Agriculture Cabinet Secretary Peter Munya, Attorney General Paul Kihara and the national assembly were the respondents in the case filed by Barchok on behalf of the county government. He was represented by lawyer Hillary Sigei. While delivering the ruling last week, Justice Korir of Bomet High Court said none of the respondents had entered an appearance and responded to the application. Following the ruling, Barchok expressed his satisfaction terming it a big relief to the small scale tea farmers. He said the section if implemented, could have infringed on the rights of small scale tea farmers in the country seeking better markets for their produce. Barchok said while his administration was in the last stages of negotiations with the Iranian government intending to export tea produced in the county directly, the ruling also comes as a reprieve for all farmers in the country and not Bomet alone. “Early last year, the county negotiated and struck a deal with Iran. The deal would suffer a setback following the introduction of section 36 of the Tea Act which restricts tea farmers from selling their produce to any other place other than the tea auction floor,” he said. “This move also denied our farmers the benefits to having direct sales and other benefits such as favourable prices, market free from middlemen and would eventually boost the economy of Bomet.” Following the enactment of the Act, the county through Barchok filed the case in March challenging sections 5(j), (l), 32, 34, 36, 48, and 53. In giving the ruling, Korir said she considered the averments in the applicant’s supporting affidavit and the submissions as hence satisfied that the applicant put an arguable and prima facie case against the respondents. “I am persuaded by the arguments that the applicant has demonstrated an overwhelming public interest in the litigation,” she said. “It is, therefore, right and proper that the conservatory order is granted to protect the public interest in the interim.” The orders will now remain in force pending hearing and determination of the petition.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris