Toddlers vying for their attention, work and rest hours overlapping, some tasks overwhelming — it’s tough being a home-based working mum. But mothers we spoke to are taking this new normal in their stride and urging other mums to enjoy the process. MOLLY ATSABINA, Jambojet sales and distribution manager, mother of one and expectant The Star: How do you balance work and home responsibilities in the new normal (working from home)? Working from home is great but can be a bit distracting. It requires a lot more order to accomplish my tasks and also tend to my home chores. I usually make a plan for each day by noting my to-do list in order of priority, as well as check on any planned virtual meetings. That way, I know what things need to be done without being sidetracked. As for the home, my nanny and I agree on specific tasks I will handle. This helps me concentrate on the work to be done both at home and at work. What are some of the challenges you are facing as a mother in the new normal, and how have you adjusted your space to fit in? I have a two-year-old toddler and you know how they love attention. I make a conscious effort to spend time with him but also set aside time to work. I have an extra room in the house that I use as my work station, away from the distractions. I have also had to adjust from the traditional 8-5 work hours to embracing a ‘nap-to-nap’ kind of working environment. This helps me dedicate specific uninterrupted hours to work, which sometimes begin before the family wakes up, continue during the nap times and sometimes get into the night. With this structure, I am able to deliver my work and family responsibilities. What is your advice to new mothers trying to balance their new role and working in the corporate world? It can be done, and you should enjoy the process. Embrace the changes and responsibilities that come at this stage of life, juggling between motherhood and delivering on the work assignments. It will have its challenges, but those make the process even more exciting. What does Mother’s Day mean to you, especially in the new normal? Mother’s Day means appreciating the strength and sacrifices made by women who juggle between the many responsibilities and do not allow themselves to give up. Rather, they become a positive influence on their families, colleagues and the society. They become role models and human superheroes to their kids and peers. What are some of your self-care rituals to unwind after a hard day or week? I love taking short walks around the estate. The feeling of being outside, and not being closed off within four walls, helps relax my mind. I also love listening to music. On weekends, we would do long drives with the family within Nairobi or the outskirts. This in itself is therapeutic. Lastly, I do enjoy talking to my mum. She taught me everything I know today about motherhood and I thank her eternally for that. WINFRED MULE, Upfield regional quality manager-Africa, Middle East and Turkey, mother of three How do you balance work and home responsibilities in the new normal (working from home)? I clearly define my deliverables for the day the previous evening. Most importantly, I have built a steady support system to ensure no surprises with some undone duties, especially from home. It’s clear in my mind that I only changed my office space. I, therefore, have to keep the discipline of not letting work interfere with my home routines and vice versa. What are some of the challenges you are facing as a mother in the new normal, and how have you adjusted your space to fit in? Overlapping working and resting hours. There’s always the temptation to do an extra hour because I'm in the house. Not taking my breaks in between my work hours; everything is a room away. My partner checks with me every two hours if I have taken a five-minute break. I have also developed a habit of shutting down my laptop at the end of the day and removing it from my working table and keeping it in the bag. That way, I manage the temptation of going back to finish a task. I don’t feel guilty when I am unable to complete the tasks I had planned to complete. There’s always another day to get the job done. What is your advice to new mothers trying to balance her new role and working in the corporate world? There is no challenge that you’ll face that hasn’t been faced by other women. Never underestimate your potential; self-doubt is a big derailer. Trust in yourself then go out there and get the job done. Also, cut yourself some slack. It’s okay when some tasks slip, you’re doing the best that you can. What does Mother’s Day mean to you, especially in the new normal? I am a powerhouse and I have got to celebrate myself while thanking God for his Grace. Sometimes I am overwhelmed but I look at the silver lining and gather new energy to keep going. What are some of your self-care rituals to unwind after a hard day or week? Taking a daily one-hour nature walk to refresh, storytelling with my family at least an hour every evening, and knitting some old-school pieces. Edited by T Jalio