The United Democratic Alliance is set to meet aspirants from all the 47 counties to map out their campaign strategy ahead of next year’s General Election. The party, believed to be Deputy President William Ruto’s vehicle to State House in the August presidential race, has organised forums with registered aspirants, marking the countdown to the primaries set for early next year. The aspirants include those eyeing member of the National Assembly, Senate, woman rep and governor posts. Sources within the party told the Star on Monday that every elective seat has an average of 13 aspirants. A substantial number of aspirants are from the Mt Kenya and Rift Valley regions where the ruling Jubilee party enjoyed massive support ahead of the 2017 election. Coast region, Western, South Nyanza and Northeastern Kenya are also understood to have recorded a huge number of aspirants. UDA secretary general Veronica Maina said they will be using the forums to explain to the aspirants the ideologies, manifesto and the party’s constitution in the build up to the grassroots election set for June and July. Maina said the inaugural meeting with aspirants ranging from MCA, MP, Senate, woman rep and governor has been clustered into six. She also pointed out that because of the Covid-19 protocols, the meetings will be staggered to ensure that numbers do not exceed those stipulated. Maina said only fully paid and registered aspirants will participate in the meetings. “The scheduled meetings will be held in full adherence to Ministry of Health guidelines on Covid-19,” she said. The first team of aspirants will meet in Nairobi on Thursday this week and will bring together the registered delegates from the city, Murang’a, Wajir, Kiambu, Kajiado, Machakos, Makueni, Mandera, Kitui and Kirinyaga. The second cluster which will meet in Vihiga on May 24, will draw registered aspirants from the host county, Migori, Kisii, Kisumu, Kakamega, Bungoma, Busia, Homa Bay, Siaya and Nyamira. On May 25, aspirants from Uasin Gishu, Turkan, Elgeyo Marakwet, West Pokot, Trans Nzoia and Nandi will converge in Eldoret town. Registered aspirants from Kericho, Bomet, Baringo, Narok, Nyandarua will meet with those from the host county of Nakuru on May 27. After the Nakuru meeting, the UDA officials will head to Meru county on May 31 where they are expected to meet aspirants from Tharaka Nithi, Marsabit, Isiolo, Embu, Samburu and Laikipia. On June 3, the caravan will land in Mombasa where they will meet aspirants from the host county, Lamu, Taita Taveta, Kilifi, Kwale and Tana River. The party is charging Sh10,000 registration fee for governors, deputies and senators aspirants. Aspirants for the Woman Rep, Member of National Assembly as well as those wishing to be party leaders will part with Sh5,000 registration fee. Anyone seeking to be an MCA with the UDA ticket will part with Sh,2000. UDA is expected to hold its grassroots elections on June 18 to elect ward, constituency and county officials while the national ones will be picked by members during a National Delegates Congress. According to the UDA constitution that was unveiled in March, there will be party leader who will have three deputies-in charge of administration, political affairs and programmes and strategy. There will also be a national chairperson who will also have three deputies in charge of operations, political affairs and programmes and strategy. The same has been replicated in the positions of the secretary general, national organising secretary and the national treasurer who will each have three assistants. -Edited by SKanyara