Athletics Kenya sprints coach William Murgor believes the frequent false starts by male sprinters at the Tokyo Olympics pre-trials is a sign of their hunger for success. The 100m men's final — won by Ferdinand Omanyala — was characterised by three false starts. It was a continuation of a pattern witnessed at the second leg of the AK Track and Field Weekend Meeting where the 100m and 200m men's races were replete with false starts. "I think the runners are a bit tense and hungry to improve on their time. Every one of them wants to win and at least qualify for the Olympics or the African Championships. This is a good thing and shows the seriousness with which the sprinters approach this kind of competition," Murgor said. Murgor, who was in charge of Team Kenya to the World Relay Championships in Silesia, Poland early this month, noted that most sprinters have improved since they embarked on a bubble training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "One thing I have realised is that most of the sprinters have improved on their time. It is encouraging to see someone like Omanyala clock 10.13 and I would like to believe there is more to come from him. Mark Otieno (national 100m record holder) was not here because of an injury but we hope he will be present for the trials. He is one of the key sprinters we have a lot of hopes in," he said. He also spoke of the country's chances in sending a team to the Olympics for the 4x100m and 4x400m. "The men's (4x400m) timed 3:05.04 and you can see that indeed there is a lot of potential there. Even for the ladies, you could see the determination and passion that they have for what they do. We will continue working hard and I am sure we will attain great things in the not-s0-distant future," Murgor said. Similarly, Omanyala encouraged fellow sprinters to make do with what is available for perfecting their art and craft even as the federation makes efforts to better their fortunes. "Granted, the equipment and facilities may not be at the same level as the developed countries. However, it is up to us to work with what we have and always give our best in training. The false starts are down to the pressure every individual athlete is under to succeed. Maybe that is something we need to look into," he said. Omanyala clocked 10.13 — two seconds shy of Otieno's national record of 10.11 — whereas  Ugandan Benson Okot (10.37) and Elijah Matthew (10.52) finished second and third respectively. Nonetheless, Omanyala said it is one day at a time for him as he maintains his sights on Olympics qualification. "I had hoped that I would break the national record by June but that will not be the case. Either way, I just take things one day at a time and continue working hard," he added.