Kenya Morans assistant coach Collins Sadat is concerned about the fitness of the local-based players ahead of the FIBA AfroBasket in August. He said he is excited about the challenge ahead but there is need to get the players game-fit. "We need to get them game-fit, especially the local-based ones and without the league, it would be a mountain to climb," he observed. He said the team is up to task, especially in execution at both ends of the floor but there is a lot of work to be done before the championship. "We will study films of all the teams in our group. We need to finish in the top two places to advance," Sadat hinted. Kenya are in Group 'C' and will tackle Nigeria, Ivory Coast and Mali in the tournament to be held in Kigali, Rwanda between August 24 and September 5. Morans captain Griffin Ligare remains confident they will deliver the goods despite being pooled against better teams in the rankings. Playmaker Preston Bungei, currently in Australia after the Danish league break and awaiting Morans' assembly said: "Based on our Fiba ranking, we already knew we were going to be put into a tough group. I have no doubt that we will fight our way through, just as we did in the qualifiers." Fiba Commissioner Agina Wesonga, speaking from London, United Kingdom, said Kenya will do well with good preparations and the availability of diaspora players. "Our opponents have invested a lot and I am sure they are going to get a lot of support from their countries," he noted. "Time is not on our side. The players have been out of action for a long time hence the federation should not waste any minute." Talking about the draw, former women's coach and FIBA Africa's coaches instructor Ronny Owino said: "It could have been worse. I think if we play well we can get a result against Mali and Ivory Coast. Kenya have met Mali and Ivory Coast in previous championships but it will be the first time they will face off against favourites Nigeria." The draw conducted in Kigali, Rwanda as per the latest standings, placed 14 of the 16 national teams into four groups of four while two more teams will be added after the conclusion of Group 'E' qualification matches — called off due to the Covid-19 pandemic.