The body of Somali-American businessman Bashir Mohamud, was on Sunday night transported to Nairobi ahead of a planned postmortem. The body will then be released to the family for burial in accordance with Islamic rites. Officials said the body arrived at the Umash Funeral Home at about midnight and Chief Government Pathologist is slated to conduct the autopsy on Monday morning. Bashir’s body was first found on the banks of River Nyamindi, Kirinyaga County on May 16, three days after he went missing from Lavington. It had deep cut wounds in the head and blood was oozing from the mouth and nose. An assistant chief in the area alerted police from Wanguru police station who took the body the Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital mortuary. It was not until Saturday evening that the family of the deceased man identified the body at the mortuary. This was a week later. The family's lawyer Charles Madowo said the body was found at Kerugoya Level 5 Hospital mortuary. The family vowed not to rest until those responsible for Bashir’s death are brought to book. The 36-year-old structural engineer and proprietor of Infinity Developers, based in Nairobi went missing after he left Miale Lounge in Lavington, Nairobi, where he had gone for a meeting and Idd celebrations on May 13. He had been in the company of yet-to-be-disclosed persons at 5pm before his car, a Range Rover with registration number KCQ 007P, was captured by CCTV cameras leaving the premises an hour later. In the footage, Bashir was seen tipping some guards. Part of the footage shows a few seconds after leaving his vehicle he stopped, his car seemingly obstructed by another vehicle. There has been speculation and many theories on what may have led to his death but no official confirmation has been made. After he failed to show up at his Lavington home for two days, his family reported a missing person incident to police. The family and friends tried to trace his whereabouts using a tracking device mounted on the car he had but in vain. His other lawyer Alibaya Hassan said the tracking vehicle company had installed the features in the car but they could not trace it. “But they said the systems could not trace the exact location of the motor vehicle. We don’t know why,” he said. Days later, a shell of a motor vehicle was spotted in Kibiku and a dealer who had been informed of the same alerted police. Police from Ngong rushed to the scene, saw the shell and went back to the station for a back for investigations. But when they came back few hours later they said they found the remains of the shell had been collected by unknown people. The photos show the car was burnt beyond recognition and it is not clear who was behind it or if there was an occupant.