Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has directed contractors to speed up works on some of his flagship projects costing over Sh4 billion which he wants completed before the end of his tenure next year. The governor wants the projects completed within the next 15 month even as his administration is facing criticism from MCAs and the public over failure to absorb more than 50 per cent of money allocated for projects. MCAs through an ad hoc committee chaired by Cheptiret MCA Glibert Tenai, summoned and grilled county executives to explain why they were not using billions of shillings allocated for development. Mandago on Friday toured the Ziwa Level 5 Hospital in Soy subcounty to asses progress. The project is expected to cost more than Sh800 million. Speaking during the inspection, the county head asked the contractor to expedite the works so that the facility becomes functional within the stipulated time. Upon completion, the Ziwa Level 5 hospital is expected to address the demand of health care services for over 1.5 million people in Uasin Gishu and the neighbouring counties. The 350-bed capacity facility will provide specialised inpatient and outpatient services, including paediatrics, surgery and maternity. The governor was accompanied by Health executive Dr Evelyne Rotich and her Roads counterpart Gideon Birir. Mandago spoke as senior county officials inspected the 64 Stadium which the county plans to modernise at a cost of more than Sh1 billion. Work on the project will be commissioned next month. More than 10 other flagship projects in the county are also being fast tracked to ensure they are in use before Mandago's exit as he is in his second term in office. Finance executive Julius Rutto found himself in troubled when he appeared before the ad hoc committee to explain why most departments were only able to use about 27 per cent of resources allocated for development annually. “Some of the challenges we facing are to do with procurement for the projects,” said Rutto.  MCAs questioned why the same contractors were being awarded more tenders even before they complete initial ones. In her latest audit report on Uasin Gishu, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu faulted the county for failing to use more than Sh3.5 billion allocated for projects in 2018/19 financial year. Tenai’s ad hoc committee will next week present a report at the Assembly on the under utilisation of development funds by the county. -Edited by SKanyara