Cabinet Secretaries should help President Uhuru Kenyatta realise his vision and build a good legacy by developing and fully implementing the right policies. This is according to Mount Kenya Youth Caucus, which, through its chairman Linford Mutembei, yesterday said that while Uhuru’s legacy depends squarely on his leadership, CSs have a critical role in enabling him to implement projects that improve lives. Mutembei addressed the media at a Ruiru hotel in Kiambu county. He singled out Agriculture CS Peter Munya as one keen on helping the President achieve his mission. He said Munya has overseen major progress in the agriculture sector during his short stint at the ministry, adding that today the docket is more visible and impactful than it has been since 2013 under Felix Koskei, Willy Bett and Mwangi Kiunjuri, all of whom were sacked. “From the radical policies that are reforming the tea, coffee, pyrethrum, sugar, miraa, maize, dairy and even horticulture, Munya makes one wonder whether we have had agriculture ministers since 2013. "Within a short time, he has done what Bett and Kiunjuri were unable to do. Other ministers should go out of their way and channel their energies to making impactful progress in their dockets because that is the only way Kenyans will be happy with the government,” Mutembei said. According to the lobby group, Munya’s efforts in tackling cartels and brokers who for long have been short-changing farmers and ensuring that the primary producers in agriculture reap more, have turned out to be some of the key components shaping Uhuru’s legacy. During the official visit by Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu, Uhuru challenged Cabinet members to be innovative and to go out of their way to come up with good strategies and policies on their own and not to expect to be directed by him on what to do. Mutembei said Munya is the only minister in Uhuru’s government who has managed to intertwine his official work and politics, something they said was helping the President restore confidence in the electorate whose mind had been poisoned by the DP William Ruto and his allies. Mutembei said while much has been achieved by the government in key sectors, little has been done to market the gains and this has given Uhuru’s critics a chance to manipulate the electorate by "maliciously claiming" that his administration had not delivered on his promises. 