Classic 105 breakfast host Maina Kageini has explained why he is vocal about matters concerning women. Speaking to Jalas on his YouTube channel, Maina maintained that women deserve everything good in life as they do the most compared to men. "They are our beginning and I guess that is enough," he said. "Whether it is your mother, sister, wife. All good things start from there. If you later mess them up, that's your fault, not theirs. "African society is pro-men. It's ridiculous yet women are the ones doing the most." During the interview, Maina spoke about his plans for settling down. He said he has not prioritised marriage at the moment over reasons he says to him make sense. "Sometimes, I think marriage is not for everyone, but never say never. I believe that. You know why? Charles Njonjo got married at 54 years and he is 100 now. He has not died. But try to marry now, you will die at 63," he joked. "That is how you kill yourself. First of all, your woman will always have more money than you, and that is a fact since she didn't spend her money. She saves it. So don't think buying her a Benz is impressing her." He said that he has a son but explained his family is out of the limelight. "Family is private. They did not choose this life, I was the one who chose it. I love my entire family but I will not talk about them because they didn't ask for attention unless they tell me they would like to say something." Maina and his co-host Mwalimu Kingangi host the biggest breakfast show on Classic 105. He narrated how he landed his first job on the radio. "I never ever wanted to be on radio, it was the biggest fluke that happened," he said. "I came back from the UK in 1996-97. I had gone into showbiz a bit back in the UK. I had fraternised with Shaggy and his pals and his circles. and I brought his DJ to Kenya," he said. "At the time there were only two radio stations, Capital FM and Metro." He used to read sports news at Capital FM before he was given a Sunday afternoon show. Edited by T Jalio