President Kenyatta has been urged to use the Madaraka Day celebrations in Kisumu to announce immediate measures to revive the collapse sugar industry. He should punish those responsible for the crisis, Kenya National Alliance of Sugarcane Farmers Organizations said. This year's Madaraka Day celebrations will be hosted at the Kisumu Jomo Kenyatta Stadium at Mamboleo show ground. KNASFO chairman Saulo Busolo noted that the industry  besides being key to the President’s pillars of development provides a direct livelihood for over six million people in Western, Nyanza, Coast and the Rift Valley. It is therefore key to rural transformation as it has forward and backward linkages. Busolo noted that they  recall the President's 2018 Mashujaa Day speech in Kakamega that focused on government support for sugar cane farming. Uhuru encouraged cane farmers to sell their produce to factories that are well run and that pay on time. The sugar task force chaired by Governor Wycliffe  Oparanya recommended sector growth, competitiveness, improved yield in the field and recovery in the mills, good governance, reintroduction of Sugar Board and Sugar Development Levy. "The implementation status of the report is questionable as not much is heard of what’s going on", Busolo said. In 2020 private mills produced 519,258 tons of sugar (86 per cent) while government ones did 84,530 (14 per cent ). Busolo noted that the closure of Mumias and the poor performance of Chemelil, Muhoroni, Sony and Nzoia has increased poverty through loss of operational opportunities valued at Sh268 billion in the last five years. He stated that farmers unpaid money in government factories has once again accumulated into billions and span years in some cases. "Nzoia alone owes cane farmers over Sh700 million. Importation of sugar in large quantities keeps flooding the market resulting in poor payments to farmers and revenue to millers," the chairman said. He noted under the Agriculture and Food Authority, the sugar sub-sector has been going through hard times compared to the period under Kenya Sugar Authority and Kenya Sugar Board. He said the poor performance of the sugar industry under AFA has had monumental negative impacts in financial terms to investments in mills, land, cane development, transport, corporate social responsibility, farmers' payments and employees payments, cess to county  governments, VAT and corporation tax to national government, statutory payments and to those who depend on the crop directly. Edited by Henry Makori