Communities living around public forests have been urged to implement sustainable and mutually beneficial development projects. National forest chief conservator Julius Kamau on Friday said such economic activities would not only help them earn extra incomes but also ensure they enrich the environment through a healthy relationship with Kenya Forest Service staff. The initiatives would further reduce logging and other illegal activities in public forests, he said. "How we relate with the communities living around the forests greatly determines the state of our forests. We need to enhance our interaction and view each other as partners and not enemies. When we cooperate in an area that will help both parties, our forests will be safe,” Kamau said. He spoke at the Njuki-ini West forest station in Gichugu, Kirinyaga county, during the launch of the local community’s new income-generating project. The group, which has 804 members, is undertaking fish and bee farming and developing an arboretum with different tree types. The project falls under the green zones development programme funded by KFS. According to Kamau, Sh10 million is spent each year on such initiatives across 15 counties. The forest boss noted that to enhance such projects, communities neighbouring forests should espouse reciprocity by ploughing back a part of their profits into improving the state of forest stations. He expressed the need for KFS to have a rejuvenated team to improve its services, thus recommended prioritisation of young scouts volunteering and engaging in forest conservation. "The entity is comprised of many ageing officers; some have already retired. It has come to a point when we need a vibrant team to work with for the betterment of the service. "We have groups of youthful scouts who partner with communities living around forests in protecting forests. Such are the officers we need to prioritise during forest rangers recruitment,” the forester said. He appealed to Kenyans to take advantage of the long rains to plant as many trees as they can. “Plant trees that will add value to your lives and that will not be a burden to you. For example, if you want to start reaping fruits in the future, plant fruit trees. If you want water purification, plant bamboo trees. The point is, plant trees that will add meaning to your lives.” The government is aggressively campaigning to restore forest biodiversity by planting tree species that help solve problems and meet the needs of specific areas. Kamau cited the bamboo species being planted in water catchment areas for purifying water and reducing soil erosion. In Embu alone, 270 acres will be forested, while across the country, five million bamboo seedlings will be planted. The Njuki-ini community lobby, which was formed in 2007, praised KFS management for supporting them and pledged to continue the partnership. Chairman Francis Nyaga said that through their new project, they have produced more than 1,200 fishes in their four ponds. The fish varieties are Tilapia, clay fish and ornamental fish. He added that their apiary venture has enabled them to increase beehives. They sell 500 grammes of honey for Sh800. Besides the latest activities, they also engage in herbal and clay collection, tree nurturing and ecotourism. “We also partake in forest conservation efforts by planting and taking care of trees on the sites where we are permitted to cultivate our crops. We also receive training in how to take care of our forest as we are the first beneficiaries,” Nyaga said.