The Kenya Marine and Fisheries Research Institute is constructing a Sh30 million wastewater treatment plant at the Shimo la Tewa prison in Mombasa. According to KMFRI,  the plant will facilitate treatment of waste from prison, which is currently being disposed of untreated into the Mtwapa Creek. Shimo la Tewa Prison’s population has increased to over 5,000. The maximum security prison has 2,400 male inmates, women prison has about 1,000 and the borstal boys’ facility has about 500 children. Some individuals are at the probation office, the Shanzu court, women and senior staff quarters, which are all within the compound. An estimated 400 cubic metres of waste is produced and discharged to Mtwapa Creek every day. The waste is partially treated, hence harms the marine environment. Mtwapa Creek is an inlet to the Indian Ocean with small marinas and fringing coastal forest that is important for bird watching, fishing and recreation. To the southern part of Mtwapa creek is Mombasa Marine Park and Reserve. Several social joints, hotels, private villas and residential houses are adjacent to the creek, therefore the raw sewage is a health hazard to the people and the sea creatures. On Thursday, KMFRI director of Oceans and Coastal Systems James Mwaluma said the project is being funded by a grant from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. The details of the project were captured in a summary of KMFRI achievements in oceanography and hydrology presented to Principal Secretary for Fisheries, Aquaculture and the Blue Economy Dr Francis Owino. Mwaluma however did not give timelines for the project. The wastewater treatment plant is part of the initiative, through international donors, to ensure the prison facility is safe. Once completed, it will save the marine environment and over 5,000 Shimo la Tewa residents will benefit from improved sanitation. Additionally, about 60,000 inhabitants of Mtwapa and 1,500 tourists will benefit from clean beaches and the environment. Over 5,000 fishermen will benefit from increased fish population and income. The Mombasa Marine Park and reserve will benefit from improved water quality and at least 10 universities and research institutions in Kenya will have the opportunity for learning and researching the project.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris