The government has been urged to build dykes along River Nyamasaria to control perennial flooding, especially during the rainy season. Businessman and Kisumu Central politician Joshua Oron said dykes should be part of the long-term strategies to control floods and prevent disaster in Nyalenda. Dr Oron said families are usually displaced from their homes during rainy seasons every year and victims incur huge losses as they are marooned by water. Crops and livestock are also washed away by raging waters. Oron said bigger and stronger dykes should be constructed to offer a permanent solution to floods, which normally occur when River Nyamasaria bursts its banks. Drumming up support for his parliamentary bid, Oron said he will work closely with the county and national government to offer a solution to the problem. He urged President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider allocating money to carry out feasibility study and construction of dykes. He spoke during a donation drive. More than 400 families who were affected by floods in Kapuothe and Nyalenda slums benefitted. Oron donated food and non-food items that included maize flour, sugar, salt and bar soap. A total of 300 households were affected after River Nyamasaria broke its banks following heavy rains in the past two weeks. Oron, who wants to wrest the Kisumu Central MP seat from Fred Ouda, called for more support to the families, saying they need medication, food, blankets and mosquito nets. Water backflow from Lake Victoria and overflow from Wigwa and Alewora rivers also caused flooding. Most of the houses were partially submerged, prompting families to camp in schools and high grounds. Crops and livestock were also affected, as well as learning institutions in Nyalenda. More than five schools were flooded and learners have had to wade through waters to attended classes. Affected areas included Dunga along Lake Victoria. Ouda is serving his first term as the 2022 parliamentary race continues to attract many aspirants after three more expressed interest. Other hopefuls are lawyer Kenneth Amondi, who in the past contested for the Kisumu assembly speaker, and Elijah Oburu. Oron banks on his years of philanthropy and charitable work in Kisumu and beyond to win over the voters. He has been participating in several fundraisers, development projects and supporting youth and women's groups. “My campaign is purely based on ideologies and issues affecting the people of Kisumu Central,” he said. Oron has been financially supporting small and medium-sized enterprises in Kisumu.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris