The newly elected directors of Kenya Tea Development Agency-allied tea factories in the South Rift say they will fully support the government in ensuring reforms succeed. They also resolved to withdraw all the court cases filed by the old directors to block reforms and carry out audits in their factories of how funds are being spent. Signalling a new new chapter in tea factory management, the election saw thousands of tea farmers turn out to choose new officials, sending home all the old faces. From as early as 6am, the farmers gathered at voting centers, sending a clear message they want the reforms to succeed so their prices increase. They defied the hoopla and leaflets  being spread weeks before to the election by the incumbents who claimed the election would not be held. “What we only want is the best for our tea farmers who have suffered for a long time ... We are going to start work immediately to ensure the farmers get better pay,” newly elected Ndarawetta zone director Kipngeno Rono said. Rono criticised the former directors, saying they had ganged up to enrich themselves at the expense of the poor farmers. The new directors claim the management of the tea factories had conspired with the old officials to misuse the funds meant for the farmers by illogically filing court cases aimed at defeating reforms. Regional elections coordinator Julius Kones said the new changes  are the initiative by the farmers and overhaul of the whole management was imminent. Kones said the farmers were upbeat about the process and this was evident in the large number that turned out to vote. “This is a clear sign they support the government’s plan to change the sector so better returns can be realised," he said Kapkoros tea factory has seven zones where 34 aspirants battled for the slots while Mogogosiek with six zones had 23 aspirants contesting. Kapset Tea Factory also in the region had 26 candidates. There were also two slots in each of the factories for delegate seats. Apart from meeting the necessary requirements, aspirants were required  attach a copy of their June 2020, pay slip showing the total green leaf delivered in 2019-20. For the position of a delegate, a candidate was  required to have university degree. The new directors are  to assume their offices on Monday. (Edited by V. Graham) 