Five more ablution blocks will be constructed in Kibera as the  national government intensifies  efforts to improve sanitation and water provision. This will also help eradicate the famous flying toilets that have been a menace and a threat to  general hygiene of the informal settlement. Already, the Athi Water Works Development Agency has constructed 15 ablution blocks in Kibera with residents now having a more hygienic way to dispose of solid waste. The ablution blocks are also connected to sewer line. This is part of the Sh1.6 billion Nairobi City Regeneration Programme that is aimed at improving quality of water , increase access to sanitation facilities and reclaim riparian ecosystem of rivers. Lack of toilets has been a common problem in informal settlements with Kibera having been associated with the 'flying toilets' phenomenon. This is when residents  relieve themselves in black polythene bags and dispose the waste on rooftops, dumping sites and drainage trenches. With the growing demand of sanitation and other crucial services in this informal settlement, a number of NGOs have specifically been working to get rid of the flying toilets in Kibera. In 2014, an ultra-modern sanitation block was built by a non governmental organisation known as Human Needs Project Organisation. The facility funded by Bill and Melinda gates Foundation had over 20 toilets for both male and female,  bathrooms, and a laundry facility. Over the years, the  Government has been looking into ways in which it t can improve water and sanitation coverage Kibera – which is currently low at about 20 per cent. The Ministry of Water kicked off the Kibera Water and Sanitation Project, which entails unblocking and rehabilitation of manholes, an extension of a sewer line to Jamhuri Showground, and laying of water supply lines. The Sh500 million projects which are set to benefit more than 40,000 residents of Kibera have also created employment for over 200 youth through the Mazingira programme. Independent community water supply projects have also been put up to provide clean free water to help curb the spread of Covid-19 in Kibera. Together with the Nairobi Metropolitan Service, Athi Water drilled 193 boreholes across informal settlements in the city. In Kibera , the agency has atleast drilled and equipped six boreholes and constructed elevated steel tanks, water kiosks, and water distribution pipelines producing 2.5 million litres of water per day. The water projects serving the areas of Kibera DC, Silanga, Kianda and Soweto.