Despite exhibiting great potential in the 800 metres, teen sensation Stephen Masindet has a strong conviction he was cut out for the 1,500 metres race. “My long-term goal is to cement my position as a world-beater in the 1,500m seniors race and I believe I have the potential to perform even better in that category,” said Masindet. In an interview with the Star, the 19-year-old said his confidence in the 1,500m race had received a major boost following his splendid performance at the Athletics Kenya (AK) track and field  weekend meeting held at Nyayo Stadium and Moi Stadium, Kasarani respectively. AK used the meetings as mini-trials for the World Relay Championships, Africa Senior Championships, pre-trials for the World Athletics Under-20 Championships, and the Tokyo Olympics. “My fine form against the seniors made me believe in my own abilities in the 1,500 meters. “Most importantly, I'm now convinced I can easily clinch gold in the 800m at the World Athletics Under-20 Championships. I told myself if I can secure a top ten finish against the veterans, what can stop me from beating my rivals in the junior race,” said Masindet. “In the first AK meeting which was held at Nyayo Stadium on February 27 and 28, I managed a slot in the senior 1500m final where I finished seventh. “In the subsequent meetings at Moi Stadium, Kasarani, on March 12-13 and April 2-3, I competed in the 1500m senior race and 800m junior race and qualified for the finals in both categories." “My coach, Totti Corbala, told me to run 800m finals but I did a very big mistake and instead ran in the 1500m. He wanted me to compete in the 800m to gauge my speed ahead of the World Junior Championship. I, however, chose to participate in 1,500m where I secured a top ten finish,” said Masindet. As he trains his eyes firmly on the 1,500m race, Masindet said he's aware of the cut-throat competition that awaits him ahead and doesn't hesitate to mention the man who gives him sleepless nights. “My greatest threat in the 1,500m race is Vincent Keter from Rongai,” said Masindet. After cutting teeth under Kenyan sprints coach Vincent Mumo for the better part of last year, Masindet says his skills are now being refined by Spanish coach Totti Corbala. “For now, I am training in Iten, exactly where David Rudisha was honed for the world record,” said Masindet. Training under two different tacticians, he observes, has provided the extra edge and experience he desperately needs to compete more effectively, given the wealth of their extensive knowledge. “Now I train well with the support of Adidas Runchez and coach Corbala and Vincent Mumo.  I am confident I will perform well and make the Kenya U-20 in the trials set for July,” said Masindet. Totti plays a triple role as my coach, agent and manager. Currently, he's the one guiding me on the track with the blessings of coach Vincent Mumo.