The Kenya Rural Roads Authority has said the critical Moi South Lake road in Naivasha, which leads to dozens of flower farms and hotels, is under threat. The road authority has accused some farmers, hoteliers and individuals of blocking waterways, causing flooding in sections and damage. Already, sections of the road which were recently rehabilitated at a cost of over Sh390 million, have started to give in due to the rains and lighting of fire by demonstrators. According to Kerra, the road which is currently in the last phase of rehabilitation, faced many challenges from environmental to human interference. The authority's resident engineer, Johannes Obwocha, said they are seeking lasting solutions to flooding along the busy Moi South Lake road. He noted that efforts to divert water to the nearby lake had been thwarted by the landowners, leading to perennial flooding along the road. “We have identified nine landowners who have blocked waterways along the road and the ongoing rains will have an effect on the road,” he said. Speaking during a tour of the road, Obwocha said the authority had already been issued with an injunction by one of the farms to stop it from diverting water through their farm and into the lake. He added that frequent demonstrations in which bonfires were lit and vandalism were threats to the future of the road. “Currently, we have done over 19km of this road and the remaining section will be completed in a matter of weeks,” he said on Saturday. Fisheries and KWS officers along the road complained that the gushing waters were finding their way into their offices, disrupting their operations. Earlier, Fresh Produce Exporters Association of Kenya CEO Hosea Machuki noted that the road was critical to the horticulture sector. He said for years, the road had been neglected despite its economic value, leading to huge losses among investors. “This road is worth Sh65 billion as per the study on its economic value and farmers will save 35 per cent of their production cost if it’s fully rehabilitated,” he said. Speaking during the launch of the study on the road, he said it would require Sh2 billion to upgrade the road which would serve users for over 20 years and stop the monthly patching up. -Edited by SKanyara