Maize importation has resumed at the borders of Busia and Namanga, the Agriculture and Food Authority has said. The authority's acting director general Kello Harsama confirmed that business has resumed although the Government is keenly monitoring the aflatoxin status of the maize coming into Kenya. “We have to ensure that it is properly tested for aflatoxin before we allow it in,” he said, adding that those importing maize must bring a certificate of conformity from the Tanzania and Uganda bureau of standards. He spoke to the Star on Monday in an interview on the status of maize importation in the country. "The traders have to come with those certificates. In the past, many of them have been coming without those certificates which meant they were not taking their maize for tests but this has changed," said the official. He said Kenyan authorities have been counterchecking to ascertain the validity of the certificates Harsama said there has been an increase in the smuggling of maize by traders avoiding the aflatoxin tests by the respective standard bureaus and several arrests have been made. “Some traders have been taken to court and convicted for bringing maize to Kenya illegally.  About ten cases have already been convicted mainly in Busia and Kapenguria borders in West Pokot County,” he said. According to the April Food Security Monitor report by the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa-AGRA, there has been an increase in the smuggling of maize from Uganda into Kenya since March. This, according to the report is common along the Sofia, Marachi, Buteba, Buhehe, Lumino, Majanji, Busime and Masinya border points. In March 5, 2021, the government through the Agriculture and Food Authority stopped importation of maize from Uganda and Tanzania due to high levels of aflatoxin. AFA then issued stringent rules that maize importers must meet before being allowed to bring in any produce into Kenya including having a certificate of conformity. However on May 5, President Uhuru Kenyatta directed the Ministry of Agriculture to clear maize trucks at the Tanzanian border points within two weeks. The directive followed the state visit by Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan and commitments by the two countries to renew trade relations. The Agriculture ministry however maintained that all maize importers will have to meet set guidelines. Importers must present a copy of the registration certificate at the border point and documents showing the consignment details and certificate of conformity from a competent authority in the exporting country. "This will ensure that the consignment is safe and a sample may be taken randomly for confirmatory tests," said Harsama.