Residents living in Soweto, Kibra have threatened to move to court over the demolitions that occurred this week which left them homeless. Led by Nubian Rights Forum leader Shafi Ali, the residents on Thursday have condemned the demolitions noting that the action was ill-advised. “Article 40 of the Constitution is very clear and procedures have to be followed before the government can carry out demolitions,” he said. Article 40 of the Kenyan Constitution highlights the right to property ownership The residents claimed that the Nairobi Metropolitan Service and Kenya Urban Roads Authority were behind the demolitions. The demolitions were to pave way for the construction of roads that are aimed at opening the informal settlements, making the areas accessible. In February this year, NMS embarked on constructing a 28km road in Kibra which will connect with the area to Langata, Southern Bypass and other roads. The works which are spearheaded by KURA is part of the Sh5.8 billion aimed at upgrading 408 km of access roads across informal settlements in Nairobi county. NMS Director General had said owners would demolish houses built on land marked for the road construction and no house will be spared. “No favouritism will be applied whether the house is built using stones, mud or iron sheets. I plead with residents to cooperate and move with speed to demolish the houses,” Badi said. NMS also disclosed that labour for the road project will be sourced locally from the people living in the area where the project is. Data from  Kura reveals that as of April 30, 2021, 1.7 km of roads had already been constructed in Kibera Kibra is part of the three slums in Nairobi; Mathare and Mukuru Kwa Njenga that  have  been marked as Special Planning Areas by NMS This will be in line with President Uhuru Kenyatta’s March 18, 2020, directive to the Nairobi Metropolitan Service to undertake slum-upgrading initiatives in the capital. One of the many objectives of the declaration was to develop ways that would promote the safety and health of the residents. Also, the improvising of water and sanitation, roads and drainage and electrification have already commenced in the informal settlements.