Kenya is still optimistic that the second consignment of Covid-19 vaccines will land in the country before the end of this month. This is even as the country is running out of doses, with the doses received in early March through the Covax Facility programme expected to run out in few days. Out of the 1.02 million doses of AstraZeneca received under the first consignment, 911,515 people had been vaccinated against the disease as at Saturday. From the number, 531,540 are members of the public including those aged above 58 years, 160,468 are healthcare workers, 142,624 are teachers while the remaining 76,578 are security officers. There have been 460 cases of Adverse Events Following immunisation reported but so far so cases of mortality ascribed to the vaccine have been reported in the country. Already some vaccination centres in various parts of the country have run out of stock, with those seeking to get the jab required to get it from nearby centres that might still be having some doses. The government also received an additional 100,000 doses of the AZ vaccine from the government of India under bilateral agreement. The second consignment of 2.5 million doses was expected into the country in April but with the global supply chain challenges, the delivery under the Covax facility has not come through. The Serum Institute of India which is the largest manufacture of the AV vaccine has been overwhelmed with meeting the local demand of the vaccine as India battles with the deadliest second wave. “We have commitment from Covax facility and Serum Institute of India hoping that the situation in India will improve, timelines still stand at the end of May,” Health ministry Ag director general Patrick Amoth said. “Now even if you have a million sitting there, you cannot get a vaccine in the international market so whichever vaccine that will come earlier we will be able to deploy. We hope and pray that the AZ comes because then it makes it easier for us since we already have that platform,” Amoth said. This comes even as the National Treasury set aside Sh7 billion to help in the acquisition of additional vaccines. The amount which will be accessible in the next Financial Year 2021/2022 is for acquisition of Pfizer and the single-shot Johnson and Johnson vaccines. “We are planning to use these funds to get additional stocks of Pfizer and Johnson and Johnson so going forward we will have a mix of molecules to be able to administer to Kenyans,” he said. The ministry has however maintained that there will be no mixing of vaccines until there is scientific data to prove the same. Kenya has already adjusted the time frame for the second doses by an additional four weeks. This means that those who were to receive their second dose in May will now have to wait till June. The plan is to vaccinate at least 1.25 million people by end of June, with the second phase of the vaccination schedule expected to start in July. “It is because of this global supply chain and manufacturing constraints that we issued a directive that instead of getting the second dose after two months you will get it after 12 weeks. This will give us a window of opportunity. Hoping that the situation in India stabilises then we are looking at the end of May that is when we shall get the second consignment of vaccines,” he added. This week, the WHO listed another vaccine under the Emergency Use. The WHO gave Sinopharm vaccine a green light to be rolled out globally for emergency use. The Sinopharm vaccine is produced by Beijing Bio-Institute of Biological Products Co Ltd, subsidiary of China National Biotec Group. According to WHO, the vaccine is highly suitable for use in areas with limited resources due to its easy storage requirement. -Edited by SKanyara