The Jubilee party has suffered yet another major setback in its perceived stronghold after losing in the Juja by-election. This is after it lost to People's Empowerment Party, a little known party affiliated to Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, who was elected on the Jubilee ticket in 2017. This comes a day after the party lost the Rurii ward seat in Nyandarua County to UDA, a party associated to Deputy President William Ruto. UDA's Francis Muraya garnered 4,303 votes beating Jubilee's Peter Thinji who got 3.051 votes. The Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission IEBC announced George Koimburi of PEP as the MP-elect for Juja constituency in the just concluded hotly contested race. Koimburi beat Jubilee's Susan Njeri after he garnered 12 ,159 votes against her 5,746 votes. Dr Joseph Gichui, a young medical doctor and an independent candidate settled on a distant third with 1,356votes. Koimburi contested against former MP Francis Munyua Waititu alias Wakapee in the 2017 general elections but lost to the late lawmaker. Wakapee emerged the winner with 66, 190 votes while Koimburi settled on a distant second with 10, 165votes. He vied on a Farmers Party ticket. The by-election was marked by voter apathy and election malpractices including voter bribery. Voter turn out stood at 18.9 percent with only 21, 869 voters out of the 115, 632 registered voters in the constituency participating in the exercise. Tallying of the votes was suspended for about six hours after chaos broke out between PEP supporters and Jubilee supporters.Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria led other PEP supporters including Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata and Witeithie Ward MCA Julius Macharia while Kiambu Governor James Nyoro and Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba led the Jubilee party group. Despite IEBC announcing Koimburi as the winner, Njeri, the Jubilee candidate, expressed dissatisfaction in the entire exercise claiming that she had been rigged out and that her votes were dumped in several polling stations including Jomo Kenyatta primary school, Gachororo, Theta and Kalimoni. Njeri earlier in the day accompanied by Kiambu MP Jude Njomo stormed out of the tallying center at Mang'u High school in protest. Njeri wanted IEBC to halt the tallying and recount the votes afresh. She also warned that she'd petition to have the by-elections repeated.