Madaraka Day celebrations will be held in Kisumu at the newly-built Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium on Tuesday, Interior PS Karanja Kibicho has confirmed. Reports had emerged that the venue would be changed to the Kisumu State Lodge after State House press director Kanze Dena on Saturday said discussions were still ongoing. Kibicho on Sunday said the event will be held at the stadium in Mamboleo as earlier planned, with works at 99 per cent completion. "What is left is minor cleaning up and clearing of the debris. Doors to the stadium will be opened at 4am so invited guests can start coming in to give security and health officials easy time," he said. President Uhuru Kenyatta is in the lakeside city for a three-day working tour that will include presiding over the festivities. He was welcomed on arrival by ODM leader Raila Odinga. Kibicho said the National Celebration Committee was satisfied with the work done and they are ready to host the event on Tuesday. On Sunday, Kisumu city was a hubbub of activity as the main streets were beautified ahead of the event. Different groups rehearsed to offer entertainment, with the Kenya Defence Forces band among those preparing for the event. Residents told the Star that even though they will not attend the event, they were happy that it was brought to Kisumu. “The changes we have witnessed within the county ahead of this event are just out of this world," Michael Ochieng said. Only the 3,000 invited guests will be allowed into the venue which has a capacity of 30,000 to maintain social distancing. Kibicho said all the invited guests will have arrived and sat by 8.30am. “The usual entertainment will be done and around 10.30am we'll have programmes begin with the arrival of the dignitaries,” he said. The PS said the entire country will follow the proceedings from their homes. Plans to have 10,000 residents follow the proceeding from big screens at Kirembe and Owuor grounds were cancelled due to surging Covid-19 numbers. "We want to urge Kisumu residents to follow proceedings on TV as the events will be televised live". Defence CS Rachael Omamo said they are looking forward to hosting Burundian President Évariste Ndayishimiye who is set to arrive in the country on Monday. "During his stay, we will hold bilateral meetings with our colleagues from Burundi," Omamo said. She said they will execute several agreements and MoUs to advance the relationship between the two countries. Meanwhile, hoteliers in Kisumu are hoping that hosting Madaraka Day celebrations in the city will boost bookings and inject cash into the sector. The Covid-19 pandemic has ravaged the tourism business, with losses estimated by the government at 80 per cent of revenue. Lake Victoria Tourism Association chair Robinson Anyal said industry players were hopeful the business from the event would be the start of a revival. Several hotels have recorded a rise in bookings ahead of the event and with the planning activities on course. Anyal said there has been a slight improvement in demand for accommodation and conference facilities. The majority of the hotels on average reported between 15 and 20 per cent in room occupancies. He said they expect to be doing above 30 per cent occupancy days to the event. Anyal said their hotels have ensured compliance with the Ministry of Health's Covid-19 protocols. County public health officials have visited the facilities to ascertain that they follow the minimum standards set for safe operations. “Hospitality players are keen on doing safe business by following the Covid-19 protocols to prevent further spread of the virus,” he said. County press director Aloice Ager on Friday told the Star that enhanced Covid-19 control measures have put in the various venues. Ager said guests will have their temperature screened at the various gates and handwashing points set up around the stadium. “The government has bought about 30,000 masks that anybody who will attend the function at the various point will be issued, whether they come with their own mask or not,” he said. The Permanent Presidential Music Commission has lined up famous and upcoming musicians to perform before the head of state. Benga queen Suzzana Owiyo, ohangla musicians Wuod Fibi, Musa Jakadala, Freddy Jakadongo and Kofi Mac Adory will perform. Other entertainers on the lineup are Dola Kabarry, Aluoch Pamba, Osito Kale and Caroline Wanjiru.  (edited by o. owino)