UDA, a party associated with Deputy President William Ruto, has started countrywide registration of aspirants for various elective positions in readiness for the 2022 General Election. The party has already held its first meeting with aspirants from 10 counties who have shown interest in the positions of MCAs, Members of the National Assembly, Woman Representatives, senators and governors. Tuesday's meeting was largely attended by aspirants from Central and Eastern regions. Some of the counties represented include Machakos, Makueni, Kirinyaga, Kiambu, Kitui and Kajiado. The party is also planning a major registration drive for aspirants in Vihiga county next week. UDA secretary general Veronica Maina said aspirants were taken through the 'bottom-up economics' that is one of DP Ruto’s campaign strategies. Economist David Ndii took the aspirants through the strategy. “We have gone through the registration process. We have gone through assurances on how we will ensure credible nominations for party members,” Maina said. "We have also discussed how to package a successful aspirant so that they don’t continue working without understanding the topography of their counties, we have also taken them through branding and marketing of the candidate and the party." She said they will continue to have more forums. "On Monday we will be in Vihiga to hold forums for several counties.” The party assured supporters of a free and fair nomination ahead of next year's polls. Maina was accompanied by Turkana Governor Josphat Nanok, Kandara MP Alice Wahome and a host of party officials and supporters. Nanok said the aspirants’ recruitment drive is part of the broader UDA 2022 preparation, which will enable the party to not only win a majority of the seats but also win power. “Politics is about winning elections. If you are not organised, then you cannot win power,” the Turkana governor said. Wahome said they are satisfied with UDA’s show in the recent by-elections. The Kandara MP explained that her association with UDA is on the basis of an existing 2017 coalition agreement that Jubilee signed with the Party of Development and Reforms, now United Democratic Alliance. Maina also announced that the party will tentatively hold its primaries on June 18 to elect substantive officials from grassroots to the national office.  Edited by A.N  