Past governments have suffered more hatred rom Nyanza residents than any other community due to perceived marginalisation. In fact, it almost became stereotypic that when you talk about Luos, you are referring to the opposition in Kenyan politics. This story is what President Uhuru Kenyatta and the former Prime Minister Raila Odinga have attempted to rewrite. Raila has fashioned himself as a leader whose vision and impetus for developing this country can no longer be doubted. Areas that were hitherto considered opposition strong holds have benefited immensely from the same government they vigorously campaigned against in 2017. The mere fact President Kenyatta's government has initiated development projects across the country is a sign of political maturity of our country and the top leadership. Many people have questioned the intent of the Building Bridges Initiative but in the fullness of time, it is becoming more evident that BBI aims to unite this country. The implication is our problems will shift from political intolerance to more issue-based politics because the presidency will be a symbol of national unity as it should always be. Again, the notion of bad blood between perceived opposition zones and governments has now become another story of the past. This is history being rewritten. A walk down history lane shows all the times governments partnered with Hon Odinga, many areas got a share of the national cake. The question, therefore, is whether it is Raila Odinga with the right prescription for this country's leadership. This is a subject for debate depending on many factors. All partnerships, including that with former President Moi, the Grand Coalition and now the handshake, have put in a indelible mark on the lives of many Kenyans. The 1999 partnership with Moi resulted into the IPPG (Inter-Party Parliamentary Group). The Grand Coalition delivered the new Constitution and now the handshake has delivered much development countrywide. Kenyans are happy and we are optimistic we shall not lose our steps to the gains made so far. We shall bequeath a progressive and peaceful country to the next generation if we stick to the path put in place by President Kenyatta and former Prime Minister Raila Odinga. The nominated senator spoke to the Star