Somalia says it has restored diplomatic ties with Kenya after severing them in December. It accused its neighbour of meddling in domestic politics ahead of elections which have now been postponed. Relations between the two countries are often stormy. They have been engaged in a maritime dispute for years, with both sides claiming potentially oil-rich waters. Kenya has nearly 4,000 troops based in southern Somalia in an attempt to form a buffer zone to defend against the jihadist group al Shabaab. Relations between the countries have also been tense over the ownership of potential oil and gas deposits, some of which lie off the coast of Jubbaland, one of Somalia's five semi-autonomous states. "Now diplomatic relations are restored," Abdirahman Yusuf, the deputy information minister, told a news conference in Mogadishu, saying Qatar had helped in the process. There was no immediate comment from the Kenyan government, though State House in Nairobi tweeted on Thursday afternoon that President Uhuru Kenyatta "received a special message" from Emir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani of Qatar that was delivered by Qatar's special envoy of the foreign minister. On December 22, last year Kenya and Somalia agreed to restore diplomatic relations following talks between leaders of the two neighbouring countries in Djibouti, a Somali government official said. Mohamed Abdirizak Mohamud, the foreign minister of Somalia, told journalists in Mogadishu that regional leaders who attended the Inter-Governmental Authority on Development summit, which was held on Sunday in Djibouti, pressured Somalia to de-escalate tension. Mohamud said Somalia accepted the request by the East Africa bloc to resolve the issue through talks on the condition that an IGAD fact-finding team is formed to probe Mogadishu's complaints. Somali later rejected the report claiming the team was biased. Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Somalia counterpart, Mohamed Farmajo met on the sidelines of the 38th IGAD Extraordinary Summit. They also met in the DRC three weeks ago. Edited by Henry Makori