Kenya Ports Authority coach Sammy Mulinge has urged the KPA management to tie him and his players to improved contracts for long-term planning and continuity. Mulinge said he has been working voluntarily for the team since 2019 after he was approached during the final leg of the Kenya Volleyball Federation league held at Kapsabet. The young team had already qualified for the playoffs. Mulinge, who doubles up as the national women's beach volleyball team coach said players deserve better terms as a reward for their improved performances. "I would like to appreciate the performance of the boys, who have been receptive to my ideas and always keen to improve. This noble project requires long-term planning with targets to achieve. The players have moved to another level now and merit fresh, improved terms," he said. "I have already given my recommendation to the management. We need to work semi or professionally and coaches also warrant contracts. This is a very young team with an average age of 24 and therefore measures have to be put in place to prevent players from seeking moves away from the club. This will help us to work with targets. Working without a time frame makes you lack objectives. You cannot work out of the blues." The Makande-based side has been on an upward trajectory since 2019 — when they finished runners up in the league. Mulinge's charges defied odds to finish fifth at the African Club Championship last week in Tunisia despite being first timers in the continental extravaganza. Nevertheless, Mulinge is convinced he will finish the season strongly with the coastal side when the league resumes. KPA hope to win their remaining five matches and book a playoffs slot. The team hopes to go one more step in their quest for the league title. "I hope the management will give me the opportunity to finish the season. We hope to win all our matches. Qualifying for the playoffs remains our aim... from there anything is possible." Mulinge had a decade-long stint with Rwanda's APR before landing the KPA job. He beat his former side in the club championship winning 3-2 in the five-set thriller.