The United Democratic Alliance has called on Christian clerics to use the numbers they control in their churches to support a political candidate who will address their issues. Former Jomvu Kuu MCA Karisa Nzai, a staunch ally of Deputy President William Ruto, said the Church will be supported more under a Ruto presidency. “He loves the Church,” said Nzai on Saturday. He spoke during a meeting with over 300 Christian clerics drawn from Jomvu constituency. On Thursday, he launched a mass UDA registration drive. The target is to register at least 10,000 UDA members from Jomvu constituency. Jomvu, which has a population of 171,968 people, has traditionally voted along party lines but changed the pattern at the onset of devolution. Before 2013, the voters in Jomvu Kuu, Mikindani and Miritini mostly voted for ODM candidates. The three wards made up Jomvu constituency when devolution kicked in and crafted the constituency from the larger Changamwe constituency. In 2013, they voted in Badi Twalib on a Wiper ticket after Twalib fell out with then Changamwe MP the late Ramadhan Kajembe and ditched ODM. In 2017, Twalib returned to ODM and was re-elected. Twalib will still fight to retain his seat. On Sunday, he said he has done more things for Jomvu people than they expected. “And I will continue to do more. I do not listen to what other people may say. I only listen to the people of Jomvu and what they want me to do for them,” said a confident Twalib. Nzai, who vied for the Jomvu MP seat on a Jubilee ticket in 2017 against Twalib, said Ruto has identified himself with the church, which gives him a strong foundation on which he can lead the country. “We are going to Ruto because he has identified himself with God,” said Nzai. Nzai said the lack of unity among the pastors and bishops in Jomvu is to blame for their own woes. The clerics said they have a myriad of issues that affect them that they want addressed. Pastor Winnie Otiende, who has declared interest in the Jomvu Kuu MCA seat, said pastors in the constituency have to make do with dilapidated buildings for churches. “We sometimes preach in establishments that are almost falling apart. We have sought help in many places but little is forthcoming,” said Pastor Otiende. Nzai, who will once again fight the established Twalib for the Jomvu MP seat, said they have themselves to blame. “You control a huge number in your churches but you do not give them political direction for fear of the flock leaving your churches,” said Nzai. He said with him as the Jomvu MP and Ruto as the President of Kenya, they will find solutions for their many problems. “We will first ensure you have title deeds for your lands. You cannot have churches built on land that you do not have titles to. “Others do not want you to have titles for the places you have. What plans do they have for your land?” said Nzai. He noted that Kisauni Ali Mbogo has ensures that his people get 40,000 titles in five years. “What stops Jomvu from doing the same?” he posed. He dismissed efforts to form a Coastal party saying UDA is the party to beat in 2022. He said it is no use trying to form a party right now when there are already established ones that will carry the agenda of the Coastal people. “The Coastal people want unity and their land. UDA will provide that platform to unite them and also ensure they get title deeds for their lands. What more do they want?” he posed.