The Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission is going on with investigations into alleged misuse of money disbursed for Covid-19 fight in Nandi county. Four top officials, including the Health and Finance executives, have been recommended for suspension by MCAs to facilitate investigations. In particular, the EACC is probing claims of irregular purchase of ICU beds by the county government. The county installed 10 ICU beds at Kapsabet County Referral Hospital and at the Nandi Hills Hospital. EACC regional head for North Rift Japheth Baithalu wrote to county secretary Francis Sang demanding all details and documents relating to the purchases. “To facilitate the probe, you are requested to provide us with certified copies of documents with respect to procurement, supply, and distribution of ICU beds covering the entire supply chain from identification, delivery payments, and physical distribution,” said a letter by Baithalu. Baithalu listed 19 requirements that the county has to aid investigations. Also under investigation are alleged irregularities in the procurement for a mortuary project at Nandi Hills Hospital. On this, the commission has listed 27 requirements that the county has to provide. The mortuary project cost more than Sh50 million. County Secretary Sang received the EACC letter and directed Health executive Ruth Koech to provide the information. Two weeks ago, MCAs recommended Governor Stephen Sang suspend four executives to facilitate investigations into the use of more than Sh118 million meant for the Covid-19 fight. MCAs approved a report on the alleged misuse of the money disbursed to the county by the national government and invited the EACC and the Directorate of Criminal Investigations to investigate. Governor Sang had told the Star that he would respond to the demand by the MCAs but so far there has been no action. "I will respond to the report once it gets to me. At the moment I'm not aware of it," Sang said when reached for comment. An ad-hoc committee of the assembly that probed the matter found that out of Sh151.6 million allocated and approved by the assembly, only Sh32 million was expended before June 30, 2020, and Sh118 million was not captured in the 2020-21 financial year. The report indicates that the Sh118 million, being funds from the national government to fight Covid-19, was all indicated as exhausted by the county government but no details were provided on how it was spent. The county also received another Sh58.4 million from the national government for payment of allowances to front-line health workers and 1,424 front-line workers were paid but the rest have yet to be paid. Owing to the anomalies, the report by the county assembly recommends executive Koech and chief officer for medical services Paul Lagat be suspended to allow investigations. Other officials the MCAs want suspended to pave the way for investigations are Finance executive Alfred Lagat and chief finance officer Meshack Malakwen. The report of the ad hoc probe committee chaired by Teresia Maiyo noted that ICU beds at the county referral hospital are not operational to handle patients, including those suffering from Covid-19. It was further noted that the Oxygen plant at Kapsabet Hospital had broken down when the ad-hoc committee visited. The county is accused of failing to account for all the money allocated for the Covid-19 war, including all details of payments and suppliers. Chief finance officer Malakwen had told the committee that the Sh118 million was not captured in the 2021 financial budget because of an error and dismissed claims that it was deliberate. Last month, the Kenya Medical Supplies Agency and the Nandi government were put on the spot after the Auditor General disclosed that some Covid-19 supplies to the county were missing. An audit of dispatch records from Kemsa and receipt records from the county revealed inconsistencies between quantities supplied and those received. The details are contained in a special report of how counties used billions of shillings disbursed by the government and donors for the Covid-19 fight. “We recommend further investigations be carried out to ascertain possible losses," Gathungu said. 