Some Kisii politicians have accused a senior government official of interfering in the Bonchari by-election campaigns in favour of Jubilee candidate Zebedeo Opore. Speaking to the Star, they said they have received threats from people close to the official warning them of arrests and criminal and civil charges if they openly campaign for other candidates other than the Jubilee flag-bearer. Bogiakumu MCA Ishmael Bosire and Kisii county ODM organising secretary Henry Moracha claimed the official was using his position to intimidate UDA and ODM candidates ahead of the by-election slated for May 18. “We are being targeted and prevented from campaigning for our candidates by government operatives. We can’t allow this to happen and he should restrain officers from infringing on our rights,” Moracha said during a presser at Gesonso police station. The allegations came out after Riana MCA Ariemba Moisabi, who is drumming up support for ODM candidate Pavel Oimeke, was arrested last Monday after an altercation with an assistant chief at a burial ceremony. The chief was caught on camera claiming that administration officers were under instructions to support a particular candidate in the May 18 by-election. Ariemba's arrest came immediately after police raided the home of ODM candidate Teresa Oyioka and his office at Angelic Teachers college and arrested five of her campaigners. They accused the UDA campaigners of not observing the Ministry of Health Covid-19 protocols. The race to succeed the late Oroo Oyioka is shaping into a three-horse race pitting Oimeke, Teresa Oyioka of UDA and Opore. Seven other candidates are in the race, including former Kisii woman representative Mary Otara. Following the arrest of the politicians allied to ODM and UDA candidates in the campaigns, they have claimed a senior government official is out to pull a Matungu for the state preferred candidate. They have asked the IEBC to intervene and allow all candidates a level playground to sell their policies. They also want police to be restrained from using unnecessary force in an attempt to tilt the ground in favour of the Jubilee candidate. Tension is high in Bonchari as the campaigns hit fever pitch. Stakes are high since the handshake partners, Jubilee and ODM are engaged in a contest that has threatened to split the handshake. Early this week a senior Gusii politician is said to have confronted the said official in a telephone confrontation asking him to respect other leaders and to stop opening up battles with everyone. “We have told him to respect seniors. Some of us have held very senior positions in government long before anyone knew him. We are not going to tolerate intimidation. “He should know that his position is transitory and in a matter of months he will be an ordinary civilian,” one of the Gusii leaders said. In a departure from the recent by-elections like Kiamokama ward where Jubilee shelved its candidature in favour of ODM, in Bonchari both parties have sponsored candidates. Kisii is perceived to be an ODM zone and the move by Jubilee to front Opore belatedly has been attributed to a wider scheme by an unseen hand. Following the arrests of UDA and ODM politicians, the protesting politicians accused the state of trying to manipulate the outcome in favour of Opore, who is a former area MP. Already, some top politicians from the area allied to ODM and UDA have claimed of having been warned from setting foot in Bonchari to campaign for their candidates, or else government agencies will prefer trumped-up charges against them. It remains to be seen whether the by-election is the litmus test for Gusii unity even as leaders push for one of their own in the 2022 presidential race.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris