Groups of Agikuyu community elders have castigated the coronation of National Assembly Speaker Justin Muturi and said they will conduct a cleansing ceremony. Muturi's coronation was conducted last Saturday at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga in Murang'a county. The groups include Athamaki—represented by Njathi wa Mbatia, Boro wa Ngara, Kariuki wa Kabui and Thiongo wa Gitau, Kikuyu Council of Elders led by Wachira Kiago, Kiama Kia Ma led by Ndungu wa Gaithuma, Atonyi—represented by Kigochi wa Waimiri, Warorua wa Kimani and Wachira wa Kariuki. Also present at the press briefing was the high priests group represented by Nyamu Njoka, Ngugi Ngethe, Wahinya Wamiti, Peter Kiarie, Mwaniki Muriithi, Njoroge Njari and Kihiko Kibui. In a joint press statement read at the Kikuyu Council of Elders headquarters in Ruaka, Kiambu county, the elders unanimously said the ceremony was reckless, carried out by renegade elders and warned that coronation must not be held at the shrine. "As the recognised elders we are unanimous that any coronation must not be held at the shrine as was recklessly carried out on Saturday under patronage of renegade elders," they said. The elders said they will carry out a cleansing rite for Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga shrine as it was trespassed and is an abomination to Gikuyu culture. The main objective of the shrine is prayers, Agikuyu cultural ceremonies and a point of cultural pilgrimage. Ndung'u of Kiama Kia Ma criticised President Uhuru Kenyatta's cousin Kung'u Muigai who attended the coronation ceremony saying he was banished from being an elder. "Kung'u was banished from Kiama Kia Ma and is not allowed to attend, preside or oversee any cultural ceremony due to his disrespect, lies, intimidation of elders and appointing himself patron, and has not undergone any Agikuyu eldership rite of passage" said Ndung'u. Kiago of the Kikuyu Council of Elders said they have invited Muturi  to sit with recognised and mandated leaders of the community. "We recognise Muturi as a national leader and elder of the Mbeere and a proposed spokesman of the Eastern mountain," he said. He added that no protocol was followed and no consultations were done causing consternation among stakeholders in the region. "Muturi has a constitutional right to aspire for any office of his choice but was misled by the renegade elders to blatantly disrespect and desecrate the most revered Agikuyu shrine," said Kiago. Kabui said the elders will soon visit their fellow elders in Meru and Embu to explain their stand on the shrine. The elders however said that the region's kingpin, spokesman and de facto leader remains President Uhuru. -Edited by SKanyara