The World Boxing Organization (WBO) on Saturday ordered Anthony Joshua to defend his heavyweight title against mandatory challenger Oleksandr Usyk after the Briton’s bout with domestic rival Tyson Fury was thrown into doubt. Joshua, who also holds the IBF and WBA titles, was set to face Fury, who holds the WBC belt, on August 14 in Saudi Arabia. But Fury was ordered by an American arbitrator on Monday to fight Deontay Wilder for a third time before Sept. 15. The WBO said it had sent a letter to Joshua’s promoter Eddie Hearn on Wednesday to “show cause” within 48 hours why the WBO should not order a fight with Usyk, asking for confirmation of the Joshua-Fury bout. Hearn asked the WBO for an extension on Friday, but the request was denied. Joshua and Ukrainian Usyk have until May 31 to reach an agreement for the fight, the WBO said or purse bids will be called, opening the process to any promoter who wants to bid for the bout. If the fight goes to a purse bid, Joshua would receive 80 per cent of the bid, while former undisputed world cruiserweight champion Usyk would get 20 per cent. “Such calculation is based upon the average purse of each fighter’s last three bouts,” the WBO said, adding that the minimum bid would be $1 million. Meanwhile,  Fury has signed his contract to face Deontay Wilder on 24 July. Fury, 32, looked set to finalise a fight for all four world titles against Anthony Joshua in Saudi Arabia. But the all-British affair fell through when Wilder’s team won an arbitration hearing stating the American had a right to a third fight with Fury. Fury attended Josh Taylor’s win over Jose Ramirez in Las Vegas on Saturday, where he signed his fight contract. “He’s getting seriously smashed to bits,” Fury said. “I’ll give him another shoulder injury, another bicep injury, another leg injury. “One round, you’re going. I have got your soul, your mojo, everything. I own you.” Fury’s deal arrives less than seven days since he appeared on social media stating he had agreed to face Joshua in August. But 24 hours after giving the Joshua showdown the green light, Fury’s plans were de-railed by Wilder’s arbitration success. Wilder, 35, refused to take any money in order to step aside and let Fury pursue the Joshua fight, where all four world heavyweight titles would have been on the line.