Slightly over four decades ago, elders in Pokot South banned  bars and sale of local brews in the area. Their reason you might ask, many residents had become enslaved to the brew such that they abdicated their responsibilities and in turn slowed economic growth of the region. Elders say the situation was so bad that men used to sell their animals and land just to settle bills accrued from drinking sprees. However, a 1975 elders meeting saved the community. “Cases of family wrangles had increased at an alarming rate and elders unanimously agreed to ban bars in the region,” said Jackson Chemer, one of the elders. Fast forward to 2021 and the elders say Pokot South economy has grown in leaps and bounds. The constituency even boosts of being the bread basket of West Pokot county. Chemer says the elders were worried that the brews would drown the county leaving residents hungry for spending their days in drinking dens. "Elders held a meeting in 1975 and decided to totally ban alcohol in the sub county, a move that was supported by majority of residents," says Chemer, adding that before the decision was reached, the community was given a chance to vote. “We were happy when majority of the community supported the ban of bars in this region,” he said. Chemer said the community respects and abides by the decision because elders  are respected in the region. “The community fears violating the decision because they fear being cursed or being chase away from the area,” he said. In the 2015, daring business entrepreneurs from other regions defied the community policy and started to put up bars in the region. This, however, did not last as the elders closed the bars even before the businesses could pick. “Those who try opening bars in this region are asked to closed them down failure to which elders forcefully close it,” said the 78-year-old man. Chemer thanked the government for respecting their decision saying it has helped spur development in the region. “We thank security officers for respecting our decision since they have not interfered with the elders' decision set 43 years ago,” he said. Lauding the elders decisions, Selina Cheptoo, a resident, said the ban has enabled residents engage in farming. “The whole county depends on us to feed them. The bars could have barred many youths from engaging in farming,” she said. Pokot South has favourable climatic condition for both crop and animal farming. Farmers in the region plant onions, cabbages Irish potatoes, pyrethrum and engage in dairy farming. Solom Kura a resident said after the ban, the community formed dairy cooperatives and this has helped residents put their children through school. “The ban helped in establishing milk cooling plants and this has led to setting up of a milk processing plant by the county government in this region,” he said. Kura said those yearning to quench their thirst for alcohol have to travel to Makutano, Chepareria and Elgeyo Marakwet towns. The region has 23 milk cooling plants and they sell their milk to Brookside company. The ban has also helped increase school enrolment. St Kizito headteacher Thomas Mukua said parents in the region are responsible as they do not waste time in drinking dens. “Parents have taken seriously the education of their children and this has led to increase in enrolment. The mean score of our sub county is above average and we are happy with the decision of banning  alcohol dens in this region,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara