A family in Mai Mahiu, Naivasha, is crying for justice following the death of their daughter, 32, whose body was found in an underground water tank. They say an autopsy indicated that Ann Njeri, a mother of two, was attacked using a blunt object. Police, who had briefly arrested Njeri's boyfriend and released him in unclear circumstances, however say the deceased committed suicide. The woman is said to have quarrelled with her boyfriend earlier only for her body to later be recovered in the water tank. According to John Mwangi, an uncle to the deceased, they were sure that the deceased was murdered and the body dumped in the tank. He said a post-mortem report indicated that the deceased had injuries on various parts of the body inflicted before she died. “When the body was discovered, the tank was closed from the top and we believe that she was murdered before being dumped inside,” Mwangi said. The grandfather John Kiboro questioned why the boyfriend had not been interrogated over the death. He said the Njeri was an orphan and had left behind two children who were already suffering following her death. “We are planning to lay her to rest in our family home in Gikambura, Kiambu county. We believe our daughter was murdered,” Kiboro said. But speaking on phone, Naivasha OCPD Samuel Waweru denied that the deceased was murdered as claimed by the relatives. He said investigations had proven that the victim committed suicide hours after falling out with the boyfriend whom they had cohabited for a couple of years. “Though we have not received the post-mortem report, investigations by our officers purely point to suicide but the inquest file is still open,” he said. Cases of murder within family circles and couples have been on the rise across the country in the last one year with experts pointing to mental health issues. The incident comes barely two weeks after a 34-year-old mother of two was strangled by her 22-year-old boyfriend in Kayole estate off the Nairobi-Nakuru highway. The suspect who later surrendered to police after going into hiding for a week has since confessed to killing the woman. He had accused her of infidelity.  -Edited by SKanyara