Newly-appointed Chief Justice Martha Koome might have had a smooth sailing when she faced the panel that interviewed her for the CJ post. Her job, however, is well cut-out as she will be forced to confront threats by the Executive to interfere with the independence of the Judiciary, especially if the office of the Judiciary ombudsman is created. When she appeared before the Justice and Legal Affairs Committee of the National Assembly, Koome vowed to protect the independence of the Judiciary. However, with the BBI case still in court, Koome is poised to have a daunting task on how she will protect the independence of the Judiciary if the matter gets to be appealed all the way to the Supreme Court. Last Thursday, a five Judge bench presided over by Justice Joel Ngugi declared the BBI Bill unconstitutional citing illegalities committed during drafting and formulation of the entire process. They declared the BBI Bill null and avoid. The bench comprised of Justices George Odunga, Jairus Ngaah, Teresia Matheka and Chacha Mwita They ruled in favour of eight petitioners who sought to bar the bill from proceeding to a referendum. The matter is waiting for a hearing at the appellate court. Of the bench, Justice Ngugi and Justice Odunga are among the 41 judges whose appointment is pending after they were nominated by the Judicial Service Commission. Of the 41, 12 are to be appointed to the Court of Appeal. One judge has since died. The dilemma of pending appointment of the judges is a key concern and Kenyans are waiting to see how Koome will resolve the stalemate. She had indicated that the issue can be addressed through negotiations between the Judiciary and Executive saying they are interdependent. Koome who will be Kenya’s 15th CJ brings to the court a wealth of experience earned from more than three decades in the Judiciary. She has 33 years of experience in legal practice under her belt and a significant portion of those years has been in public service as a defender of human rights. Koome is entering the helm of the Judiciary when marginalised groups have woken up to fight for their space. Among them are women fighting for rightful share, implementation of the two-thirds majority, the Rastafarai’s rights on legalising marijuana and the intersex. Speaking to the Star, lawyer Danstan Omari said these are emotive issues that must be given an advisory by the Supreme Court. “She is coming from a feminist point of view, to head a patriarchal Judiciary. How will she also build men’s confidence? She must deal with the fear men have of her,” Omari said. Another issue she is likely to face is the question of two women heading the apex court. Philomena Mwilu has been acting as the Chief Justice and will now continue with her role as Deputy Chief Justice. Her position according to Omari is constitutionally protected unless petitions filed against her for removal from office are now fast-tracked. “She is in a paradox. Will she sit and list Mwilu's matter for discussion and eventually have her kicked out of office? If this happens, feminists may be up in arms against her. These are just some of the challenges she is likely to face,” he said. The Judiciary is now firmly run by females - acting CJ (Philomena Mwilu), Vice-Chair JSC (Olive Mugenda), acting President Court of Appeal (Wanjiru Karanja), Principal Judge, High Court ( Lydia Achode ). Others are Principal Judge, ELRC, (Maureen Onyango), Judiciary Chief Registrar (Anne Amadi); Registrar, High Court (Judy Omange), Registrar Supreme Court (Esther Nyaiyaki), Registrar JSC (Frida Mokaya). Interestingly, Koome’s former boss Justice William Ouko is now her junior. Ouko was the President of the Court of Appeal and Martha was her junior but the script has now changed. Omari was of the view that the two must try to get body chemistry on how to seamlessly work together. Another critical assignment that awaits the CJ is the refusal by Parliament to give the Judiciary financial autonomy. Last year, former Chief Justice David Maraga said case backlogs and Judiciary workload will continue to build up if Parliament fails to take decisive action to facilitate and increase the Judiciary budget. He made the remarks during the State of the Judiciary and Administration of Justice report. He said the Judiciary’s funding has been on a downward trend since the 2012-13 financial year with the development component being the most affected. In the financial year 2018-19, the Judiciary was allocated Sh50 million for development. Yesterday, Omari proposed that Koome must work on recruiting people to lobby the issue of the Judiciary budget in Parliament. “A department within the Judiciary that deals with other arms of the government and not Judges must be created,” he said. “She must recruit retired judges, retired politicians, retired Treasury officials who have a network to lobby as a consultative team.” Issues of sexual harassment claims, allegations of nepotism in promotion and employment, transfer policy in the Judiciary, ethnicity as raised by Judge Ouko during the interviews among other things are awaiting her address. Omari further mentioned that junior magistrates within the Judiciary are suffering because of sexual harassment. “There is some silence about it but this needs to be addressed,” he said.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris