The country is likely to face a third wave of the desert locust invasion. Agriculture PS Hamadi Boga said achievements have been made in the control process in the country but this could be jeopardised by the hatching in Ethiopia and Somalia. He said control process in the neighbouring countries has been going on but challenges such as insecurity has slowed down the fight against the upsurge. Boga spoke to the Star on Tuesday at Kilimo House. The PS however assured Kenyans that Food and Agriculture Organisation and the government are monitoring the situation and that a team will be going to Somalia to survey the situation. FAO locust watch update released in May 17 indicated that hatching has been detected in eastern Ethiopia and northwest Somalia where swarms have been laying eggs since late April. “The hatchlings are forming small hopper bands that so far have been seen in a few places. More hatching and band formation are expected throughout eastern Ethiopia and northern Somalia during the remainder of this month,” the locust watch stated. FAO warned that a new round of breeding could signify the potential for a further increase in locust numbers in the Horn of Africa. “If hopper band infestations are not adequately detected and treated, new swarms could form from mid-June on wards and move west to the Afar region in northeast Ethiopia for summer breeding. Locust numbers could build up in the interior of Yemen that may eventually threaten the Horn of Africa,” said FAO. On Wednesday, FAO handed over the Desert Locust Information Office which includes all the information equipment used and data collected during Desert Locust survey and control, to the government. The information office will support the government in monitoring the desert situation regionally and in real time. The April Food Security Monitor report by the Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa indicated that the widespread rains could see Ethiopia and Kenya experience desert egg-laying, hatching and band formation in May. “Unlike the previous month, the widespread rains experienced in April could result in some of the remaining swarms maturing, although at a smaller scale compared to last year,” the report said. -Edited by SKanyara