The Law Society of Kenya has said former Chief Justice David Maraga used his powers correctly when he advised President Uhuru Kenyatta to dissolve Parliament over the two-third gender rule. The LSK, through president Nelson Havi, told a five-judge bench that the advisory was not illegal as Maraga was merely exercising his mandate. He dismissed claims raised by lawmakers – represented by lawyer Ahmednassir Abdullahi – that Parliament has no perpetual succession. Ahmednassir had on Monday said the order issued by Justice John Mativo requiring the Attorney General to make the required law in 60 days was directed to the previous House (11th Parliament). Ahmednassir said Maraga's advisory could not be enforced because it was based on an order of the court dated March 29, 2017. Havi told the bench led by Justice Lydia Achode that Parliament has perpetual existence and succession. “Parliament of 2013-17 and the current one have failed in their obligation. In Parliament, only members change,” he said. Havi also asked the court to dismiss arguments that the Attorney General and National Assembly were not given a hearing before the advisory. The court heard that public interest is best served by upholding the law and that it is in the interest of Kenyans to have the gender rule enacted. In addition, the Kenya Human Rights Commission told the bench that once the advice by Maraga was issued, the President's duty was to comply. Through lawyer John Khaminwa, the commission said the Jubilee administration is notorious for disobeying court orders. Khaminwa cited the Miguna Miguna case where the state has yet to comply with several orders allowing the self-styled revolutionary back to Kenya. “The court should put down its foot and make an appropriate declaration that Parliament should be dissolved,” he said. Fida said the petitions challenging the advisory are against the public policy and that the court has a duty to ensure there is good administration of justice. Through lawyer Lumallasa, Fida said Maraga exercised his mandate and followed the Constitution to the letter. "The petitions are an abuse of court and they are scandalous. They are challenging issues that have already been determined by court. The gender law does not need a referendum. Parliament is putting Kenyans in a circus,” she said.  