Scientists will now need to follow stricter regulations to introduce genetically modified mosquitoes in Kenya. The World Health Organization has proposed more rigorous rules for regulators to follow before allowing the gene-hacked mosquitoes. Breeding and unleashing thousands of genetically engineered bugs is already happening in many parts of the world. Opponents of the practice accuse biotech companies of forcing communities into serving as a petri dish for a poorly vetted gene-hacking experiment. Critics fear that the engineered mosquito and the wild population will create a more dangerous genetic hybrid. The WHO admits that ethical issues raised during control of vector-borne diseases have, until now, received only limited attention. The organisation’s new guidance calls for more rigorous evaluation by researchers, developers, those responsible for regulatory and policy decisions and the public. “The guidance incorporates clearer criteria for projects to proceed from one testing phase to the next, incorporating descriptions of the steps needed to safely and responsibly take genetically modified mosquito technologies into the field,” WHO said in a statement. Currently, Kenya only requires an analysis of risks and benefits, and decisions are made on this basis. “We welcome this new guidance from WHO which will help countries suffering from mosquito-borne diseases to evaluate a promising new intervention,” said Prof Aggrey Ambali, senior adviser at African Union’s Nepad. The WHO said genetically modified mosquitoes are well-suited to urban settings, where current control measures are often ineffective due to the wide availability of cryptic mosquito larval breeding sites. In Kenya, there are an estimated 3.5 million new clinical cases and 10,700 deaths from malaria each year, and those living in western Kenya have a higher risk of contracting the disease. WHO said if proven safe, effective and affordable, genetically modified mosquitoes could be a valuable new tool to fight these diseases and eliminate their enormous health, social and economic burden. The current strategies for limiting transmission of mosquito-borne diseases are only partially effective. “Genetically modified mosquitoes are one of a number of promising new tools that could help speed the pace of progress against malaria and other vector-borne diseases,” said Dr Pedro Alonso, director of the WHO Global Malaria Programme. “Over the last two decades, we have achieved remarkable results with existing malaria control tools, averting more than seven million deaths and 1.5 billion cases of the disease.” The guidance builds on an earlier document published by TDR and FNIH in 2014, incorporating the latest scientific advancements related to genetic modification of mosquitoes, as well as other key updates and learnings related to safety and ethics. “We urgently need innovative approaches to help control mosquito-borne diseases, which have a devastating impact around the world,” said Dr John Reeder, TDR director. Edited by A.N