It has now emerged that the national government slowed down the recruitment of the new Kenya Ports Authority managing director to pave way for the launch of the Lamu port. Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani said they did not want to have any instability and confusion at the time of the launch. Last Thursday, President Uhuru Kenyatta commissioned the first berth of Lamu port. Preparations to have the Lamu port operationalized started in December last year. KPA has not had a substantive managing director since the resignation of Daniel Manduku in March last year, amid graft allegations. Rashid Salim was appointed in acting capacity. According to sources within KPA, the responsibility of ensuring that the Lamu port is operationalized before June was solely left to KPA. The Lamu port is a joint project of KPA, the Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport Corridor Development Authority and Vision 2030. On Thursday, Yatani confirmed that abruptly changing leadership at the helm of KPA could have interfered with the operationalization of the Lamu Port. “We did not want a lot of instability at this stage because the takeoff of the Lamu port is very important. However, very soon we will unveil the new MD,”  Yatani said. On March 2, Yatani rejected three names forwarded to him for consideration on grounds that the candidates did not attain the mandatory minimum of 70 per cent. He then directed the KPA board chaired by Joseph Kibwana to start the recruitment process afresh and finalise it within 45 days. The 45 days lapsed on April 14. There is speculation at KPA over a possible vacuum as acting MD Salim is said to be imminently proceeding for his annual leave pending retirement next month. However, Yatani said that the government has its own timeline and a substantive KPA boss will be appointed soon. “There are checks and issues to be sorted out before the new MD is appointed. We are now at consultation stages,” he said. In the past 10 years, the KPA top office has seen its occupants exit in quick succession. At least four bosses have been sacked, barely serving two years. Meanwhile, Yatani hinted that the Lamu port will be operating independently from the Mombasa port. The Sh40 billion facility, which is expected to be fully operational by the end of this year, will be mainly for transhipment business. “I want to confirm to you, we also want to have an independent port away from Mombasa in the name of Lamu Port, with the same structures as that of Mombasa Port,” Yatani said. He said after the completion of the first three berths at the port of Lamu, the government will invite private partners to invest in the remaining 29 berths. The Lamu Port is expected to have 32 berths after completion. It is strategically located in the middle of major shipping routes. Its operationalization will enable Kenya to open Lamu and parts of northern Kenya to international trade.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris