Without football fans in the stadium, Kenyan traditional football giants AFC Leopards and Gor Mahia are empty shells at best and a pale shadow of themselves on the pitch. Those are the thought-provoking remarks of none other than AFC Leopards skipper Robinson Kamura who exclusively told the Star they are feeling the pinch occasioned by the absence of fans from the stands. “Fans usually play the critical role of the 12th player on the pitch. “It is true we are missing the push they usually provide in matches. AFC and Gor Mahia are the teams with the most number of fans and we miss them quite a lot. “Apart from cheering the team, fans make players aware of any looming danger, for example they'll make a lot of noise at you if you are out of position,” he added. But Kamura is also quick to highlight the dark side of the coin. “However, having fans may also sometimes prove a disadvantage to the team given they also give opponents the motivation to play well so that they too can be invited to join the two teams.” Kamura said he is wary of the daunting task ahead as the 13-time FKF-PL champions prepare to launch a fresh bid for the title when action finally resumes on May 14. He is asking his teammates to brace up for abrasive opposition as they take a final stab at the crown. “We are keen to organise ourselves to avoid being caught off guard when games begin over the weekend. “Truth be told, no single player in any of the FKF-PL clubs can now claim to be fit enough for the league's resumption. "There is no team that has prepared well enough for matches and there is a high possibility you'll see players struggling with fitness in the upcoming matches." “In fact, majority of teams say they need more time to train and I've heard the coaches saying they need at least two weeks to polish their teams ahead of the ties.” “It is true teams had put in place individual training programs to keep their players fit during the long break. But honestly, online training sessions cannot produce the same effect as group training sessions. “Above the fitness of players, the game requires a lot of tactics and this can only be done during group training. There are things that coaches cannot instruct online. For example, defending crosses, transition and counter attack. All players must be there. “I guess most coaches will deploy a cautious approach to matches given their players are not in good form." “We respect all our opponents. Kenyan top-flight league is not as easy as you may think. Nobody expected us to fall to Western Stima and nobody expected Gor to crush to Vihiga United. All in all, nobody is guaranteed of clinching the title. Kamura remains coy on the raging match-fixing debate but says he wouldn't be caught up in such kind of filth on any given day. “Personally, I cannot talk about match-fixing. I am yet to encounter match-fixing. I wouldn't dare engage in such activities because I'm still too young to face a lifetime ban from football.” “AFC cannot be involved in such a thing. I wouldn't want to talk so much about what befell Zoo Kericho. All I can say is I don't support match-fixing because it kills Kenyan football.”