Twenty years ago, the country’s focus shifted to Kisumu. The people of the lakeside town gathered to celebrate 100 years of Kisumo, a Luo word that means where one can get help. The 2001 colourful and momentous centennial celebrations were to mark 100 years since the arrival of the colonial railway line. Before the arrival of the railway, Kisumo, now Kisumu, was known as Port Florence. The week-long centennial celebration was marked by a display of traditional and modern music. The climax of the historic event was the upgrade of Kisumu to a city status. The celebrations were graced by three East African heads of state – Daniel Moi (Kenya), Benjamin Mkapa (Tanzania) and Yoweri Museveni (Uganda). On Monday, as the mid-morning sun hit the plains of Kano and across the beautiful shoreline of Lake Victoria, spreading through the waters of Winam Gulf, Kisumu witnessed another historic moment as it played host to two East African presidents. They are President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Burundi counterpart Evariste Ndayishimiye. The presence of presidents Ndayishimiye and Uhuru rekindles the nostalgic memories of the 2001 celebrations. The two heads of state are in the county for Tuesday's Madaraka Day celebrations at Jomo Kenyatta International Sports Complex. Ndayishimiye arrived in Kisumu on Monday for a two-day state visit to Kenya amid tight security. The Burundian president was received by ODM leader Raila Odinga, Foreign Affairs CS Raychelle Omamo and other senior government officials at Kisumu International Airport. Uhuru and his guest will tour national government projects in the region. They are also expected to hold talks to exchange views and discuss Kenya-Burundi strategic cooperation. They will also preside over the signing of bilateral agreements that will further enhance cooperation between Kenya and Burundi. During the two-day state visit by President Ndayishimiye, First Lady Margaret Kenyatta and her Burundian counterpart Angeline Ndayubaha will be engaged in a number of programmes. And as it was in 2001 when the lively political atmosphere was brought about by the cooperation between the National Development Party (NDP) and Kanu, the current exuberance is due to the handshake between President Kenyatta and Raila that marked the beginning of an era of cooperation between Jubilee and ODM. Madaraka Day has also brought development and booming business to the hotel, transport and tourism sectors. Western Kenya Hospitality Leaders' Association chairman Robinson Anyal said hotels have recorded 90 per cent bookings, up from 40 per cent in the past two weeks. The city has also received a facelift, with most roads being rehabilitated and roundabouts along major streets within the central business district being beautified. Street lighting, repair of power lines and fresh marking of roads have been done. Nyanza regional commissioner Magu Mutindika said on Monday that elaborate plans had been rolled out to ensure the celebrations are marked in strict adherence to the Ministry of Health Covid-19 containment measures. He said the event reaffirms the nation’s self-preservation as an independent entity through economic resilience, even as the country remains vigilant against the disease. Mutindika said it was encouraging that most Covid-19 containment measures are bearing fruit. “We need to uphold them as we continue fighting the pandemic. The disease has greatly ravaged the global community, leaving a trail of health and income losses as economies continue to experience lockdowns that have left a huge populace vulnerable,” Mutindika said. Mutindika clarified that only 3,000 invited guests will be allowed access to the venue to avoid overcrowding. The stadium has a capacity of 30,000 people. “Kenyans across the country will have the opportunity to follow the proceedings of Madaraka Day celebrations live on TV,” he said. The administrator said invited guests will be required to sanitise and wear masks.