AFC Leopards captain Isaac Kipyegon says the Football Kenya Federation Premier League title seems so near yet so far for them and they must unleash their best ammunition to end their 24-year drought. The 13-time Kenyan champions have a daunting task against Posta Rangers at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on Saturday and Kipyegon has urged his teammates to step on the gas peddle if they expect to lay their hands on the coveted trophy. "Definitely, it's not all that easy. It's the final stretch and we all need to put in a lot of effort in our remaining matches," said Kipyegon, who has been skippering the side in most of their recent matches. A win over the mailmen might fire Leopards to the summit of the log in the event leaders, Tusker, fumble in their quest to extend their lead in a tricky affair against Wazito at Kasarani on Friday. Anything short of a win could land Ingwe in trouble given Tusker are not the only threat. Patrick Aussems's charges will be keen to see how second-placed KCB fair in their match against coastal side Bandari at Kasarani on Sunday. KCB head coach Zedekiah Otieno has played down any talks of title prospects, saying they would take each match at a time. "We are not under any sort of pressure to deliver the title. Our main focus at the moment is to ensure we collect maximum points from all our remaining matches," said Otieno. However, Otieno says he expects Bandari to put up an abrasive battle at Kasarani on Sunday, adding he is quacking in the boots over his team's tendency to concede easy goals. The dockers are equally in contention for the title. They are placed fifth on the log with 27 points. Western Stima will look to improve their floundering fortunes when they visit Kakamega Homeboyz at Bukhungu Stadium on Saturday. Stima's curve has been on the decline and any further losses may condemn them to relegation. They are placed 16th with 12 points, only five above tail-enders Mathare United. Homeboyz, who finished second last season, are currently eighth with 20 points, and a win over Stima might take them to sixth. On Sunday, Ulinzi Stars host Kariobangi Sharks at the Kericho Green Stadium. Sharks are strategically placed for title contention in fourth place with 31 points. Ulinzi have experienced a rough patch this season. They have secured three wins, nine draws and four losses in their matches so far, a performance that leaves them 11th with 18 points. A win will take them to eighth on the log if Homeboyz crush to Stima. Defending champions Gor Mahia will be seeking to retaliate their 1-0 loss to Vihiga United in the first leg when the two sides lock horns at Mumias Complex on Sunday. Nzoia Sugar will host Mathare United at Sudi Stadium, Bungoma on the same day.