A lobby group has demanded that two of the four vacant IEBC slots be reserved for youths. The Selection Panel for the Appointment of Commissioners to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission is already shortlisting 669 applicants for the positions. Interviews will be held in June. Kenya Young CEOs Forum wants the panel chaired by Elizabeth Muli to ensure youths get a chance to represent their interests in the electoral agency. Speaking during a press conference in Nairobi on Sunday, the youths representing various youth organisations decried 'continued marginalisation of young people in critical decision-making platforms'. "We urge the IEBC selection panel to ensure two qualified, competent, knowledgeable, trustworthy and respectable youths of moral character to represent the interests of young people in the commission," Apiyo Opiyo said. He is the youth representative for political parties. "The youth inclusion in the commission will also be a sign of positive transformation and hope for the young people," he said. The leaders said having representatives in the electoral agency will build confidence in youths to participate fully in next year's general elections and other democratic processes. Angel Mbuthia from Youth Advocate said a number of young people applied for the IEBC jobs and urged the Muli-led panel to ensure they are represented in the commission. “Since independence, we have never seen an election governing body that has youth, this is a worrying trend and it should stop if youths matter in this country,” Mbuthia said. The panel is expected to publish the names of shortlisted candidates this week. The team will also invite public memoranda on the suitability of the shortlisted candidates. Among those who applied for the jobs are politicians, former MPs, human rights defenders, former and serving members of constitutional commissions and university dons. Notable names are former Gem MP Joe Donde, former Nyamira Senator Kennedy Mong’are, former KNCHR chairperson Florence Jaoko, Koki Muli, former NCIC commissioners Gitile Naituli and Milly Lwanga, ex-vetting board member Justus Munyithya, NGO veteran Justus Nyang'anya and former KNCHR chair Kagwiria Mbogori. Others are former Transitional Authority chairman Kinuthia wa Mwangi, former Police commission member Murshid Abdalla and former Judges and Magistrates Vetting Board vice-chairperson Roseline Odede. Also in the race are Nasa chief executive officer Norman Magaya, former National Land Commission vice-chair Abigael Magaya and IEBC communications manager Tabitha Mutemi.  Edited by P.O