35 MCAs of Vihiga assembly have approved the impeachment motion of CECM Pamela Kimwele (Public Service and Administration trademark) Amos Kutwa (Health), Kenneth Kiseko (Trade) and Paul Mbuni (Lands and Urban Planning). The motions were tabled by Stanley Kasiera the majority whip and Calistus Ayod minority whip. While the impeachment motion was on the floor, the four were accused of gross misconduct in the office, poor coordination of activities within their departments and incompetence to run their office as mandated by the county assembly. For public service, Pamela Kimwele was accused of using Sh46 million for staff audit which has not yield any results. The motion on the floor further stated that the CECM has not dealt with the ballooning wage bill that has hit up to 46% as per the 35% required by the law. The assembly while impeaching the CECM further said she has not been able to clean the payroll. She was further accused of assuming county public service board while under taking staff audit. "Madam speaker you cannot audit yourself. Issues of staff auditing is done by county public service. The process the CECM spent Sh46 million but he has never implemented the report," Kasiera said. CECM health was accused for spending Sh35 million where he was to recruit 149 staffs but ended up hiring 523 workers, a move that punched the county into financial crisis. "Speaker, our people should be motivated in order to deliver. Health is a serious sector that is needed to be taken with seriousness," Ayodi said. CECM for trade Kiseko was accused for not spending his budget allocated to his department. He was further accused for not responding to sermons from the assembly. Mbuni was accused for poorly manning the office of public service and administration before he was transferred to the current office. He was further accused for not responding to summons to the assembly to respond on queries related to data Center at the county headquarters at sh.95 million but never complied to. However the assembly while impeaching the four said each CECM will be given time to defend his/her allegations before the house.