Nairobi assembly leaders will discuss whether or not the full house will resume sittings next week after a month's break. The easing of some Covid-19 restrictions has prompted discussions. The house had adjourned indefinitely on April 6 after it was revealed at least 50 MCAs had contracted the virus. President Uhuru Kenyatta had asked Parliament and county assemblies in five  'disease-infected' counties to go on recess until. Speaking to the Star on Wednesday, Majority leader Abdi Hassan Guyo said the meeting on resumed plenary sittings will be chaired by Speaker Benson Mutura. “Most likely we shall resume next week since the President lifted the cessation of movement in Nairobi and reviewed curfew hours on Labour Day. But it will depend on the resolution of the meeting,” he said. The meeting, which will take place before Saturday, will be attended by the speaker, clerk, majority and minority leaders, their deputies, the majority and minority whips and their deputies. Speaker Benson Mutura didn't give the exact date. “Yes, before the week ends, the House leadership will meet and agree on what steps to take on the resumption of the assembly,” he said. On the day of the indefinite adjournment, the House had just resumed sittings after a two-week recess. The assembly was then supposed to be in session from April 6 until May 6, then proceed on a one-month recess. This means that to resume sittings next week, the house calendar has to be adjusted before any business can be done. The assembly had embarked on its 2021-22 budget-making process. It passed the Fiscal Strategy Paper proposing a Sh39.6 billion spending plan. The valuation roll was tabled before the assembly in January and sent to the committee on lands and urban planning. The roll is a public legal document containing information on all rateable properties. It must be passed before the next financial year beginning on July 1. Since the first Covid case was diagnosed in March last year, the assembly shifted to virtual sittings for the plenary, with only the leadership allowed in chambers. Plenary sittings were held twice a week, on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons. Wednesday was for fumigation. (Edited by V. Graham) 