One of Monday's IED attack victims was laid to rest on Tuesday in Kilimani village of Mokowe, Lamu West. Abdullahi Subane Abdille, a 43-year-old father of eight, was among the three occupants of a Land Cruiser car that ran over the explosive device at Border point 27 area, near the Lamu-Somalia border. Two people, including Abdille, died on the spot, while one sustained serious injuries. The vehicle, belonging to a private contractor, was extensively damaged. Abdille worked as a foreman in the ongoing Lamu-Somalia border wall construction and was stationed at the Usalama camp together with the rest of the crew. The body of the other victim, who hailed from Kilifi, was transported for burial on Tuesday. Mourners called for the arrest of the militants to avert similar attacks. Lamu activist Almahad Noor urged security agencies to intensify the crackdown on al Shabaab militants in the Boni forest and surrounding areas and eliminate terror threat. “We appreciate what the security agencies are doing, but we urge them to do more because people are still dying at the hands of these merciless militants,” he said. Lamu Justice Network executive director Issakia Yunus called on the government to ensure families affected by al-Shabaab attacks and killings are compensated. “The man we just buried was the breadwinner. Such people should be compensated by the government, ” Yunus said. Lamu county commissioner Irungu Macharia assured that security had been intensified across the region, with a heavy concentration of forces on the Lamu-Somalia border. “There is adequate security and our forces are alert. We are still pursuing the militants in the Monday attack and we shall not relent until terrorism is defeated,” Macharia said. He urged residents to cooperate with security agencies by giving any useful information that will help defeat terrorism. The Monday incident is the second within a month after a water bowser heading for Usalama Camp on the Lamu-Somalia border ran over an IED and its driver died on the spot.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris