The Oria-Riat bridge that connects Homa Bay and Migori collapsed Wednesday morning after heavy rains, disrupting movement between the two counties. The bridge on River Kuja connects Kanyikela in Homa Bay and Kanyamkago in Migori. It gave in when a truck ferrying sugar cane to Sukari Industries in Ndhiwa constituency tried to cross. The bridge serves residents, students and workers of Sukari Industries. Ndhiwa subcounty police commander Robert Aboki said the truck driver was alone in the vehicle when the incident occurred at 5am. Aboki said the driver is in stable condition at a local health facility. “Officers are at the scene to guard against any loss,” Aboki said. Residents who use the bridge daily to access the factory say they fear losing their jobs if they fail to report to work. Harrison Aboo and Joram Okola called on the Homa Bay and national governments to reconstruct the bridge as fast as possible. “Business operations at Oria and Riat markets are no longer accessible. People who cross the bridge to work at the factory will lose the jobs,” Aboo said. “It’s high time the bridge was reconstructed to be commensurate with the weight of trucks that use it and avoid predisposing people to danger,” Okola said. South Kanyikela chief Moses Ong'ong’a said the metallic bridge was constructed in 1977 and has since been dilapidated. He said trucks that use the bridge to transport sugar cane from farms to the milling factory could have weakened it. The bridge also serves students learning at Otange Primary School, Otange Secondary School and Minyere Secondary School. “Students who hail from Migori and cross the river each day are the most affected. They cannot access school unless the situation is rectified,” Ong'ong’a said. The administrator said residents want leaders from Homa Bay and Migori counties to put up a footbridge across River Kuja to ease movement of people. “For the sake of learners, there is a need for quick response,” he said. Sukari Industries management said they are working closely with the community and leaders to provide a transitional solution. “We have directed our drivers not to use the bridge, but find an alternative route until a solution is found,” an officer from the factory said in a statement. Edited by A.N