President Uhuru Kenyatta on Sunday began his three-day tour of Kisumu. The President landed at Kisumu International Airport a few minutes past 3 PM. He was received by ODM party leader Raila Odinga, Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong'o among other leaders. His first stop was in Siaya where a group of MPs lined up to receive him at Wagai centre in Gem Constituency. Uhuru officially commissioned the Kodiaga-Wagai-Onyinyore/Akala, and Nyangweso-Muhanda Roads in Siaya County. The Shs1.6bn road network covers a total distance of 38kms, and opens up the fish and sugarcane rich region to markets in Kisumu and beyond. Both President Uhuru and Raila stopped to address Kenyans on Kisumu- Bondo road. Uhuru spoke on BBI where he expressed his confidence that the Court of Appeal will resolve the setback after a five-judge High Court bench declared the process unconstitutional. Speaking at Wagai market in Gem Constituency, Siaya, Uhuru added that his handshake with Raila Odinga is a long-term engagement that will go into the future. "BBI is not helping Raila and his family. BBI is not helping Uhuru. It is for bringing justice for every Kenyan. And that is what I am pleading with you, please come out and support it," he said. Uhuru is also expected to launch Sh2.4billion Siaya-Bondo Water and sanitation project in the constituency. The projects targets about 640,000 people.The last mile water and sanitation connectivity project is implemented in phases. First phase cost ShSh265 million and targets 201, 000 people in Siaya and Yala towns and Kogelo village. The president would also launch Sh599 million Uhuru Business Park market complex. The explansive market will accommodate 1500 traders. Later, the head of state is expected to open the Kisumu Railways terminus. On Monday, Uhuru is expected to launch the Sh200 million refurbished wagon ferry- MV Uhuru. Uhuru will on Tuesday lead the country in marking the 59th Madakara day celebrations at the newly build Kenyatta International Stadium in Kisumu.