Posta Rangers are set to host Kakamega Homeboyz at Utalii Grounds this afternoon, in the opening match of round 19 Football Kenya Federation Premier League fixtures. The mailmen have experienced an impressive run under their new gaffer, Stanley Okumbi, who went ahead to scoop the coach of the month award for April alongside the club's first choice goalkeeper Kelvin Opiyo. Posta are 13th on the log with 18 points, but could scale up to ninth if they manage maximum points. They last took to the pitch in a tricky league encounter against high riding AFC Leopards at Ruaraka Grounds and held them to a barren draw. All eyes, however, will be on Homeboyz, with rumours rife that their head coach Nicholas Muyoti's future is in doubt following a string of unconvincing outcomes that have left them limping in the season. The 2019/2020 runners up are seventh on the log with 23 points. Ulinzi Stars will hope to replicate their outstanding outing at Narok Stadium last Sunday, that saw them pull off an emphatic 2-0 win over Kariobangi Sharks. The soldiers who are up against a resurgent Nzoia side at the same venue on Friday afternoon, have struggled to register maximum points this season and their triumph over City Stars marked their fourth win in 18 matches. They are rooted in the middle of the table (ninth) with 21 points, and a win could  take them to seventh. Coastal club, Bandari, have an opportunity to redeem themselves from their humiliating loss at Utalii Grounds last Sunday, where they crushed 3-0 to leaders KCB. The dockers will be away to Western Stima, a side that is literally staring at relegation in the eye. On Saturday, KCB will look to consolidate their position at the summit of the log against Sofapaka at Ruaraka Grounds. The bankers may not have it easy against the 2009 champions who will be keen on rebranding their image in the match after suffering two back-to-back losses against Gor Mahia who beat them 2-0, and Nairobi City Stars who thumped them 3-0. Kariobangi Sharks will square it out with Nairobi City Stars who have exhibited exceptional form recently, that saw them run riot over Sofapaka in 3-0 demolition at Ruarakalast Monday. Kariobangi Sharks might be low on confidence following their 2-0 loss to Ulinzi Stars at Narok in their last encounter. Their key striker Eric Kapaito is yet to find the back of the net in their last two games and the absence of Kenyan International Dan Sakari due to injury worsens the situation. The William Muluya charges are currently fourth on the log with 31 points, and might ascend to third if they win and Leopards stumble. On Sunday, AFC Leopards will lock horns with newbies Bidco United at Ruaraka grounds. Tusker are scheduled to settle scores with Vihiga United at Mumias Complex on the same day. The brewers have registered two consecutive draws since the resumption of competition a fortnight ago, a performance that gave KCB a chance to dislodge them from the apex of the log. The brewers lie second on the log with 35 points, one adrift of leaders KCB. On Monday, defending champions, Gor Mahia, have a date with Wazito at Utalii Grounds in a rescheduled fixture. The defending champions were sixth on the log with 25 points, heading into their match against Vihiga United at Mumias Complex yesterday. 