Athman Nanjala's dream of becoming a surgeon was almost shattered after he completed his KCPE exam in 2016.. His education journey has been dotted with hardships, at times being forced to stay at home for a whole term because of lack of school fees. His mother Zena Nanjala had given up. Speaking to the Star, Nanjala said her son has been to several schools since nursery. His first school was a makeshift nursery with only five learners in someone’s house. Zena could not afford to take him to a better school and the neighbourhood ‘nursery school’ was her best shot at educating her first of two children. Neighbours however advised her to take her son to a better school as he had been showing signs of intelligence from his young age. “So I had to struggle, doing odd jobs in people’s houses so I could earn something to feed and educate my son,” Zena said. However, the different private schools she took soon grew tired of her excuses for not paying fees and discontinued the boy. So Athman stayed out of school until a teacher neighbour shared his bright but needy predicament at Bashir Primary School where he taught. “So Bashir primary took him at full scholarship at Standard 6. That is where he did his KCPE exam scoring 376 marks,”  Zena said. He was called to Shimo La Tewa High School in Mombasa. But another struggle would begin finding him a secondary school that would take him in without any fees to start with. The two went from school to school, walking more than 15km daily from home in Bamburi to the CBD, visiting different schools, presenting their case. Every school they went to received him with short-lived joy. “They were always happy to receive him because of the marks but they changed faces upon learning I did not even have a shilling for fees,” Zena said. She tried talking to Equity Bank’s Wings to Fly programme managers but they told her she was too late. One day, in the company of a neighbour, they were walking in the Fire Station neighbourhood when a neighbour saw the Istiqama Academy. “She told me to try there. My heart was heavy because I was tired of rejection and was giving up. But the neighbour convinced me to try it out one last time then go home,” Zena said. It proved to be the ‘millionth’ time lucky. A chat with an administrator at the academy proved fruitful. The school management was very interested in Athman’s case. “I heard about the case and immediately called the area MP Abdulswamad Nassir, whose Sharif Nassir Foundation sponsors such students,” Omar Shariff, the Istiqama Group of Schools director said. Athman was admitted to the school on a full scholarship and was sent to the Malindi branch of the school which is a boarding school. “He got a full scholarship. I don’t know what to say. I can only thank the school management,” an emotional Zena said. When the 2020 KCSE results were released on Monday, Athman was one of two candidates with A-(minus) at the school. Principal Maalim Mohamed said Athman’s discipline and hard work has been the epitome of the candidates at the school. Athman’s dream of becoming a surgeon remains alive.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris