The need to get a Covid vaccine certificate before you travel to Kenya could become a reality over the next 12 months, BlueBird Aviation, General Manager Hussein Mohammed has said. He said it would take a little longer for African airlines to get travel moving across borders on the back of low vaccination rates across the continent. As at May 23, 953,954 Kenyans had been vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease countrywide. “If most of the people were vaccinated it makes it easier for airlines because you have sufficient passenger load that is free to travel. The downside is adaptability of the Covid-19 vaccine passport worldwide," Mohammed said. "We cannot act unilaterally. Kenya cannot say we require all passengers to have a Covid-19 passport while Rwanda, UK or Australia doesn't require it.." Developed nations like the US have already achieved 70 per cent of adult population who have received their first dose of the vaccination. Mohammed said introducing the vaccine Passports in such jurisdictions is possible compared to Kenya or Africa because many people are yet to get vaccinated. "In Kenya, it will take 12 months or more for 70 per cent of adult population to be fully vaccinated. We have to be able to be comparable developed countries. Until we reach such a time we are comparable to these developed countries, honestly Covid-19 Passport is not yet an option for most of Africa," he said. Las month, World Health Organisation said people must not be required to prove they have taken Covid-19 vaccine in order to travel overseas. The WHO said although there is evidence vaccination breaks the chain of transmission, the current inequity of vaccine distribution makes such requirements unfair and unethical. Currently, most countries in Africa have vaccinated less than one per cent of their populations while in Europe and US they are past 50 per cent. While getting vaccinated for Covid-19 is not mandatory anywhere, many airlines around the world have indicated they will be requiring proof of vaccination. Many countries have also gone ahead to develop electronic vaccine passports, that might lock out millions of potential travellers. The African Union has already rolled out its “Trusted Travel Platform”, which automates cross-border verification of health certificates, whether for testing or vaccines. Kenya will also begin issuing Covid-19 vaccine certificates after the second jab in June, said head of the Covid-19 vaccine deployment Dr Willis Akhwale.