Land disputes and double allocation have been blamed for the delayed compensation of families displaced by the 23km metre gauge railway line in Longonot Naivasha. The government has now embarked on establishing the genuine owners before issuing millions of shillings in compensation. The announcement comes days after more than 100 land owners in Longonot town stopped the ongoing works demanding compensation. Nakuru county commissioner Erastus Mbui said the government is keen to establish the genuine owners and the value of the land before releasing the cash. While regretting the delay in compensation, Mbui assured the affected families that they would receive their rightful dues once the verification exercise is complete. “The government has never conned its citizens or failed to compensate for land taken and the affected families will get their dues,” he said. Speaking in Naivasha after touring various development projects, Mbui said the process of supplying water to the industrial park in Mai Mahiu was complete. He noted five boreholes had been sunk with the water set to be used in the park and among nearby communities. “The government has embarked on the process of supplying water to the park which will be critical to the economy of this region,” he said on Tuesday. Mbui added that the government had identified Naivasha as one of the investment centres in the country and was keen to complete various infrastructure projects. He identified the ongoing works on the 23km railway line and the upcoming Rironi-Nakuru-Mau Summit road as some of the projects the government is keen on. “Naivasha will soon be the hub of business and this can only be a reality if the infrastructure is right, dependable and in good state,” he said. Last week, families affected by the railway line cried foul over delayed compensation noting that the project was nearing completion. According to one of the affected persons, Daniel Kibunja, the railway line was in its last stages and there were fears that they would not be paid. He said they had on various occasions visited the offices of the National Land Commission  where they had been promised payment but this was not fulfilled. “We are tired of waiting and we have vowed that no work will continue until NLC compensates us,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara