Most family businesses in Kenya expect growth this year picking from last year's poor performamnce, a survey by consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) shows. (66 per cent) Sixty six percent of the enterprises are optimistic of  doing better this year with  even more entities(96 per cent) expecting further growth in 2022. This is despite concerns over the general elections which has traditionally slowed down investments and businesses, as investors adopt a wait and see attitude until after the elections. Dubbed 'From trust to impact', the East Africa Family Business Survey covering Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania and Rwanda, indicates 53 per cent of family businesses in the region blame Covid-19 for a reduction in sales. Companies surveyed include Karimjee Jivanjee Group(Tanzania), Crest Foam Limited (Uganda), Devki Group of Companies, Victoria Courts, Madhvani Group and Norwegian Investment Fund for developing countries–Norfund. The survey polled 2,801 key decision makers in family businesses going up to fourth generations. The survey was conducted at a time when businesses have seen mixed performance over the last financial year (pre-Covid-19), with 46 per cent experiencing overall growth and 31 per cent  seeing a sales reduction. The rate of Covid impact on sales (53%) is slightly higher than global family businesses (46%). East Africa family businesses are more optimistic in 2021, with 60 per cent of family businesses expecting to see growth, and very positive from 2022 (91 per cent expecting growth). In Kenya, many businesses, including family businesses, responded to the economic pressure, occasioned by the pandemic, by cutting costs and streamlining operations. “Having become even more resilient during the pandemic, their sights are firmly set on the future,” notes Sunny Vikram, Associate Director PwC Kenya, Entrepreneur and Private Business. Their key priorities over the next two-to-five years includes expanding into new markets or client segments, introducing new products and services, increasing the use of new technologies and digital capabilities and rethinking their business models, says Vikram. However, very few family owned businesses in the country have properly considered and documented governance and succession frameworks, the survey released yesterday notes. This, even as there exists high levels of trust and communication with professionalisation remaining top-of-mind for many family businesses. “The strong fundamentals that are the hallmark of family businesses-commitment to values, long-term thinking, sensible leverage-puts them in a strong position for faster recovery from the pandemic disruptions,"” says Michael Mugasaa, Partner and Entrepreneurial and Private Business Leader at PwC. More so, because family businesses tend to be trusted businesses and, in most sectors, they are very resilient, he adds. Meanwhile as a regional hub for business, tourism and trade, Kenya’s diversified economy tends to demonstrate resilience over the course of economic ups and downs. Growth sectors like telecommunications, renewable energy, banking and commercial horticulture and agro-processing as well as innovative and emerging technology, e-commerce and multimedia sectors all contribute to a healthy outlook for Kenya’s economy in the medium term, PwC notes. The general elections set for 2022 however may dampen the recovery somewhat, but most forecasts anticipate five per cent growth or more from 2022 or 2023 onwards. “Certain sectors of the economy had shown signs of softening in 2019 and the pandemic has exacerbated those trends, particularly in the manufacturing, media, health and retail sectors,” said Vikram. The pandemic and public health measures like curfews and social distancing however put pressure on the manufacturing sector and reduced demand for non-essential health services. The decline in foot-fall in shopping centres and other public areas affected the retail sector, and the shift to remote learning impacted the education sector.