Ahmed Mukhtar was on Tuesday sworn as Wajir governor after Senate Speaker Kenneth Lusaka gazetted the impeachment of Mohammed Abdi. Abdi was impeached in an intriguing session in the Senate on Monday evening. Mukhtar, 31, was sworn in by High Court Judge Said Chitembwe in a brief ceremony held at the county headquarters in Wajir town. The ceremony happened under tight security. “As I assume office, I am fully aware of the full responsibility that has been bestowed upon me,” Mukhtar said. “Wajir people are craving for efficiency and good governance. I will strive to do my best in that regard.” Mukhtar said health and education would be his top priority promising to meet the union officials with a view of addressing their concerns. He appealed to residents and leaders to unite and build a new Wajir that he said will accommodate every person. “I will personally desist from elements of hate, nepotism and skewed resource allocation,” Mukhtar said. “The people of Wajir deserve to be treated equally.” During the impeachment session that ended minutes after 9 pm, 25 senators voted in favour of the motion to impeach Abdi. Two legislators voted against the motion while four abstained from the vote. The lawmakers upheld recommendations by an impeachment committee that recommended Abdi's removal for violating Article 43 (1) on health rights. MCAs had accused the governor of running down health facilities in the county, with health workers’ strike a frequent phenomenon. The decisive vote that crumbled the governor’s political career, was preceded by high stakes lobbying by both camps to persuade the lawmakers to vote in their favour. Hours to the vote, Wajir Senator Abdullahi Ali and some MCAs stormed an office of a senior leader in Parliament where two women reps were allegedly hosting some senators to persuade them to vote in favour of the governor. It took the intervention of the parliamentary orderlies to contain the situation that was getting out of hand. In the chamber, 16 senators eligible to vote (elected) were absent from both the physical and virtual platform during the vote. An unusually high number of absentees coupled with the four abstentions could be seen as a clear attempt to deny the house the requisite numbers. At least 24 of the 47 elected legislators were needed to sustain the ouster. At one point, the speaker was forced to shout the names of at least four senators to vote. The four were logged onto the zoom virtual system but were muted. Elsewhere, it also emerged that those who were against the governor also lobbied intensely in and outside Parliament. Sources in Parliament intimated that the lot made passionate calls to their colleagues to vote in favour of the motion. “It was intense. I wasn’t going to vote but I was called to do. It was pure politics,” a senator told the Star. With the vote, Abdi joined Ferdinand Waititu and Mike Sonko who were unceremoniously impeached during the sessions that ran late into the night. In its report to the house, an 11-member committee that probed Abdi’s ouster found him guilty of grossly violating the Constitution, the County Government Act 2012, the Public Procurement and Disposal Act 2015 and the Public Finance Management Act, 2012. The committee chaired by Nyamira Senator Okongo Omogeni, however, absolved the former governor from allegations of abuse of office and gross misconduct, saying the MCAs did not prove the claims.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris