Some 62 vulnerable children from Mere in Malindi subcounty can now afford a smile after a foreign donor offered to pay school fees for them. Each month, Million Footprints from the US pays Sh116,000 towards the children's education. The support is channelled through German conservationist Silvia Pirelli who lives in the area. The US-based foundation has also built a Sh500,000 toilet at the school, which did not have this basic sanitation facility. Previously, the children from Kwa Upanga ECDE centre had challenges in sanitation as the school had only two old toilets. Many of them who come from poverty-stricken families used to miss school due to lack of fees. There were celebrations as parents and community members joined the children during the launch of the toilet project at Mere. Pirelli said the toilet has two doors each for the boys and girls and one door for the community who will pay a small fee. Speaking during the launch, Pirelli said his relative who stays in California established the Millin Footprints foundation to support children by paying their fees and painting the school. “The toilet of the school is very important in this area for hygiene purposes because of sickness, so I came up with the idea to make a toilet and this is what I have done," he said. Pirelli said she started supporting the school, which was initiated by Kwa Upanga Baptist Church, after establishing that the children were infested with jiggers. She cemented the classrooms. “Basically, the problem of the area is hygiene. Poverty here is very high. People from the area don’t have money to send the children to school, so with a little support, I said we could do it,” she said. She plans to build a dining hall for the children to enable them eat lunch at school as there are many cases of burns because the children normally cook for themselves lunch at home. Priscah Mapenzi, the head teacher of Kwa Upanga Baptist ECDE, said they are happy to receive the project and the sponsorship of the 62 students. She said as teachers they are motivated because they get their salaries in time as previously there were challenges of payment due to the poverty levels of the families. “We previously used to depend on the parents for whatever little they pay like Sh500, that could be our salary,” she said. Mapenzi said whenever they sent the children home, they would drop out of school because of lack of money. Currently, she said all children are learning and come to the school promptly. Delfina Charo who is in charge of the ECDEs in Ganda ward said the toilet will end the problem of poor sanitation. Edited by Henry Makori