Lower loan provision lifted National Bank of Kenya's (NBK) profits in the first three months of the year by 19 per  cent to Sh184 million. According to the lender, a subsidiary of KCB Group,  increased income from loan interest and foreign exchange trading also supported the growth. NBK’s MD  Paul Russo said that the quarter was marked by pockets of slow recovery from the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic due to the gradual reopening of the economy after a period of subdued activity. “Having received a boost in Tier 2 Capital from the KCB Group PLC, we are now well-positioned to continue growing the business and supporting our customers to weather effects of the pandemic,'' Russo said. KCB Group injected $30 million in additional debt capital to NBK in April 2021 to enhance the Bank’s capital buffers to enhances compliance with regulatory ratios. During the quarter, net interest income grew by five per cent from the previous year to stand at Sh1.9 billion. This was contributed by interest income which grew by 11per cent to Sh2.7 billion due to increased volumes of loans and advances as well as sustained recoveries. The quarter was marked by a 28 per cent growth in interest paid on increased customer deposits, from transactions on the revamped digital channels. Total operating costs during the quarter remained relatively flat at Sh2.09 billion, compared to Sh2.11 billion over a similar period in 2020. This was despite increased investments in enhanced cybersecurity measures and revamp of the core banking system. Total assets grew by 14 per cent to Sh114 billion, majorly from net loans and advances, which were up 20 per cent to Sh58billion. This was also supported by increased customer deposits which grew by eight per cent to Sh99billion due to increased flows among existing clients and new accounts in corporate and retail. “We remain optimistic about prospects for this year in our efforts to turn around the bank and deliver value for our customers,'' Russo said. He added that as economic activity picks up, the bank’s enhanced capital position puts it in good stead to help customers walk the path to recovery after the slowdown due to the pandemic.