Nominated Senator Millicent Omanga has celebrated her birthday with words of resilience and hope. Omanga who went on Twitter on Sunday to pour her heart out, said it's been a year full of joblessness and global pandemic. "Today Is my birthday. I celebrate my birthday today at a time our country is faced with myriad of challenges; a ravaging global pandemic, joblessness among the youth, spiraling cost of living and a contestation over BBI bill which is now before the courts," she said. She said that she remains hopeful that Kenya will overcome all the challenges because of resilience. "Nonetheless, I feel so much blessed to be turning another leaf in my life today. It's been a long and treacherous journey full of ups and downs but one that's worth the sacrifice,"she said. "I'm eternally grateful for the successes and take the challenges with stride." Omanga said she would have not made the stride in her life without the help of God's grace. "It wouldn't have been possible to have scaled this far without an amalgamation of God's grace, the unwavering support of my dear husband, my family and friends," she said. "To this far I look at my past with great pride and future with hope." Omanga popularly referred to as Mama Miradi made it to the public eye following Tanga Tanga and Kieleweke politics which ended up in a number of leaders ousted from their political and leadership seats. She was part of a group of legislators who had been summoned by Jubilee disciplinary committee for gross insubordination and misconduct. Omanga was born in 1982 on May 30, in Kisii County. She is a first born in a large family of seven daughters in Rongai. Her family was considerably wealthy living in a five-bedroom house seated on a two-acre piece of land. Speaking during an interview on MC Jessy’s Youtube show early in the year, Jessy Junction, Omanga said she started her entrepreneurial journey as an undergraduate at the University of Nairobi and earned her first million within a year. “By 20 I bought a new car and I was still in the university. I would use a portion of my school fees to buy a few things in Eastleigh that I would later sell at a profit. By exam time I had made profits and I would use that to clear my fees,” she said. The Jubilee Senator said she used to sell everything she could to make money, including bedsheets. “I am one of the biggest bedsheet suppliers in the country,” she claimed adding that she made her first million after she won a tender to supply bedsheets to an Eldoret-based hotel.