The lights will be back on in City Hall. Power blackouts due to a Sh691 million debt will end after the Nairobi Assembly allocated funds to pay Kenya Power. Power generators will no longer be a necessity. However, the city says Kenya Power owes it Sh600 million in rent arrears for wayleaves and rent arrears since 2014. The city had been considering a debt swap. The county's debt management strategy paper said City Hall owed Sh691.58 to the power supplier. Nairobi Assembly budget committee chairman Robert Mbatia said the allocation should end the back and forth between City Hall and Kenya Power about debts owed to each other. “The county owes Kenya Power millions in electricity bills, some inherited from the defunct City Council. This has often led to services interrupted whenever electricity is cut. "We want to clear the bill in totality," he said. In November last year, the county offices were plunged into darkness for three days after Kenya Power cut supply to City Hall and its annex over a Sh1.2 billion bill. The available generator could only supply power to the assembly and the governor's wing, leaving most offices without power. Operations were disrupted in most offices and some were closed. No lift, so staff had to climb to the seventh floor. No working computers. That wasn't the first time Kenya Power disconnected electricity to county government offices and institutions. The first outage happened in January 2015, when City Hall was plunged into darkness for three days after power was disconnected over a debt inherited from the defunct City Council. The county went to court in 2016 and obtained an order barring the utility from disconnecting power to its facilities until the case was heard and determined. Kenya Power had threatened to cut off power to City Hall Annex, Mama Lucy Hospital, Pumwani Hospital, public primary and nursery schools and county depots as well as streetlights. The court order bought time but in June 2018, Kenya Power again disconnected supply to City Hall and the Annex for two days. The city had to use generators to operate. The county government lost the court battle to stop the utility from disconnecting power. Power was also disconnected at county Level 4 hospitals and county streetlights over the outstanding bill of Sh748 million.. City Hall had to pay Sh15 million and promise to clear the balance in installments to have electricity reconnected. (Edited by V. Graham) 