The United Democratic Alliance party is set to meet aspirants from six counties. The registered aspirants from Kericho, Bomet, Baringo, Narok and Nyandarua will meet with those from the host county of Nakuru on Friday. Speaking to the Star on Thursday, UDA secretary general Veronica Maina said the meetings that started a week ago are platforms used to explain to the aspirants the ideologies, the manifesto and the  party’s constitution “The meetings we have had so far have been very fruitful. They are held in strict adherence to the Covid-19 protocols issued by the Ministry of Health,” Maina said. She said the aspirants have been registering in large numbers due to the popularity of the party across the country. “We have aspirants for all the elective seats. UDA is the future and it stands for true transformation policies,” she said. After the Nakuru meeting, the UDA officials will head to Meru county on May 31 where they are expected to meet aspirants from Tharaka Nithi, Marsabit, Isiolo, Embu, Samburu and Laikipia. On June 3, the caravan will land in Mombasa where they will meet aspirants from the host county, Lamu, Taita Taveta, Kilifi, Kwale and Tana River. Maina said only fully paid up and registered aspirants will participate in the meetings. The party is charging Sh10,000 registration fee for governors, deputies and senators aspirants. Aspirants for the women rep, MP as well as those wishing to be party leaders are parting with Sh5,000 registration fee. For anyone seeking to be an MCA with the UDA ticket, will pay Sh2,000 fee. UDA is expected to hold its grassroots elections in June to elect ward, constituency and county officials while the national ones will be picked by members during a National Delegates Congress. According to the UDA constitution that was unveiled in March, there will be a party leader who will have three deputies in charge of administration, political affairs and programmes and strategy. There will also be a national chairperson who will also have three deputies in charge of operations, political affairs and programmes and strategy. The same has been replicated in the positions of the secretary-general, national organising secretary and national treasurer who will each have three assistants.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris