A suspect was lynched on Saturday by a mob following a botched robbery at one of the shops in Tiwi, within Matuga sub-county. County Police Commander Steve Oloo confirmed the incident. It is claimed that the thief had tried to break into a shop before he was beaten to death by angry residents. "We got a report from one of our retired officers that someone was trying to commit robbery but he was spotted and the owner called for help," said Oloo. The officer said that the irate residents responded to the cry of help and decided to discipline the person. The suspect later succumbed to the injuries as police try to identify him properly. The victim was allegedly assaulted with stones, fresh tree branches, slaps, random punches, and kicks. The cases of break-ins and robbery in the county have been reported to be on the rise. In a previous interview, County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri said that an unknown group of people has been committing robbery, mainly targeting electronic gadgets among other things in people's residential and business places. "We have reported that a certain gang is moving around to steal computers, televisions, radio, and various home things," he said. Most incidents happened in Diani and Kwale town. Last week, Kwale police gunned down two suspected armed criminals for attempting to commit theft in Ukunda. The residents are now appealing to the police to beef up security in the region both day and night. Oloo, however, warned the locals against taking the matter into their own hands. He stressed that people should leak out any information that might lead to the arrest of perpetrators or stop any criminal activities from happening. "Don't kill anyone, just give information to the nearby police offIcers and they will act promptly for justice to prevail," he said. He strongly condemned the killing saying the law will be unmerciful for those who break it and they will be prosecuted in a court of law. The dead body was taken to Kwale mortuary and police have launched investigations.