Victims of extrajudicial killings must not be dumped in water used for domestic purposes, Senior Counsel Paul Muite has said. "Extrajudicial executions potentially include innocent people but why dump their bodies into rivers the waters of which Wananchi depend for drinking and other domestic use?" he posed. Muite said this in a single tweet that has received more than 200 retweets and more than 1,000 likes. Cases of missing people being recovered in rivers have been on the rise. The latest case was that of four Kitengela men who went missing. Three weeks ago, two bodies of four friends who were missing since April 19 were found. One was found in Murang’a and the other in Thika, Kiambu County, which is about 50 kilometres from Kitengela, where they had been abducted. Benjamin Imbai 30, Elijah Obuong 35, Brian Oduor 36, and Jack Ochieng 37, had been missing for two weeks. The body of Obuong was found near Mukungai stream in Murang’a and taken to the local mortuary. Police said they had recovered a third body from the Mathioya river in Murang'a county. Three months ago, the body of a high school teacher who apparently drowned was found without the head and limbs. John Murunga, a teacher at Nalutili Secondary School in Bungoma county, was found in River Kipkaren in Lugari, Kakamega county. Last year, a primary school teacher who went missing in Kisii was found dead. Peter Barongo went missing after a teachers' meeting at Ibacho. His body was retrieved from River Chirichiro in Masaba South with the help of villagers. These are just part of the statistics of people being killed and being dumped in rivers. According to human rights lobbies documenting extrajudicial killings, more than 700 people have died in the hands of the police since 2007. A database maintained by Missing Voices, a website mounted by human rights entities including the Kenya Human Rights Commission and International Justice Mission to document case of extrajudicial killings, showed that 2020 has been the second deadliest after 2007. Some 144 have been killed by security officers in 2020 according to Missing Voices. It ranks far higher than 2019 when 144 people got killed by the police. Cumulatively, 742 people have been killed or disappeared without a trace, acts attributable to police conduct, the website shows.