Governors from North Rift are working to help farmers diversify from maize as free trade with Tanzania is likely to hurt profits. President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Tanzanian counterpart Samia Hassan Suluhu renewed trade relations she visited the country last week. Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago who chairs the region's economic bloc said maize farming is no longer profitable. Mandago and Trans Nzoia Deputy Governor Stanley Tarus said most farmers had become poorer for over relying on maize. “As counties in this region, we are asking our farmers to now engage in commercial farming by growing high value crops instead of planting maize always,” Mandago said. He said the farmers had an opportunity to make money by growing other crops. The governors have been encouraging farmers to grow coffee, macadamia, horticulture and fruits that can be exported for better earnings. Mandago and Tarus spoke in Trans Nzoia on Tuesday. Nandi Governor Stephen Sang said they were already supporting farmers to adopt modern farming methods and diversify. Maize prices have already dropped by more than 35 per cent in most parts of North Rift and Western Kenya since imports from Tanzania began to flow. Before an order by President Kenyatta to release maize held at the Tanzanian border, retail prices averaged Sh2,800 per 90kg bag. The price has dropped to as low as Sh2,300. Farmers say the imports will affect the local market, but anticipate they will reduce in less than two months and stabilise prices. Large scale farmers are still holding more than 12 million bags of maize in their stores. The stock may not be sold until after a decline in imports. “The government should move to fully implement the warehouse receipting system so that farmers can store their commodity until when the prices are good,” Kenya Farmers Association director Kipkorir Menjo said. Maize production has increased in the last two years, with farmers harvesting more than 40 million bags annually. Agriculture officials estimate a similar quantity this year. Menjo said the government should put in place policies that will bring down the cost of local production. He said lower costs would help farmers compete with those in Uganda and Tanzania by pricing their products lower but still making profit. "If such a policy is not put in place then open trade with countries like Tanzania will mean more imports and that will hurt our farmers," Menjo said. Agriculture executives in Trans Nzoia and Uasin Gishu said most farmers planted higher acreage and the harvest quantities are expected to rise. Early in the year, the rains delayed and farmers were gripped with fear after drought destroyed maize that had been planted between March and mid-April. Some of the farmers had to replant but will now benefit from heavy rains. Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu and Nandi are the country’s maize breadbasket and slight changes in rainfall patterns affect harvests.  (edited by o. owino)