The High Court has issued orders stopping the government from evicting members of Chebombai community from Mt Elgon Forest. Environment and Land Court judge Boaz Olao issued the orders in Bungoma on Tuesday. He said the government should not evict petitioners and other Chebombai community members from land parcels in North Malakisi and North Wamono. The court also ordered that all parcels outside the demarcated boundary between Cheptais Forest and Chebombai area must not be interfered with pending the inter-parties hearing. Through their lawyer Joseph Onchiri, the 154 petitioners sued the government and asked the court to stop the state from interfering with their fundamental rights and freedoms. They argued that their land was outside the forest boundary as demarcated by the government in 2001. Some said they even have title deeds. Bungoma county commissioner, Interior Principal Secretary, Bungoma county land registrar and Bungoma county surveyor were among those sued. Others are the National Land Commission, Kenya Forest Service, Lands PS, Environment PS and the Attorney General. Justice Olao certified the application dated May 11, 2021 as urgent and issued interim orders restraining the respondents, their agents, workers and servants from evicting and or harassing the petitioners. The court directed the respondents to stop threatening, destroying crops, livestock and torching homes and/or from interfering in any manner whatsoever with petitioners and other Chebombai community members. Olao directed the application together with written submissions be served upon the respondents within seven days and affidavits filed. "The respondents will have 14 days from the date of service to file and serve their responses and submissions and the affidavit of service also filed," the judge said. Petitioners shall have three days from the date of service if they so wish to file and serve the supplementary affidavit. Olao said a ruling on the matter will be delivered on June 30 by way of electronic mail. The government through Kenya Wildlife Service and Kenya Forest Service had embarked on the process of evicting all illegal forest cultivators in order to preserve the water tower. A number of Cheptais residents depend on Mt Elgon Forest for cultivation. The government, however, banned forest cultivation after it realised many were taking advantage to engage in illegal logging, charcoal burning and hunting of animals. Kenya Forest Service rangers have been destroying crops, torching houses and arresting trespassers.  Edited by P.O