Victims of the Solai Dam tragedy on Tuesday went to the High Court, seeking to be allowed to take part in a retrial. Victims marked three years since the dam burst on May 9,2018, leaving 48 dead, injuring many, displacing hundreds and destroying millions of shillings worth of property. Most of the 400 victims who lost their relatives, their property and whose farms were destroyed have not received justice or compensation. At the High Court in Naivasha, victims on Tuesday appealed a decision by a magistrate’s court blocking them from the case. In the matter filed under a certificate of urgency, six of the victims on behalf of others want the court to set aside orders by the magistrate. “The magistrate erred in law in finding that there were two categories of victims, namely ‘living victims’ and ‘deceased victims’,” the application reads. The court will rule on May 20. Kabazi MCA Peter Mbae said that under the Solai Restoration Programme by national and county governments, 37 houses have been rebuilt. They had been swept away. “The victims are for a peaceful settlement with the Patel family and such an arrangement would involve the Director of Public Prosecutions to incorporate the Naivasha case,” he said. Farm owner Perry Manusukh and eight others are charged with 48 counts of manslaughter for 48 deaths and for failing to prepare an environmental impact assessment report. The other eight are Vinoj Jaya Kumar, Johnson Njuguna, Luka Kipyegen, Winnie Muthoni, Jacinta Were, Tomkin Odo Odhiambo, Williec Omondi and Lynette Cheruiyot. At one point, a Naivasha court threw out the case, accusing the DPP of being the stumbling block and failing to adduce witnesses' evidence months after the nine suspects were charged. Last year, the DPP successfully appealed the case. The High Court ordered a retrial, which is yet to begin. The court will rule first on allowing the victims to take part in the matter. In August last year, the High Court quashed the acquittal of the nine suspects. While setting aside the ruling by the lower court, High Court judge Richard Mwongo termed the acquittal void and ordered a fresh trial of all suspects. He ruled that the interests of the victims and their suffering had not been considered when the suspects were acquitted. “The suspects shall be charged afresh in another court and the previous bond terms remain the same,” the judge said. He said the victims, who were represented by the DPP's office, were never given a chance to have their grievances heard. “The case had never started and all the witnesses lined up by the prosecution are available and they have vivid memories of what happened and they should be allowed to testify,” he said. He directed the case should not be adjourned for more than a month, saying the application to have the victims enjoined in the main suit should be determined first. (Edited by V. Graham) 