Renowned wordsmith and editor Philip Ochieng was a towering figure in Kenyan journalism but at home he was a silent man and a poor public speaker, his family said at his burial on Friday. Ochieng, 83, was buried at his rural home in Manyatta village, Awendo constituency. He died on April 27. His family members led by his children and grand-children said the late editor was larger than life, a celebrity to the outside world, and known as a wordsmith but was always quite at home and was never a good public speaker. Judith Aluoch, a daughter, said she picked the silent character from his dad. "I took after him as we could sit down for hours in silence at home, and the silence was with deep meaning as it was out of respect and understanding. While he was good with his pen, he was never an orator both in public and at home," Aluoch said. His family said at home Ochieng was always quiet and preferred to play with children, especially his grandchildren by tickling them. His grandson, Philip Ochieng Junior, said he was always happy around his children  and spoilt them by taking them to parks. "He was a dotting grandfather. In his home we were always there and fought to catch his attention and open the door for him when he came home from work after taking whiskey, his favourite drink," Junior said. Junior joked that because he always treated their sweet tooth, most of them ended up visiting dentists later in life and have their teeth extracted. "We noticed while he was always silent around our parents, his children, he was always happy with us his grandchildren. When as a family we wanted to ask him to eat or stroll outside when he was sick it was young children who were sent," he said. The family said because Ochieng had several stints outside the country, both for education and work, they never interacted with their father closely until late in life. "At home he was down to earth. It was only when we left home that we knew he was a celebrity, junior said. Aluoch , the daughter, said she knew for the first time he was her father when she was eight years old. Before that she only knew she had a famous father. Juliet Akinyi Ochieng, who was born when the giant met her mother Diane Thomas at Roosevelt University, said: "I discovered that Philip Ochieng was one of the most well-known writers in Kenya. I found this out when I was 35".