The anti-graft agency is facing a cash crunch likely to hamper its efforts to fight corruption. Auditor General Nancy Gathungu, in a report for FY2019-20, said the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission's financial position is on a downward trend. She said if strategies are not put in place to reverse the trend, the commission is likely to suffer financial difficulties. The commission chaired by former ACK Archbishop Eliud Wabukala reported a budget deficit of Sh116 million, up from Sh20 million reported last year. The EACC revenues were depleted by Sh136 million in the review period, leaving reserves at Sh167 million. In the previous financial year, the commission had Sh712 million reserves. Management, the auditor said, attributed the situation to delays in release of funds by the Treasury, and depreciation of commission assets. “The deficit is mainly caused by depreciation and accrued expenses resulting from unfunded exchequer,” the EACC financial statement reads. Gathungu said the circumstances did not change her opinion of the problem. The commission's financial problems portend a setback for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s efforts to rid his administration of graft and recover the country’s stolen assets. The commission's annual report said it helped recover Sh26.7 billion public assets, secured 293 convictions and averted the loss of as much as Sh136 billion public funds. The National Assembly Budget Committee, in a review of the Budget Policy Statement 2021, flagged the underfunding of key independent institutions, warning it may hamper their operations. The committee is chaired by Kieni MP Kanini Kega . The committee cited the IEBC, the Ombudsman, the Witness Protection Agency, EACC, the DPP and Registrar of Political Parties as being underfunded. In budget estimates before Parliament, the EACC has been allocated Sh3.26 billion, down from Sh3.27 billion it was allocated last year – a difference of about Sh100 million. Gathungu further flagged troubles with the EACC’s acquisition of its Integrity Centre headquarters, saying it couldn’t be ascertained if the agency got value for money. The EACC cannot refurbish or redevelop the building, where critical electrical and mechanical works have been hampered, following an outstanding query on NLC’s involvement in the valuation of the block. Integrity Centre is therefore likely to remain in its rundown state, with some critical installations in need of repair. The anti-graft commission paid Sh1.52 billion to the National Land Commission for compulsory acquisition of the building for its headquarters. NLC valued the property at Sh1.54 billion in February 2018, putting the value of land at Sh795 million and that of improvements at Sh747 million. But Gathungu said the valuation by the NLC exposes the NLC to the risk of conflict of interest “which may arise from it conducting the valuation and thereafter paying the compensation". No evidence was provided by the NLC showing whether the Ministry of Lands and Physical Planning played a role in the valuation. The Land Valuation department of the ministry is mandated to provide valuation services for all national and county government entities. “Due to the failure to involve the mandated government valuer, it has not been possible to ascertain whether the commission obtained value for money in the acquisition of Integrity Centre building,” Gathungu reported. Further, the Public Works department has said architectural, structural, electrical, mechanical, and civil works drawings submitted to the EACC by the NLC concerning the property were not acceptable. In a March 2020 letter cited by the auditor, the department said the drawings were copies of structural details and lacked cost calculations. Public Works further said architectural drawings were not provided as well as services drawings, while structural drawings were not approved by Nairobi City County as required. Tegus Ltd, the owner of the building, bought Integrity Centre from Revack Ltd for Sh400 million in 2013, according to documents once tabled before the Public Accounts Committee of the National Assembly. Revack acquired the block from the Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation, which had taken it over from the collapsed Trust Bank to recover an unpaid bank loan. (Edited by V. Graham)