The AGCO Agriculture Foundation has announced the second phase of a Sh13 million project in partnership with the Kenya Red Cross to respond to climate change and food insecurity in the Dadaab refugee complex. In a press release, foundation director Metti Richenhagen said the project is aimed at restoring degraded land, strengthening refugees’ food security and income levels, and increasing the production of diverse and nutritious foods. The Dadaab Refugee Complex falls within the expansive arid and semi-arid lands in Garissa county and is characterised by hot, dry weather and high rates of evapotranspiration interspersed with occasional ﬂooding in poorly drained areas. The dramatic changes in weather patterns have caused prolonged drought and extreme rainfall, making life hard for 209,584 refugees and 200,000 host community members. Richenhagen said the first phase of the project focused on meeting the agricultural and nutritional demands of refugees and host communities through the establishment of a mechanised farm for irrigation and crop production. “Climate change is a serious threat to the livelihoods and food security of many marginalised farming communities,” he said. “The impact reported from the initial phase of our project in Dadaab Refugee Complex has propelled us to expand the project deliverables and continue this strategic partnership with the KRCS.” Richenhagen said the project demonstrates their commitment to address climate change and help farmers in the Dadaab camp and host community improve their soil health and build resilient food systems. The second phase of the project is expected to support 6,000 beneficiaries in the Ifo 2 Refugee Camp and the host community. “The goal is to promote climate-smart agriculture and soil fertility management practices, strengthen farmers’ skills in modern irrigation and mechanised agriculture, and create employment opportunities for vulnerable communities,” Richenhagen said The KRCS will help farmers establish and manage their farms as well as connect them with local markets. The vegetable crops, lentils and leguminous grass that will be grown during this project phase will support the livelihoods of local farmers and their families. The project is also supported by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees which maintains the water infrastructure serving the farms and provides logistical support. Garissa county government donated the land for the project and helps identify vulnerable community members who can benefit the most from the programme. “The AAF’s strong partnership and funding has enabled us to advance our work towards climate change adaptation and food security for the Dadaab refugees and host community,” KRCS secretary-general Asha Mohammed said. “This second phase of this project is the right next step to ensuring access to nutrition and improving the livelihoods of refugees and their host community.”   Edited by Kiilu Damaris