Dairy farmers contracted by Brookside milk processor in four counties will benefit from off-grid solar technology to boost milk production. The counties are Uasin Gishu, Nyandarua, Kajiado and Kiambu. Solar energy will be used in irrigation systems to grow fodder and provide drinking water for dairy animals. John Gethi, Brookside’s director of milk procurement and manufacturing, said the use of solar energy will provide a reliable tool for the utilisation of existing water sources at the farms. This, he said, will ensure year-round availability of the resource, which is key in milk production. He spoke in Trans Nzoia when he visited smallholder farms contracted by the processor. Gethi said a solar-powered irrigation system will also enable farmers to grow fodder using sprinklers, besides providing dairy animals with reliable drinking water. “We are currently running pilots on the project at our demonstration farms in Uasin Gishu, Nyandarua, Kajiado and Kiambu. An adult healthy dairy animal requires between 75 and 80 litres of water daily," Gethi said. "Besides maintenance of body temperature, water is important in the digestion of feed and fodder.” Data from Tegemeo Institute indicates that over-reliance on rain-fed dairy production is one of the factors hindering the realisation of the full potential of the enterprise in the country, with milk production plummeting during the dry season on reduced water and fodder. According to the Kenya Dairy Board, the country’s annual milk production is at 5.28 billion litres, produced by 1.8 million smallholder dairy farmers. Out of the annual production, 600 million litres are formally marketed. The sector has created 1.2 million jobs directly and indirectly. In 2020, the country was able to process 684 million litres, an increase of 9.5 per cent from 652 million litres in 2019. Out of the processed milk 62.4 per cent is UHT, pasteurised 25.5 per cent, yoghurt at 6.14 per cent, mala at 3.16 per cent and whole milk powder 0.29 per cent. Gethi said the use of solar technology in dairy farms will additionally uplift the social scene for farmers as the installation will provide energy that will power home appliances and lighting of up to four bulbs. “The technology, which the processor is undertaking under a partnership with Sunculture Limited, a local non-governmental organisation, will empower smallholder farmers in ensuring that this essential input in dairy farming contributes towards the urgent need for consistency in milk production,” he said. 