 Two groups clashed in Murang’a town during protests against Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro and Senator Irungu Kang’ata over their opposition to the BBI. One group had assembled at Ihura Stadium in Murang’a town where the protests would start. The other group stormed the stadium, grabbed their placards and tore them apart. More youths stormed the stadium and the confrontations quickly degenerated. After the fights died down, the youths, most of whom had come in boda-bodas dispersed. They promised to organise the demos in other towns within the same constituency. Ndindi has been an outspoken opponent of the BBI and a staunch supporter of Deputy President William Ruto. He is among lawmakers who voted No to the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2022 as MPs passed it in the National Assembly last week. He has on several occasions clashed with security officers over his strong stance on many issues. In 2019, Ndindi was arrested in Murang’a town while attending a live interview organised by a vernacular TV station after being accused of disrupting a church service. The service at Gitui Catholic Church was disrupted after the MP and nominated colleague Maina Kamanda clashed over protocol. Ndindi held the opinion that he should have been the one inviting leaders attending the service to address the faithful instead of Kamanda. After his arrest, Kang’ata became his lawyer but he was not charged after the Director of Public Prosecutions said police had not forwarded the file. A month ago, several administrators were interdicted after the MP attended a meeting organised by a local self-help group to raise money for a water project. Mitundu Self-Help Group had invited the MP to the fundraiser that sought Sh550,000 they needed for the project to take off. According to sources, the group had approached Upper Tana Nairobi Water Fund for funding but were required to raise about five per cent of the project’s cost. A previous fundraiser had only managed to raise Sh200,000. Following the meeting, the Murang’a East deputy county commissioner, Kimathi assistant county commissioner, Kimathi chief and Kigongo assistant chief all received interdiction letters. The meeting happened two days after President Uhuru Kenyatta issued a directive banning all public gatherings as part of safety protocols to curb the spread of Covid-19. Some locals say the state has been targeting the MP over his political affiliations. They wondered why similar actions were not taken against other leaders. Kang’ata decamped from the Kieleweke faction of Jubilee and joined the pro-Ruto Tangatanga group, days after he was removed as the Majority Whip in the Senate. His removal followed a letter to the President, saying BBI was unpopular in Mt Kenya region. Kang'ata voted against the Bill on Tuesday despite a majority of members endorsing it. On Wednesday, about an hour after the clash, pro-Ndindi youths regrouped and organised their own protests, carrying anti-BBI placards. The clash comes at a time when the referendum politics are expected to soar, preceding the 2022 General Election campaigns. Traders expressed fear for their business saying such political confrontations would hurt their ventures. Fruit vendor Mary Wambui appealed to leaders to tone down political temperatures saying their businesses were already suffering due to the effects of Covid-19.  Edited by P.O