The Port of Mombasa is gradually enhancing efficiency in the facilitation of the sensitive avocado and garment export business. This week, a Maersk-operated vessel, MV Seago Bremehaven, which mainly exports Kenya’s avocados, docked at the port of Mombasa recording a total of 2,918 containers at a record average of 77.5 moves per hour in just 37.67 hours port stay. The previous record stood at 64.5 moves per hour. Last week Thursday, MV Seago Bremehaven was among the two that docked at the Port of Lamu during the operationalisation of the first berth. It was loaded with 80 tonnes of avocados. At the Port of Mombasa, the vessel loaded with containerised commodities, recorded an impressive turnaround time, KPA notes. Upon berthing, it handled 323 containers on the first shift followed by another 822 containers on the second shift and closed the third shift with another 829 containers. The next day saw the container ship register 652 containers and 326 containers on the first and second shifts respectively before sailing off. General Manager Operations Sudi Mwasinago attributed the good performance to teamwork and dedication by staff at the container handling operations. “The staff handling ship and shore operations have been placed in teams within the shifts and this has resulted in coordinated synergy that is now bearing fruits in terms of increased and sustained crane productivity” said Mwasinago. The container carrier, Maersk Mawingu Service, left Mombasa for Port Salala in Oman, then Jawaharlal Nehru and Mundra in India and then Port Qasim in Pakistani. Avocado has in the last two years become Kenya’s leading fruit export, accounting for nearly one-fifth of its total horticultural exports. In 2019, Kenya was ranked eight in the export of avocados, shipping out 59,000 tonnes with annual value of Sh10.6 billion. In 2020 up to the end of October, Kenya had exported 68,000 tonnes valued at Sh14 billion. The other leading avocado exporters are Mexico, Netherlands, Peru, Spain, Chile, Colombia and the United States.