A Kenyan father who won a custody battle at the Indian supreme court risks losing his son after a Kenyan court declined to register the judgment. Family Division judge M. Thande ruled that India has no reciprocal arrangements for registering judgments with the Kenyan government. “There are currently no reciprocal arrangements in place between Kenya and India pursuant to which either country’s judgment may be enforced or registered by either country’s courts,” Justice Thande ruled. PK moved to court last year after winning his case in India seeking to register it in Kenya. The Indian apex court had directed that as a condition for him to get his child, the judgment had to be registered in Kenya. PK and his estranged Indian wife have been in a legal custody battle in India since 2012. The case went all the way to the supreme court, which ruled in his favour but with a condition. Justice Thande further noted that even if India was a reciprocating country, the court would not register a child custody order according to Kenyan laws. “This court has no jurisdiction to enforce or register a foreign judgment in proceedings in connection with the custody or guardianship of a child,” the court ruled. According to court records, PK married S, an Indian citizen, in 2009. She moved to Kenya and the same year she went back to India to give birth to their son in New Delhi. The child came back to Kenya the next year with his parents where he was until 2012 when he went back with his parents and later PK left them thinking they would follow him to Kenya but they didn’t. The mother filed a case in court seeking to block PK from taking the son, marking marked the beginning of the long legal battle that went all the way to the supreme court. She was ordered by the court to hand over the child to PK on condition that he files a mirror order from Kenya at the Indian Supreme Court. Countries with reciprocal arrangements with Kenya in judgments issued by a superior court include Australia, Malawi, Seychelles,Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Zambia and the UK. Lawyer Shadrack Wambui says PK can move to the Court of Appeal to challenge the judgment by Justice Thande. “I principally disagree with ruling to the extent that commonwealth countries, because they had one coloniser, enjoy a level of mutual understanding that in the event of a decision of one commonwealth country, the other country can domesticate that ruling,” Wambui says. The lawyer says Kenya's civil procedure rules have provided a procedure through which foreign judgments can be domesticated. He further notes that in this case, the Kenyan Constitution gives citizenship to a child born by either a man or a woman who is a Kenyan even if they are born in another country. -Edited by SKanyara