Works on the 24km meter-gauge railway from Mai Mahiu Industrial Park to Longonot town in Naivasha have been paralysed yet again by uncompensated landowners. They are demanding payouts; none has been compensated for land appropriated. The delays have caused fears the Sh3.5 billion project will not be completed by June, as promised by Transport CS James Macharia. Landowners blame the National Land Commission for delaying compensation. About 100 plot owners accused the Chinese contractor and the NLC of delaying tactics, dragging out compensation. Plot owner Daniel Kibunja said the railway line is in its last stages and people fear they will not be paid. He said owners had visited NLC offices a number of times when they had been promised payment but nothing has materialised. “We are tired of waiting and we have vowed that no work will continue until the National Land Commission compensates us,” he said. Judy Wambui said that her house was demolished a year ago to make way for the line but she has still not been compensated. “I have been reduced to a beggar, yet I had constructed a house before we were kicked out with a promise that we would be compensated,” she said. Naivasha subcounty commissioner Mutua Kisilu confirmed the impasse but said the NLC was handling compensation. “The Treasury has released the finances to compensate those affected by the project and NLC is working on the compensation part of it,” he said. For the last couple of months, affected families have paralysed work on the mega project, demanding compensation to no avail. Speaking during a tour of the railway line last month, CS Macharia said the government was keen to commence the transportation of containers from the ICD using the railway. Macharia said the upgrade will fast-track the transportation of cargo within the region. Rehabilitation of the Malaba route is expected to be completed by September. The Transport CS said the passenger train not currently in use will be reactivated, ferrying travellers to the Kenyan border town. (Edited by V. Graham)