Silafrica, manufacturer of plastic and packaging solutions has signed an MoU with the Kenya National Federation of Jua Kali Association that will see informal sector workers enter into mass production of low-cost personal protective equipment. The partnership came into place to cushion informal sector workers who suffered from job losses during the pandemic. “Many people have lost their livelihoods and this MoU comes at a perfect time as it is set to reverse some of the damage caused by the pandemic ,” said Jua Kali umbrella body, KNFJKA Chief Executive Officer, Richard Muteti. Kenya’s informal sector which roughly employs 15 million Kenyans of working age has been critically affected by Covid-19. Under the MoU, Jua Kali tailors will produce the PPE’s from special pre-cuts made by Sil Africa targeted at low-income population. The PPE are made from a material approved by the Kenya Bureau of Standards (KEBS) in accordance to the World Health Organization (WHO) regulations. “This is a whole new process involving new technologies and way of doing things and could grow into a new market space since there’s limitless possibilities on what could be made from the stretcher material, which is 100% recyclable” said Silafrica, Group Executive Director,Akshay Shah. The protective gears are produced using heat-sealing method as opposed to sewing, resulting in an air tight PPE, further reducing chances of germs transfer. This new approach allows for rapid adoptions of new products as sealing is at least 9 times faster than sewing and therefore trying out new products will take relatively much less time. With the material being 100 per cent recyclable, Silafrica is once again setting the pace for other plastic packing solutions companies towards achieving a global circular economy. Silafrica has partnered with Ellen MacArthur Foundation to share in their commitment to eliminate plastic waste and create a sustainable future for our planet. Since the onset of Covid-19, Silafrica has been at the forefront of the fight against it by offering cheap, efficient and effective hygiene solutions. These include low-cost PPE, SIMTANK hand wash stations and SATO toilet latrines. The MoU is part of the bigger Kenya Ni Sisi campaign that seek to raise donations to enable availing the solutions at much more subsidized prices to areas of critical need.