Kenya has issued a mandatory 14-days quarantine for all arriving travellers from six countries including the UK. In a statement, Kenya Civil Aviation Authority said all passenger flights, whether commercial or charter, between Kenya and the UK, will be suspended. Other countries include;  Brunei,  Czech Republic, Kuwait, Pakistan and Thailand. Those travelling from these countries should be in possession of a negative PCR-based Covid-19 test result conducted within 96 hours before travel. “All UK citizens and residents travelling to Kenya from the UK via any route who have a valid Covid-19 PCR test, but do not have a valid Covid-19 vaccination certificate, will be subject to 14 days mandatory quarantine," the statement read. Travellers will be quarantined at their own cost. "All travellers under the age of 18 will only require a certificate of Covid-19 negative PCR test to enter Kenya,” KCAA added. Over the weekend, Kenyans were urged to be vigilant as the government continues with genome sequencing in an effort to contain the new Covid-19 variants in the country. The Health Ministry confirmed that the dominant variant in the country is the British variant, also known as the B.1.1.7. The UK and the South African Variant have been circulating in the country since January with samples taken for sequencing from Nairobi and neighbouring counties showing those found with the variant had no history of travel. Though not as lethal as the original variant, it is highly contagious and transmissible. Last week, Kenya confirmed multiple cases of the highly double mutant India coronavirus variant from travellers. Last month, UK banned passengers travelling from Kenya from entering the European country starting April 9 to prevent the spread of the Coronavirus. The highly contagious UK Covid -19 variant(B117 variant) is now reported in every state in the US and other countries, with researchers warning it is between 30 per cent and 100 per cent more deadly than previous dominant variants.