Water and Sanitation PS Joseph Irungu on Wednesday sided with National Land Commission over Sh3.5billion land compensation deal, saying the state department was satisfied. Appearing before the National Assembly Public Accounts Committee, Irungu said he was satisfied with the manner compensation was carried out to pave way for the construction of the multi-billion Thwake dam. “There has not been contestation at all and the contractor has full access to the sites. For me I am satisfied,” he said. He however referred the committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi to NLC for the details of the payment clarifying that he was to ensure faster completion of the project. He told the Committee that the project was 45 per cent complete and will be finished by June next year. The PS was also put to task on claims that there had been no contestation on the land when Auditor General Nancy Gathungu in a special report noted that some 33 project affected persons had not vacated the parcels even after pocketing Sh53 million in compensation. Gathungu flagged the compensation terming it unreliable owing to how the commission carried out the exercise. According to the audit report, the NLC valuation compensation schedule did not indicate the respective officers who carried out the valuation exercise. “It was noted that the NLC valued and awarded entities for land and improvements totalling Sh3.5 billion without evidence of the confirmation of ownership and lawful occupation contrary to section 119 of the Land Act, 2012 which requires that payment shall be made upon the exercise of due diligence which shall include survey and determination of acreage, boundaries, ownership and value,” Gathungu said. “These awards exceeded the approved budget of Sh3 billion by Sh579 million.” Tanathi Water Services Board approved Sh3 billion budgets for compulsory land compensation. NLC had received Sh1.5 billion from the state department for Irrigation and an additional Sh1.3 billion for the land acquisition for the construction of Thwake dam. The auditor also faulted NLC for failing to conduct an official search at the lands registry before recommending compensations for all parcels of land acquired. “To establish that the parcels of land to be acquired were not public land, NLC is expected to conduct an official search at the Lands Registry to get satisfied on the true ownership of the land.” The MPs are probing irregular transaction that was flagged by Gathungu in her special report of NLC compensation between 2014 and 2017.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris