Physically and mentally challenged pupils in special schools across Bungoma county will get free uniforms from Joyce Nasambu Foundation. Joyce Nasambu is the current Miss Tourism Bungoma. She said the donation will help keep the special learners in school and put smiles on their faces. Nasambu has been at the forefront leading campaigns to help physically and mentally challenged pupils. She is also the Bungoma teenage girls' ambassador. "My foundation will provide uniforms to all physically and mentally challenged pupils across the county so that they also enjoy equal education opportunities like their counterparts," Nasambu said. Nasambu said disability does not mean inability. She urged all education stakeholders to come together and pull resources to specials pupils to also realise their dreams. "Physically challenged people have proved that they are enabled differently and have performed excellently in national examinations," she said. Nasambu is leading the #Nodisinmyability 2021 edition' which has the headline Uniform Drive. She is also involved in education sensitisation programmes where parents with disabled children are urged not to hide them. "Most parents with physically and mentally challenged children are always stigmatised but I am asking them to enrol their children in schools where they can sharpen their skills for future use." On Saturday, the Joyce Nasambu Foundation will donate 297 uniforms to pupils at St. Anthony Special School for the Deaf in Webuye town. "This is the day we will officially launch uniforms donation across the county and I invite county government education officials, stakeholders, politicians and Kenyans of goodwill to stand with me in this noble cause." After St Anthony, the drive will move to St Theresa School of the Physically and Mentally Challenged in Webuye East before learners at Joy Valley Lipolina School of the Physically Challenged in Bumula get their turn. "There are also schools which have special units. They will also get uniforms," Nasambu said. The schools include Webuye SA, Webuye ACK, Lugulu Mixed Day School and Nzoia Pefa.  Edited by P.O