Top flight newbies Bidco United stunned pre-match favourites, AFC Leopards, thumping them 3-1 in a tension-filled Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Ruaraka Grounds on Sunday. The Thika-based side drew the first blood barely seven minutes into play when Alex Juma unleashed a rasping close range shot that tore past a dazed Leopards' defence into the back of the net. Hansel Ochieng almost levelled terms for Leopards in the 20th minute but his attempt swiveled a few inches over the crossbar. And in the 28th minute, Stephen Waruru came close to making it two for Bidco after an interchange of short and crisp passes down the left channel with Eric Kahonge, only to side net in his final attempt. In the 33rd minute, the FKF-PL newbies survived two successive scares when Fabrice Mgheni's rasping close range shot bounced off the crossbar and Robinson Kamura's effort from the rebound got palmed away by a hawk-eyed Edwin Mukolwe for a corner. Bidco earned a free kick on the edge of the box after Said Tsuma sent Eric Gichimu tumbling on the edge of the box. Peter Nzuki stepped up for the set-piece to double Bidco's advantage with a low thunderbolt shot in the 41st minute. Bidco were not done just yet. In the 68th minute, David Orem put the results beyond doubt after rising unmarked to head in Nzuki's cross from a set-piece. Second-half substitute Sensing defeat, Leopards tactician Aussems responded to the inefficiency of his charges by effecting two tactical changes, bringing on Bienvenue Shaka and Peter Thiong'o for Caleb Olilo and Said Tsuma respectively. On the other end, Akhulia introduced Anthony Gathu for Eric Gichimu. Shaka proved his worth as he netted for Leopards in the 80th minute, but his strike was just a consolation. In another match, Tusker reclaimed top spot after seeing off Vihiga United 4-0 at Mumias Complex with goals from Robert Aloro, Christopher Ochieng, Henry Meja and Kevin Okoth. Following the results, Tusker have taken command of the log with 38 points while Leopards now drop to third, tied on 36 points with KCB, who enjoy a superior goal difference.