The 2019 World Rally champion Ott Tanak and Belgian Thierry Neuville will lead the charge for Hyundai Motorsports in next month’s Safari Rally Kenya. Estonian Tanak, who is the 2019 world champion, will lead the Germany-based WRC outfit navigated by Martin Jarveoja. In the star-studded Hyundai mix is Belgian speedster Thierry Neuvillle who is teaming up with Marijn Wydaeghe while Dani Sordo of Spain will join forces with compatriot Borja Rozada. Hyundai becomes the first manufacturer team to place their entries for the event slated for June 24-27. The WRC team expressed their excitement in a Tweet that announced their entry; saying it’s a whole new experience to race in Africa. None of the current teams have competed in Africa and it will be interesting to see just how they fare on their debut. “We are happy to announce our line-up for WRC Safari Rally— a brand-new challenge for the teams and crews,” the tweet said. Hyundai made its return to WRC competition in 2014 with an all-new team and ambitious long-term plans for success in rallying’s top class. Tänak and Neuville have led Hyundai’s 2021 attack, with Dani Sordo and Craig Breen sharing the third car. The Korean firm wasn’t new to the WRC. It competed in the F2 category between 1998 and 2000, before switching to a World Rally Car version of its Accent saloon until 2003. Hyundai’s return was heralded by the unveiling of a prototype i20 World Rally Car at the Paris Motor Show in September 2012. Things moved quickly, with the establishment of a new motorsport base in Germany three months later. Former Peugeot WRC technical head Michel Nandan was brought in to oversee the task of creating a fully operational team, a rally-specification i20 and developing a brand new motorsport facility — all from scratch and in 12 months. At the wheel throughout 2014 was the previous year’s championship runner-up, Thierry Neuville. Hyundai was clear from the off that the season would be a development year, but it showed plenty of promise and Neuville led a surprise 1-2 result in Germany. The team’s breakthrough came in 2016 when Neuville first put the i20 on the podium at Rallye Monte-Carlo and then Hayden Paddon’s dominant maiden victory in Argentina made people sit up and take note. Neuville matched the performance two rallies later in Sardinia and after two victories and 12 podiums, Hyundai secured second in the championship.