Gor Mahia assistant coach Sammy 'Pamzo' Omollo is now convinced the Kenyan champions are well on their way to a successful title defence as long as they can maintain the rhythm they have gathered in their last two matches against City Stars and Sofapaka. K'Ogalo enhanced their dream for a 19th title after upsetting hosts Sofapaka 2-1 in a riveting Football Kenya Federation Premier League match at Wundanyi Stadium, Taita Taveta County on Thursday. South Sudan international Titto Okello broke the deadlock in the 27th minute but Titus Achesa levelled matters eight minutes into the second half. Alpha Onyango scored the winning goal for the champions 10 minutes to full time. Omollo said their hard-fought win against Sofapaka had left his charges high on confidence and more determined than ever. "We had a good match. I like the determination exhibited by our players throughout the match. Alpha exploited the opportunity that came his way and grabbed us the vital win that now puts us in contention for the title," he said. "There were moments of individual brilliance that largely contributed to our performance. I wish to single out Okello for special mention. The boy had an amazing work rate." "Of course, we still stand a good chance of retaining our title if we can maintain the rhythm we had against City Stars and Sofapaka. All we need to do is to produce wins going forward," said Omollo. Gor Mahia coach Vaz Pinto was equally ecstatic, saying: “Difficult game but the players showed commitment and a lot of cohesion. It is our third consecutive victory and I would like to dedicate this victory to our supporters who always support us and continue to believe in us.” His opposite number, John Waw, expressed disappointment over the defeat, saying it had dealt a big blow to any feeble hopes they had of laying claim to a second top-flight title. "We definitely had a bad day out and it's so disappointing to even talk about it. The loss was a huge setback. We need time to think it over and see how we can make the necessary amends," said Waw. In a first half devoid of action, Okello came on the end of Kenneth Muguna's cross to break the deadlock in the 27th minute, effectively putting the visitors in the driving seat. The goal rattled Sofapaka, who immediately launched a counteroffensive and Kenyan international Lawrence Juma almost levelled the terms a couple of minutes later, but his determined effort from a set-piece swerved just inches wide with K'Ogalo's custodian Gad Mathews beaten. What should have been a good ending for Gor Mahia in the first half turned out to be a major disappointment after defender Philemon Otieno was slapped with a yellow card at the stroke of halftime following a reckless play. Sofapaka came back from the break a rejuvenated side and it wasn't long before their determined efforts bore fruits. Midfielder Titus Echesa restored parity in the 53rd minute to bring the hosts back into the game. A couple of minutes later, Sofapaka's coach Ken Odhiambo effected a double substitution in an attempt to contain the marauding visitors, bringing on Kepha Aswani and Kenga King'atua for Ambrose Sifuna and Nixon Omondi respectively. With a goal still not in sight even after ringing the changes, Odhiambo tinkered his lineup further by introducing Paul Kiongera for Timothy Otieno in the 63rd minute. And in the 74th minute, Gor's Portuguese tactician Pinto introduced youngster Onyango for midfielder Karim Abdoul. The decision paid off six minutes later after Onyango nodded in Gor's second from Okello's cross. The win saw Gor climb to fifth with 28 points while Sofapaka are eighth with 22 points.