At least 114 pharmacy outlets have been shut in Western region by inspectorate officials from the Pharmacy and Poisons Board. The joint operation by officials from the board, national government administrative organs and the Kenya Police Service began on Monday in Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga counties. The board, through surveillance and intelligence gathering, had profiled hotspots within the region with high levels of noncompliance with the law. According to the deputy director inspectorate at the board Dr Dominic Kariuki, the operation targeted unlicenced premises, pilfered government drugs, illegal medicine hawkers and illegal sale of restricted medicines in the open-air markets, general shops and kiosks. In addition, 68 people found illegally handling pharmaceuticals were arrested and prosecuted and 133 cartons of assorted medicines seized. “These include some government supplied medicines found in a private chemist at Mayoni market within Kakamega county. The enforcement of closure shall be monitored by the police and the respective offices of county commissioners,” Kariuki said. He added: “Registered pharmacists and enrolled pharmaceutical technologists involved in pharmaceutical malpractices have been flagged for disciplinary process at the board." The board has called on the Judiciary to dispense deterrent sanctions as provided under the revised Pharmacy and Poisons Act 2019 on persons found guilty of contravening the provisions. Kariuki further called on members of public to report any suspected case of quacks operating within their areas as they are a danger to public health. “Registered pharmacy outlets can be verified by sending the code displayed in the outlets to 21031 and it is free of charge,” he said. Public and private healthcare facilities and those who handle pharmaceuticals were asked to apply for disposal of any pharmaceutical waste that they may have through website www.pharmacyboardkenya.org or get in touch with PPB regional officers. The PPB is the body mandated by Cap 244 of the laws of Kenya to ensure that all Kenyans access quality, safe and efficacious medicines. Distribution is an important activity in the integrated supply chain management of medical products and health technologies. All parties involved in the distribution have a responsibility to ensure that the quality of the products and the integrity of the distribution chain are maintained throughout the distribution process, from the site of manufacture to the entity responsible for dispensing the products to the end user. Handling and storage should be in accordance with the established procedures designed to prevent contamination or deterioration, damage of packs or confusion of products. Edited by Henry Makori