Jubilee's recent by-election losses have given the ruling party a chance to review its strategies, an MP has said. The party participated in the three by-elections last Tuesday but lost in all. Speaking in his office on Monday, Nyeri Town MP Ngunjiri Wambugu said they have been holding meetings. During the meetings, he said, MPs committed to talk to Kenyans and make them understand what the party stands for. He said there have been accusations that politics in Jubilee has been left to technocrats and bureaucrats but moving forward, Kenyans should expect to see a much stronger presence of MPs. This is because MPs stand to lose a lot if the party faces problems. “The reason for existence as MPs today is that we are from the  Jubilee Party,” he said. The reloading of the party by MPs will begin during the Kiambaa and Muguga by-elections. He applauded the withdrawal of Moses Kuria’s candidate from the race saying this will ensure that Tangatanga will not use that as an excuse that they were divided after losing in the forthcoming by-elections. The MP said they will use Kiambaa and Muguga to prove wrong claims by Tangatanga that the President has lost grounds in his backyard. He said they will show Tangatanga that Juja had nothing to do with party politics but had everything to do with the mistakes that the party did, which they took advantage of. “I wish to congratulate our party headquarters for the nomination exercise over the weekend. We are proud of Karimi the Kiambaa nominee and we expect to give him 100 per cent commitment as MPs from Mt Kenya in his campaigns,” he said. The party is also happy that its leadership has been able to reconcile the other candidates who wanted to run on the Jubilee party ticket in Kiambaa and will now work together as a team. In Muguga the ten Jubilee candidates have committed to work together with the Jubilee nominee as the party had managed to avoid fallouts during nominations, he noted. He said moving forward, Kenyans should expect to hear most MPs speak even when they are not happy with the party. “If we think the party is making a mistake, we will speak about it. We are stakeholders in that party and we exist because of it and we are not going to allow the party to die,” he said. Wambugu said he was 100 per cent certain that the party will deliver in Kiambaa and Muguga in the coming by-elections.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris