A judge last month quashed revocation of the appointment of Isaac Olwero as Siaya county assembly clerk. The decision by Justice Stephen Radido was made on April 14, but an earlier report did not accurately express the development. In the judgement, Justice Radido declined to award any damages to Olwero saying he did not demonstrate any entitlement. “He is also in an ongoing contractual relationship with the board and the relief is declined,” Radido said. Justice Radido also found that the county service board failed to comply with a further measure of procedural protection assured to Olwero. “In the court’s view, the missteps by the board were procedurally substantial and could not be cured by the fact that the petitioner (Olwero) attended the oral hearing,” the judge said. The court declared the proceedings before the county assembly service board with a view to revoking Olwero’s appointment as the clerk did not comply with the law. The judgment arose out of a case filed by Olwero challenging the revocation of his appointment. Olwero sued Siaya County Assembly Service Board, county assembly speaker and county assembly. Olwero was offered the county assembly clerk position through a letter dated July 30, 2014, by the county assembly service board. According to court records sometime in 2019, the board conducted an audit on the county assembly car loan and mortgage fund. Following the outcome of the audit, the board then resorted to suspending Olwero for three months. He was asked to reply in 21 days. In a letter, the board informed Olwero that he will be appearing before the disciplinary committee. On his part, Olwero responded to the show cause letter and appealed to the chairperson of the board to furnish him with certain records to enable him to prepare for the disciplinary hearing. Within days of the hearing, the board embarked on the removal process of Olwero from office. On June 10, 2019, he filed a case in court alleging that his suspension and recommendation by the board to revoke his appointment was illegal and violated his fundamental rights and freedoms. Two days later he received a WhatsApp invitation and appeared before a select committee of the county assembly which had been set up to inquire into the allegations for his removal. The county assembly debated and passed the select committee report recommending his removal on June 13. The county in its response raised questions on whether Olwero’s case meets the threshold of a constitutional petition and whether it discloses any reasonable cause of action to warrant a grant of orders among others. In his decision, Justice Radido said that the county assembly withheld issuing dismissal letter when it found out there was a court order requiring status quo to be maintained. “The court at this juncture notes and recognizes the decision of the speaker to defer to the courts' order served on the respondent albeit late,” the judge said. “It is one of the rare occasions the court has come across such fidelity to the law on the part of such state official.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris