The ongoing rains will persist throughout this week, according to a forecast by the Meteorological Department. The department on Monday told the Star on the phone that most parts of the county will receive between moderate to heavy rain s. "Our projection for the week is that there will be moderate to heavy rains in Central, Western and Northern parts of the country," David Koros said. He is the principal meteorologist for forecasting. Koros said rains will continue pounding areas such as Kisii, Kericho, Siaya, Kisumu, Homa Bay, Migori, Nyamira, Trans Nzoia, Baringo, Uasin Gishu, Elgeyo Marakwet, Nandi, Nakuru, Narok, Bomet, Kakamega, Vihiga, Bungoma and Busia counties. Nairobi, Nyandarua, Laikipia, Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Murang'a, Kiambu, Meru, Embu and Tharaka Nithi counties will also receive between moderate to heavy rains. Koros said the intensity of rains may however reduce towards the end of the week. "Heavy rains have had negative impacts such as flooding in Nairobi, causing traffic jams," he noted. Koros said transport has been affected in some areas. There have been lightning in Kericho, Kakamega and Nandi Hills. "Farmers who have been waiting for rains can now take advantage of the downpours," he said. The department advised Kenyans to be on the lookout for possible floods and landslides. In a statement on Saturday evening, Met director Stella Aura said the downpour will mostly be at night and in the afternoon of both Saturday and Sunday. Aura said residents of Central, Nairobi and parts of Eastern regions should expect showers and thunderstorms on Saturday night. She said most counties will experience some sunny intervals on Sunday. The rains are expected to intensify in Western, Nyanza, Central and South Rift regions which will have heavy downpours from Saturday night to Sunday afternoon. The government has asked motorists to be very cautious. Government Spokesman Cyrus Oguna said everyone using the roads either as a driver or pedestrian must be cautious. Oguna said passing through moving waters should be avoided.  Edited by P.O