Two death row convicts who violently robbed a woman and raped her in a forest will now serve 25 years in jail after winning their appeal. Moses Njoroge and Dennis Njuguna were convicted and sentenced to suffer death after the court found them guilty of robbing the woman at gun point in Kiambu in 2014. They were also sentenced to serve 15 years in jail for gang rape. Aggrieved, the two appealed. However justice Mary Kasango in her judgement delivered on May 20 dismissed the accused's appeal on conviction but set aside the death sentence. “Njoroge and Njuguna are hereby sentenced on count 1 to imprisonment of 25 years which sentence for each appellant will commence from  May 6, 2015. The sentence for each appellant on 1st count shall run concurrently with the sentence on count two,” the judge ruled. In the case, the prosecution had told court that the complainant, at about 7.30pm on November 13, 2014, was in Kikuyu town driving her vehicle on her way home to Gikambura. On reaching near her home at 8.30pm, she called her house help and requested her to switch on the security lights and open the gate.  She found the gate open and drove in, but as she parked the car, she saw six men behind her vehicle who ordered her to get out of the vehicle.  They asked her for the car keys and her mobile phone. The woman told court that one of the men had a gun while the others had metal bars and a knife. She told court that once inside the house, she was hit with a gun on the head for screaming and ordered to lie on the floor. The house help was also beaten. The men then began taking household items such as DVD, Meko gas, camera, microwave, radio and iron box, all which were put in her car. The complainant told court she was ordered at gun-point to enter her vehicle, on the passenger seat and asked to lie down on the seat. She did not know where she was driven to, but she later learnt it was Thogoto forest.  One of the men asked for her Mpesa pin and transferred Sh10,700  from her account to another phone. The men, she said,  beat her with sticks and ordered her to remove her clothes.  She was at first reluctant but when one of them pointed the gun at her, she complied.  All the six men proceeded to rape her while the car engine and the lights were on. Afterwards, the men left with the stolen items, leaving her behind with her car. She screamed for help and a couple came to her rescue and took her to Nairobi Women's Hospital where the Post Rape Care Form was filled. The victim was later called to the police station on February 4, 2015 and informed some men had been arrested.  An identification parade was mounted and she was able to pick out both appellants. In her evidence in court, the house help confirmed that she was at the complainant’s home with two children on the day of the incident.  She said her boss had called asking her to turn on security lights which she did. She said when her boss arrived, she assisted in removing shopping from the car but while inside the house to take the shopping, she heard her scream. On looking, she noted the complainant had been hit.  She said she saw the men loading household items in the car. Njoroge who she said was elderly and had a wooden club, pushed her into the kitchen and locked her there but Njuguna asked her to be returned where they were. The accused later left with her boss. The house help gave clear evidence of her identification of the two appellants.  The identification was dock identification and not through a parade. During the trial, a PRC Form was produced by a clinical officer at Wangige District Hospital who informed the court that the form, which was filled by a doctor at Nairobi Women Hospital, showed that the woman had pain in her genitalia which was consistent with rape. She was found to have bruises on the head and hip. In defence, Njoroge did not give evidence of his whereabouts on the night of commission of the offence.  He however said that on February 1, 2015 at around 3.30pm, he was arrested by police officers in plain clothes, while at Wangige shopping centre. He said on February 3, 2015, while under arrest, he was taken to the crime office of the police station where he saw a woman and a man. Njoroge said the woman was the one who participated in the identification parade. He denied the charges against him. Njuguna on the other hand testified that on February 1, 2015 there was a police swoop  in his area and police raided his flat.  He was arrested with his girlfriend and although he tried to bribe the police by offering them Sh500 the police demanded Sh2,000 which he did not have. Later, he was taken to a room where the investigating officer pointed him out to a lady.  That lady picked him out in an identification parade on February 4, 2015. -Edited by SKanyara 