Kwale open-air market traders have been put on notice for constantly violating the Covid-19 safety regulations. Open-air markets are ranked second after matatus and boda bodas for disregarding the public health protocols. During market days, most non-stall markets for mitumba and food do not observe social distancing and people interact carelessly. The majority don't have face masks, hand sanitisers or water buckets and detergents as required by public health regulations. Governor Salim Mvurya threatened to close the markets if the traders continue to put the public health at risk. "I strongly urge those operating open-air markets to abide by the Covid rules or we shall have them banned," he said. Mvurya raised concern that the market places could be virus spreading zones if not properly regulated. He told the traders that it was too soon to act normal, saying the virus infection was already at community level. The country is experiencing the third wave of coronavirus, which is lethal. So far, Kwale has registered more than 600 Covid-19 positive cases since the pandemic began in March last year. Mvurya said his administration is aware that the pandemic has caused massive damage to the economy, but said the safety of the public should come first. The governor said the virus was no joke and the infection rate is still high. He asked the locals to strictly adhere to the public health protocols. "At this particular juncture, there is a need for everyone to take personal responsibility in protecting themselves," he said. The county chief said he won't allow a few individuals with self-interests to endanger the lives of many others. Mvurya said his government has already formed a task force to monitor the operation of open-air markets to prevent further disaster. Last year, the county suspended the vending of wares in major open-air markets at Ibiza in Ukunda and Mwangulu in Lunga Lunga to mitigate the spread of the virus. County commissioner Joseph Kanyiri also warned the public to be careful to avoid the Indian disaster, where thousands of people succumb to the disease every day.  Edited by Henry Makori