 Benjamin Malii Ilivu left their home in Ivuusya village, Mwingi Central, to work at the Kindaruma Dam in 1974 but never returned. Before that, he worked briefly in Mombasa from where he occasionally visited his home village. He was at the prime of his youth at the time, his younger sister Kamene Katunduma says. When he left for Kindaruma, Kamene went with him. They both stayed there until sometime in July 1974 when Kamene returned home. Benjamin saw her sister off. “We agreed he was to come home in August that same year,” Kamene says. That did not happen. She and other family members have not set eyes on Benjamin since then. When his workmates from the village returned during holidays, the family asked if they knew the whereabouts of their son. Nobody knew. “I keep praying to God to bring him back,” Kamene told the Star during an interview at their home in Nguni ward of Kitui county. Kamene, now 70 years old, said she still hopes her elder brother would return home, close to five decades after they last saw each other. Those hopes have been renewed by Benjamin's Huduma card, which was delivered at home by the area chief. President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Huduma Namba registration in April 2019. It means Benjamin registered for the card. Kamene hopes he can read in the media how much the family misses him and return home. He disappeared two years after the death of their father. “Before he completely disappeared, he had plans to marry but I do not understand why he decided to leave home for good,” she said. Kamene said tracing their brother has been difficult. “When we see neighbours who work outside our village returning home, we ask them about his (Benjamin's) whereabouts but they say they have not heard from him or seen him,” she added. But his Huduma card was delivered to the chief's office on March 16, 2021. “If I could see him today, it would be my happiest moment. He loved me so much that when we used to work at Kindaruma Dam during its construction, he used to buy me eggs and we would cook pancakes together whenever I told him I was hungry,” Kamene recalled. Despite being apart for 47 years, Kamene insists she would remember her brother if she saw him. “If I saw him, I would cry tears of joy then hug him and welcome him home. I miss the moments he used to feed me cow milk when we were young,” she said with a nostalgic smile. She urged him to return home, collect his Huduma card and reunite with the family. Kamene said Benjamin was very caring and understanding. He said they were like twins despite their one-year age difference. Benjamin's nephew Titus Kavisi urged the government to trace the place where he filled his Huduma Namba details so that he can be traced from there. “We really miss our relative as most of us have never seen him but we only hear about him,” Kavisi said.  Edited by P.O