For just Sh80, passengers can commute from Limuru to Nairobi in two hours and 22 minutes. Kenya Railways on Monday launched the Nairobi Commuter Rail Service from Limuru to the CBD at the Central Railways station. The commuter train will depart Limuru Railway station at 5.30am, passing through Kikuyu at 6.15am, Dagoretti 6.48am and Kibra at 7.16am before arriving at the Nairobi Central station at 7.52am. In the evening, the train will depart the CBD at 5.20pm, pass through Kibra at 5.54pm, Dagoretti at 6.22pm and Kikuyu at 6.55pm, reaching Limuru at 7.52pm. The train will stop for two minutes at each station. The expanded rail service is part of Phase II announced by Kenya Railways to extend services to Thika and Limuru. Phase III will reach satellite towns of Ongata Rongai, Kiserian, Ngong, Kiambu, Ruai and Kangemi. Commuters welcomed the new route. “It's now worth staying in Limuru and working in Nairobi," commuter Gadafi Abdillahi said. “Sweet news. Long overdue, yet still well done. But find a way to shorten the travel time. An hour for that distance would be more appropriate," Ole Nkarei said. “This is a great development. We welcome Kenya Railways in Limuru," Keith Andere said. In November, President Uhuru Kenyatta launched the Nairobi Commuter Rail Service, which aims to transport three million passengers monthly. The current number is 1.2 million. Kenya Railways aims for 1.5 million daily commuters to the CBD. From November, residents from Athi River have been using the new Commuter Rail system. The trains operate on a fixed daily schedule across the city at a fixed cost of Sh100. The services cover the Nairobi-Imara Daima-Syokimau route, the Nairobi-Githurai-Mwiki-Kahawa-Ruiru route, the Nairobi-Embakasi route and the Nairobi-Kibera-Kikuyu route. For an Sh80 fare, passengers take one hour and 23 minutes to reach the CBD from the Athi River station. From there, it will cost Sh50 to go to Mlolongo, Sh60 to Imara Daima and Sh80 to Makadara and Nairobi Central stations. Last month, the railway corporation launched the commuter service from Nairobi Central to Lukenya for Sh100. The Nairobi-Nanyuki route costs Sh500. Residents travelling by air have not been left out. The JKIA  express route has been operating for five months. The route reduces traffic jams for travellers heading to or from the airport. It only costs Sh50 from the Embakasi station to JKIA; the same for a return trip. From the Central station at the CBD, commuters pay Sh500. When alighting at Embakasi station, passengers board the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) buses, which can carry 52 to 80 passengers, both seated and standing. The JKIA Expressway is an extension of the Nairobi Commuter Rail Service and handles more than 24,000 passengers. Phase I included building 26 new passenger stations at the existing stations and at new locations. Syokimau, Makadara and Imara Daima are some of the completed stations. The construction is part of the Nairobi Commuter Rail Service development in the Nairobi Metropolitan Transport Master Plan. It calls for an integrated commuter system in the city and environs. It includes Bus Rapid Transit, monorail and underground rail. The system has been described as a game changer by reducing both vehicular traffic jams and crowds. The government has spent Sh6.6 billion to upgrade the commuter service within the Nairobi Metropolitan Area. It includes non-motorised transport, integrated and modern ticketing systems and investments in access roads. The Nairobi Commuter Rail Service was introduced in May 1992 in response to a series of strikes by matatu operators. But over the years, there has been low demand that Kenya Railways blames on the poor standards of the stations' facilities.  (Edited by B. Makokha) 