AFC Leopards committed grave errors in their  3-1 defeat to Bidco United at Ruaraka Grounds on Sunday, head coach Belgian Patrick Aussems has said. The 13-time Kenyan Premier League champions squandered an opportunity to ascend to the apex of the log and Aussems has asked his players to learn from the match to keep their title dreams alive. “We made some grave mistakes that cost us the match. The second goal killed us. We missed out on an opportunity to ascend to the top of the league," said Aussems. As Aussems rued a missed opportunity, his counterpart Anthony Akhulia was beaming with pride and pleasure. “My boys played very well considering AFC is a giant. The strategy was to sit back and capitalise on the opponent's errors," said Akhulia. "As a coach, I've given my players some target which I believe they'll achieve.” The Thika-based side drew the first blood barely seven minutes into play when Alex Juma unleashed a rasping close-range shot that tore past a dazed Leopards' defence into the back of the net. In the 33rd minute, the FKF-PL newbies survived two successive scares when Fabrice Mgheni's rasping close-range shot bounced off the crossbar and Robinson Kamura's effort from the rebound got palmed away by a hawk-eyed Edwin Mukolwe for a corner. They were to turn the tide soon after. In the 41st minute, Bidco earned a free-kick at the edge of the box after Said Tsuma sent Eric Gichimu tumbling on the edge of the box. Peter Nzuki stepped up for the setpiece to double Bidco's advantage with a low thunderbolt shot. Bidco were not done just yet. In the 68th minute, David Orem put the results beyond doubt after rising unmarked to head in Nzuki's cross from a setpiece. Second-half substitute Bienvenue Shaka netted Leopards' consolation in the 80th minute, who are third on the log, two points behind leaders Tusker and level on 36 points with second-placed KCB, who have a healthier goal difference. In another match, Tusker reclaimed top spot with 38 points after seeing off Vihiga United 4-0 at Mumias Complex with goals from Robert Aloro, Christopher Ochieng, Henry Meja and Kevin Okoth.