The pandemic shifted our lifestyle from working in an office to working remotely. Recently, Google through their virtual event launched the new updated Google Workspace. Google Workspace has elegant office tools, works the same on any browser, fine-tuned collaboration and revision-tracking features and corporate friendly user management. It is a subscription-based upgrade from the Google free apps available to anyone with a Google account. ISince it is a cloud-based office suite, you can access documents from any web, you can collaborate in realtime on your documents with anyone to whom you grant access via integrated chat capabilities and you get a complete record of all your revisions as well as you can retrieve or restore anything you want. Google Workspace Versions of Google Docs, Sheets, and Slides offer the same elegant, minimalist-looking templates that you get in the free versions. Google Workspace lets you upload your own documents, spreadsheets or presentations to use as templates for creating new ones. It offers more options for collaborating and sharing than you get with the free Google apps. One of the benefits of cloud on Google Workspace is that Google apps keep track of all editing changes that you make on your document, going back to when it was created. Another well-designed feature on Google apps is the Explore Pane that you can open from the menu or a keyboard shortcut. It searches for the web for relevant information about your document like Microsoft’s Smart Lookup feature. It also displays a quotation mark icon next to each of its search hits. The other applications in Google Workspace are the whiteboard app jamboard, which is a simple, intuitive canvas for sharing ideas and images with a laser pointer in the form of a red dot. You will also get Google Chat and videoconferencing tool, Google Meet. Both of these apps open easily from a message in Gmail making it almost effortless to get a conversation started. Its online apps are mature and almost entirely trouble-free. They work within your browser and do a great job of opening the most complex Microsoft Office documents. Google slides, one of the suite’s presentation app, makes it easy for you to insert YouTube videos in presentations. When you choose Workspace over Microsoft 365, you will be relying more on data and apps that mostly live in the cloud accessible only in a browser or mobile device. To be able to use it offline, you will have to use Google Chrome, navigate to drive settings, and check the offline box so that the recent Docs, Sheets and Slides will get saved automatically to your Google Drive. With these new advancements to Google Workspace, you will be able to enjoy and have a more interactive working space. You will also get to access your documents from anywhere you are with the enabled cloud service.