Reality TV producer Eugene Mbugua wanted to be an accountant while growing up. Speaking to Word Is, the prolific producer said he lived with a relative who was an accountant for a long time, although in his earlier years, he also wanted to be a pilot. "It was until I realised that financially it wasn't an option for me. I bought a painting by an outstanding Kenyan artist called Obado Manu that depicts the moment a child learns that their dreams to be a pilot are just that: dreams." Eugene has produced some of the best TV reality shows, and he says the biggest motivation is to tell the African story to dignify the African. "All our shows, starting from 'Young Rich', 'Get In The Kitchen' and even 'Foods of Kenya', all focus on telling the African story in a dignified way." Among the recent TV documentaries he has done is Sauti Sol's 'Sol Family. On how they met, Eugene said, "I've known some members of Sauti Sol since high school, and I went to university with Bien. "I didn't get them to buy into it. Sauti Sol and Sol Generation were already looking to do a reality show and had approached several production houses. We went in and met with them, and fortunately, there was chemistry, and we set off soon after." Eugene is the producer of the ongoing TV series 'This is Love' with Wahu and Nameless. The first episode aired on Monday exclusively on Showmax. "In 2018, the first celebrity reality show that was aired on national television was 'Being Bahati'," he said. "Off of the success of that, we approached Wahu and Nameless in the same year but they were not sold on the idea at the time, and their priorities were not aligned with that. "We reinitiated our conversation earlier this year owing primarily to their joint album 'This Love', and we're very excited that Showmax also thought that this was worth pursuing." Eugene hopes to tell a story of colonial Kenya and the period that followed right after. "I believe there is so much about that period that would explain to us who we are now as a country," he said. "If I was to pitch to Uhuru Kenyatta a reality TV series about him, I would ask to let our crew film his last six months in office and turn it into a killer season." The biggest challenge he's faced was letting some of the people he worked with go after Covid-19 hit Kenya as the uncertainty of the period was crippling.