Deputy President William Ruto was not present at the State House, Nairobi during the reception of the Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu on Tuesday. Suluhu arrived at State House, Nairobi shortly afternoon and was received by her host President Uhuru Kenyatta. After the national anthem of both countries and the EAC anthem, Suluhu was accorded the 21-gun salute before inspecting a guard of honour paraded outside the State House. Uhuru introduced Suluhu to the Cabinet Secretaries before embarking on private talks between the two heads of state. When contacted for a comment, the office of the DP said there was no invite made regarding today’s event. "I can confirm there was no invite received. But you can check with State House," Ruto's director of communication Emmanuel Talam said. Whether the DP will later show up during Suluhu's visit remains to be seen. Ruto hosted Rev. Daniel Lotuno of AIC Ilmasin, Kiserian at his Karen resident home, concurrently when his boss was receiving Suluhu. Ruto handed over a vehicle to Lotuno, saying that it is a tool for evangelisation. Suluhu arrived in the country on Tuesday morning ahead of his busy two-day visit to the country. Upon arrival at the JKA, the president was received by the Kenyan Foreign Ambassador Raychelle Omamo and Sports CS Ambassador Amina Mohamed. Suluhu will address a joint sitting of the Senate and the National Assembly in Parliament on Wednesday. This is the third function at the State House where the DP has been missing. During the commemoration of Labour Day in May, the President met a few members of Cotu led by their secretary general Francis Atwoli and Ruto was not among the few at State House. Also, the DP admitted that he was not invited by the State House during the vaccination of the Cabinet members against coronavirus. Ruto defended his use of the Sputnik V vaccine over the AstraZeneca being fronted by the government, saying he wasn't invited during the vaccination drive for state officials. "I don't want to blame anybody... maybe the secretary forgot to inform me," he said.