Three ODM legislators in the Nairobi county assembly have been dewhipped from all committees as wrangles intensify in the opposition. Minority Whip Peter Imwatok discharged the MCAS — Lawrence Otieno from Sarang'ombe, Kibiro MCA Clarence Munga and Jared Okode from Mathare North. They were accused of gross misconduct, allegedly trying to intimidate members to violate party positions In his letter dated May 5, Imwatok notified assembly Speaker Benson Mutura the three MCAs were discharged from all their committees under Standing Order 168(1) That order states the party that nominated a member to a committee may give written notice to the speaker that the member is to be discharged from a committee or committees. “This is due to the reported gross misconduct, namely coercing and intimidating colleagues to go against the party position and House leadership,” the letter reads. The three were among those who signed to remove PAC chair Wilfred Odalo and Minority Whip Peter Imwatok Otieno was dewhipped from the trade and water committees, Okode from transport, planning and culture and Munga from implementation, ICT, culture and trade committees. The removals come at a time when a power battle is brewing on the ODM side of the assembly, with Minority Whip Imwatok and PAC chairman  Odalo at the centre. On Tuesday Highrise MCA Kennedy Oyugi claimed to be leading 32 ODM legislators who signed a petition to remove Imwatok from his position. What followed was 15 MCAs belonging to PAC (three ODM and 12 Jubilee) signing a petition to remove their chairman, Mabatini MCA Odalo. In a counterattack, Minority Whip Imwatok discharged all 12 ODM legislators, including himself, from PAC. He sent a letter dated May 4 to the speaker reporting the changes. He said the minority leadership has been preserved to nominate any qualified MCA to be a chairperson of any select committee. “It has come to my attention and that of the Minority house leadership, that yourself and other members of the PCA committee have been intimidating and coercing other members into signing for the purported removal of the current chairperson Wilfred Oluoch Odalo ... "[It] is the preserve of the Minority party leadership to nominate the member (s) who is qualified to be a chairperson of any select committee,” the letter reads. As a result, he invoked Standing Order 168(1) and discharged from the committee Wilfred Odalo, Moses Ogeto, Clarence Munga, Maurice Ochieng, Anne Catherine Akinyi, Rose Ogonda, Lawrence Otieno, Peter Imwatok, Jared Okode, Jane Muasya, Osman Khalif and Rosemary Masitsa. Minority leader Michael Ogada said the actions taken by some ODM legislators to remove 'their own' from powerful seats was against the party. “Anybody collecting signatures purporting to remove the Minority Whip and PAC chair is doing it against ODM party. The exercise has not been sanctioned by the party,” he said. (Edited by V. Graham) 