A Catholic bishop has urged Kenyans not to shy away from motherhood, saying it is a blessing from God and should be celebrated. Nyeri archbishop Anthony Muheria said on Sunday that some people view motherhood as a hurdle and fear having children. He told those who might have gone through difficulties in pregnancy and with raising children not to despair as they are God’s channel for blessings to the children. "Appreciate that the Lord is using you as a channel. You are the vessels of sacredness of life and therefore do not fear," he said. He encouraged women to have as many children as they are able to raise, saying when children are many in a family they learn how to share, live with others and interact while an only child could end up being selfish. He also called on older mothers to mentor young mothers on the virtues of motherhood so that they can take good care of their children. In his message to mothers during celebrations to mark Mother's Day at the Christ the King Cathedral in Nyeri, Muheria called on Kenyans and Christians to think of their mothers’ specific needs and assist them. "Sometimes our mothers suffer in silence because they don't want to bother us. Check on her often, find out if her blanket is torn, mattress worn out, bed quaking or even ensure she is not ailing," he said. The archbishop said celebrating motherhood means more than wishing them Happy Mother's Day or people saying they owe a lot to our mothers and calling them heroines. Muheria urged Kenyans to make an effort to pay them back by appreciating them because of their concern, selflessness, sacrifices and care for children. "It is therefore good today for all of us to make an effort towards our mothers. It is not enough to send them a gift. We are used to sending monetary gifts or flowers, but I would like you to send one of the biggest gifts, which is a prayer gift," he said. He encouraged people to call, speak, laugh and express love to them. Citing an example of Jesus' love to his mother during his first miracle at the Cana of Galilee, Muheria said Jesus performed his first miracle for the respect and love of his mother, Mary. He had not intended to, but he did so at his mother's request after they ran out of wine at the ceremony. The conversation that ensued between Jesus and his mother showed the power of motherhood and how Jesus loved and respected his mother even for a small favour in the context that it was not a spiritual but a material favour, he added. He called on mothers to look up at Mary as a good example of a mother. -Edited by SKanyara  