The Tokyo Olympics pre-trials set for Nyayo Stadium this morning will double up as a selection process for the African Athletics Championships scheduled for Lagos, Nigeria on June 23-27. Announcing the change of plans, Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei said the pre-trials were originally planned as trials for the continental championships, initially slated for Algiers, Algeria. However, the North Africans pulled out, citing relentless Covid-19 infections and the inability to manage an influx of visitors in the country. "We had planned to hold the trials on May 27-29 but the championships were postponed. We did not want to cancel it and that's why we renamed it to pre-trials for the Olympics . With this new development, we will be exploring the possibility of sending a small team to represent us in Nigeria," Tuwei said. The Confederation of African Athletics and the Nigerian Ministry of Youth and Development announced on Tuesday that they had reached a deal to stage the championships at the Teslim Balogun Stadium in Lagos. It comes as a sigh of relief for various athletes who had hoped to shine at the championships as well as attain the qualifying time for the Tokyo Olympics. However, Tuwei said it may be too late for such athletes to attain their Olympic dream because the final entries for Tokyo would have been submitted by then. "The championships offer a chance for our sprinters to also try and build upon their recent performances. But for the Tokyo Olympics, it will be too late  unless for the probables in the bubble training camp who have made the qualifying time for Tokyo," he said. The president allayed fears that the new developments have disrupted the federation's calendar of events, which they had revised when the championships were initially shelved. He described the competition as a godsend for athletes who have been starved of events due to the coronavirus although he warned them not to overload themselves with so many events. "I do not think it will interfere with what we have laid out. As a matter of fact, the championships will be held one week after we have conducted our trials for Tokyo. Nevertheless, the competition will be an advantage for our athletes to compete and build on their performances and profile in their athletics career," he said. Although the pre-trials were originally an invite-only event, AK have clarified that those invited not only include athletes who have met the qualifying mark for the Olympics but also the ones who have performed well so far this year. The three-day pre-trials will pit the best of the best in a battle for the right to do duty for the country in Tokyo. There will be a prize money for the top six finishers in the respective finals.