Sofapaka president Elly Kalekwa has said the rate at which match-fixing is gaining ground in the country's top tier is quite alarming and adequate measures should be put in place to clamp down the vice before matters spill out of control. Kalekwa made the remarks in an exclusive interview with the Star on Thursday, a couple of days after world football governing body, Fifa, banned and relegated Zoo Kericho from the Football Kenya Federation Premier League after finding them culpable of the vice. “That there is match-fixing in the country is no longer a secret. The vice has spread roots in the country and might expose our league and clubs to further sanctions if urgent measures are not put in place to arrest it,” said Kalekwa. Kalekwa confirmed stakeholders in the country had actually called a meeting before the competition was halted to deliberate on ways of nipping the vice in the bud. “It is a major concern and we had even sat down as FKF-PL chairmen in the past to discuss the way forward. Unfortunately, we are yet to achieve much given activities were halted following the government's suspension of sports activities due to the coronavirus pandemic." Kalekwa sensationally claimed contrary to the widespread perception that players were the sole proponents of the vice, it had actually found its way into the newsrooms as well. “There is more to it than meets the eye. While people might think only football players are involved, the fact of the matter remains even club officials are in the thick of it. But the most worrying part is that some sports journalists are part of the whole menace,” said Kalekwa. “The whole thing is unfair especially to those of us who have invested heavily in our clubs.” He was, however, categorical he had no idea if Sofapaka are also being investigated by fifa. Zoo chairman Ken Ochieng, in a statement on Tuesday, said he suspected their matches against Sofapaka and Wazito might have landed them in trouble. "The events purportedly leading to the charge involve two of the then Kenyan Premier League matches, now known as the Football Kenya Federation Premier League. The first match was played on January 27, 2019 in Machakos, Kenya between Sofapaka Football Club and Zoo Football Club. The second match was played on March 1, 2020 between Wazito Football Club and Zoo Football Club," read Ochieng's Statement. But Kalekwa insists the integrity of his players is above board, adding he highly doubts if Sofapaka could be caught up in a match-fixing scam. “We are yet to receive any communication from Fifa linking us to any match-fixing cases. As far as I'm concerned, our hands are clean and I highly doubt if any of the players would be involved,” said Kalekwa. 