The Anti-Corruption Court has ordered a Sh500,000 graft case against Bonchari MP-elect Robert Pavel Oimeke to proceed in a physical court on July 5. The case had been listed for a virtual hearing for two days before chief magistrate Peter Ooko but could not proceed after Oimeke was said to be unwell. The magistrate ordered the case to be heard in an open court for two days on July 5 and 6. The MP is out on Sh200,000 cash bail. In the case, Oimeke, a former director general of the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority, faces a charge of receiving Sh200,000 bribe from an employee of a petrol station in Oyugis, Homa Bay county. Oimeke is also charged with a second account of requesting Sh500,000 from Wycliffe Odhiambo via Signal private messenger app. According to the prosecution, Oimeke on December 2, 2020, being a person employed by the Energy and Petroleum Regulator Authority as director general,  requested a financial advantage of Sh500,000 from Odhiambo via Signal private messenger app. He requested the money with intent that, in return, he would authorise the unsealing and opening of Nyang'inja filling station based in Oyugis, Homa Bay county. The second count states that on December 10, 2020, Oimeke received a financial advantage of Sh200,000 from Odhiambo with intent that, in consequence, he would authorise the unsealing and opening of Nyang'inja filling station in Homa Bay county. On December 10, 2020, detectives from the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission arrested Oimeke after the complainant reported that he (Oimeke) was demanding a bribe. According to the EACC, they received a report of bribery allegations from a complainant, an employee of filling station in Oyugis, who alleged that Oimeke was demanding Sh200,000. The filling station had been closed after it was found in contempt of being in possession of super export petrol. The station had been fined Sh309,842 by KRA, which was paid. They were issued with a clearance letter to be taken to the DG EPRA to enable him to authorise the opening of the station.   