Kenya Medical Training College in Nakuru joined the world to mark World Hygiene day with calls for proper hand washing to avoid infections of communicable diseases. A micro-biologist based at the Kenya Medical Training College in Nakuru, Louise Nyakang’o, observed that sizeable population has dropped the guard on hand washing after the first wave of COVID-19 in 2020. The lecturer who led her students in sensitising food kiosk owners and eatery owners on the importance of proper hand washing, said hygiene was the key to fighting communicable diseases which were among the leading causes of death in developing countries. She added that communicable diseases such as diarrhea, stomach upsets, common colds, typhoid, dysentery and cholera were burdening hospitals in low income areas. “It is very unfortunate the people have dropped the guard and section of those compliant to hand washing only do it as a formality to be allowed into eateries or supermarkets,” she said Nyakang’o observed that half-hearted complaints do not feel obliged to wash hands the right way. On a brighter side, Nyakang’o observed that cases of communicable diseases have sharply dropped since the advent of COVID-19 in the country in early 2020 She attributed the drop to more proper hand washing which is one of the major protocol of avoiding Coronavirus infection had also stopped other infections. “Despite the few cases of people who are not following proper hygiene rules, more people have embraced proper hand washing with running water and soap compared to the case before COVID-19,” she said. Speaking when she led KMTC students to sensitise food joint owners on the importance of hand washing, Nyakang’o noted that eateries were major spreaders of communicable diseases and urged food kiosk owners to always insist on hand washing among customers and employees even after the COVID-19 pandemic. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) data in 2018, diarrheal diseases deaths in Kenya stood at 14 per cent of total deaths. Maureen Wangeci, medical lab and science student at KMTC applauded the introduction of compulsory hand washing saying it promotes proper hygiene. She noted that to help contain further spread of the pandemic there was a need to have concerted effort by all stakeholders. She observed that there was need to lay more emphasis on use of running water and soap especially when handling food noting that some had turned to using hand sanitizers at all times.