Most businesses in Nairobi are now working in full gear trying to clock as many hours as possible, in a quest to recover from the partial lockdown and 8pm curfew that was put in May. Business owners breathed a sigh of relief on May 1, when President Uhuru eased the restrictions, lifting travel restrictions in Nairobi, Kiambu, Nakuru, Machakos and Kajiado, and extending the curfew to 10pm. Hannah Mwende owns a cosmetics shop in the CBD. Usually, she used to open her shop at 8am and close at 6pm. With the 8pm curfew, she had to close at 5pm to ensure she was home in good time. With the reversal of the curfew to 10pm, she now opens her shop by 7.30am and closes 7pm to ensure she clocks as many hours as possible, adding her profits. Bernard Kiprono, a bodaboda rider in Syokimau has also extended his working hours to get as much profit as possible. “With the 8pm curfew, I had to close by 7pm. Business wasn't as good as peak hours for me start from 7.30pm. Now with the 10pm curfew I start working early by 7am and close at 9pm to help me recover from the low earnings in April,” said Kiprono. Along the streets of Nairobi, hawkers are also selling their wares untill around 9pm. "I am very happy the curfew was extended to 10 pm as most of my customers come in the evening after work so I can close at 9pm, the 8pm curfew had me losing on a lot of business,” said Elvis Maina,  a shoe dealer. For bar owners and operators however it is a different story. When Uhuru was tightening the Covid-19 measures in March, he closed down the bars so they did not have any business. On May 1, he allowed bars to reopen but close by 7pm. The bar owners and operators are now asking the government to increase operating hours to help them break even. The aviation sector which was also hit hard by the restrictions is now on full gear, witnessing enhanced demand with a high number of Kenyans seeking domestic air travel. Budget carrier Jambojet was charging Sh4,600 on May 2, on almost all the routes but the fares have so far gone up to above Sh6,000.