Tens of Traders in Nakuru were on Wednesday left in distress after Kenya Railways Corporation pulled down their structures which had been erected on its reserve land within the town. The affected stalls included a petrol station, eateries, salons, and vehicle workshops were outside Nakuru Railways Station/terminus which was once famed for being the cleanest in East and Central Africa. Property worth millions of shillings was destroyed while some of the traders pulled their structures in a last minute dash to save their building materials. The area hosted the main trading area for miraa leaves famously referred to as mugoka as tens of vehicles delivered fresh Khat leaves every morning. Looters took advantage of the confusion to steal from the businesses which have been operating on the open grounds for close to three decades. The structures had been marked for demolition but the owners were still buying time and trying to negotiate with the authorities for leniency owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The parastatal is recovering its grabbed land and reserves countrywide in a move that commenced early last year. The once vibrant corporation which has been dormant for years is preparing to revive operations. Some traders who had got wind of the demolition were lucky as they managed to remove their belongings before the exercise began. A trader, Paul Kimani said the move was ill timed because it was disrupting businesses in the middle of a pandemic that had greatly affected the economy. “I have been eking a living from this place, I have lost everything that I owned in this demolition and have no way of feeding my family,” he said. Peter Njoroge, termed the demolition as an injustice to the traders claiming that it was unfair to evict people from a piece of land that would remain vacant for an indefinite period of time. “KR has not done anything on the vast pieces of land where it has been evicting people since last year, why not allow people to continue using the land until such a time that it will be ready to utilise it,” he questioned. He said at least 1,000 traders will now be left jobless due to the move. On his part, Charlse Njenga, a trader, noted that evictions amid an economic collapse of small and medium sized enterprises was inhumane. Njenga faulted the government move saying it is slowly driving business out of the town’s CBD and called for a quick intervention.