A clergyman has warned against unnecessary political rhetoric, chest-thumping and bitterness following the court judgment that scuttled the BBI process. A five-judge bench on Thursday ruled that the BBI-driven constitutional amendment process was unconstitutional, drawing mixed reactions from the political class, with one side celebrating and another faulting the decision. The fallout of the ruling has seen the clergy weigh in on the constitutional reform impasse. PEFA Churches of Kenya Bishop John Okinda on Sunday said both parties—winners and the aggrieved—must prioritise the country's peace and cohesion over political interests and persuasions. Bishop Okinda spoke after a service at Thika Road PEFA Church. He appealed to the aggrieved parties to follow due process in having their voices heard. “We must strive to uphold the rule of law, equity, peace and prosperity. Kenya is bigger than all of us and the best we can do is uniting citizens by embracing the diversity exhibited in our national outlook,” Okinda said. He noted with concern the supremacy battles pitting the three arms of government—the Executive, the Legislature and the Judiciary—against one another, saying they must learn to respect their individual independence within the bounds of their constitutional and legal functions. Some proponents of the BBI process castigated the Judiciary, accusing the five judges—John Ngugi, George Odunga, Ngaah Jairus, Chacha Muita and Mumbua Matheka—of judicial activism and populism. “The other arms of government should not point fingers, abuse or ridicule the Judiciary because of the decision made regarding the proposed constitutional amendments proposed by the BBI. We expect them to respect each other to build a cohesive society without undermining each other,” the cleric said. Bishop Okinda called on the church to pray for the country to enable it to sail through the imminent political turbulence between the BBI proponents and opponents. “Our commitment towards interceding on behalf of the nation remains undeterred as the church shall remain in fervent prayers on behalf of our country,” he said.  Edited by F'Orieny