Police in Kisii on Thursday night broke into Governor James Ongwae's residence and disrupted his dinner with other ODM party leaders. Ongwae now accuses Interior Cabinet Fred Matiang'i for the raid. He said Matiang'i is out to intimidate him over his decision to back an ODM candidate in the Bonchari by-election set for next Tuesday. Pavel Oimeke is flying the Orange party's flag. The county chief told journalists at a press conference in Kisii that at 7.30pm, more than 50 security agents gained access to his residence along the Kisii-Kegati road by breaking down the gate. He said the officers told him they were instructed by the CS to undertake the raid. "There was no meeting, we were only having dinner. I find this act disturbing and outrageous," Ongwae lamented. Other leaders who condemned the raid were Kisii Senator Ongeri, Kisii Woman Representative Janet Ong'era and ODM secretary general Edwin Sifuna. Ongwae said it was unbecoming of the CS to misuse the police for political gain on behalf of the Jubilee Party. "There was no meeting going on, neither was it during curfew hours; we were only having dinner when they actually broke down my gate," an angry Ongwae said. Those at the dinner included Ongeri, Ong'era and Migori woman Representative Pamela Odhiambo. Ongwae said the raid had to do with the decision by ODM to field a candidate in the Bonchari by-election. "We have been campaigning under very difficult circumstances and a lot of problems on the ground. This is not the way to go," he said. Ongwae told Matiang'i to stick to his lane and stop misusing the police to achieve political mileage. "As an elected leader and as one who has diligently served the country in various capacities, I do not deserve the humiliation I was subjected to at night and I think he knows this, " he continued. He said the people of Bonchari have every right to elect their own leader in a manner that is free and fair. Ongwae said he will not grovel before Matiang'i, reminding him that he is in office legally. "As a leader who was elected overwhelmingly by our people, I would not grovel before him, and going forward it would mark a departure from the way we work," he said, adding that he had a congenial relationship with the President but such acts by the CS could soil it. Ong'era, for her part, termed it shocking that the residence of the governor could be broken into by state agents with uttermost impunity. "If the state has given you power, use it well, don't abuse it," she told the CS. She said Matiang'i should readily face them in a fair campaign rather than using the police to frustrate them. "If he is tired of a public service, let him resign and join politics. But let him allow us to campaign peacefully as it is happening in Juja," Ong'era said. Senator Ongeri said it would be an abortion of democracy to force a candidate on the Bonchari people. "They deserve all their rights to elect whoever they feel is right but let not any body force a candidate on them," Ongeri said. He said they had already received intelligence that the government plans to manipulate results. "On this, we say no and we will do all in our power to reject it," Ongeri said. Sifuna said it appears someone was testing the handshake bond between ODM and Jubilee. "We have had serious engagements to ensure the ties continue binding. Only that such acts are early signs that someone wants to test it," he said. Separately, UDA-affiliated leaders from Kisii also condemned the government for using the police to frustrate their campaigns. Speaking to journalists in Kisii, Kandara MP Alice Wahome and South Mugirango MP Sylivanus Osoro accused Matiang'i of abusing his office. Wahome said for the last one week, they have known no peace as they campaigned for Teresa Bitutu.