Seven days have elapsed since Police IG Hillary Mutyambai gave officers seven days to report on a video of a Mombasa policewoman complaining of sexual harassment. He ordered the report to be on his desk in seven days. It was not known whether the report has been completed or its contents. Viviana Hyline, 27,  a Mombasa officer, told the Star on Monday she has not received any help from the National Police Service headquarters. A senior police officer in Mombasa told the Star the matter is being handled internally from Nairobi. He said Mutyambai is keen to see that the probe is complete. The officer asked not to be named as he is not the official spokesperson. On May 8, a viral video showed Viviana complaining of sexual harassment, discrimination and corruption at the police's Internal Affairs Unit. The officer, based at Central police station, Mombasa, said she had tried to resign from the police service, but her efforts have been thwarted. She told the Star her troubles started in October last year when a male officer tried to seduce her. He had been transferred from Kamukunji police station in Nairobi to Mombasa. “One week after he was transferred, this officer tried to seduce me. I stopped him in his tracks but he did not stop. He went ahead to touch me inappropriately,” Viviana said. She said when she reported the sexual harassment to her seniors, no action was taken. She said another officer to whom she had reported the problem also harassed her. “I decided enough is enough, I will record a video and share it online so the seniors in Nairobi will know about the problems we female officers undergo,” she told the Star. She said after Mutyambai ordered a probe into the allegation on May 9, she received many calls from senior officers. “I got a call from a lady officer from Nairobi. She said she wanted to look into the issue. However, she started lecturing me, saying  I’m not the only female officer who has ever been harassed in the country." She added, “Is that someone who is ready to help me, really?” Viviana, who joined National Police Service in 2013, said she also got calls from the OCPD Central police station and OCS Mbaraki police station, asking her to record statements. “What statement do they want me to record again? At Central, the officers who will be taking my statements are the same officers who have been harassing me. I cannot do that,” she said. Viviana, who is single, said she stopped giving interviews to the press to respect the IG’s directive that a probe would be launched into her complaints. However, since nothing has been done in the last week, she said she will continue agitating for her rights. “I did not want to be seen as a troublesome lady. I said I will wait for the seven days to lapse and if nothing comes my way, I will start talking to the media again,” she said. The officer said she wants to resign peacefully from the service. (Edited by V Graham)