No individual involved in land disputes should be in possession of firearms, Athi River deputy county commissioner Charles Wambugu has said. Wambugu said armed land cartels in the subcounty  were posing a security threat. He said the area security committee which he chairs had tasked Athi River DCIO’s office to investigate such culprits and have their firearms withdrawn. “I have talked to the DCIO office to investigate individuals who are in land disputes and are in possession of guns,” he said. Wambugu addressed the press shortly after conducting a public baraza in Dramvelle land, Kamulu location in Lukenya on Thursday. He was accompanied by Athi River deputy subcounty police commander Salim Komora, Lukenya assistant county commissioner Elizabeth Kairitu, chiefs and their assistants, among others. Wambugu added, “If the guns are not licensed with the Fire Arms Licensing boards, that’s criminal and necessary actions will be taken. If the guns were issued by the Fire Arms Licensing Board through the OCS, subcounty and county security committees, we will take those firearms.” The administrator was responding to residents’ complaints that they were being terrorised by the armed individuals and could not access their rightfully owned parcels of land in the area. They accused those they termed as rogue police officers of colluding with and protecting the cartels who operate in the area with goons. The land owners said their attempts to have their plight addressed by relevant authorities had been futile. “We have not visited many offices in quest to have our issue addressed. Even the Presidency is aware of our complaints but nothing has been done. We wrote a letter to the Inspector General of Police on the rogue officers operations on our land, it was received and even some of us had an audience with the IG but nothing was resolved,” John Mutinda, a land owner in the area said. Wambugu said it wasn’t the first time he was hearing about the rogue officers. “Some land owners have claimed that there are police officers coming from other quarters to provide protection to land grabbers, we have taken note of that. This isn’t the first time I am getting that information,” Wambugu said. He added, “As the DCC and subcounty security chairman, I will sit with my committee and we are going to make recommendations. One of the possible recommendations is that we engage in thorough investigations to establish the security officers who come to our area to mess up security.” “We are told some of them are armed, some names have been mentioned. But, because we haven’t carried out thorough investigations, I want to leave the matter at that,” he said. Wambugu assured the residents that relevant offices will take the necessary actions. “If any officer is found to be working with land grabbers and assisting them to demolish an construct structures in land that they don’t own, the government doesn’t support that and we are going to take action accordingly," he said. -Edited by SKanyara