Kajiado Governor Joseph Lenku’s aide Jackson Meliyio has denied he threatened to shoot a blogger in Kimana town in Kajiado South subcounty. Meliyio, who talked to the Star on Monday, said he did not even brandish his pistol from its holster on Sunday when he had an argument with blogger Simon Kasaine. “What actually happened is that Kasaine and other people were making noise in a meeting held by Governor Lenku at a hotel in Kimana, and I went to tell them to keep quiet,” Meliyio said. He said after Kasaine refused to keep quiet, he told him to leave because the blogger and the other people had blocked the governor’s exit. “I am a professional soldier trained to guard VIPs and I understand well when to pull out my gun. Nobody’s life had been threatened to warrant such action,” Meliyio said. But Kasaine, who blogs for Kajiado South MP Katoo ole Metito on social media, dismissed Meliyio’s account of what happened, claiming that the aide actually pulled out his gun. “I am on my way to recording a statement with the DCI in Kimana because my life is in danger after the aide told me to my face that he would kill me,” claimed Kasaine. Kasaine said he was attacked by the aide while he was having a political discussion with Lenku’s chief officer John Njoroge and the CEC for Roads Alex Kilowua. Njoroge did not answer our call when we attempted to reach him on Monday. The blogger claimed the discussion with Lenku’s top officials happened near the curio shop and not at the gate as claimed by Meliyio. “After he pulled out his pistol, I also took up a stone from the ground. After a while he left us alone. I have to report this matter so as to end this animosity,” said Kasaine. He claimed that when Meliyio approached him in the meeting, he (aide) told him to stop attacking Lenku on Facebook or risk “biting the bullet”. Meliyio denied he ever made such remarks, adding that he was only restraining Kasaine and others from making noise in Lenku’s meeting. Loitokitok OCS Alex Khaemba said he had not received any complaints and was not aware of such claims. Metito will be facing Lenku in next year’s general election and bloggers from the two sides have taken their differences to social media. Both Lenku and Metito come from Kajiado South. Lenku recently claimed Metito was not his threat in the race. He said former Governor David Nkedianye is the only individual who can give him nightmares in that race that has three other people, namely, Francis Meja, Peris Tobiko and Tarayia Kores. 