The government has thrown the ball in the private sector’s court saying it has laid the foundation for more investment at the Lamu port. East African Community Affairs CS Adan Mohamed said on Saturday private sector players are expected to come and develop some of the berths at the new facility. Once complete, the port is expected to have 23 berths. Berth one is complete and was launched on Thursday by President Uhuru Kenyatta, who also received the first two ships. Berths two and three are expected to be completed in July and August respectively. By the end of the year, the three berths will be fully functional. They will have a bigger capacity than the entire Mombasa port, which has 21 berths. “The government has laid the foundation. Some Sh60 billion has been spent on three berths. We hope the private sector can capitalise on this big opportunity to build new cities along this corridor to ensure the infrastructure that will develop along this corridor will benefit the communities,” CS Mohamed said. Speaking in Mombasa, Mohamed said the government has already invested nearly Sh60 billion to develop the three berths in the first phase of the Lamu port construction. Thursday’s launch is the first step towards attracting bigger vessels to the country, the CS said. “The bigger the vessels the lower the unit cost of transporting cargo. So efficiency and lower cost is going to be realised through that port of Lamu once it becomes fully operational,” Mohamed said. Expected to develop in the near future around the port is Lamu industrial city, Lamu Special Economic Zone and a number of industries including machinery, textile and apparels, tourism and many others. At some stage, a railway network on the corridor and a petroleum and oil pipeline are expected to be developed in Lamu. Mohamed said the infrastructure development in Lamu will connect the Indian Ocean on the East to the Atlantic on the West. “And no more would cargo moving from East Africa have to go through Durban (South Africa) all round the ocean. It can just cut across, East to West into the US for example to take advantage of the trade regime of AGOA that we are enjoying,” the CS said. The Lamu Port South Sudan Ethiopia Transport (Lapsset) project has many components and the Lamu port is just one of it. The road network that will serve the Lamu port is undergoing construction as well. Besides the Lamu port, Uhuru on Thursday launched the 114km Lamu-Garsen road. The road between Garsen, Hola and Garissa is 80 per cent complete. The Garissa-Modogashe road is complete and tarmacked. The section Mogodashe-Isiolo stretch is yet to be tarmacked but works have started. The Isiolo-Moyale highway is one of the best highways connecting Kenya to Ethiopia. On Thursday, Uhuru also broke ground on the construction of the road from Lamu to Garissa through Ijara. The Lapsset project is expected to promote regional integration, linking Kenya with neighbouring countries. “What it will do is open up Northern Kenya, and attract a lot of opportunities especially for players in livestock sector. “Isiolo, as one of the cities in the centre of the country, will be one of the biggest beneficiaries of this programme,” Mohamed said. The Lamu port is intended to link into Ethiopia, and then Southern Sudan through Central Africa Republic, into the West Coast of Africa, currently between Senegal and Dakar and potentially even Douala in Cameroon, according to Mohamed. He allayed fears that the Lamu port will take away business from the Mombasa port. The Mombasa port will in the near future not be able to sufficiently serve the growing economies that it is currently serving including the EAC countries, the DRC and the targeted countries for attraction. “These economies are growing. The space we have in the Port of Mombasa is limited. Despite the expansions, it will not be sufficient in the future. We can’t even attract bigger ships that could reduce the cost of transportation,” CS Mohamed said. One berth in Lamu is about 400 metres long. The three berths launched on Thursday are 1.2km long, meaning bigger ships can dock there. “The capacity of the Mombasa port will not sufficiently serve the hinterland and the rest of the continent as and when the business community grows and the demand for goods that need to be transported through the port is going to increase,” Mohamed said. The Lamu port, once completed, will have 23 berths, able to handle larger ships, and will have cost the government nearly Sh2 trillion, according to CS Mohamed. “I don’t see this as a competition to the Port of Mombasa. It is going to complement the port instead. Some space will be created in Mombasa,” he said. Initially, the Lamu port is expected to be majorly a transhipment facility that will attract big ships, after which smaller and medium size vessels will pick cargo from there into places along the Somali coast, up to Salala, and Comoros, Dar es Salaam and as far down as Durban, South Africa. The end game, Mohamed said, is to connect the East Coast of Africa (Indian Ocean) to the West Coast (Atlantic Ocean). “That would entail nearly 40,000km of road from Lamu to the West Coast of Africa which will include electricity, fibre optic capabilities, water that will be running through, rail and pipeline,” the CS said. Some of the major shipping lines have committed to using the Lamu port. A lot of private public partnerships are expected, said Mohamed. The target is to first get business from the Southern parts of Ethiopia, which has a population of about 100 million people. A significant amount of the landlocked Ethiopia’s goods are imported through other ports including Port of Djibouti. Lamu to Moyale is about 980km and from Moyale to Addis Ababa about 500km. “We believe that Lamu port would be the best avenue for accessing the Southern part of Ethiopia,” Mohamed said. One of the biggest impediments to African countries trading together, the CS noted, is lack of infrastructure that would facilitate movement from one country to another. “And even if there was infrastructure, the immigration and customs procedures at border points have been wanting,” he said. However, this is being addressed through the one-stop border posts in Moyale and other parts. There are lands earmarked for industries, tourism facilities, and there would be significant demand for accommodation in Lamu now. This will create job opportunities for Lamu people and their neighbouring communities. Security in Lamu will be significantly improved with security facilities and infrastructure set to be established in the county and its environs. “This is not only a national strategic asset but also a regional strategic project that will require sufficient amount of security,” the CS said. 