Japanese automobile manufacturer Toyota is looking forward to writing more beautiful and memorable stories during the WRC Safari Rally on June 24-27 after a 19-year hiatus. Toyota Kenya managing director Arvinder Reel said they will put up a virtuoso performance through logistical support and on the race route through the Toyota Gazoo Racing team. "Toyota is not new when it comes to motorsports, either in active rallying or offering motorsport solutions across the world. In the history of the Safari Rally, Toyota recorded eight wins, with the first coming in 1984 with the efforts of the late Bjorn Waldegard in a Toyota Celica TCT," Reel said. Toyota quit the Safari Rally in 1999 before returning to the scene 18 years later where they have since claimed a manufacturer's title and two WRC Driver's Championships. Reel thanked the government and the Kenya Motorsports Federation for relentlessly lobbying for the return of the rally to the WRC calendar. "The return of the Safari Rally to the WRC calendar after a 19-year hiatus couldn't be more welcome considering that rallying is a sport that is deep at the heart of Kenya's national heritage. We are honoured to play a role towards the success of this year's edition," he said. He was speaking on Monday at the Toyota Kenya showroom after the car manufacturer unveiled a Sh30 million sponsorship towards the Safari Rally. Part of the sponsorship includes Sh2 million through the provision of an off-road Toyota Hilux double zero car to the WRC Safari Rally team, which will serve as a route-opener during the rally. The company further unveiled a replica of the 2019 Yaris WRC model of the Gazoo Racing team as well as a road version of the GR Yaris both of which will be available for public viewing at their showroom along Uhuru Highway. "The GR Yaris is a pure performance car born from Toyota's title-winning experience in the WRC. It brings motorsport technology and design directly to the world of the road car," Reel said. Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed described Toyota's partnership with Safari Rally as an example of the positive impact of public private partnerships on growth and development of sports. "Today's event brings us a step closer towards the return to action for the Safari Rally, in 44 days. This partnership embodies the spirit of PPP with regards to impact on humans and road safety," she said. Sports Principal Secretary Joe Okudo thanked Toyota for fulfilling their promise of supporting the organisation and staging of the Safari Rally.