Embattled Siaya Senator James Orengo on Thursday said he will not allow to be intimated or directed on how to execute his roles. In what appears targeted at his nemesis in the ODM party, Orengo said he has never been intimidated and will never allow that to happen in his political life. "I can never be intimated in my political life because I have seen many people come and go, I have seen many powerful people come and go," he said. He added, "I have seen Presidents come here and go. I have seen people who on their words you will leave this house and be locked in the same day, they have come and gone." Orengo is currently in trouble with ODM honchos for criticising provisions of the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. The senate minority leader sat in the joint justice and legal affairs committee of parliament that considered and picked holes in the bill. During the debate on the bill in the senate last week, the senior counsel tore into  several provisions of the bill, terming some of them unconstitutional. Speaking on the floor of the senate on Thursday, Orengo said he will continue to perform his duties and speaking his mind. He named influential names that defied the powers that be to and stood with their conscience. "I have seen very respected women in this country like Grace Onyango who was in the committee for special investigation relating to the disappearance of JM Kariuki and she stood firm. She was required to change a report of the national assembly and she stood firm," he said. Orengo chided those who try to muzzle the voices of those who they don’t agree with their opinion, and equated them to behaving like a nation of beasts. He has been in the eye of the storm in ODM after he was accused of going against the party position on the BBI Bill. On Tuesday, Rarieda MP Otiende Amollo seen to be close to Orengo, was kicked off from the Justice and Legal Affairs committee of the National Assembly. Jointly with their counterparts in the Senate, the committee considered the BBI bill and picked several holes in the document. On Wednesday, ODM was forced to issue a statement to refute reports that ODM leader Raila Odinga plans to remove from his position as the leader of Minority.