Talanta head coach Ken Kenyatta has chided his charges for failing to exhibit character in their barren draw against Migori Youth at Ruaraka Grounds on Wednesday. The National Super League leaders squandered a chance to open the gap on second-placed Kenya Police after sharing spoils with their resilient opponents and Kenyatta is not happy at all. Both Talanta and Police are level on 36points at the apex of the log but the former enjoy a superior goal difference. "We didn't give our best in today's match. We are certainly going to work on our shortcomings before our next league encounter. “Like I said yesterday ahead of the match, it is fatal to underestimate any opponent regardless of the position they are in the log," said Kenyatta. Migori Youth tactician Kevin Oluoch said he was quite happy with his charges for displaying character in the match. "We played well in the match and the results are quite satisfactory considering we were battling against the league leaders," said Oluoch. "The boys certainly played according to instructions. We possessed and attacked equally well and we were able to thwart their inroads," he added. Samuel Otieno missed an opportunity to put Migori in the driving seat after he was neatly teed up by Ernest Oyugi , only for Mawela Shela to clear the ball just when it had kissed the goal line. In the 11th minute, Barack Odhiambo thought he had broken the deadlock for Talanta but his celebration was nipped in the bud when centre referee adjudged him to have netted from an offside position. In the 18th minute Oyugi picked the ball deep in the midfield and dashed down the left channel, but his low cross into the area eventually went hurtling to the opposite begging for attention after all the spadework. In 28th minute, Ken Mutembei had a perfect opportunity to fire Talanta ahead when he came on the end of Brian Okeyo's cross, but his rasping shot rattled the crossbar before Nicholas Song cleared it for a corner. Talanta custodian Kevin Otieno was fortunate enough not to have given away an easy goal after he spat the ball in front of Migori central midfielder Ben Stanley following a cross from Michael Bosco. But Stanley will blame his slow reflex reaction for extending goal drought after Otieno stretched almost immediately to snatch the ball back before he did the damage. The last quarter of the first half looked a balanced affair with the teams ultimately proceeding to the break on level terms. Migori custodian Gideon Ogweno proved the hero yet again three minutes to full time with two successive saves first parring away Maurice Odipo's effort before blocking Barrack Odhiambo's shot on the second bite of the cherry. The results leave Talanta at the summit of the log with 36 points, and Migori still rooted in 15th with 22 points.  