More than 4,000 Kenya Prisons staffers who have stagnated in their ranks could be promoted by July. Interior Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said they are consulting stakeholders in the security sector to make the changes. “We will sort this out before July 1, and deal with the issue of rank stagnation. We care about that,” he said. He said commanders in the military, the National Police Service and prisons will meet with the Public Service Commission to address the issue as directed by President Uhuru Kenyatta. Matiang'i spoke Wednesday at Magereza House during the reception of the Kenyan team which excelled at the World Athletics Relays Championship in Silesia, Poland and the Kenya Prisons Women Volleyball team, which won the bronze medal at the just-concluded African Volleyball Club Championship in Tunisia. Over 4,000 prisons officers drawn from various ranks who passed promotion interviews last year have yet to be promoted. In the planned promotions, 1,503 officers of the rank of constable were to be elevated to the rank of corporal while 982 corporals were to be promoted to the rank of sergeant. Another 652 officers were to be promoted to the rank of senior sergeant. The last round of promotions took place in 2012, more than nine years ago. Officials say the delay in promotions has resulted in low morale in the service and caused management gaps. Some officers perform duties of ranks higher than theirs, a situation officials say may compromise service delivery and impact negatively on national security. Lack of funds for salary increases was one of the reasons cited for failure to promote the officers. The State Department for Correctional Services was this year allocated Sh20.65 billion for personal emoluments which include Sh409.7 million for promotions. Meanwhile, some senior officers were promoted by the PSC on June 9 last year. They have yet to receive salaries commensurate to their new ranks, with some officers retiring from the service without earning their dues. The prisons service has raised concerns it has been impaired by the turnover of personnel.  (edited by o. owino)