 Kwale residents have rejected free government mosquito nets, saying 'they speak at night' and cannot harm the insects. "People say the nets have big holes that allow mosquitos to get in and out easily, some said they hear the nets talk during the night and  some say the nets bring bedbugs," Kwale health executive Francis Gwama said. Five years ago, Coast residents rejected mosquito nets from the government citing similar reasons. They said the nets gave them sleepless nights and allergies. The majority instead used the nets for fishing and as barriers to protect tomatoes and chickens. The Ministry of Health in April launched a campaign to distribute 15.7 million treated nets in 27 high-risk malaria counties. About 25 million people are targeted in the drive. Some 500,000 nets were to be distributed to Kwale residents. The nets contain chemicals that can fight mosquitoes for a period of about three years. More than 100,000 households were targeted from 1,425 villages in Kwale. The county still has a high rate of malaria infection. More infections and malaria deaths were recorded last year. Children below five years and pregnant women were the most affected. Gwama said the government will make treated mosquito nets available for residents and sensitise them on their their proper usage. The executive termed residents allegations about the nets myths and misconceptions. He said the county had already launched campaigns to sensitise residents on the importance of using the nets. "We are using our community health volunteers to reach out to the residents in grassroots to offer some counselling and educate them," Gwama said. Community health officer Kache Nduva said the sensitisation programme has borne fruits. She said a big number of the residents have registered for the mosquito nets. Nduva advised residents to use the nets for the intended purpose saying they cost donors a lot of money even though they are distributed for free. The net distribution campaign was to cost the national government Sh8 billion. Nduva urged residents to clear bushes, unblock drainage and sleep under treated mosquito nets to flatten the curve against malaria infection.  Edited by P.O