Five people have perished and four others sustained serious injuries in a grisly road accident at Mwembeni in Samburu within Kinango sub-county along the Mombasa-Voi highway. The accident involved a lorry and private vehicle make Nissan Serena that went head-on-collision. The Nissan had carried nine passengers. Among the dead are three children between the age of six months to six years. Kinango sub-county police commander Fredrick Ombaka said the lorry was traveling from Voi to Mombasa and the Nissan from Mombasa to Nairobi when the accident occurred. It said the transit lorry was overtaking another vehicle before colliding with the oncoming private Nissan. “The heavy commercial vehicle was speeding to pass a car that was in front of it but unfortunately the driver had miscalculated the distance and hit the personal Nissan on its right,” he said. The Nissan driver died on the spot. Police identified the dead as; Erick Omondi Otieno,36, Esther Akinyi Omullo, 32, Marylne Otieno Omondi,6, Judith Aicho Omondi,4, and Biden Lukas Omondi six months old. The dead were taken to Kinango mortuary and the injured rushed to Samburu hospital. Some were referred to Mombasa for specialized treatment. Ombaka advised motorists to be extra careful while on roads. Cases of road accidents have been on the rise in Kwale since last year claiming many innocent lives. Recently, three people died after the tut-tuk they were travelling in went head-on collision with a lorry carrying gas cylinders at Vuga in Matuga sub-county. Speeding and flouting of traffic rules were attributed to the increasing number of road accidents in the region. County security listed Kinango, Samburu, Vuga, Ukunda, Tiwi and Kombani as among the black spots for accidents. Last week, County Police Commander Amrose Oloo warned drivers against reckless driving. It is said heavy commercial drivers oftentimes disrespect the matatus, tuk-tuks, motorbikes and small private vehicles while on roads and end up causing accidents.