Civil society groups from Northern Kenya are appealing to President Uhuru Kenyatta to consider three more constituencies not included in the 70 proposed by BBI. The consortium of four groups is seeking the President's personal intervention to consider the three potential constituencies left out of the Building Bridges Initiative allocation and BBI Bill. The constituencies are Wajir South, Ijara (Garissa) and North Horr (Marsabit). The human rights defenders say the three constituencies have met all criteria  for delimitation and should be considered. For instance, Wajir South has 290,948 inhabitants, according to the 2019 Kenya Population and Housing Census. It covers 5,336,487 acres (21,596 square kilometres). The lobbies are the Northern Pastoralists Association, Hoko and Shalette Shallow Wells Cooperative Society, Northern Lands Watch and Wao Trust. Abdirahman Abdille of the  NPA said the BBI formula distributing proposed 70 additional constituencies will  entrench marginalisation of the area that has suffered over the years. “We are therefore appealing to President Uhuru Kenyatta to personally intervene  and ensure not only is Wajir South constituency delimited but also the constituencies of Ijara in Garissa county and North Horr in Marsabit. They all meet the criterial for delimitation of constituencies," Abdille said. President Kenyatta is aware of the plight of the peopl of Northern Kenya, a region covering 60 per cent of the Kenyan land mass, he said. "He should utilise all the resources at his disposal to ensure Northern Kenya residents are not going to continue to be marginalised.” Abdille said the task of distributing the proposed constituencies should have been left in the hands of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, not politicians. Politicians can call for more constituencies but only the IEBC can delineate them by law. “Delimitation of boundaries was supposed to take place this year and the process did not happen, so  we are wondering how BBI reached at the proposed 70 new constituencies without the review of constituencies by IEBC,” he said. He said the proposal for new constituencies gives the most to Rift Valley, Nairobi, Central and Coast but BBI ignores deserving constituencies in Wajir and other pastoralist areas. The Constitution of Kenya (Amendments) Bill, 2020, which has already been endorsed by the National Assembly, will distribute the 70 new units amongst 28 counties. Nairobi would get 12 new constituencies. Kiambu and Nakuru would get six and five constituencies, respectively; Kilifi would get four more seats. Mombasa, Kwale, Machakos, Narok, Kajiado, Uasin Gishu and Bungoma counties would get three each. Meru, Trans Nzoia, Bomet, Kakamega and Kisumu counties will get two additional constituencies. Mandera, Embu, Makueni, Kirinyaga, Murang’a, Turkana, West Pokot, Nandi, Laikipia, Kericho, Siaya and Nyamira counties each would receive one constituency. (Edited by V. Graham)