As I reported to you several weeks ago, Harry Kane has told Tottenham that if any bids come in for him during the summer he wants them to be seriously considered. Having very little to show for his years of serving Spurs, his trophy cabinet is almost empty. Soon to turn 28 years of age, Harry knows this is his chance to win some medals. He has been told by his agents and representatives that three clubs have made serious enquiries. Chelsea and the two Manchester clubs, United and City have all been in contact with Tottenham. Currently, City are the favourites to sign him. Harry still has three years left on his contract and tough negotiator Daniel Levy, who controls Tottenham, will not let him go for anything but a fortune and possibly over £100million. Spanish clubs such as Real Madrid and Barcelona cannot afford Harry and European clubs are also scared by Spur’s price tag despite the striker being classed in the top five in the world. Having spoken to several of Harry’s closest confidants I can reveal that he would like to stay in the Premier League but a move to Chelsea would not go down well with Spur’s supporters so that leaves City and United and Pep Guardiola needs to replace Sergio Aguero therefore he will be pushing hard to sign Harry. The situation is urgent because Harry wants everything to be settled before the Euros start next month however based on past negotiations which involved Levy, such as Gareth Bale and Luka Modric to Real Madrid, this process could take most of the summer and will involve a lot of patience. Luiz on way out of Emirates Arsenal and David Luiz have talked over his position at the club and both parties have decided he willleave at the end of the season. Paying tribute to the Brazilian, coach Mikel Arteta said, “I’ve enjoyed learning from David and he’s been very helpful with the team and I feel sadness because you get attached to players emotionally. He’s also a greatperson.” Hector Bellerin, Willian and Alexandre Lacazette are also under review and could leave. Hodgson out and Lampard in at Palace? With Roy Hodgson deciding to call it a day at Crystal Palace his job could go to Chelsea legend Frank Lampard. Palace want a different type of manager to Hodgson who has kept the London club mid-table for the last few years but owner Steve Parishnow wants to mix it more with the elite clubs. 42-year-old Lampard has been looking around for anopportunity since leaving the Blues and living only about 10 miles from Palace in South East Londonwould be ideal. Chelsea fans might not be too impressed however and would prefer him to work for a northern club and not a London rival team. Lampard is a promising coach and has been linked with the vacant England Under-23 job however he says he wants to stay in club management.Palace are already looking at players who Lampard could improve and 19-year-old Abdallah Sima who plays for Slavia Prague has been mentioned to me as someone they would liketo sign. Frank’s former pupil Tammy Abraham is another who could be tempted across London and also the teenage Billy Gilmour who has a definite future in the Premier League. Allardyce calls it a day Sam Allardyce has rejected anew offer to continue as manager at West Bromwich. The “firefighter”, as he is known because of his ability to save clubs under threat of relegation from the Premier League, will retire from coaching to his estate in Spain after the season ends next week. Ex-Sheffield United manager Chris Wilder is very keen to replace Allardyce and is talking to the Sheffield board. Time for Raheem Sterling to think about his future Over the past three years Raheem Sterling has been an automatic name on the teamsheets of both Manchester City and England.When City beat Paris St Germain in the Champions League semi-final Pep Guardiola chose Riyad Mahrez and Phil Foden in front of Raheem who was left on the bench. He was then picked for an unimportant game against Crystal Palace. The fact is that Guardiola now considers Raheem his second choice. In his previous 14 games for club and country he has scored only once and whereas he still possesses that electric acceleration and ability to skip past defenders his accuracy and final touch is seriously questioned. City now also have the option of Ferran Torres who is coming into some good form and the 21 year-old has the ability to improve making him even more of a threat to Raheem. In the England set up his place is threatened by both JadonSancho and Mason Mount. It is time for the talented wing man to sit back and look at his career and decide where he wants to go. If he decides to leave, and this is entirely possible, there will be no lack of clubs queueing up for his signature. Previous bad-tempered transfers between Levy and Manchester I can reveal to you that staff at Tottenham have been planning on Harry Kane leaving for some time. Scouts and recruitment agents were briefed several months ago to identify which players could replace him this summer. Manchester City’s Gabriel Jesus was one name put forward and United’s Anthony Martial was another. With Covid taking a heavy toll on club finances Spurs’ have recognized that a simple transfer of money might be very difficult and therefore top quality players come into play as an exchange possibility.However, Daniel Levy has a bad history of negotiations with the two Manchester clubs and will not want to deal with them if he can avoid it. The transfers of Michael Carrick and Dimitar Berbatov and the transfer of Kyle Walker four years ago were bad tempered affairs. Mata’s choice if he is to stay with United Manchester United are in discussions with Juan Mata as the 33 year-old’scontract expires at the end of next month. Ole Gunner Solskjaer has indicated that he would like to keep Mata although his playing time would be limited. This season has been a difficult for Juan with injury and the illness of his mother and her passing away in March. Mata has made 188 appearances for United in the Premier League but his start against Leicester was only his fifth since before Christmas. Solskjaer is leaving the decision to Mata as to whether he stays or not. Why are the City playersbeing so nice to Pep? I had to smile this week when I heard that Manchester City players are all making a big effort to bevery nice and respectful to Pep Guardiola at the moment. Each and every one of them wants him to give them a place in the Champions League final team in a week’s time. Liverpool’s big happy family As goalkeeper Alisson celebrated his wonder last minute headed goal against West Brom last weekend it was great to see how pleased every Liverpool player was as they swamped him with hugs, kisses and slaps on the back. Alisson is one of the most popular members of the Liverpool squad and the team have been supporting him lately when his father passed away. Defending wing-back Andy Robertson said, “We are one big happy family. Whenone of us hurtswe all feel the impact. The goal was an incredible moment for him and I’m sure there wasn’t a dry eye in Brazil. His dad is looking over him.” Trials of dramatic changes to offside laws Arsene Wenger(remember him) is set to be recognised for sorting out the current controversial offside laws which mystify players and anger managers every week. FIFA is going ahead with trials of what will be, if it is adopted, the biggest change to offside laws for 100 years. “Wenger’s Law” as it is referred to, will give strikers an advantage over defenders because an offside offence will only be called if there is clear “daylight” between the attacker and defender. The current offside law which penalises an attacker if a boot, an arm oreven an elbow is nearest to the goalkeeper and this will disappear. Trials are set to go ahead in the Chinese league and also includes ending the law which means any handball – even accidental – that results in a teammate being given a goalscoring opportunity is penalised. If a forwardhandles the ball accidentally in the build-up to a goal it will not be penalised. Pedro brings in his top team – mum and dad! Wolves 21-year-old Pedro Neto has attracted a lot of attention with his recent performances. He is currently jointtop goal scorer at the club and is improving with every game. What is the secret of his success? Mum and Dad! Pedro loves his family so much that he moved his parentsfrom their home in Portugal to Wolverhampton following his £16million move from Italianclub Lazio in August 2019. Now Pedro Senior drives him to training every day and mum Cristina looks after things at home.