The electoral agency will on Tuesday conduct two parliamentary by-elections likely to to give momentum to parties preparing for the 2022 General Election. The Bonchari by-election in Kisii and the Juja parliamentary contest shaped into popularity contests for the major political parties as campaigns closed on Saturday. In Bonchari, the battle is pitting President Uhuru Kenyatta's Jubilee Party, Raila Odinga's ODM and DP William Ruto-linked UDA. In Juja, Jubilee will face off with Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria's candidate running on the People's Empowerment Party. The DP is understood to be backing Kuria’s candidate in Juja. A by-election will also be held in Rurii ward in Nyandarua where Jubilee is battling UDA. The Bonchari seat was left vacant following the death of MP Oroo Oyioka. The Juja one became vacant following the death of MP Francis Munyua Waititu alias Wakapee who succumbed to brain cancer on February 22. On Monday, a torn ballot box caused a stir at the Bonchari materials distribution centre. ODM officials said the torn Bogiakumu box had begun to swirl possible rigging claims ahead of the voting on Tuesday. Speaking to the media at Suneka tallying, ODM National Treasurer Timothy Bosire said a senior civil servant was intent on ensuring Jubilee Party wins. “I want to tell him that if he is interested in politics, he should come out in the open and participate in the game,” he said. “As a party, however, we want the Bonchari people to be given a chance to pick their own leader without such interference.” Secretary-general Edwin Sifuna said they will root for nothing less than free and credible polls. He said he hopes the torn box at the distribution centre is not part of the wider calculated scheme to rig. “We got information that some papers were brought in a torn box. Upon reaching here, however, we have been assured that it was spoiled on delivery. We hope they are telling us the truth,” Sifuna said. They claimed that some ballot boxes were being staffed and that they were being hauled to some senior government officer from the region. The claims were denied by subcounty returning officer Benson Ambuko. Ambuko said the ballot box was affected during transportation and besides the tear, they have ascertained that everything is in order. In Bonchari, Uhuru’s Jubilee Party is sponsoring Zebedeo Opore while Ruto-linked UDA settled for Teresa Bitutu, widow of the former area MP. Raila’s ODM on the other hand has former  Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority's managing director Pavel Oimeke flying its ticket. Other candidates in the race are former Woman Rep Mary Otara (United Green Party), Jonah Ondieki (New Democrats) Victor Omanwao (People’s Economic Development (PED), Charles Mogaka (Progressive Party of Kenya (PPK), David Ogega (Kenya Social Congress), Kevin Mosomi (PDU), and Eric Oigo (National Reconstruction Alliance). In the high stakes Juja election, the contest is shaping up to be between Jubilee’s Susan Njeri, widow of the ex-MP and Kuria’s People’s Empowerment Party of Kenya which is sponsoring businessman George Koimburi. Also in the race are Maendeleo Chap Chap’s Antony Kirori, Eunice Wanjiru of the National Democrats, Kenn Gachuma of the National Liberal Party and John Njoroge Mburu of People’s Party of Kenya. Others are medical doctor Joseph Gichui, James Marungo Kariuki alias JM and Zulu Thiong’o who are all independent candidates. In Rurii, the duel is between UDA’S Francis Muraya and the ruling Jubilee’s  Peter Thinji. The seat fell vacant in January following the death of county representative John Mburu popularly referred to as Wamaria after a long battle with cancer. Others battling out for the ward seat are Isaac Nderi, who is vying on a Maendeleo Chap Chap ticket, Susan Wangeci Wamunga of the New Democrats, Peter Gathika of the Democratic Party and Gabriel Gitome (independent). In the constituency where at least 52,995 voters are expected to turn up to cast their votes to pick their MP, Ambuko urged the electorate to turn up in large numbers to vote. He said security has already been beefed up to ensure peaceful voting. “For now, everything has been put in place and that is why we are urging every voter registered here to go and vote,” he said. By Monday morning, police officers had already been hauled to the constituency to forestall any mayhem. In Juja, residents are upbeat that the leader they will elect will address major problems that have bedevilled the constituency for decades. Speaking to the Star on Monday, the residents said they will not consider the candidates’ political parties or political inclinations but will be keen to vote in an individual who will lobby for developments and offer solutions to their problems They said that they have evaluated all candidates gunning for the Juja seat and they will make a wise decision at the ballot. They pleaded with other leaders to keep off from the voting exercise and give them space to elect their leader of choice. Susan Wangui pointed out land disputes resulting from massive land grabbing and multiple allocations by land buying firms has been a thorny issue facing thousands of Juja residents. She said most residents lack the requisite land ownership documents. Wangui said that most residents who will turn up for the by-elections hope that the leader who will emerge victorious will lobby and spearhead for construction and opening of a Lands registry in Juja town to address all land matters. “Most residents lack title deeds and this has been the reason why land squabbles are escalating in Juja. We want whoever will be elected to prioritize opening a lands registry in Juja town to address all land issues,” Wangui said. Another resident George Mirigo said that they expect roads to be constructed to open up the expansive constituency warning candidates of using road projects as their campaign tools. “We have been given fake promises for years that roads will be constructed once we vote in a certain person. We have been electing leaders but they never fulfil their promises. We hope that this narrative will be brought to an end by the leader who will be elected,” Mirigo said.   Edited by Damaris Kiilu