The Kenya Railways set to resume operations on the Nakuru-Kisumu route with President Uhuru Kenyatta expected to officially launch the line this weekend ahead of the Madaraka Day celebrations. Kenya Railways Corporation (KRC) board chairman Maj. Gen. (Rtd) Omudho Awitta said that major rehabilitation works along the line have been completed apart from small works remaining to be completed by next month. Awitta noted that Uhuru and ODM leader Raila Odinga will be the first group of passengers to take a ride on the line during their tour of Kisumu for the celebrations. “I cannot disclose the exact location where they will board, but the President and Raila will ride on the train as they get into Kisumu before they lead the official commissioning of the project,” he said. The resumption of the operations will open up the region for trade. It will also come as a sigh of relief to a number of old towns that collapsed after the train services were halted. The train will breathe life in some of the sleepy towns and open up opportunities for business. Already businesspersons have been told to take advantage of the new development because they will be having the opportunity to transport their goods to other parts of the country for sale aboard the train. Awitta noted that the Nakuru Railway Station which was being rehabilitated is also ready for use by passengers. “We will officially announce the dates when passenger and cargo services begin and Kenyans will also be notified on the preferred charges and schedule before the resumption of the services,” he said. The chairman was accompanied by  Petroleum and Mining Principal Secretary Andrew Kamau and Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation (ICDC) chairman John Ngumi. The military was contracted by the Kenya Railways to rehabilitate the 216-kilometre railway at Sh3.7 billion for the project that was abandoned and neglected for two decades. The century-old line has 18 stations, serving several towns. The line will connect to the Sh3 billion rehabilitated Kisumu port, enabling the ferrying of cargo and passengers to Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi and the DRC via Lake Victoria. It will stimulate the economy along the route where businesses will spring up. The line was rehabilitated to support the upgraded port. If the route is not utilized, the port risks becoming a white elephant.