Kenyans could soon find relief for escalating fuel prices if a fresh push in the Senate to amend the law and review legal notices materialises. Senators are calling for changes to the Petroleum Act, 2019 and two legal notices that give room for the skyrocketing prices to ease the burden and relieve pain on consumers. “One of the core roles of Parliament is legislation by amending parts of the law that require change,” Vihiga Senator George Khaniri said. The legislators said that Parliament should amend the Act and call for review of the Legal Notice No.196 of 2010 and the Legal Notice No.26 of 2012 to provide a caveat to cushion Kenyans from the extremely high price increase. The Act and notices provide for the many taxes that have contributed to the increasing cost of fuel. Kenyans pay nine different taxes and levies on the products. There has been public outrage over the high prices of the commodity in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Last week, the Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority increased the price of super petrol by Sh3.56 per litre while that of diesel and kerosene remained unchanged for the period May 15 to June 14. This was despite a marginal decrease in the landed cost of the product. This came a month after Kenyans protested the sharp increase in the prices of diesel, kerosene and petrol in March that forced the Treasury to intervene to retain the prices in April. “EPRA is performing its statutory duty in publishing the maximum pump price for petroleum products in strict adherence to the legislation enacted by Parliament, notwithstanding the current revenue shortfalls in the country,” Khaniri said. “However, we still must have this conversation, as it is what the people we represent expect from us. Nobody should gag or reprimand Kenyans in this discourse as we seek solutions.” Khaniri implored the House, through the Energy committee, to summon Energy CS Charles Keter and the regulator to explain short term plans to reduce the prices as Parliament mulls long-term plans to tame the escalating prices. A comparison of pump prices of petroleum products across the region reveals that prices in Kenya are the highest in East Africa, higher than even landlocked countries. “This scenario has two immediate implications. One is the economic hardship to the general public and, two, closure of industries and capital flight. This will, in turn, lead to slower growth of the economy,” Khaniri said. Taxes and levies Kenyans pay on petroleum products include Sh18 per litre of petrol and diesel as Road Maintenance Levy, Sh5.40 as Petroleum Development Levy and Sh0.25 per litre as Petroleum Regulatory Levy. They are also paying Sh0.95 per litre of petrol as the Railway Development Levy, Sh18 per litre of kerosene as anti-adulteration levy and Sh0.03 per litre as Merchant Shipping Levy. Import Declaration Fee takes Sh1.65 per litre of petrol while Value Added Tax is Sh9.10 for petrol, Sh7.97 for diesel and Sh7.25 for kerosene. Elgeyo Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen said the ever-increasing fuel prices have made life unbearable for most Kenyans. “I do not know how the common mwananchi is surviving because, even MPs who are paid a good salary by Kenyans, are crying about fuel prices,” he said. “We need to encourage more citizens, through public interest litigation, to go to court and stop these orders. How come the ERC is always increasing the price of fuel?” Marsabit Senator Godana Hargura appealed to the government to be sensitive to the plight of the citizen and reduce the taxes. He lamented that more than 50 per cent of the cost of fuel per litre is taxed by the Kenyan government. “They need to reduce that because they tax a lot and it affects the cost of living,” Hargura said. “This negates the purpose of tax because the government is supposed to facilitate so that mwananchi can, on their own, contribute to the development of the economy.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris