Tension is high in Kiserian, Baringo South, after two people were shot dead by suspected armed bandits on Thursday. The attackers, believed to have come from neighbouring Tiaty subcounty, shot dead 70-year-old Lokuyalem Lemilita and his 10-year-old grandson, a Grade 4 pupil at Kiserian Primary School. The pupil was shot in the head and died on the spot. His grandfather was shot in the back and died while being taken to the county referral hospital, 50 kilometres away. “They were both herding their animals at Bartulo Hill when the bandits ambushed and attacked them at around 3pm” Baringo South subcounty police commander Benjoliffe Munuve said on Friday. The two bodies were moved to the Baringo County Referral Hospital mortuary in Kabarnet town. The bandits fled with 67 head of cattle towards Ramacha, Laga Mbaya and Mlima Karau. The police and area youth pursued and returned 37 of them. The search for the rest is on. “Tension is still high, but our police officers are intensifying patrols to pursue the bandits. The raids are almost becoming a routine exercise in the area,” Munuve said. He said the bandits come from Chepkalacha, Silale and Akwichatis in Tiaty. It was the sixth attack in one month. Since April, many people, among them schoolchildren, have fled the area fearing for their lives. On May 8, an unknown number of bandits attacked Chemorong’ion in the same subcounty and drove away some 74 head of cattle. The animals have yet to be recovered. On March 25, 65-year-old Gabriel Lekichep was shot dead and Jackline Lekidogo, 36, was seriously injured alongside her two- and-a-half-year-old child. The woman and her child were hospitalised and the man was buried under tight security. On April 15, a Kenya Defence Forces soldier was shot dead at close range during a heated fire exchange with heavily armed bandits. Security agents have come under sharp focus for failing to end banditry and cattle rustling. The volatile areas in Baringo South are home to a contingent of security officers, including KDF, General Service Unit, Rapid Deployment Unit and the Kenya Forest Service wardens. They are currently conducting an operation. Residents live in fear that the bandits may be planning major attacks. Leshaan Olesupen said they had made reports to the security officers three days ago about some strange men armed with guns seen roaming around the area but no action was taken to arrest and disarm them. “something should be done urgently to control the surging criminals,” Ole’ Supen said. Munuve urged the locals to remain calm and never retaliate as officers pursue the perpetrators to their hideouts. Last week, area MP Charles Kamuren questioned why the government seemed lenient with the bandits. “We are tired of mourning and burying our people every now and then, yet the government keeps silent; it doesn’t seem to provide a lasting solution to the perennial problem of banditry,” Kamuren lamented. Residents said the gun-wielding criminals are having a field day. "We need to understand why civilians possessing guns are left to roam around our villages freely, despite an ongoing operation to flush them out," Kiresian resident Betty Lakangaran said.