Garissa county and development partners will create ward planning committees to enhance service delivery to the residents. Environment executive Habon Maalim urged partners to help create these committees to fast-track development. “Garissa is vast, the resources and expertise are limited. There is, therefore, the need for our partners to chip in and help in the formation of these grassroots units which are key in realising devolution and development at the lowest levels,” Maalim said. He said the main aim of the ward planning committees is to streamline governance by spearheading and informing on matters which touch on issues affecting wards. The CEC said the committees would tackle issues on peace, cohesion, land, development, environment, water, education and resource allocation on the grassroots level. “These ward committees will make recommendations to the county planning committee which will help in shaping decision-making and mitigating against a waste of resources and impromptu development since every decision is guided by the ward development plan,” she said. Mercy Corps, a development partner which has supported the formation of three ward committees in Banane, Bura and Masalani unveiled a local partner Road International Organization that will carry out a similar exercise in Balambala and Waberi wards. The project is implemented under a collaboration of the county government and the LMS-Mercy Corps programme. Mercy Corps county program coordinator Siyat Moge said the LMS program is aimed at enhancing the capacity of the local partners as they drive such initiatives in future. Moge thanked the county government for creating an environment conducive to achieving these milestones. Maalim commended Mercy Corps for its approach to addressing community issues. “My department took the lead in the formation of the ward-based development committees and getting the community priorities through this process was a great lesson,” she said. Garissa deputy speaker Mohamud Abass who is also Waberi ward MCA and Aden Abaile of Balambala ward expressed optimism that the new units would improve the quality of lives for their people. Abass said the programme implements a poverty graduation model where women access grants to start businesses. “Having the ward plan is a twofold success to the people of Waberi,” he said. Bura MCA Abdullahi Omar said his ward pioneered ward-based planning as well as the poverty graduation model. He expressed hope that all the 30 wards in Garissa would have their own programme.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris