Two suspected bandits have been arrested and more than 70 guns seized in the ongoing security operation in the Baringo-Turkana border. The security operation began on January 20 two days after suspected bandits attacked and killed General Service Unit commander Tebakol Emadau in Kapedo. Four days after the killing of the GSU officer, police officer Moses Lekairab and his driver Benson Kaburu were shot dead at Amayan Bridge. Several civilians were also killed and others injured. Baringo county commissioner Henry Wafula said on Wednesday they have also recovered 190 stolen animals. Wafula said the seized 70 firearms was the largest number of illegal guns to have so far been repossessed in the area since 1994. He said the suspects will soon be arraigned to face criminal charges. The recovered animals have been returned to the owners. “At this point we shall not reveal the number of the bandits that have already been neutralised in the bushes but we are telling them as government we are here to stay until all of them are wiped out,” Wafula said. Tension is high in Mukutani, Baringo South as the bandits lay frequent attacks on the military and police camps. The village where the operation is ongoing is inhabited by the Ilchamus, Tugen and Pokot pastoral communities. Security officers including KDF, GSU, Rapid Deployment Unit and the Kenya Forest Service wardens have camps in the area. On April 15, suspected bandits shot and killed one KDF soldier a few metres from their Mukutani camp. Wafula on Wednesday assured the residents of their security, saying enough officers have been deployed. “We are requesting teachers to go and teach without any fear for their lives because we shall provide security in all our schools in the insecurity-prone areas, including Mukutani,” he said. More than 2,000 students have yet to resume learning in Chemoroing’ion, Arabal, Kapndasum, Embosos, Sinoni, Kasiela, Chebinyiny and Sossionte primary schools in Baringo South. Earlier on March 23, Rift Valley regional commissioner George Natembeya gave 30-days pause on operations during a peace meeting with residents. Tiaty MP William Kamket, West Pokot Governor John Lonyangapuo, Baringo Senator Gideon Moi, Woman Rep Gladwel Cheruiyot and Governor Stanley Kiptis were present. “We are requesting the government to kindly lift the operation so we can go round as leaders to talk to our people to stop banditry and surrender the illegal guns,” Kamket said. Two days later on March 25, Gabriel Lekichep was shot dead in Mukutani and Jackline Lekidogo injured in an attack. “The one-month amnesty was given to the bandits by the government out of goodwill but then they have proved to be stubborn and daring so we have got no choice than to deal with them head on. We shall not get tired,” Wafula said. Last Friday, armed men attacked Chemorong’ion in Baringo South and stole 74 head of cattle belonging to three Tugen herders. They have yet to be recovered. Meanwhile, more than 10,000 hungry residents are in dire need of food, water and medication in parts of Kapedo, Baringo North, Tiaty and Baringo South. Families are going without food after security officers mounted intensive roadblocks to cut off movements. Pastoralists have been curtailed from migrating to look for pasture and water for their livestock. Humanitarian agencies like the Kenya Red Cross and World Vision have also been restricted from distributing food and other items to residents. “Let them continue eating and surviving with their livestock until the last one,” Baringo police commander Robinson Ndiwa said. 