MCAs in Uasin Gishu have summoned for grilling county executives about failure to use more than Sh4.5 billion allocated for development. The assembly formed an ad hoc committee chaired by Cheptiret MCA Gilbert Tenai to investigate why Governor Jackson Mandago's administration was unable to use the money allocated for projects. The MCAs complained that there had been huge roll of cash for development every financial year, yet residents still complain about underdevelopment, with many projects stalled. Most of the executives have already appeared before the committee, which has been mandated to table a report within two weeks. Environment and Water executive Mary Njogu—the first to be summoned—said her department had inadequate staff and contractors in the region were experts in writing proposals but failed in delivery when awarded tenders. “Most staff in the department retired and currently we rely on two to carry out designs on more than 100 water projects in the county every year,” she said. Roads executive Gideon Birir blamed bad weather and lack of fuel for delays in completion of road works, while Trade executive Emily Kogos requested more time to give an explanation. Establishing the committee, assembly Majority leader Josphat Lowoi said it would investigate all departments to establish why they were not spending the money.  The move was seconded by Minority leader Ramadhan Ali. Deputy speaker Hosea Lamai directed the committee to give a report in two weeks so that action can be taken against culpable officers. In her latest reports on counties, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has faulted Uasin Gishu for failure to use Sh3.5 billion allocated in 2017-18. Lowoi said the formation of the probe team did not amount to a witch-hunt against Mandago. “We have formed the committee to know the facts,” he said. At the same time, donors have withdrawn more than Sh500 million funding for projects in Uasin Gishu, causing an uproar among MCAs. The county has been receiving conditional grants amounting to more than Sh1.3 billion annually for projects, but within the last five years, the support has reduced by more than half. The ward reps last week approved the Uasin Gishu County Fiscal Strategy Paper, 2021, moved by MCA Jonathan Ng'etich, who is the chairman of the Budget committee, but raised concerns about the withdrawal of donor support. “We need to find out why there is a high reduction in conditional grants to our county, yet we have many projects that need the support,” Ngetich said. Tarakwa MCA Patrick Bundotich also questioned why donors were reducing financial support. He said they would seek a response from Mandago’s administration. Auditor General Gathungu has also faulted the county for the low absorption of donor funds. She said in the year ending June 30, 2018, the county received more than Sh933.6 million in donor funding, but as of June 30, 2019, only 10 per cent of the money had been used. More than Sh959 million of the donor money was not used in the period under review. The auditor also questioned irregular use of Sh114 million donor funds, saying regulations governing the use of donor funding were not followed. -Edited by SKanyara