ODM has a crisis albeit dormant. The crisis is the legal ownership of the party which is in the wrong hands. Chairman John Mbadi is someone who came from employment and not  the struggle movement. Suna East MP Junet Mohamed is an economic hustler who is mixing business with politics. All the people around the king are strangers to our journey, which is an abnormal development. God forbid, if Covid-19 had taken Raila, how would we organise our house? Some people are in ODM to look for food and will auction us. They will look for where they can make a killing then put us into trouble. There is an imbalance in the generation that is in power, control and ownership of the party. We find ourselves in a situation whereby these forces want to drive us out of the ODM  space. James Orengo is only banking on his national image to get the attention and central place in ODM politics, but in terms of party leadership he is nowhere. All the strong men of the struggle have been kicked out and we are left with  a coalition of quick fix people-the dealer generation. ODM is being set up for disintegration. Our pope is not addressing that but has gone ahead to embrace this youthful team. The war targeting Otiende Amolo and Orengo is the climax of the attack on ODM’s generators of positive energy and the impetus to move forward. This will deny the party its momentum in going forward towards achieving its goals. On a matter of this magnitude, they should first consider the political status of Otiende, his input during the Supreme Court presidential election petition and the fact that he is among the few clean people in ODM. In the wisdom of the party as I know it, it would require that this matter goes for discussion before the central committee at the very least. I would expect this matter to go up to National Executive Committee  because Otiende represents the best in the generation that is supposed to be groomed to take over the party. Mbadi is abusing his power because this cannot be a unilateral decision. The party should call him to order, unless it is changing to be something else. The former ODM director of Strategy spoke to the Star