Teams that will fly the country's flag in the forthcoming continental assignments will be known in a month's time. This is after Football Kenya Federation announced on Monday they are pressed for time and under intense pressure from the Confederation of African Football to unveil the country's representative for the continental showpiece. According to a press release signed by FKF chief executive officer, Barry Otieno, Caf have given the local football body until June 30 to submit the names. As the federation’s top brass pull out their hair in search of a viable solution, local soccer enthusiasts are savouring the moment. Nothing is as exhilarating for any ardent football fan as the taste of the pompous annual event that brings together Africa's finest and mightiest. Not only does the forum serve to unite the country in a rare moment of patriotism, but also go a long way in affording teams the rare opportunity to gauge their strength on the international stage as they flex muscles with their foreign counterparts. We still cherish the glorious moment Kenyan champions Gor Mahia massaged our egos by clinching the Mandela Cup in 1987. No single Kenyan team have come close to achieving such a feat to date. All focus is now on the FKF Premier League which is likely to go to the wire as the search for a representative takes shape in the remaining few matches. Competition is to close too call and the title might go any way. Although Tusker are currently hot favourites given they are sitting pretty at the summit of the league, any of the teams currently occupying the top ten positions might land the golden opportunity to hold brief for our nation in the Caf inter-clubs competitions. We wish them well. As we hope for another landmark victory akin to the 1987 success narrative, it's only important to remind local football administrators that success and glory are well calculated and don't merely come by chance. Countries that are adored worldwide in the world of football have invested quite a lot in establishing formidable youth structures that allow them to tap easily into the vast pool of budding athletes at the grassroots. They have invested heavily in qualified personnel to guide their teams in competitive matches. They ensure they make their players comfortable by paying salaries in good time. They also provide adequate training facilities and quality equipment that can be used to refine the players effectively and bring them at par with the rest of the world. This calls for nothing short of selflessness and commitment to one's course. It's quite encouraging that local corporate entities are willing to invest in sports. They have done so in the past. Unfortunately, most of our football administrators are easily tempted to embezzle funds allocated to teams by these companies. Players end up leading miserable lives, thanks to greed. Clubs end up lacking basic training equipment and rely on well-wishers for support. It's a high time we chose to travel the path to triumph by shaking off self seekers.