Bondo MP Gideon Ochanda has written a protest letter to the government decrying what he terms high turnover of Deputy County Commissioners in the subcounty. The lawmaker wants the latest transfer that affected Siaya County Commissioner Michael Ole Tialal be rescinded. Since July 2013, Bondo subcounty has had 11 Deputy County Commissioners most of whom have been transferred under unclear circumstances after serving for less than a month. The situation has raised concerns among the area residents and elected leaders who feel that the abrupt and perpetual transfer of the DCCs and Assistant County Commissioners1s (ACC1) as a calculated move to deny them crucial services offered by those offices. In his letter dated May 19 the MP termed as unacceptable, the high turnover and transfers of the administrators. “We have had 4 DCCs transferred in the last eight months alone," he said. The MP said in his eight years as the area MP, 11 DDCs have been transferred, some within the same week of reporting. “We are a delicate security border subcounty with very dynamic settlements in beaches and islands. Any newly posted officer requires minimum four months to settle down and understand the local dynamics," he said. Nyanza regional Commisioner Magu Mutindika told the Star that he was aware of the complaints. “I am aware about the complaints and I have already taken up the matter with the ministry headquarters, " he said. Amongst those who have been recently moved include Tom Macheneri and Paul Kahoya Wanyonyi. Wanyonyi left in Jan 2021 after serving as the DC for just four months. He was replaced by Haroun Kamau who left two weeks ago. Macheneri moved to Kiambu while Wanyonyi was transferred to North Eastern. Kamau left after he arbitrated over a gold mining dispute that saw one of the parties lose Sh3.5 million. He had been instructed to handle the dispute by County Commissioner Tialal who was transferred to the ministry headquarters. His place was taken over by Mohamed Barre who was the County Commissioner in Murang'a. Area Luo council of elders chairman Odida Bwoga called upon the Cabinet Secretary for Interior and Coordination of National Government Fred Matiangi to intervene on the matter. Ochanda noted the lack of stable administrative leadership is a recipe for disaster. He pointed out that the administrators play major role to ensure security in the region and solving of disputes that brings harmony among the residents. The legislator at the same time pointed out that the transfers is also affecting development in the region because some central government projects and process need a few years of consistent supervision by the DCCs who were around when they were initiated. He revealed that the recently transferred DCC and himself had initiated negotiations with their Uganda counterparts on the need to find long lasting solution to conflict in lake Victoria.