Ministry of Sports Cabinet Secretary Amina Mohamed has praised Kenyan media for providing a platform for talented athletes to tell their stories to the world and enhance their reputation. She said the media has worked closely with other stakeholders during preparations for international events and portrayed the country as a prime sports destination through their stories. "Our collective media partners have developed pools of talented, professional sports journalists and editors who continue to be instrumental in our mission to deepen Kenya’s global position as a leading sports destination. The Ministry has continuously engaged media personnel in core preparatory committees of every global event held in Kenya," Amina said. The CS also hailed local media for their patriotism and truthfulness when reporting on Kenyan athletes unlike unscrupulous foreign scribes, hellbent on throwing mud on the country's image. "I urge our media partners to support the ministry’s protest against irresponsible and malicious reporting by a section of foreign media with the intent to discredit Kenya’s sporting history. Kenya has a zero-tolerance policy towards doping and has led the war on doping from the front," she said. Amina added the media will be an important partner going forward as the government and Athletics Kenya continue to wage war on doping and other sporting vices. "As we continue to broaden our sporting repertoire, let us join hands to deepen education against doping and to protect the image of our hard-working sports Ambassadors from malicious, untrue, and fabricated attacks," Amina said. The CS expressed optimism that the upcoming World Athletics Under-20 Championships at Moi Stadium, Kasarani will be bigger and better than the 2017 World Under-18 Championships (Kasarani) and the 2007 World Cross Country Championships (Mombasa). "Athletics is at the heart of Kenyan life and culture. Some of Kenya’s foremost athletes made their debut at these age-group championships. David Rudisha, Mercy Cherono, Rhonex Kipruto, and Faith Kipyegon, among many more, immediately come to mind. It is, therefore, a great honour to host the world and our own internationally renowned champions at home for such a major event," Amina was speaking during the launch of the official broadcaster for the World Under-20 Championships.