For the first time in a decade, the race for the Kenyan Premier League title looks set to go to the wire even though the season is not even halfway done. As many as five teams have a fighting chance of claiming the domestic crown that has been dominated by floundering champions Gor Mahia (seven titles in 10 years). Tusker, who have won the league three times in the last decade are currently top of the table, four points ahead of their closest rivals KCB. Another team that is in the thick of the intriguing fight for the top division title is Kariobangi Sharks. With 28 points from 15 matches, the youthful side — tutored by William Muluya — have truly punched above their weight. Midfield dynamo Patilla Omotto has now challenged his teammates to embrace their new reality as title contenders. “We are not where we are by chance. It is by the sheer hard work the team has put in. We have an opportunity to contest for the title and it is one chance that we must believe we can do take,” remarked the Sharks vice captain. In spite of being one of the youngest teams on average in the league,the talent in the squad has shone through. Several of their youngsters have earned the ultimate recognition domestically by being called up to the  national team, Harambee Stars. James Mazembe, Dan Sakari and league leading scorer Eric Kapaito were in the team selected for Kenya’s last international assignments and they all covered themselves in glory. “It’s only the beginning of their international career and they must remain level-headed and not become complacent. Consistency for club will be key and I believe that is why the team is where we are in the league,” remarked Omotto, who made his international debut 10 years ago — while still in his teens. Omotto has further challenged the clubs fanatical support, mainly drawn from Kariobangi, to stay behind the team regardless of the composition of the squad. “Fans should remain loyal to the team and not individual players. It should not matter where a player comes from as long as he is wearing the Sharks colours. We must be united in our pursuit of the league title,” he urged. Sharks will resume their campaign with a home match against Kakamega Homeboyz.