The Vihiga county assembly is now divided on the recommendation made by the ad-hoc committee that was mandated to investigate the collapse of the gate wall last month. One person was killed and several others were injured. The wall was hit by a lorry that was ferrying sand onto the site on April 24. In the recommendation tabled by Lugaga Wamuluma MCA Victor Ijaika, county executive and his chief officer Arnold Mamadi had not explained how they will raise Sh96,593,754 to pay the contractor. Recommendations further said the County Public Service Board should investigate the level of negligence by the health chief officer and others involved in the project. An MCA who spoke on anonymity said payment issues lies with the project department. “Once the project is clear and we are seeing it serving our people we can allocate that money in the budget,”  he said. However, Wodanga MCA Vincent Atsiaya said the recommendation by the committee does not tally with the report that has been tabled on the floor. Atsiaya while quoting some findings in the report, said the construction started without the necessary approval from the National Environment Management Authority. However, Nema, appearing before the assembly, said they were reviewing the report over the collapsed wall and the entire morgue construction. He further said Nema stated that under the presidential directives they are not allowed to stop constructions and other projects under the National or county government. Ijaika further said Nema putting barriers on such projects means the government will be at a loss. “The chair further says that due to a lack of architectural drawings the contractor was working on verbal instruction from the county staff under the Department of Transport and infrastructure,” Atsiaya said. However, efforts to reach Christopher Etale Tunya who is the chief officer in the department were futile as his phone went unanswered. Speaking to the Star on phone, medical services chief officer Arnold Mamadi said the department only depends on the transport and infrastructure department for that work. “We are not experts in that field. Our work was only to facilitate payment were necessary on their approval,” Mamadi said. The contractor confirmed that most of the people on the site during that day were not on protective gear and thus why the majority were injured with one dying instantly. Luanda South MCA Peter Alukutsa wondered why a contractor should leave his workers on the site without protective gears as required. “We also haven’t been told why the Engineer is not registered with Engineers Association of Kenya,” Alukutsa said. “At this moment we are talking at a point where an individual lost life and others were injured as well. The committee should be fair enough to those families.” Other issues that have been raised in the report include lack of National Construction Authority contractor on the site, signboard, safety signs, protective equipment, NCA compliance certificate and accredited skilled supervisor.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris