Winfred Mutunga had never heard of hypertension until her husband died of the noncommunicable disease. The mother of two has been a community health volunteer in Kaiti, Maukeni county, since 2017. She teaches the community about the prevention and management of high blood pressure to save lives. Her role includes demystifying the myths in her community, among them that the disease is caused by witchcraft. “I was trained by Empower Health and given the pressure screening tools. I have been able to meet with people who have never been screened for their pressure, some have ended having very high pressure,” Mutunga said. “Some of them want us to give them drugs but what I always do is educate then refer them to a health facility for proper treatment and management,” she added. Kenya joined the rest of the world in marking World Hypertension Day on Monday. Prof Elijah Ogola, cardiologist at the University of Nairobi, says sustained high blood pressure is associated with several severe complications. Early screening is the best way to prevent the disease. Data from the Health Ministry shows that 24 per cent of Kenyans, or close to a quarter of the population, have hypertension and 44 per cent have never been screened. Only eight per cent of those living with the condition are on treatment out of whom only four per cent have their pressure controlled. The prevalence increases with age. Hypertension among those aged between 18 and 29 is 13 per cent compared to 44 per cent among those aged between 45 to 59 and 53 per cent among those aged 60 to 69 years. Hypertension is grouped into two: essential and secondary. Essential is hypertension that has no direct cause of the elevated blood pressure. In adults it is the predominant type of hypertension, accounting for 90 to 98 per cent of all patients. “It has no direct cause. There are many associated factors, things that if they are operational in you increase your chance of having the essential hypertension such as alcohol, tobacco, sodium intake, air pollution, and the genetic component,” Ogola said. “The fact that there are associated factors offers an opportunity for prevention because if we act on these we can prevent hypertension. The secondary hypertension has a definite cause mostly due to kidney disease and problems of the blood vessels. The good thing with this is that it is potentially curable.” According to Dr Eva Njenga of the NCDs Alliance, 21 per cent of the Covid-19 deaths in the country as at April 28 were as a result of hypertension as the comorbid factor, while 29 per cent were due to hypertension and diabetes combined. Dr Njenga attributes this to messaging from the Health Ministry and civil society groups on the ‘Stay at Home’ that saw majority of patients keep off from health facilities, missing appointments and their drugs. “That is the word that went out in almost like a threat that caused a lot of stigma and what happened most of our patients with NCDs missed their appointments, they ran out of drugs and quite a number of our patients actually who got Covid at that point suffered very seriously,” Njenga said. “We lost quite a number especially people with diabetes because they missed their drugs and they ended up getting Covid and, of course, people with uncontrolled diabetes suffered a lot and we lost quite a number”. Hypertension is a condition where the force of the blood against the artery walls is too high. Usually, hypertension is defined as blood pressure above 140/90 and is considered severe if the pressure is above 180/120. High blood pressure often has no symptoms but over time if left untreated can cause health conditions such as stroke and heart disease.  Edited by Henry Makori