Residents of Bura Touwfiq village in Garissa Township are appealing to the government to help them resettle after they were evicted early Thursday. The homeless residents told reporters on Thursday that armed police descended on their village and ordered them out at 2am. A bulldozer demolished about 35 houses. “As the rightful owners of this village  we have been offended by tycoons bringing bulldozers to destroy our houses at night and grabbing our land because we are poor. We have rights to live here as the citizens of this country,” Fardoza Sadiq said. “My house was destroyed completely. We do not have anywhere else to go. The powerful private developers behind this demolition are very well known and we are asking the government to intervene," she said. The residents asked why they were being evicted from land they have lived on for more than 30 years by people protected by police. They said there was no court order. “I was sleeping in my semi-permanent house when I heard the noises and when I peeped through the door, the bulldozer was already at my doorstep. The only thing I remember was being ordered out with my five children,” Sofia Abdi said. “They did not even speak to us or even give us time to remove our things. After the demolition, they moved to the next house and did the same. And as all this was happening , the officers were watching and keeping vigil,” She added When the press visited the area a few kilometres from Garissa town, tension was still high. Armed police were patrolling.  The residents accused the police of bias in handling the land dispute. Aulian community leader Sultan Hamud Sheik deplored the way security officers took sides in the sensitive matter. “I started receiving calls from a mother in the middle of the night, wailing and crying that their houses were being demolished. I did not believe what I saw with my own eyes upon getting here. This is very sad,” Sheik said. “This is a community land. If really the person pushing for eviction is genuinely the owner, why do they have to come at night? Why can’t they go to court and secure a court order?” he asked. “It is more baffling and disheartening that all this happened under the watchful eyes of the security officers. My question is, 'Are the law enforcers supposed to protect lives and property or take sides when handling matters'?" Land disputes in Garissa are common and lives have been lost in addition to property destruction. Garissa Governors Ali Korane recently warned residents against subdividing land amongst themselves, telling them to leave that to the government. He warned people involved in unauthorised subdivision of "dire consequences", saying his administration will not allow more bloodshed caused by land disputes. occasioned by conflict over land. (Edited by V. Graham) 