The battle for the control of the lucrative bulk cargo transportation business on the Mombasa-Nairobi SGR could be far from over. A fresh push is underway to compel the Kenya Railways Corporation to make public details of the award of multi-billion-shilling tenders for the SGR cargo haulier services. The Muslim for Human Rights lobby group has asked the Kenya Ports Authority to lift orders compelling shippers to strictly haul their cargo via the standard gauge railway. At the same time, a petitioner has asked Parliament to compel KRC to reveal how two logistic firms were awarded exclusive tenders to transport bulk cargo on SGR. Grain Bulk Handlers Limited and Autoport Freight Terminals Ltd have exclusive rights to move bulk cargo from Mombasa to Nairobi. Before landing the deals, GBHL had been handling grain and fertiliser at the Mombasa Port for many years while Autoport was handling freight services in Mombasa. “Kenyans deserve the right to know how the tenders were sought, advertised, listed and finally awarded to only two firms, making the industry an oligopoly,” Lawrence Mwakio says in his petition to the National Assembly. He is a resident of Mombasa. The petitioner wants KRC to explain how it awarded the two firms privileged handling and transportation of cargo from Mombasa to Nairobi over a period of 10 years at up to 80 per cent discount. In 2018, KRC awarded the two firms contracts at a special rate of Sh45,000 to transport a wagon of loose cargo from Mombasa to Nairobi, down from Sh214,700. In the deal, GBHL had said it would move 4.3 million tonnes per year, while Autoport undertook to move 1.6 million tonnes. However, the petition says Parliament should probe how KRC leased two of its depots built by public funds at the Nairobi Freight Terminals to the firms for a period of 45 years. “The KRC board must submit minutes of each of the meetings held that reviewed and awarded the tenders with clear provisions that knocked out other bidders,” the petitioner says. Mwakio said lack of fair competition was killing the economy. Autoport had argued that the deal would be helpful in decongesting the nearby Inland Container Deport if allowed to run the facility under the four decades' lease. On Monday, Muhuri chairman Khelef Khalifa said the monopolisation of cargo services was hurting the economy. He called on KPA to immediately release guidelines to foster competition. Khalifa said KPA had failed to appeal a ruling that blocked implementation of a directive imposed on importers to have their cargo hauled to Nairobi via SGR. “There are people fighting free trade by imposing the order yet the courts lifted it. Let KPA write to all shipping companies to reverse the order and allow importers to nominate their destinations and freight companies,” Khalifa told the Star. He added, "We can no longer have the ICD in Embakasi as the only nominated destination and although SGR is cheaper, other hidden overheads costs are expensive." Coast politicians have previously criticised the government's plan to develop dry ports in Nairobi and Naivasha to handle the SGR cargo, arguing the move would kill businesses in Mombasa. While most of them softened their stance, the order prescribing SGR transport for all the cargo imported sparked public outcry, leading to mass demonstrations in Mombasa.  Edited by P.O