The Covid-19 crisis continues to ravage the country, thrusting many people into poverty following loss of livelihoods. This has, in turn, exposed many Kenyans to depression as they fight to stay afloat and support their families. It is for this reason that Murang’a governor Mwangi wa Iria has formed a team to identify people suffering from the psychosocial effects of the virus. The team to be headed by former National Council of Churches of Kenya secretary general Peter Karanja will establish the number victims and give recommendations on how they can be supported. The team will work with the interdenominational churches’ caucus in the county  to ensure it reaches all areas. “We have witnessed an increase in murder cases within families because many people have developed mental issues due to loss of income, hopelessness and the loss of loved ones," the governor said. He said the psychosocial consequences of the pandemic may have lasting effects on many Kenyans and ruin their lives way after the pandemic is over. Wa Iria underscored the need to have more resources channelled towards handling the effects even as the government fights the virus, saying countless families are hurting. He made the remarks as the world celebrates the mental health awareness month. The most common mental illnesses in Kenya are depression, substance use disorder, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia and other forms of psychosis. An estimated quarter of inpatients and about 40 per cent of outpatients suffer from mental illnesses. A report by a task force established by the government in 2019 indicated that psychosis prevalence in the country stood at one per cent of the general population. The report released in July last year recommended the government, through research institutions and universities, conduct a national mental health survey to establish the mental illness burden. It emphasised that mental health be declared a national public health emergency as its high prevalence is a threat to national development. The team also called on the government to provide funds for promotive, preventive and curative interventions. Weighing in on the problem, Wa Iria said there is a need to establish ways of supporting those are already suffering from psychosis to ensure the mental well-being of Kenyans. He noted that the church is best placed to handle such issues as it has structures that enable it cater to the social wellbeing of faithful. “If we find people smoking bhang, we would arrest them because that is how governments work, but the church has other structures that handle such situation much better,” he said. Wa Iria further noted that the clergy is able to interact with residents, many of whom choose to stay at home when they suffer from such illnesses and sometimes end up engaging in destructive activities. “Through the group, we will be able to bring together sociologists, psychologists, psychiatrists and the clergy to best help those who are suffering,” he said. -Edited by SKanyara