The idea of perfection is enticing, and now, with social media, there is pressure to constantly look like your life is a fairy tale. However, the pressure to be perfect comes at a cost, and some people have incurred much loss and even paid the ultimate price in pursuit of perfection. So, can perfection be attained? Yes, you can be perfect. However, you must understand how perfection works. First, perfection occurs in stages. It means that you move from one level to another. You can be flawless on one level but must eventually move to the next to sustain perfection. Second, you must understand that perfection is hard work. Third, service completes the cycle of perfection. If your effort to be perfect does not serve others, you have missed the mark. Now, that we have set the foundation, let’s explore more helpful thoughts on perfection. Perfection Redefined The dictionary definition of perfection is incomplete. Therefore, we will redefine perfection from a purpose perspective. Here, perfection means: never stop growing. The radical commitment to continuous growth and learning is the key. When this is in place, you will experience growth and function at levels of excellence that are way above average. In my view, a person is perfect when they are radically committed to their growth. When they are invested in their growth process, they tend to lose the unhealthy perception of perfection that has been set by the media and society. They are committed to growing in their journey and advancing their path. Consequently, they create a life that is beautiful art. These people design a life that expresses their uniqueness flawlessly. The Root of Perfection This brand of perfection is rooted in humility. To make it work, you must be humble on a deep level. To be clear: humility is your willingness and capacity to learn, grow and change. The flawless expression of your uniqueness flourishes when you understand that success is a peak-less mountain and growth never ends. This awareness helps you to joyfully submit to the learning process. The Proof of Perfection Based on this model of perfection, the proof that you are winning is this: you constantly evolve. You are committed to not staying the same. You successfully move from one level of uniqueness to the next due to continuous learning. In essence, perfection is evident by the continuous reinvention of self. If you never stop learning, growing, and changing, you are perfect – you honour your uniqueness and maximise your design. Email: smpamugo@gmail.com