A continental lobby has demanded that African governments heighten investment in health sector to ensure quality health outcomes for their citizens. African Rising insists that lack of proper prioritisation of investment in the health sectors by government across the continent, have made Africans lead poor quality lives, causing over dependence on help from foreign donors and countries. The lobby has planned a series of engagements including webinars and award ceremonies for activists across the continent to mark the Africa Liberation Day celebrated annually on May 25 to mark the founding of Organisation of African Union in 1963. The theme for this year's celebrations is “Pan-Africanism in the 21st Century: Our Rights, Our Health, Our Future” #Rise4OurLives. Through this theme, the lobby said in a statement giving preview of the activities, it is demanding that "the health and wellness of African people and communities are a priority for our own local and central governments, hospitals or health centres." "The demand is that there is serious investment in health, and when we say health it's not just about illness, but also about the holistic health of our communities and that starts with people having access to healthy food and good quality education opportunities," it said. Through the planned webinar engagements, it said, it seeks to ignite conversations on how activists have been able to survive the Covid-19 pandemic while not giving up on their duties and commitments to positive social change. It will also enable leaders and experts provide their insights on successful strategies for activists during the pandemic. Among the women activists to be awarded for working for positive change in their communities include; Golda Addo (Ghana), Hallima Nyota (Kenya), Amisa Rashid (Kenya), Pertulla Ezigha (Cameroon), Annick Laurence Koussoube (BurkinaFaso), Sylvia Khasoa (Kenya), Grace Omondi (Kenya). "This event will discuss the need for good governance, people-centred sustainable development, economic equality, social justice, accountability and transparency as we work together to build the world we need and the Africa we want," it explained. From the meetings and trainings, the lobby hopes to build the capacities of African activists and communities to respond to issues of violence, oppression and injustice. "Through this year’s May 25 - African Liberation Day mobilisation, and through all our work, Africans Rising wants to showcase the ways in which Africans are empowering their communities, educating one another, creating innovative solutions to the pandemic and coming together for our own survival in such an unprecedented time of global crisis." The lobby is led by Muhammed Lamin Saidykhan, a Gambia activist who led the movements and agitation that toppled long ruling dictator Yahyah Jammeh. Coumba Toure, a Senegalis-Malian writer is also its  leader. -Edited by SKanyara