Jubilee’s loss in the Juja MP and Rurii ward by-elections is the proverbial writing on the wall that President Uhuru Kenyatta needs to be extremely careful about what is happening on the ground. The poison of Hustler vs Dynasty is sinking deep and is likely to undermine any of the assumptions that the Hustler Nation is just a passing cloud. It is not. It is a cloud that is gathering momentum every day. There is a need for strategies to stabilise Central, not just for victory in elections but also for peace in the region and across the country. What started off as the BBI and handshake is now morphing into a very dangerous contest among the elites. This has been witnessed in Juja and other by-elections. It shows that the hustler ideology is beginning to get into people’s minds. There is nothing good about it because the hustler of yesterday might be the rich person of tomorrow. That is the dynamic of all society; we will advance ourselves—go to school, educate our children, equip them with skills so that they can defeat poverty, etc. A hustler nation is not a condition or permanent situation or something that we should regret and worry about. But since it is beginning to become an ideology in itself, it is not only dividing the country along lines of class but also planting disenchantments with the leadership. The by-election results were basically a protest vote that showed you can no longer take the hustlers ideology for granted. You can no longer ignore the youth. You need to educate them, go to the grassroots and explain the backbone of our liberation as a people which had three elements – defeating ignorance, poverty and disease. They only have one enemy – the dynasty. We have moved from the foundations of our nation and it is going to be expensive. For President Uhuru Kenyatta, this means a lot to his legacy. We need to be steadfast with what he said; that “ours is to unify Kenyans”. That needs to go to the people because if not, the hustler nation will ride home and Kenya will remain divided between the haves and have-nots. The governance and policy expert spoke to the Star