Nairobi will become a more attractive capital after an army of casual labourers plants flowers, trees and grass, refurbishes walkways, road medians and roundabouts. They will work on open spaces and landscaping, focusing on urban aesthetics. The Nairobi Metropolitan Services will hire the labourers to work in the northern, southern, eastern and western regions. The labourers will be hired on short-term contracts through the Environment Directorate. The number was not specified. “Previous experience in civil and landscaping works will be an additional advantage and selection will be on first come first served basis,” the letter from  NMS deputy director for environment Maureen Njeri reads. People living with disabilities are encouraged to apply. Applicants should apply at the subcounty environment office of their wards. The workers will reconstruct and refurbish all walkways and pavements within the Central Business District, Upper Hill, Westlands and Ngara before being expanded to all sub-counties. In July last year, NMS announced it will beautify the city, focusing on building frontages, walkways and green areas. Building owners in the capital were given 60 days to repaint their structures or risk prosecution for non-compliance. The programme will also beautify all roundabouts, road medians, open recreational areas and other open space. NMS headed by director general Mohammed Badi has already implemented a Non-Motorised Transport network in the CBD along Kenyatta Avenue, Wabera Street and Muindi Mbingu. Corridors have been laid out with grey for pedestrians and red for bicyclists. In the coming financial year, NMS is to spend Sh1.4 billion to extend NMT corridor by 116km. The northern region includes Starehe, Kamukunji, Mathare and Makadara subcounties. The southern region covers Dagoretti North and South, Kibra and Langata subcounties. Embakasi North, Central, East, West and South are part of the Eastern region. Westlands, Ruaraka, Kasarani and Roysambu are part of the Western region NMS has long been mandated to collect garbage and reform disposal  in collaboration with the National Youth Service. Last year, it aimed to dispose of an average of 3,000 tonnes of garbage at the Dandora dumpsite daily. It improved collection from 1,000 tonnes to an average of 2,500 tonnes a day. Garbage collection remains a major problem, however, and for the past few weeks the CBD, roadsides and estates have been flooded with filth NMS's environment department said garbage is being collected daily but improvement is hard to detect. Street sweepers apparently have stopped working downtown and mechanical street sweepers are seldom sighted in the CBD. In its first 100 days, NMS mapped 110 illegal dumping sites. Some 82 were cleared and the others closed. NMS also designated 35 new collection points. The closed illegal dumpsites and the gazetted new collection points have never been made public. Last October, NMS repaired and reactivated 83 vehicles for Sh22 million, including 21 garbage trucks that had been grounded for years. In March, NMS announced new contractors were hired, bringing to 205 garbage trucks. The contractors were expected to pick garbage at gazetted points across the 85 wards.  (Edited by V. Graham)