Teachers training colleges are staring at a drop in student population, which could see a decline in funds and job losses. The institutions are admitting for the first time in three years. However, despite having up to 20,000 slots, only 5,000 have applied. The government in 2018 ordered a freeze on the intake of students to allow the KICD time to advance training from certificate to diploma level. There are about 31 TTCs. The shortage of applicants has seen the Education ministry readvertise the vacancies. Last month, Basic Education PS Julius Jwan said the Education ministry was inviting KCSE holders to apply for either a Diploma in Primary Teacher Education or Diploma in Early Childhood Development Teacher Education. Long before the P1 course was abolished, the number of students showing interest in the teaching career had already started to decline. It started in 2014. The numbers had gone down from a high of 15,000 admissions annually to about 7,000 in 2018. Kenya National Union of Teachers secretary general Wilson Sossion says the union had consistently supported measures to increase the entry level grade for TTCs However, he believes the drop in the number of places available is a result of multiple reasons but not the change in entry level grade. Sossion believes poor structural management of teachers' welfare is the reason many are leaving the profession or avoiding that path. “No one wants to train and then wait for five years before they can be employed… More and more students who could have been teachers are now going into mid-level medicine training, technical courses, hospitality, and others,” Sossion told the Star. Currently, the number of trained but unemployed teachers breaks even with those in service. With the current employment rate of 5,000 teachers annually, it means it will take 60 years to employ the latest trained teacher. Indimuli Kahi, the Kenya Secondary Heads Association secretary general, however notes the review of the entry mark will affect admission patterns as traditionally, the programme has been viewed as an alternative after missing the actual career line one wished to pursue. “During our college time you’d hear people talk of how they never wanted to become teachers. Even in school, some teachers say it to their students so raising the bar higher does not make the programme attractive,” he said. He recommended that admission to the TTCs be put under the student placement body to attract enough entrants. In a notice advertising the opening of applications, Jwan said the requirements for a Diploma in Primary Teacher Education is a KCSE mean grade of C (Plain). Candidates with disabilities will be required to have a minimum C- (Minus) and a C- (Minus) in English, Kiswahili, Mathematics and also a C- in any of the humanities subject and sciences subjects. The changes in teacher training are meant to graduate tutors who are better equipped to deliver on the new curriculum. During the first year in college, the students will study English, mathematics, Kiswahili, home science, agriculture, religious education, physical education, music, creative art, science, social studies and education. During the second and final year, they will study compulsory subjects – English, mathematics, Kiswahili, education, and PE – and pick one subject they would wish to specialise in. The students will in the third year enrol in a trainee programme. The Education ministry is also proposing that the trainee programme duration be extended to six months from the current three months.