The 748 Air Services has announced plans to roll out daily direct flights from Jomo Kenyatta International Airport in Nairobi to Kisumu. The flights, expected to be launched on Thursday, are part of the airline’s strategy to get a foothold in the domestic air travel market. The development brings to seven the number of local airlines plying the route, with stiff competition expected as more Kenyans take up domestic air travel. Other airlines flying the route include Kenya Airways (KQ), Jambojet, Safarilink, Air Kenya, Fly540 and Auric Air. A statement from the company indicates that passengers will pay Sh10,700 for a return ticket on the Nairobi-Kisumu route. This is the second domestic route the company has launched in a year after the successful roll-out of Maasai Mara flights. Kisumu Governor Anyang Nyong’o, county government officials and representatives of the tourism and business community are expected to receive the maiden flight. Kisumu International Airport continues to attract local and international airlines due to its strategic location which connects a number of counties in the lake region. To improve the customer experience, the Kenya Airports Authority is set to upgrade the facility to reposition it as a regional aviation hub. KAA business development manager Jimmy Kibati said the government has allocated Sh1.2 billion for the project. The money, he said, will go towards the expansion of the passenger tower building to handle one million passengers per year, up from the current 500,000. Other improvements include the extension of the pavement and taxi apron to create space for setting up a cargo unit at the airport. This will enhance the airport's capacity to attract direct international flights, Kibati said. The airport serves the entire western region. Kibati disclosed that Ethiopian Airlines and Qatar Airways have already expressed interest in flying directly to Kisumu, adding that once the expansion is complete, more airlines will come on board.  Edited by A.N  