The Kitui county government has been accused of slow response to fire incidents. Kitui High School principal Benard Mutua said the loss occasioned by fire that gutted a teacher’s house last Wednesday could have been avoided had the county fire brigade been adequately equipped and prepared for such eventualities. He said the fire incident should serve as an eye opener to those in authority. Similar sentiments were echoed by chairperson of the Fire Safety Association of Kenya James Wambua who hails from Kitui. He said the county government had not put in place adequate fire-fighting  measures to handle tragedies. “By being ill-prepared in fire management, considering our county fire brigade does not have properly trained fire fighters, were are courting disasters,” Wambua said. The disaster management expert wondered why the county government had never learned its lesson even after previous fire incidences that consumed the county treasury and another rented building that used to house the environment and natural resources department. He added that the Kitui school fire should remind county leaders about the need to have a disaster management team in place. Wambua said the Kitui town population was increasing at a high rate and proposed that at least two fire engines should at all times be on stand-by. The principal said had the fire fighters arrived in good time, they would have salvaged some of the affected teacher’s personal effects. The fire took about one hour before it died out at around 7.30 pm. “When the fire erupted at around 6.30 pm in the evening we immediately called the relevant authorities but they said they did not have a fire engine because it had gone for service.  Together with the students we watched helplessly as the house and all property was razed to ashes,” Mutua said. Kitui High School is located within Kitui town about a kilometre away from where the county fire-brigade is located. Kitui municipality manager Job Muisyo admitted that the main fire-fighting engine was in Nairobi for servicing. He however said the county government was not to blame as the school management called them late. “We have a small four wheeler engine that can pump water from a water boozer but when we arrived, it was too late and everything had been reduced to ashes. We can not be blamed because we acted promptly after we got information about the  fire outbreak,” Muisyo said. He said the Kitui municipal authority had already acquired another more powerful fire-engine that was being fitted with the requisite fire-fighting equipment. Muisyo said with two fire engines on stand-by, fighting fire outbreaks in Kitui would be easy.  -Edited by SKanyara