The four counties in the former Western province are grappling with high wage bills, slowing development. The high wage bills by Bungoma, Kakamega, Busia and Vihiga counties have been attributed to the huge number of staff they inherited from the former authorities, whose lay-offs have been resisted. The counties also recruited new staff to effect devolution. As a result, the huge recurrent bills, coupled with the erratic disbursement of funds by the National Treasury, have to some extent slowed implementation of development projects Vihiga Governor Wilber Ottichilo said the devolved units inherited staff from former municipalities and county councils. “Later we received a new structure and guidelines for hiring new staff from the Transition Authority that oversaw the transition to devolution,” he said. Ottichilo said his administration has not been able to do much in terms of development because a lot of money goes into recurrent expenditure, leaving little for growth. Despite the county government having laid off 1,500 workers, the remaining workforce consumes Sh2.4 billion annually. “My administration has not been able to fully implement some of the projects we had planned for as captured in the County Integrated Development Plan due to the high wage bill and pending bills which we are under pressure to clear,” Governor Ottichilo said. Bungoma county has a 44 per cent wage bill. By April 2019, Bungoma speaker Emmanuel Stuma said the county wage bill stood at Sh2.72 billion, up from Sh1.84 billion as captured in the first half of the financial year 2017-18. Governor Wycliffe Wangamati’s administration has not been able to absorb at least 986 casual workers as ordered by the Labour court due to financial difficulties. Last Wednesday, Wangamati, told the County Senate Public Accounts and Investment Committee that hiring casual workers on permanent and pensionable terms could worsen the wage bill crisis. The Senate team was chaired by Migori Senator Ochilo Ayacko in Kakamega town. He defended his push to hire 236 village administrators, saying it was critical for the delivery of services to residents. The situation is the same in Kakamega and Busia counties where some of governors Wycliffe Oparanya and Sospeter Ojaamong’s flagship projects are in danger of stalling due to the high wage bills. Salary demands, operational costs and low own revenue collection have not helped matters. The wage bill for Kakamega county is Sh4 billion, translating to 31 per cent of its budget. Finance executive Beatrice Sabana said the spending is within the requirements of the law and has not had any effect on implementation of development projects. "The key issue that has affected development this year has been delayed disbursement of funds by the National Treasury. As of now, the Treasury has only disbursed funds for February," Sabana said. "If contractors raise certificates and you don't pay, then projects will stall because even contractors need the money to continue operating." The county’s 2020-21 budget estimates projected revenue of Sh15 billion inclusive of equitable sharable revenue of Sh11 billion, conditional grants of Sh1.664 billion and projected local revenue of Sh2 billion. The other Sh1 billion is the expected balance brought forward from last financial year. Health takes the lion’s share of Sh4,425,913,892 with Sh2,705,444,677 being employee cost followed by recurrent at Sh720,469,215, while development has been allocated Sh1 billion. Key development projects that stalled due to financial constraints in the county include equipping of phase 1 of the Sh6.2 billion County Teaching and Referral Hospital, construction of phase 2 of the CTRH and upgrading of Level 5 Hospital. Others are upgrading of health centres to level 5 facilities, upgrade of Bukhungu Stadium, construction of a milk processing plant in Malava subcounty and a tea factory in Shinyalu. Edited by A.N