Digital Lenders have opposed a proposal to compel them to abide by capital adequacy measures like commercial banks, saying they do not pose a prudential risk. Giving contributions to the Central Bank of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2021 which seeks to regulate payday digital lenders, the Digital Lenders Association of Kenya (DLAK) said while they support the proposed law, likening them to deposit-taking entities will be unfair. ''We do not take deposits from the public and lend off our own investments, profits, and capital, and as such, we do not pose a prudential risk and thus, capital adequacy requirements or prudential regulations are not a reasonable framework for the industry,'' the lobby said in a statement. The association said that consumer protection type of regulations that concentrate on lending and debt collection practices would be most ideal to the sector as digital lenders do not pose a systemic risk to the market given that they do not take deposits like banks or Saccos. ''Therefore applying the same rules to Digital Lenders as for banks is asymmetrical and would create an enormous regulatory and compliance burden for Digital Lenders that they cannot realistically bear,'' the lobby said. They also want the regulation to limit them to registration rather than licensing, saying that will prove costly for them. ''We would like to suggest that regulation should focus on the registration process instead of licensing. This is a common practice for the Digital Lenders regulations implemented in significant jurisdictions in the EU like Spain and Poland,'' DLAK said. According to the lobby, the above is supported by the conclusions of the recent comparative study on the regulation of digital lending prepared by PwC. The report shows that licensing in relation to digital lenders is too heavy for this type of activity, adding that typically digital lenders are small companies with a maximum of 30 employees. The association is pushing for the application of risk-based pricing where different interest rates are provided to different consumers based on their creditworthiness. Risk-based pricing looks at factors associated with the ability of the customer to pay back the loan and their borrowing habits. ''We propose that all customers shall be provided with clear, transparent, and articulated information on the pricing of the loans before they apply for the loan by providing the conclusion of the loan agreement in the unified form with the key financial information concerning the loan,'' the association said. Additionally, in order to increase consumer protection, DLAK has proposed the establishment of a position of a financial ombudsman within the CBK structures, responsible for examining customer complaints. It also wants its members to be included in the credit reporting ecosystem. ''We propose to add direct regulation that the digital credit providers will be entitled to receive the reports from CRBs and to submit the reports with credit information to CRBs as well,'' DLAK said. According to the lobby, it is justified to restore Digital Lenders' access to submit credit information reports on the terms applicable to other market players as the principal object of the proposed law is to regulate the digital lenders' industry.