The wrangles and infighting pitting Nyandarua County Government against the Assembly are expected to deepen as alienated Speaker Ndegwa Wahome steps back in office on Tuesday after being locked out for more than four months. Wahome has been impeached four times, the first time being in in December last year with the courts being his main refuge. The Speaker, who is also the chairman of the County Assemblies Forum goes, back to office wounded and there are concerns he might want to avenge himself against his perceived enemies, among them Governor Francis Kimemia. Leadership in the county has been marred by a myriad of problems ranging from suspension of MCAs by the ruling Jubilee party for alleged misconduct, attempted theft of the mace at the assembly, sacking of county assembly workers and the members of the County Assembly Public Service Board to the current crisis surrounding Wahome. At one point, Wahome closed the assembly, a move that was opposed by Kimemia claiming that it was aimed at stopping MCAs from serving the Clerk with a notice of motion that sought to remove him (Wahome) from office. Resident and businessman, Paul Ndirangu said the Nyandarua was lagging behind in terms of development due to the consistent infighting between leaders. “The wrangles are taking so much time and barring leaders from concentrating on important issues of development,” he said. The Assembly is in limbo even as the newly elected Rurii County Representative Muraya Githaiga needs to be sworn in by a substantive Speaker yet the MCAs impeached Wahome days after he was reinstated by the High Court in Nakuru last month. MCAs have vowed to block Wahome and will be in contempt of court if they allow deputy speaker Zachary Njeru to act as a speaker before the case is heard and determined. As per the law, it is only the substantive Speaker who is supposed to swear-in a new member of the assembly. Upon resumption of business, Gatimu ward MCA Kieru Wambui is expected to table a Notice of motion of impeachment against Kimemia. Kimemia has been accused of abuse of office and corruption. Last week, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission raided the Nyandarua county government offices probing misappropriation of a Sh55 million county branding tender. Wahome goes on record as the speaker who has been impeached multiple times in a span of less than a year. Wahome has vowed to go back to office and continue working as ordered by Justice Joel Ngugi.