A forensic analysis placed a prime suspect in the probe into the murder of National Land Commission deputy director of communication Jennifer Wambua at the scene of the crime. Directorate of Criminal Investigations’ probe placed Peter Mwangi Njenga alias Ole Sankale, 44 at the scene of the crime hence linking him to the murder. An identification parade conducted positively identified him as the man who had been with the deceased before her body was recovered. Wambua went missing on March 12, 2021 before her body was found in Kerarapon area, Ngong the following day. Njenga who was arrested on April 13 in Embulbul in Ngong, Kajiado county is expected to take plea on Monday at a Kiambu court. A magistrate’s court had twice allowed police to hold him as they continued with their probe. The month-long probe has shown Njenga, who is a convicted rapist and violent robber, was last seen with Wambua when she was alive on March 12. “The forensic results are finally out, positively matching the suspect. Following detailed forensic and intelligence-led investigations, detectives established that the suspect had indeed interacted and spent some time with the deceased at the location where the body was later discovered,” said DCI. Njenga allegedly trailed Wambua to Ngong Forest where she had gone to pray. “It was established that the area is often visited by pilgrims for spiritual intentions. Detectives further established that the suspect preyed on the deceased as she prayed before he made his move to sexually assault her and strangle her to death,” said the DCI. The probe showed a pastor advised her to go for prayers in the area. The team handling the probe revealed they had ruled out abduction of Wambua before she went missing. This was after a forensic analysis on her mobile phone led them to a conversation between Wambua and a Machakos-based religious leader who advised her to take some time alone in the forest and pray over her depression to go away. The pastor has been grilled by police and revealed he had talked to her on the day she went away and met her death. According to police investigations, it was after she had come from the said prayers that she met suspects in the murder probe. Njenga is a third suspect who is in custody over the murder. On April 8, the investigators also arrested a boda boda rider and a herder who were among the people spotted at the scene where the body was found. Benjamin Saitoti and David Sempuan were presented to the Kiambu court on April 9 and later on April 23 where the court allowed police to hold them for 10 more days. They are likely to be witnesses in the case. Saitoti and Sempuan told a village elder in Ngong area that they saw Wambua alive. Police were called to pick them up. According to the suspects, they left Wambua with a man who has since been confirmed to be Njenga who stayed with her until late when they left. The two claimed she asked for water and the man left to buy some for her at a nearby shopping centre and brought her. Wambua had apparently walked to the place. It is not clear if she took a matatu to the area or walked there. The area is about 20km from the city centre where the NLC staffer had been spotted earlier on. An autopsy showed she was strangled by bare hands. She was supposed to be on a five-day leave from March 8 but showed up in office on March 12, the day she went missing. Wambua left all her belongings including her handbag and mobile phone, in their car and walked away leaving no trace of her next destination. A probe into Njenga’s criminal records showed that he committed similar offences in the past. Detectives said it is surprising that the suspect, who was handed a death sentence in 2003, was free. It was confirmed that the suspect was a jailbird. “Our criminal data system was mined and indeed confirmed the suspect had committed similar offences using the same modus operandi of committing robbery and thereafter repeatedly, sexually abusing the victims by raping and killing them,” DCI said. “For instance, in 1996, he was charged with stealing and was further charged three times with the offences of robbery with violence and rape. On January 15, 2003, he was convicted and sentenced to death at Kibera senior resident magistrate court. How he won his freedom remains a mystery, which the detectives are currently unearthing,” said the DCI. -Edited by SKanyara 