More than 12,000 staff must pay cash for medical services after AAR suspended cover for the Nairobi county over Sh259.9 arrears. This is the second time this year the insurer has suspended services over non-payment by City Hall. Suspension started on Saturday last week. AAR managing director Nixon Shigoli on Tuesday confirmed staff will have to pay cash until arrears are cleared and credit restored. They will have to seek reimbursement once the full premium is paid, he said. The county government workers' union secretary Festus Ngari called the county's non-payment "unethical business" and said the city was doing business with staff members' lives. “Are they waiting for more staff to die so they know the seriousness of lacking medical cover?" he asked. Ngari said five members had died during the earlier suspension of cover. It was not possible to immediately confirm the deaths. County employees have threatened to strike if the arrears are not paid in full. The total amount due had been Sh530 million. On April 9, City Hall paid AAR Sh270.1 million, asking that the scheme be restored. AAR acknowledged the payment but insisted on payment of full arrears. In a letter, finance executive Allan Igambi said the unexpected delay in the settlement of the premium was caused by the late passage of the 2020-21 budget. He pledged to clear the outstanding arrears by April 23 but later sought an extension until May 7. In a letter dated April 29, AAR had reminded City Hall to pay the premium balance of Sh259 million on or before May 7, "without which the scheme will revert to a cash basis," the letter read. “Reference is made to our letter dated April 15, acknowledging the April 15 partial premium payment of Sh270.1 million and confirming reinstatement of credit services for all members of the scheme," the letter said. On February 12, AAR had asked for the whole outstanding premium balance of Sh530 million. On March 9, having received no response, AAR's Shigoli said they won't continue uninterrupted services if payment isn't received by March 19. The company said the claims incurred during the suspension will be settled directly with the members of staff after full arrears have been paid. "We plead with you to reinstate the medical scheme to enable our desperate and suffering members and their dependents to access uninterrupted healthcare services,” the finance CEC said. Nairobi MCAs said they  will investigate the AAR insurance for City Hall after it was alleged the deal has become a cash cow for some county officials. The county has been put on the spot for paying more than Sh652 million in excess of the medical scheme’s contract term of Sh1.07 billion. Assembly Majority leader Abdi Hassan said legislators will establish an ad hoc committee to investigate the AAR contract with City Hall. The county executive plans to shift medical cover for City Hall staff to the National Hospital Insurance Fund. (Edited by V. Graham) 