Referee Gilbert Cheruiyot has described his appointment to officiate at the Fifa men’s and women’s Olympic Football tournament as a blessing, saying  it was every referee's dream. The Nakuru-based referee, who was picked alongside Mary Njoroge, joins 99 other match officials including 25 referees, 50 assistant referees, 20 video match officials, and four support referees. Speaking at his home, Cheruiyot said it is a privilege to officiate in such a big showpiece, the highest level for any official. “It is a climax for any referee to officiate at Olympics or Fifa World Cup. It is an opportunity that has been presented before me and I thank God who has given me this opportunity. Fifa has recognised not just me but the efforts of Kenyan referees,” said Cheruiyot. The assistant referee, as part of equipping his skills, will be heading to South Africa to officiate the match between Orlando Pirates and Raja Casablanca in the CAF Confederation Cup. “The appointment is a privilege in my career just like anyone who gets something better. This is a sign that better things are coming my way,” said Cheruiyot. He said serious preparations are underway and hopes to do the best he can with  hisphysical fitness, laws of the game and mental stability being put to test. “This is like going to the war and I have to prepare very well, train hard and pray to God since many people wanted the opportunity but they missed,” added Cheruiyot, who started his career in 2009 with a Class 3 certificate and was promoted to referee at the Kenya Premier League in 2011. Cheruiyot said he has been training on the Video Assistant Referee (VAR) system before the matches. He, said he has some experience on the international stage, having already officiated at Fifa and Caf matches , including the Africa Nations Championships quarterfinal pitting Mali against Congo. At the Afcon qualifiers between Ivory Coast and Ethiopia, he was one of the officials when centre referee from Ghana Charles Bulu collapsed in between the matches, ten minutes to the final whistle. “It is a rare occurrence for a referee to collapse but it presented a privilege for me to blow the whistle,” said Cheruiyot.