A gang of teens brandishing machetes, iron rods and rocks attacked people in Bashir area of Bamburi, Mombasa county, at 7pm Monday and injured four. The youths wearing bandana and face coverings rekindled memories of a similar attack in August 2019. Two have been arrested for links with the Monday terror. Witnesses said the youths beat up anyone they met, an ordeal that lasted for about 20 minutes. “They attacked a woman and left a gash on her left arm before snatching her phone and handbag,” Ben Okello said. He heard the commotion and dashed out of his Lake View estate home to investigate. The gang split into two groups. One appeared from the Malindi Store direction while the other from Bashir School. They met at the junction of the Malindi Store cabro road and the tarmac road heading to Bashir Primary School. “They were swiping their machetes on the tarmac road as they shouted obscenities,” Okello said. A matatu heading to town on the route was stoned, its windows smashed. The driver panicked, stopped the vehicle, told his passengers to run for their lives. He also took off, leaving the vehicle behind. “I saw two people bleeding profusely. They were running towards Naivas Supermarket,” said Dulla Said, a boda boda rider. Upon reaching Fahari estate, a house alarm went off, scaring the gang members who dispersed in different directions. Residents in Lake View estate and the neighbouring areas closed their shops and other business premises. In August 2019, a similar attack occurred in the same style, leaving at least eight people seriously injured. On that occasion, police suspected the gang to be members of the Wakali Kwanza group. County commissioner Gilbert Kitiyo said police have launched a manhunt for the gang members after two of them were arrested. The arrested Brian Teka and Bashora Yusuf, both aged 17. “Two pangas were recovered from them. Police also recovered a petrol bomb at Bashir area,” Kitiyo said. Kennedy Khisa, a resident of Nguu Tatu was injured in the forehead, according to a police report. The gang robbed him of an unknown amount of money. Peter Kigany also sustained a cut on the forehead. Yeshua Medicare told the Star they received one patient with a deep cut in the forehead. He was treated and discharged. “The arrested suspects are being held at Kadzandani police station and will be charged with the offence of robbery with violence,” Kitiyo said.  (edited by o. owino)