National athletics trials for the Tokyo Olympics will now be held at Moi International Sports Centre (MISC), Kasarani on June 17-19 as a dress rehearsal for the World Athletics Under-20 Championships at the same venue. Athletics Kenya (AK)  president Jack Tuwei said the trials will be an opportunity for the local organising committee to assess the stadium's readiness before WA technical experts inspect it in July. "Initially we had planned on holding the trials in Eldoret as we did in 2016. However, with the World Under-20 around the corner, we felt it appropriate to shift the trials to Kasarani. This will allow us to identify and work on areas that need to be improved on before the inspectors arrive to check our readiness," Tuwei said. The president had on Saturday led a group of officials and technical experts — including competition director, Paul Mutwii, director of youth development Barnaba Korir, Olympic coaches David Letting and Patrick Sang and Joseph Maritim from Uasin Gishu County— on a fact-finding mission at the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret. They were to later deliberate and make a final decision on the venue for the trials, which will be an invite-only for athletes who have attained the qualifying mark for the Olympics. However, Tuwei said fans will not be allowed into the stadium as a measure against the coronavirus pandemic that has affected the sporting world. "We know there are many people who would have loved to join and cheer on their favourite athletes. However, in line with what is currently happening in our country, we have tentatively decided that the trials will be held without fans. We will inform of any changes as we decide," he said. Renovations at Kenya's largest stadium are in high gear as it prepares to host the global event on August 17-22 — its second major international competition in four years. Works are projected to be complete by end of next month with a rehearsal planned mid-June before the arrivals of WA inspectors. In 2017, it was a successful host to the World Athletics Under-18 Championships, which attracted mammoth crowds during the four-day event. So far, this year, the 60,000-seater has been the venue for the 2nd Leg of the AK track and field Meeting in March as well as national football team Harambee Stars' Afcon qualifiers.