It has been over two years since the launch of BBI process. Since then, a lot has been achieved. But for the document to succeed, democracy must not just be felt but also practiced by the citizens. At the heart of democracy are undeniable rights of citizen to express themselves without fear of discrimination or unfair treatment. Unfortunately, this is not happening in many parts around the world where oppressive political systems continue to limit enjoyment of universal human rights. And Kenya has lifetime chance to allow its own citizens to read, critic and find common ground for the way forward With the endorsement of BBI by the National Assembly it has now imminent that a referendum is on the way. Kenyans will have a chance to make the decision on whether to adopt or reject the document. Unfortunately, it offers politicians an opportunity to campaign ahead of the 2022 elections. Keen observation of endless utterances by political class points to underlying interests that the citizens must be cognisant unless they fall victims on the path of nation building. At the heart of BBI is the need to unite the nation around national ethos and build an all-inclusive state where regardless of tribe or political affiliations, we all feel represented in governances. Unfortunately, the objective of the political class is to keep their political bases, winning the next election and Uhuru Kenyatta succession and not so much how to bring to an end negative ethnicity, corruption and fixing the struggling economy. This is where the intentions and motives of the ruling and opposing political class must be shifted against all odds for BBI to succeed. Rather than seeking to maintain moral and fiduciary responsibility offered to them by the virtue of their elected position, many politicians will debate BBI on its probability to injecting new life and energy to help them stay relevant and not rather look at the next decade for an aging population with youthful growing mass. To many, the BBI seems like the cure of myriads of challenges facing the country, but to few greedy politicians, its an opportunity to further divisive politics without morals and values. It's here that we must interrogate our deeply held principles, whether to entirely focus on the next election or next generation. While now the momentum for the referendum seems on high gear, the media must be an ally of the people to ensure a balanced and honest discussion on the nature and content of the document. Religious leaders can bring a neutral perspective with the help of few sane policy makers to help Kenyans make an informed decision, one that is not self-driven or politically motivated but rather one that takes hopes and aspirations of Kenyans to proper practice. Lemargeroi Saruni is a Mandela Washington fellow and commentator on governance issues