Kitui Senator Enoch Wambua has said he was convinced by his Wiper party leader Kalonzo Musyoka to vote for the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill 2020. He said the decision was also made so that he doesn't compromise Kalonzo’s high chances of becoming Kenya’s next president. In a lengthy post on his social media platforms by his personal assistant Peter Mbai, Wambua said ahead of voting for the BBI Bill, he consulted widely with Kalonzo resulting to his U-turn on his earlier hardline stance. The senator said he had a long and candid conversation with the Wiper leader on what final position to take on the floor of the Senate. He added that following the meeting, it emerged that matters concerning Kitui residents, that saw him oppose BBI, were being handled in negotiations taking place behind the scene but at a higher level. As late as last Sunday, Wambua was emphatic that he would vote against the BBI Bill in the Senate. He told the Star that he would vote no because what was at stake, was the interest of the people of Kitui who elected him. “The people of Kitui have a legitimate reason to demand proper representation from their elected leaders. Whenever there is conflict between what a majority want and other considerations, I will go with the majority,” Wambua had said in a text message. He emphasised then that he had no intention of going against the wishes and interests of the Kitui electorate. “It is not a choice I have the luxury of making, it is what is expected of me,” he added. But in the social media statement, Wambua said he had no reason to doubt his party leader’s assurance that the issues were being handled. He said Kalonzo reminded him of the ongoing negotiations at the national level regarding the leadership of the country and how his hardline position against BBI would be rich fodder for political enemies to exclude the Kamba community. “My party leader is seated at the negotiating table as an equal and worthy contender for the top prize. Those who think he could be an escort of honour for other people to ascend to the presidency, can continue dreaming” the senator said. Wambua said Kalonzo appreciates the fight the senator has put up for the benefit of Kitui people and the Kamba community at large and that is why he never bothered to stop him from fighting for the residents. The senator said just like Kalonzo, he is a loyal servant of the people of Kitui county. He said he fully supports Wiper leader's quest for presidency in 2022. He hit out at rivals who he claimed were out to drive a wedge between him and the Wiper leader over the BBI Bill. “The ties that bind Kalonzo and I  run deeper than our detractors can ever imagine,” Wambua wrote. He said the writing has all along been on the wall. He said the BBI bill was going to sail through the county and national assemblies because it was so designed, but not without a fight. “I thank sincerely God for the opportunity to represent and fight as hard as I could for the interests of the people of Kitui,” he said. Wambua said residents wanted Mwingi county and an extra constituency among other demands but this was not met.  -Edited by SKanyara