Head of DCI at Embakasi Simon Mutia Mwongela on Thursday was arrested after he allegedly tried to shoot open the gate's lock of a club-lodging and instead fatally shot the guard. The Senior Superintendent of Police is said to have arrived at 4am and argued with a night guard. He asked him to unlock the gate so he could spend the night at the lodging. The guard refused, saying the premises were closed. Witnesses told police Mwongela demanded the gate to be opened as he had apparently been on duty overnight and needed rest. Police said the guard said it was too late, prompting Mwongela to shoot once at the lock to open it. Instead, the bullet went through the gate and hit the guard in the chest, killing him instantly, police said. According to police reports, Mwongela later said he could not locate his car and said it had gone missing at the club-lodging. Before his arrest, Mwongela even reported to his seniors and colleagues that his car had been stolen and he was looking for it. The claims were not true, police said. Some revellers inside the premise took cover, thinking they were under attack. Police IG Hilary Mutyambai ordered an investigation. “He has been arrested for, among others, a probe into murder and misuse of his weapon,” he said. Nairobi DCI deputy head Moses Ndindi visited the scene and ordered Mwongela detained. He said they would take Mwongela to court and seek to detain him for some days as investigations go on. Colleagues described Mwongela as one of the best officers in the service. Incidents of police misusing their weapons and causing deaths while on duty have been on the rise. The service has mechanisms to handle such incidents and punish officers perceived to be rogue. Dozens of cases are pending in courts in which officers have been involved in shootings that killed or injured others. For instance, two police constables charged with killing a businesswoman at City Park three years ago were on Tuesday found guilty of manslaughter. Another police officer was arrested last month after he allegedly shot dead a guard and a taxi driver in Utawala, Nairobi. He is facing murder charges. (Edited by V. Graham)