Safari Rally editions have been won or lost with great generations of yore! Harri Rovanperä, Petter Solberg and Gwyndaf Evans are names synonymous with global motorsport for their achievements on the rallying circuit. Rovanperä and Solberg are familiar names to fans and past competitors in the Safari Rally considering they graced the event regularly until it was struck off the World Rally Championship calendar in 2002. In their last participation in 2002, Rovanperä finished second In a Peugeot 206 WRC while Solberg retired with engine gremlins. Solberg — who won the 2003 FIA World Rally Championship — finished the WRC Safari editions of 1999 and 2000 in 5th place. Nineteen years later, on the return of Safari Rally to WRC calendar, their sons will be gracing what was formerly billed as the 'toughest rally route in the world'. Kalle Rovanperä, Oliver Solberg and Welshman Elfyn Evans are  enthusiastic to write their own chapter in Safari Rally history when the event revs off on June 24-27. “Safari Rally is one of my dream races to do. My father has lots of stories from the event. I have also seen several videos with a lot of adventures and really good sites. It would be an amazing experience to take on,” Oliver said. Although a lot has happened since Kenya hosted the Safari Rally in 2002, the 19-year old hopes he will experience similar thrills on the race route as Solberg Sr. "It will be a great opportunity competing although it will be very different now compared to the past. My father tells me of great stories of stages, fans, people everywhere. He (my father) says it is one of the best places he has been," the Norwegian says. Before delving into the world of rallying, Oliver had carved out a niche as a fast-rising  cross-kart king – or perhaps prince – of Europe. At the age of 14, he stepped aboard Petter’s 600bhp rally cross-spec Citroën DS 3 Supercar, and was then racing it in the Nordic RX series. Kalle, currently with Toyota Gazoo Racing, was just 19 at the start of his first full year as a factory WRC driver with the team last year. Rovanperä Sr was also a factory driver for several teams and won a WRC round in Sweden in 2001. Close shave Elfyn Evans was on the cusp of being the first Welsh driver to be crowned World Rally champion and only the third Brit in history after Colin McRae in 1995 and Richard Burns in 2001. However, this came a cropper when Sebastien Ogier sealed the WRC title for the umpteenth time in 2020. Also of Toyota Gazoo Racing, Elfyn will be bucking the trend set by his father who used to mostly compete in Europe. Rallying has always been in Elfyn’s blood and the speed needed to succeed was obviously present even if it took a while for the former DMACK World Rally Team driver to get the break he deserved. Like his father, Elfyn had been a Ford man for some time, winning the 2012 WRC Academy in a Fiesta before stepping up to WRC2 in an R5 car, and ultimately a Fiesta RS WRC with the M-Sport World Rally Team for 2014/15. However, his ascendancy to the top of the rallying world would not have been had his father succeeded in keeping him out of motorsport. "Coming from a rallying family, it was obvious that I would pick up the sport. My dad, because of the costs involved in motorsports, was not too keen on me participating in the sport," Elfyn says. As his son continued to embrace the sport, Gwyndaf had to issue a condition to Elfyn before he could support him. "The condition was that we had to start at the lower classes and that he had to dominate at this level before graduating to the next WRC class. Indeed, he dominated the Fiesta class and so I had to keep my end of the deal to support him in this career path," Gwyndaf says. Elfyn chalked up his first WRC win in 2017 at the Rally of Wales, following in the footsteps of his father who won the 1996 Rally of Britain. Thus far, he has been one-third of Toyota Gazoo Racing — alongside Kalle and defending champion Sebastien Ogier — which has dominated the rally scene thus far. In last month's Rally of Croatia, the Englishman pushed Ogier to the wire before securing a 1-2 finish for the Japanese automaker. Hot streak In his short career, Rovanperä has amassed a reputation as one of the world's fastest-rising rally drivers. Presently ranked fifth on the WRC drivers' standings, the Finn has been hailed as one of the most meticulous and mature drivers — well beyond his young age. So far this year, Rovanperä has finished fourth in the Rally of Monte Carlo (January) and second in the Artic Rally in Finland ( February) before unfortunately crashing out of April's Rally of Croatia due to a mechanical problem. "Super annoyed, the whole opening stage was super slippery and we were struggling with a lot of understeer. I still tried to push, but on this fast right hander grip just completely disappeared and we understeered off the road into the trees. Really sorry for the team, this was my mistake and I will learn from this. Mechanics will check the car once we get it back to service to see if the car is fixable for tomorrow," Kalle, who finished third in the 2018 WRC standings, said after the crash. Such sentiments acknowledging his missteps while maintaining a positive outlook for the future are what give his team hope for the future and his ability to cut it with best-of-the-best at the Safari Rally. "Talking to him is like talking to a guy in his mid or late twenties. This is where he is now," his father, Harri, says. The participation of these scions of rally legends will be one of the interesting storylines on the return of the Safari Rally after a 19-year enforced break. It will be intriguing to see how the trio fare against the local rally dynasties of the Kimathis and Anwars, whose sons will be similarly competing at the global event. None of the trio has driven in Africa, a clear indication that the nature of situation on the tough Rift Valley terrain will be “out of this world”. CURRENT WRC STANDINGS 1. SEBASTIEN OGIER (FRANCE) 61 2. THIERRY NEUVILLE (BELGIUM) 53 3. ELFYN EVANS (WALES) 51 4.OTT TÄNAK (ESTONIA) 40 5. KALLE ROVANPERÄ (FINLAND) 39 6. CRAIG BREEN (IRELAND) 24 7. T. KATSUTA (JAPAN) 24 8. ADRIEN FOURMAUX (FRANCE) 12 9. GUS GREENSMITH (GB) 12 10. DANI SORDO (SPAIN) 11