Lack of international friendly matches for Malkia Strikers ahead of the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games in July is a cause for concern for coach Paul Bitok. Malkia Strikers had planned to attend a high-performance training camp in Brazil at the start of the month but the government cancelled the trip owing to a spike in coronavirus cases in the host nation. The team returned to their bubble camp at Kasarani Indoor Arena on Tuesday after a week-long low altitude training in Mombasa. Bitok acknowledged players have improved following the two-month training but noted that it will be key for the team to win at least one match in Tokyo to move into the top 16 in the world rankings. Malkia Strikers are top in Africa and 23rd globally according to the rankings released on Tuesday. The former Rwanda coach said even though the players are psyched up to leave a mark in the quadrennial event, it will be difficult to gauge the level of preparedness without high-calibre test matches. "Players have improved over a short period of time which is extra motivation. The analysis of individual players and the specific drills have come in handy thanks to the Brazilian coaches. We need to win matches in the Olympics to scale up in the global placements," said Bitok "However, training without matches can affect the performance of the team. When you train without assessing yourself, it's difficult to identify and eliminate the flaws in your game as we enter a crucial period of training." Nonetheless, Malkia Strikers could be set for a boost in their preparations if the plans by NOCK and the Ministry of Sports are anything to go by, according to Bitok. He revealed discussions are ongoing to see how Kenya can host a foreign team for a series of matches, an idea he observed has worked for other nations. "The Brazil trip was aborted and we need a Plan 'B'. The concerned authorities are working to get a team to come in. Tunisia recently hosted Spain successfully and Kenya should do the same," he opined. Even so, Kenya will not be choosy in terms of the team they will play because of the unavailability of most of them. "All the teams that are available are going to play in the World League but we are looking at all options that will be beneficial for the team." Malkia Strikers are in Pool 'A' alongside Japan, Serbia, Dominican Republic, Korea Republic and Brazil for the Olympic Games.