Athletics Kenya president Jack Tuwei has urged athletes not to relax but intensify training ahead of next month's national trials for the Tokyo Olympics. Tuwei said the federation has invited all athletes in different race categories regardless of whether they have already qualified or not. "We are having our trials next month and we would like to see everyone who has qualified and those that are yet to participate. This is to enable us select a strong team with the best chance of bringing the country as much medals from Tokyo as possible," Tuwei said. Previously, the AK supremo had promised athletes that the federation would do all in their  power to provide them with as much opportunities as possible to secure their tickets to Tokyo. Once again, Tuwei reiterated AK's commitment and earmarked the Diamond League series as a platform for Kenyan athletes to bag a place in the global games. "We will try and organise some more events to give you the chance to qualify not only in Kenya but also abroad. There are a few Diamond League meetings in the athletics programme between now and the Olympics and we will be enlisting some of you in these competitions to try your luck," he said. He was speaking at Ole Sereni Hotel, Nairobi on Tuesday morning during a breakfast reception for the Kenyan team to the World Relay Championships in Silesia, Poland. The 36-athlete team amassed three medals — two silver and one bronze — in the two-day event, courtesy of the 4x200m men, 2x2x400m mixed relay and shuttle hurdles relay. It was two better than their last performance in the 2019 edition in Yokohama, Japan, where the team won a sole bronze. Tuwei expressed hope that the Poland trip was a great learning experience for most of the athletes, especially those debuting at the international arena. "When you go to such places, always try and learn more about the country and its tradition because you may never have another chance to go there. What language do they speak? What kind of people are they? What countries do they border?" he said. Speaking at the same function, team assistant captain Susan Nyambura thanked stakeholders for the support accorded to the team from the time they entered a bubble training camp at Moi Stadium, Kasarani. "I thank you, the ministry and the federation, for keeping us in a bubble camp to train without distractions. We have been receiving our allowances on time and any other resources required for our training. Special thanks to my teammates for the discipline exhibited all through including in Poland where we competed at the lowest degree of temperatures."