Water PS Joseph Irungu has appealed to Parliament to intervene in a case where two Chinese firms are tussling over Sh20 billion River Nyando dam project even as floods ravage the area. Irungu told the Public Accounts Committee chaired by Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandayi that the Koru-Soin Multipurpose Dam is unable to take off after a Chinese firm moved to the Public Procurement Administration Review Board to contest the tender award. The move, he noted, has stalled any works in the project that is expected to among other things check the perennial flooding along River Nyando. Irungu said his ministry also risks losing the money all together if the matter is not resolved before the next financial year. China Gezhouba which lost the multi-billion tender moved to the review board paralysing any works in the project. The firm had placed Sh19.2 billion bid but the deal was awarded to China Jiangxi Economic Cooperation which had bided at Sh19.9billion, translating to Sh700,00 million more. Yesterday, Irungu said the ministry is one month away from losing the Sh1.5 billion that had been released by Treasury to kick start the mega project. “One party of the two Chinese firms went to court fighting for the GoK tender.  I have Sh1.5 billion and I fear if the case drags on to the end of the financial year, then we might not have the money,” the PS said. “Being a legal matter, I want your help. Treasury may not give me money any other time if the matter is not solved on time,” he added. MPs Eseli Simiyu (Tongaren) and Aden Duale (Garissa Township) demanded that the committee summons the board over the matter saying it is uncommon for two foreign firms to fight over a project with a local funding. Eseli said it is unheard of that the country’s development agenda is stalling because of the sibling rivalry between foreign firms. “These Chinese cannot come here and fight over our projects,” Eseli said. Duale demanded that the committee summon all the stakeholders in the project saying the government cannot be held at ransom as the people suffer from frequent flooding. “That dam project is a critical government project. This is the same place where we have perennial flooding,” he said. Wandayi said PAC will meet the board in time to ensure that the money already allocated to the project is not taken back to the Treasury. “We are just one month away from the end of the current financial year. We will have the board appear before us,” Wandayi said. The PS was appearing before the oversight committee to respond to the 2018-19 audit queries raised by the Auditor General Nancy Gathungu. -Edited by SKanyara