The Officer Commanding Station for Garissa was Wednesday arrested in connection with a fatal shooting incident of a reveler at a bar in the town. Chief Inspector Michael Munyalo is expected in court today ahead of the planned postmortem exercise on the body of the deceased. Police said they would ask for more days under a miscellaneous application to hold the police commander as investigations go on. Munyalo was arrested following the shooting incident on May 16 at 3D Club on Bula Sheikh Road that left Morris Kimathi Kaliunga, 28 dead. The shooting happened as the OCS and other officers enforced the dusk to dawn curfew that is aimed at containing the spread of the Covid-19 pandemic. The club was operating at about 2 am when the shooting happened. The circumstances under which the incident happened are not clear but officials said there was a confrontation between the deceased and the officer. Kaliunga is said to have been shot in the back as he ran away. The two and other revelers had fought in the club leading to the shooting. Inspector General of police Hilary Mutyambai said the matter will be accorded necessary attention for justice to all. The incident is the latest where police are arrested for misusing their weapons and causing death. It comes days after Embakasi head of DCI Simon Mwongela was arrested and detained for ten days for shooting dead a guard at a club in Kayole in a confrontation. Dozens of cases are pending in courts where police officers have been involved in shootings that turned tragic leaving some dead and others with serious wounds. For instance, two police constables charged with killing a businesswoman at City Park two years ago were on May 11 found guilty of manslaughter and not murder. Police constables William Chirchir and Godfrey Kirui were charged with the death of Janet Waiyaki on May 20, 2018, while she was in a car with her nephew, Bernard Chege. Another police officer was in March arrested after he shot dead a guard and taxi driver in an altercation in Utawala area, Nairobi. He is facing murder charges. 