The Kisumu government expects to collect Sh9.1 million from boda boda operators to fund its Sh10.7 billion budget estimates for the financial year 2021-2022. Kisumu has more than 35,000 boda boda operators registered through saccos and groups within the county. The operators are currently paying Sh 20 per day which translates to 500 per month. This is after the county government started the implementation of the finance Act 2019/2020. This is the first time the annual levies will be imposed on the operators as one of the main revenue streams. The move had been opposed during Jack Ranguma’s time as well as the current regime Other main revenue streams are bus park and market fees as well as licences and land rates to meet the projected Sh1.3 billion locally sourced revenues while the county will get Sh315 million from other departments. Health takes the largest share of the budget with Sh3.7 billion allocated for its programmes, Finance and Economic planning Sh2.1 billion and the Human Resource Development, ICT and Social Services Sh 804 million. The county assembly is expected to spend Sh801.9 million, Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries Sh698.6 million, Roads, Transport and public works Sh504.1 million while the Kisumu city has 467.7 million in this budget. The governor has allocated his office Sh314.9 million, Trade, Energy and Industry  Sh305.9 million, public administration (Sh287 million), Water, Environment and natural resources (Sh261.4 million), Lands, housing and Physical Planning (Sh152.3 million), while Tourism, culture, Sports and Information have Sh196 million to spend. According to the proposed budget estimate report by Finance boss George Okong'o, the administration has prioritised the county estimated budget on the completion of ongoing projects. The revenue will also be used to enhance liquidity to businesses(enterprise development) to support the recovery and growth of Micro, small and medium enterprises. The county has also prioritised improving health outcomes. The budget will complete the cancer centre at Jaramogi Oginga Odinga Teaching and Referral Hospital and enhance health services to at least 45,000 vulnerable households through Marwa Kisumu solidarity health cover in partnership with NHIF. The proposed budget for the FY 2021-2022 is currently before the assembly for consideration and approval but already it is drawing mixed reactions. The administration indicates it will also prioritise enhanced payment of contractors, suppliers and clearing of pending bills to boost economic activities. The residents have demanded a breakdown list of contractors owed and jobs completed by the same people. Mike Onyango, a resident, said there was no clear way of paying the pending bills and that is why the county government did not want to list down the projects to be paid. The issue of pending bills has been a contentious one with contractors demanding for payment of at least Sh2 billion owed to them from 2013. “How sure are we that they will prioritize the issue of paying pending bills?” he posed. “Pending bill itemised lists cannot be produced for the fourth year running yet the argument is to prioritise 1.3billion for them. Most of these could be ghost projects.”  Edited by Kiilu Damaris