Mathare United head coach Frank Ouna has attributed their narrow 1-0 loss to AFC Leopards to an attempt by his charges to change their style of play midway down the season. Ouna said his players attempted to play long balls when it is has been their tradition to exhibit tiki-taka style of football that involves an exchange of short and crisp passes. "We played a lot of long balls and that's not Mathare style of play. We cannot change the style midstream," said Ouna. "It was a proverbial game of two halves with both teams having good chances in each half.The red card spoilt everything for us. There is enough time for the sombre mood to go away," said Ouna. AFC Leopards tactician Patrick Aussems has extolled his charges for showing marked improvement in the game. "We had a good first half despite the bad pitch. In the second half, we also had some good opportunity but we didn't score. We are improving day after day." "At the end of the day we got all the three points despite the number of goals scored," said Aussems. Eight minutes into the match, Elvis Rupia got his name on the score sheet and took his season's goal tally to 12 after firing Leopards in front with a finely struck shot from outside the 18-yard. Rupia could have made it two three minutes later, but his attempt at connecting Hansel Ochieng's delivery from the left channel came a cropper as the ball flew over the crossbar. Eager to level the terms, the Slum Boys tinkered their line up as soon as they emerged from the tunnel after the break. Ouna made a double substitution, introducing Eugene Wethuli and Khalid Jumaan for Klinsman Omulanga and John Mwangi. The inclusion of the duo upfront, pumped some urgency and zest into the Slum Boys who went on a rampage in search of the elusive equaliser. In the 78th minute, Mathare were reduced to ten men after David Ochieng was sent off following a rash challenge on Rupia. Just when the referee was about to blow the whistle for full-time, Sichenje was sent off after accumulating two yellow cards when he brought James Kinyanjui down on the edge of the box. On the sidelines, Aussems and Ouna almost exchanged blows after disagreeing over a contentious call made by tge center referee. The two had squared up to each other before they were separated by the match commissure. Elsewhere, Gor Mahia edged Vihiga United 1-0 at Mumias Complex with Clifton Miheso netting the all important goal.Following the results, AFC have moved to second on the log with 36 points, while Gor are now fifth with 28 points. 