KCB head coach Zedekiah 'Zico' Otieno says the bankers have their eyes firmly trained on the Football Kenya Federation Premier League title when action resumes on May 12 following a long spell of inactivity occasioned by the coronavirus pandemic. KCB have an arduous task ahead in their first match, a top-of-the-table battle against leaders Tusker at Moi Stadium, Kasarani on May 15 but Zico insists he is not quacking in the boots at all. “Everybody is working towards winning and that's our objective. The gap between us and Tusker has been narrowed to four points after the points we had gained against Zoo Kericho were deducted following their relegation," said Otieno. “It, therefore, means it is now easier for us to close down on them and possibly regain control of the FKF-PL log. I believe we can claim their scalp,” said Zico. On Tuesday, Football Kenya Federation implemented a directive given by Fifa that recommended Zoo's ban and subsequent relegation to the lower tier after the club was found culpable of match-fixing. Interestingly, the bankers' last league encounter was against the Kericho-based side — before the competition was halted as part of the government's efforts to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic. Zico's charges kicked off the season quite impressively and even maintained a nine-match unbeaten run before the brewers emerged from the blues and took firm command of the proceedings. KCB currently lie second, behind Tusker, with 29 points. And despite his counterpart at Ulinzi Stars Benjamin Nyangweso pleading for more time to prepare his side well enough before competition can resume, Zico sounds optimistic, if not entirely bullish, amidst the concerns. “Time is never enough. It is upon us as individual coaches to try and do what is required. Nobody will be a hundred percent fit,” said Zico. “We were training virtually but it's not as effective as group training. I believe whatever we did during that period will be enough to keep us going. Zico is optimistic that key striker, Enoch Agwanda, will soon link up with the team to help them charge for the title after being ruled out of action for the better part of the first leg due to a knee injury sustained in a league match. “My only injury concern is striker Enoch Agwanda, otherwise all the other players are fit for duty. But I'm happy he is on the path to recovery after a successful operation on his knee,” said Zico. Meanwhile, Zico stayed clear of the decision by Fifa to order Zoo's relegation, saying he wouldn't want to be drawn into the debate.