Former Football Kenya Federation president Sam Nyamweya and his successor Nick Mwendwa on Saturday put aside their long-standing differences to mourn departed veteran football administrator Alex Ole Magelo. Magelo, who was in charge of Leopards when the club was promoted back to the top tier league in 2009, died on Saturday following a short illness at Nairobi Hospital. “It is great sorrow and sadness that I have learned of the passing f my brother and friend, Alex Ole Magelo.” Nyamweya said the cruel hand of death had robbed Magelo’s family of a loving, humble, and caring father, husband, brother, uncle and pillar. “On behalf of myself, my family, and the football fraternity, I wish to convey my heartfelt condolences and pray that our Lord brings you and your family the much-needed peace during this sad and trying time.” The former FKF boss said he had personally lost not just a dear brother, but a loyal, dependable and honest friend and comrade with whom he worked very closely in the administration and development of football and diverse spheres in the country and region. “Alex always had time to listen, and give advice and assistance when it was needed,” said Nyamweya. “He was a generous individual with a big heart and rare organizational and problem-solving acumen that saw him successfully steer one of the top clubs in the country, AFC Leopard, in its turbulent moments when he served as its chairman.” “His death is a huge blow to the sports fraternity. Following his death, the Maa community has lost a wise and visionary leader and elder to whom many turned to, for advice and guidance.” Meanwhile, FKF president Nick Mwendwa has said AFC Leopards experienced positive growth during Magelo's reign. “We are saddened by the loss of former AFC Leopards chairman Alex Ole Magelo,” said Mwendwa. “During his time at the club, Leopards experienced positive growth, and arguably their best position in a decade. His contribution to the game cannot be underestimated,” he added. “We wish his family solace during these trying times,” said Mwendwa. Upon leaving the den, Magelo ventured into politics, serving as the Speaker of the Nairobi County Assembly, from 2013 to 2017. 