National Treasury Cabinet Secretary Ukur Yatani will on Thursday meet with port stakeholders and international shipping lines officials at the Lamu Port. This is Yatani's second visit to Lamu in two weeks since he last toured the facility on April 21 to check on the progress of the multi-billion facility, whose first three berths are ready for commissioning. Kenya Ports Authority acting managing director Rashid Salim said they have been meeting with the shipping lines agents, port stakeholders and all government agencies involved in port operations to discuss the prospects of the Lamu port. Speaking to the Star, Salim said they have been meeting regularly with major shipping lines including, Maersk Shipping Line, Express Shipping Company, Pacific International Lines, CMA CGM Transport Company among others at the Mombasa port for the past two weeks. “The purpose of these meetings is to market Lamu port. We have some incentives for the shipping lines that are ready to do business with us,” Salim said. He said among the incentives are the attractive port charges. Since Monday, the KPA board chairperson Joseph Kibwana has been meeting with the shipping lines agents at the Lamu Port. In a statement on Monday, KPA said they are making deliberate efforts to involve all key stakeholders ahead of the forthcoming operationalization of the new port. “With a series of scheduled meetings to inspect progress and assess the levels of preparedness, today the KPA board chairman held a meeting with Lawrence Amenya of Express Shipping and Logistics and the Kenya Revenue Authority officials who were also on the ground for inspection of their offices,” KPA said. A KPA official said due to the importance of Yatani’s second visit, the chairperson was tasked to oversee all the operations. “The chairperson has been meeting with the shipping lines agents before the CS  arrives on Thursday. There is a high-powered delegation here at the Lamu port,”  the official said. During Thursday's meeting, Yatani is expected to entice the shipping lines to start using the Lamu Port, especially for transhipment business. A bigger percentage of all transhipment cargo will now be offloaded at the Lamu Port, awaiting transportation to their final destination. To ensure that the port operations are running smoothly, KPA has deployed a team of experts at the Lamu Port to install the Computer Automated Terminal Operating System. Catos is an all-in-one terminal operation system, which has been designed and developed to maximize the productivity of terminal operation and to increase service quality of terminals. KPA management has also installed the first batch of equipment for yard operations to Lamu Port, ahead of commissioning. The equipment comprising terminal tractors, trailers, reach stackers, lifting equipment gears and spreaders were ferried from the port of Mombasa. The second batch of equipment, which includes; two rubber-gantry cranes, one Kenya Revenue Authority scanner, two mobile cranes and other equipment needed for operation of the facility will be shipped from Mombasa on Thursday. KPA had initially scheduled the operationalisation date of the facility for June 15, but President Uhuru Kenyatta is keen to see the facility up and running within this month. KPA's Lamu port general manager Abdullahi Samatar confirmed that the port is ready to start minimal operations. “We will commence operations on a small scale from May 20 throughout the year, and then from next year we can start full operations at this facility,” Samatar said. The new port will be able to accommodate large cargo ships, which have a capacity to handle up to 8,000 Total Equivalent Units. The port will have 400 metre-long berths along the six-kilometre coastline and an oil terminal for loading and offloading of tankers. In 2014, KPA awarded the USD 478 million ( Sh51,256, 500,000) contract to China Communication Construction Company for the construction of the first three berths of the port.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris