The Uasin Gishu assembly has formed a committee to investigate failure by the county administration to use more than Sh4 billion for development projects. Majority leader Josphat Lowoi said the ad-hoc committee will investigate all departments to establish why they were not spending the money.  The move was seconded by Minority leader Ramadhan Ali Deputy speaker Hosea Lamai directed the committee to give a report in two weeks so that action can be taken against culpable officers. In her latest reports on counties, Auditor General Nancy Gathungu has faulted Uasin Gishu for failure to use Sh3.5 billion allocated in 2017-18. Lowoi said the formation of the probe team did not amount to a witchhunt against Mandago. “We have formed the committee so that we know the facts and separate it from witchhunt,” he said. At the same time, donors have withdrawn more than Sh500 million funding for projects in Uasin Gishu, causing an uproar among MCAs. The county has been receiving conditional grants amounting to more than Sh1.3 billion annually for various projects, but within the last five years, the support has reduced by more than half. The ward reps approved the Uasin Gishu County Fiscal Strategy Paper 2021 moved by MCA Jonathan Ng'etich, who is chairman of the Budget committee, but raised concerns about the withdrawal of donor support to the county projects. “We need to find out why there was a high reduction in conditional grants to our county, yet we have many projects that need the support,” Ngetich said. Patrick Bundotich, who is MCA for Tarakwa, questioned why donors were reducing financial support to the county. He said they would seek a response on the matter from Governor Jackson Mandago’s administration. In her latest reports on counties, Auditor General Ann Gathungu faulted the county for the low absorption of donor funds. She said in the year ending June 30, 2018, the county received more than Sh933.6 million in donor funding but as of June 30, 2019, only 10 per cent of the money had been used.  More than Sh959 million of the donor money was not used in the period under review. The auditor also questioned irregular use of Sh114 million donor funds, saying regulations governing the use of donor funding were not followed. “The management blamed delayed releases from the Treasury but no evidence was presented to show that the delays were unavoidable,” Gathungu says in a report. Donors who support the county include Danish Development Agency, the European Union and the Kenya Devolution Support Programmes, among other agencies. Much of the funding has been going to the health sector. Last week, MCAs criticised Mandago for stalled projects and a poor development record, saying he failed to absorb more than Sh3.5 billion last year. The MCAs, led by Majority leader Lowoi, said they now have to woo voters through funerals, fundraisers and weddings as there are no development projects to speak for them. “Our people are still crying for important things like roads and water yet the county failed to use more than Sh3.5 billion last year. That is why we run to the funerals and harambees to be seen and remain relevant to residents because they no longer have faith in our leadership,” Lowoi said. He accused county executives in Uasin Gishu of failing in their duties. Lowoi said while the county fully utilises the recurrent budget, very little is done to ensure development projects are implemented. Budget committee chairman Ngetich accused the executive of giving excuses on the failed or stalled development projects. “In every ward, we have incomplete projects and we have to do something about it,” Ngetich said. The MCAs spoke at the Uasin Gishu assembly after Mandago’s administration cancelled a plan to purchase the National Bank building in Eldoret at a cost of Sh570 million. The Senate had last month directed the county to stop the purchase after it investigated the deal following a petition by residents through Senator Margret Kamar. The residents said the purchase was not conducted in a fair, equitable, transparent, competitive manner. Following the cancellation, the county assembly passed a supplementary budget that saw money meant to purchase the building re-allocated for other critical services. Ngetich said the money should be used on important projects such as roads. “The executive agreed with the Senate and that is why we have the money for re-allocation in the supplementary budget.” Mandago had last month said the county may abandon the purchase plan and was only waiting for an advisory from the EACC. The Senate Finance and Budget committee chaired by Charles Kibiru from Kirinyaga last month termed the deal too costly to the taxpayer.