A court has ordered the Embakasi DCIO to remain in custody until Friday pending investigations into the murder of a night guard. Inspector Simon Mutia Mwongela was arrested for allegedly shooting and killing Lapaja Topiwo Laizer on May 13 at Red Square Hotel within Njiru area along Kangundo Road in Nairobi. On May 17, Mwongela was arraigned before Makadara senior resident magistrate Lewis Gatheru under a miscellaneous application. In an affidavit filed before the court, police commissioner Moses Dindi said he was investigating a murder case. Dindi said the shooting occurred at around 3:50am after a disagreement between the officer and the guard. The officer had checked into the hotel for accommodation. The respondent was disarmed and escorted to Kileleshwa police station where he was detained for investigations. Dindi had asked the court to allow him to hold the suspect for 10 days pending investigations. He said he needed more time to trace and record statements from all key witnesses and forward the recovered firearm for ballistic examination. He will also review CCTV footage at the scene of the crime. Gatheru granted the request and directed the matter be mentioned on May 26. On Wednesday when the matter came up before Makadara principal magistrate Jacky Kibosia, Dindi sought another five days to detain the suspect. In a sworn affidavit, the investigating officer said they are yet to receive the ballistic report and the CCTV footage from the scene. Defense lawyer Musyoka objected to the request. Musyoka said his client has no control over the remaining bit of the investigation as it is purely an administrative matter. Lawyer representing the victim's family said the respondent is a senior police officer who may interfere with evidence. “The remaining part of investigations is purely technical and it is being undertaken by the police themselves. The possibility of the respondent interfering with the investigations is quite eminent,” he said. Senior prosecution counsel Joseph Mburugu said the application by the Dindi was merited. He said the court has powers to impose terms and conditions to be followed by each party to ensure justice is done. “Our rejoinder is for the court to strike a balance between respondent and the victim as each party is seeking justice,” he said. In her ruling, Kibosia directed that the suspect be detained for two days until Friday May 28 when the matter will be mentioned. She said that the ODPP should have reached a decision by then.