Potato traders risk a fine of Sh5 million or jail term of three years for failing to comply with the 50kg packaging as per the Crops (Irish Potatoes) Regulations 2019. According to the Agriculture and Food Authority, anyone found transporting potatoes packaged in more than 50kgs bags is likely to be fined Sh500,000 or a three-month jail term. AFA acting director general Kello Harsama said traders, transporters and those in the potato value chain should adhere to the regulations, failing which they will be penalised. The penalties will include seizing, detaining and disposing their produce. He spoke last week while launching the nationwide crackdown of the Crops (Irish Potatoes) Regulations 2019 in Meru county. He said the regulations will be implemented in all the major potato producing counties including Nyandarua, Meru, Nakuru, Narok, Nyeri, Bomet, Trans Nzoia, Uasin Gishu, Kiambu and West Pokot. The Crops (Irish Potato) Regulations 2019 were gazetted on April 5, 2019. The regulation stated that the maximum weight for each single unit of package of irish potatoes shall be 50kgs. The regulations also state that a person who contravenes the regulations commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to imprisonment for a period not exceeding three years or to a fine not exceeding Sh5 million or to both. The potato regulation also states that every grower shall, for the purposes of data collection, apply for registration respectively with the respective county government where their irish potato is grown. Harsama said the government will ensure the potato farmers benefit equally, and that AFA will work with all in the value chains including farmers and traders to ensure the regulations are implemented. “For years, most of the food crops have been under the control of the cartels and brokers whose key mission is to make huge profits at the expense of the farmers. The cartels have been applying unethical business practices mainly fixing prices, forcing farmers to pack the produce in extended bags and even segmenting markets,” he said. Meru county commissioner Karuku Ngumo said last week, that about five traders were arrested and vehicles carrying potatoes packed in extended bags were intercepted during the crackdown in the county. Chris Marete, a board director of the Potato Council of Kenya, said the regulations will help restore order in the potato industry, and that farmers should be encouraged to form or join cooperatives/associations to avoid being exploited by unscrupulous traders.  -Edited by SKanyara