Kenya Railways has expressed satisfaction with the ongoing rehabilitation of the Nakuru-Kisumu railway. On Monday, corporation board chairman Pastor Awitta hosted Petroleum PS Andrew Kamau and ICDC-KTLN board chair and directors to an inspection tour of the line. “The construction works are on course and operations will commence at a date to be announced later,” Awitta said. The inspection tour entailed a train ride from Nakuru to Elburgon and from the Oroba River in Miwani to Kisumu Port. The line from Nakuru to Kisumu will link the Rift Valley and Western Kenya regions with Uganda. This means cargo will be moved from Mombasa to Kisumu and Malaba via rail. “From the Port of Mombasa, cargo will be transported aboard the Madaraka Express Freight Service trains up to the Naivasha Inland Container Depot,” Awitta said. “The cargo will be loaded onto the meter-gauge railway trains for onward transportation to Malaba and Kisumu.” MV Uhuru ship in Kisumu will transport cargo to Port Bell in Kampala through Lake Victoria. These initiatives will see the rail transport sector play an enhanced role in local transport. Kenya Railways last month said it projects to transport 2.45 million and 8.5 million tonnes of cargo through meter-gauge and standard-gauge railways respectively in 2022. This was disclosed by Kenya Transport and Logistics Network boss John Ngumi. Ngumi and Awitta inspected the progress of the locomotive refurbishment at the Nairobi Central Workshops, Industrial and Commercial Development Corporation. Ngumi was impressed with the progress of the locomotives, which, otherwise, would have been decommissioned. “Once completed, the additional locomotives and with the rehabilitation of the 465Km Longonot-Malaba MGR line and the 216.7km long Nakuru-Kisumu MGR branch line, we will have reached an important milestone in our rail infrastructure development,” Ngumi said. “That will now see an efficient and timely movement of goods connecting of Mombasa port to the Industrial parks in Naivasha and beyond to other economic hubs across the country.” Ngumi said the ongoing refurbishment of the old line is one way of providing efficient transport of goods in the country while at the same time improving the ease of doing business. Kenya Railways is refurbishing 31 locomotives to increase capacity in preparation for operations along the Longonot–Malaba MGR section and the Nakuru-Kisumu MGR branch line which are currently under rehabilitation. Among the 31 locomotives, 9 are being rehabilitated and 22 others are undergoing an overhaul under the partnership between Kenya Railways and Kenya Defence Forces. The rehabilitation of Longonot–Malaba MGR section and Nakuru-Kisumu MGR branch line, which is 25.1 per cent and 60 per cent complete, will expand trade across East Africa and is estimated to significantly reduce transport and logistics costs. The new 23.5km meter gauge link between Naivasha ICD and Longonot MGR station that commenced last October is also 52.5 per cent complete. It is expected to be fully operational in September to enable effective utilisation of the Naivasha ICD and improve freight to Western Kenya and neighbouring East African countries. Kenya Railways said the connection to Kisumu and the borders are set to boost the movement of transit cargo where Uganda remains the leading transit destination, accounting for 83.2 per cent of transit cargo through the Port of Mombasa. South Sudan takes up 9.9 per cent, while DR Congo, Tanzania and Rwanda account for 7.2 per cent, 3.2 per cent and 2.4 per cent respectively. Kenya Railways said the link to the Kisumu Port will boost the revival of Lake Victoria water transport, connecting Kenya to ports of Uganda and Tanzania, boosting regional trade. It said the Nairobi Central Workshop, which is also undergoing a facelift, is very instrumental in the production of spare parts for machinery and infrastructure for the Kenya Railways, Kenya Ports Authority and Kenya Pipeline. Authorities expect that the Kisumu line will be ready by June.   Edited by Kiilu Damaris