Just what has suddenly gone wrong between a senior government official and a vocal MP allied to President Uhuru Kenyatta (pictured)? The legislator has suddenly turned his artillery against the CS, criticising and attacking him. Ironically, the MP had been the official’s number one defender, in and outside Parliament. He has defended the officer against a barrage of attacks both from the opposition and Tangatanga. Sources tell Corridors of Power that what is happening between the two could be a clear case of a deal gone sour. Moles say the two have been doing business and cutting deals together. *** A flamboyant MP in one of the cities is a scared. Why? A prominent man who heads a  professional body is after his job. The opponent has officially announced his entry into city politics and is seeking to dislodge the MP in the 2022. Afraid that he may not retain the seat, the legislator has sent out goons, ferried from a neighbouring constituency, to disrupt his opponent's meetings. Recently, a former MCA aspirant was beaten up by thugs sent by the MP in one of the slums as he went about his work. Word has it that local youths have got wind of the incident and the lawmaker’s unbecoming conduct and have promised to rebel against against him. *** A prominent family in Nyanza has shocked a county assembly speaker in the area. This after the man tried and failed to seek family's support to compel a senior assembly official to retire and allow his relative to take over. The speaker is said to have been left with egg on his face after one of the family members told him off for trying to force a young person to retire for his personal gain. A little bird tells Corridors of Power that the speaker has refused to accept the official back to office after he was recently reinstated by the courts. it is said the speaker's biggest fear is that the official might expose financial improprieties at the assembly. *** After losing grasp of city politics, a vocal MCA who is rumoured not to have proceeded beyond Standard 7 is at it again. The man has started a blog and employed several bloggers, some of them former journalists. They are now churning out propaganda critical of his opponents. What has angered many city MCAs is that the man has been ordering his team to publish even unverified and unsubstantiated claims against them. Some of ward reps were heard saying that it is just a matter of time before they drag him to court for defamation.