Embattled Migori Governor Okoth Obado and his family have been temporarily barred from selling or transferring his Loresho Ridge home. This is after the court allowed an application by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission seeking to investigate the properties on suspicion that they may have been acquired through fraud. Justice James Wakiaga on Thursday barred Obado and 19 others, including his four children, from having any dealings either selling, transferring or charging the home or the two Toyota Landcruiser V8 vehicles that had been mentioned in the application. “That a temporary injunction be is hereby issued restraining the respondents from selling, charging leasing, disposing and transferring the property in Loresho pending hearing of the application,” the order reads in part. Judge Wakiaga directed the EACC to serve Obado and appear in court on June 3 for inter-parties hearing. In the case, the anti-graft agency is seeking to attach the said properties that are linked to Obado in a bid to recover the Sh73.4 Million of public funds. EACC argues the properties were acquired through proceeds of crime by the governor and his children alongside some former county officers. The commission said Obado, in abuse of his power as governor, amassed assets valued at Sh73.47 million procured from proceeds of dubious contracts with the county government. In the court papers, EACC listed the governors’ children, Evelyne Adhiambo Zachary, Dan Achola Okoth, Scarlet Susan Okoth and Jerry Zachary Okoth, as respondents. Jared Kwaga has been listed as the director of companies that were awarded fictitious contracts by the county government and paid millions of shillings. The commission asked the court prohibit Obado from transferring, disposing or in nay way dealing with the properties. EACC says the loot was acquired through a family and proxy network involving the governor, his children and close associates. EACC said that Sh38.94 million was wired to Dan and Jerry for their university tuition fees and upkeep. A portion of the cash was used to purchase two vehicles registered in the names of Dan and a private limited liability company. “Investigations established that the defendants colluded and devised a scheme, to misappropriate and embezzle public funds of the County Government of Migori,” the document reads. Last year, Obado and his four children were charged with graft after the prosecution linked them with the theft of Sh73.47 million. They were released on a bail of Sh45 million.