In 2011, the Institute for Democracy and Leadership in Africa and civil society consortiums unsuccessfully launched a signature campaign to petition Parliament to change the Constitution to allow for a 'rotational presidency'. The petition was informed by the consortiums’ research findings conducted earlier in the year. According to the findings, a majority of Kenyans preferred a rotational presidency, which in their view would bring political stability in a country dogged by tribal alliances. The case for a rotational presidency was also a key focus in the wake of the 2007-08 post-election violence. If that experience is anything to go by, Kenya needs a governance system that provides an equal opportunity for all Kenyans to participate without any form of discrimination. Such a system would promote national cohesion and power-sharing. The governance and management structure would also be more efficient, as provided for in Article 143 of the Constitution. In addition, a rotational presidential system would open up the democratic space by eliminating tribal alliances that have led to a majority of tribes ganging up in the so-called tyranny of numbers to deny others the opportunity to rule the country. President Uhuru Kenyatta’s rekindling of the rotational presidency debate in January during Mama Hannah Mudavadi’s funeral could not have come at a better time. Already, the country is in a constitutional moment, thanks to the Building Bridges Initiative and the Constitution of Kenya (Amendment) Bill, 2020. On inclusion, the Executive has been expanded from two to five top positions, with the creation of a prime minister and two deputy prime ministers. The current dispensation, with only the President and deputy president at the top, has resulted in exclusion in our ethnically diverse nation and become a source of discord. The expanded Executive, buttressed by a rotational presidency, will ensure that every tribe benefits from the sharing of public resources. Although the Constitution provides for inclusivity in ethnic representation in leadership positions, it is not lost on observers that since the country’s Independence in 1963, only two tribes – Kikuyu and Kalenjin – have held the presidency in a country with over 46 tribes. The Kenya we want is where an El Molo, Endorois, Ogiek or Pokomo can become President. This would end the legacy of previous regimes where 'tribe rules' rather than individuals from a tribe ruling. This would be a radical shift from the presidency to the process of electing a President with long-term peace and stability in mind. It will strengthen cultural and sub-cultural diversity, as candidates from minority tribes have a realistic and equal chance of integrating themselves into national leadership. That democracy is a game of numbers cannot be gainsaid. However, compromise for the sake of the nation’s political peace and stability remains paramount. The first advantage of a rotational presidency is that every tribe or region is assured of getting a chance at leading the country. This will eliminate the struggle for power and enhance peace. It will also diminish the electoral violence witnessed in every presidential election. There will also be less talk of some regions threatening to secede. Lastly, no tribe or region will see political power as its birthright and will have to wait for its turn. Successes of rotational presidency There is no reason why this system cannot succeed in Kenya as it has in other countries, such as Tanzania, Nigeria, Burundi, Switzerland, and the Indian Ocean archipelago of the Comoros, among others. In Nigeria, the presidency is rotational regionally. The south and the north are represented effectively in the government either as president and vice president. In Burundi, where there are two major tribes, a similar practice has been adopted whereby the presidential system exchanges between Tutsis and Hutus. In line with the Comoran constitutional provision, the presidency of the union rotates between three islands. This method was adopted in 2001 after voters backed a new constitution keeping the islands of Grande Comore, Moheli and Anjouan as one country. This method of voting is meant to ensure peace and stability in the autonomous islands. With a population of fewer than one million people, Comoros has had more than 20 coups or attempts at seizing power since gaining independence from France in the 70s. In Switzerland, the position of President of the Swiss Confederation rotates annually among the seven councillors, where the vice president of the Federal Council becomes next year's president. As the World Economic Forum notes, the tiny Alpine stronghold is one of the wealthiest countries in the world and is famously stable both politically and socially. Part of that stability comes from the way in which the country is governed. That is why I envision a Kenya where citizens are equal and are qualified for any appointment in the governance of the country; a Kenya where no region will continue to dominate the others is the panacea for peace; a Kenya of oneness where everyone feels that they are all equal citizens of this country. The author is the governor of Siaya county