The High Court in Eldoret has stopped Agriculture CS Peter Munya from effecting the appointment of five new directors to take charge at the Kenya Seed Company. Justice Samuel Githinji issued stay orders against Munya’s decision to appoint the new directors while revoking the appointment of three other directors who had been serving at the Kitale-based firm. Munya made the decision through a gazzette notice No 3075 dated March 29, 2021. “Pending the hearing and determination of the application filed, there be stay orders of the first respondent’s decision appointing the five,” the judge said. Munya is named as the first respondent in the application filed by six petitioners including Paul Kandie, Levis Sagala, Francis Musau, Simon Cherogony, Dr Nathaniel Tum and Soet Kenya Limited. The five have sued Munya, the AG and the five directors appointed by the CS. The petitioners argue that the CS illegally made changes at company. Farmers in the Rift Valley had welcomed the appointment of new directors. In a Gazette notice dated March 29, President Uhuru Kenyatta had appointed Francis Okwara as chairman of the board of directors at the company for a period of three years. Munya then appointed Okwara, Alice Chesire, Gitonga Kamiti, Kipkorir arap Menjo and Samwel Mecca to be members of the board of directors for three years starting March 27. The CS also revoked the appointments of Samwel Chelule, Elisabeth Tolu and Gikonyo Ruiru from the company's board. Justice Githinji ordered those sued to file responses within seven days. The matter will be mentioned on May 22. The CS was expected to visit the company soon during the official installation of the new directors. Farmers' spokesman Jane Kiptoo said: “We welcome the changes because Kenya Seed is a major player in the agriculture sector, yet it has been having challenges in dealing with some of its obligations in relation to the supply of quality seeds to farmers.” Menjo, who has for many years been pushing for farmer’s rights in the region, welcomed the appointment. “I believe if we work together as stakeholders in the sector, we will be able to take care of the welfare of our farmers and make the country food secure,” he said. Menjo is among those who have been pushing the state to implement the Maputo Protocol, which requires governments to invest at least 10 per cent of their GDP in the agriculture sector. There has been a row at Kenya Seed Company over its ownership with a private firm claiming to have a majority of shares to control its operations. However, the government has insisted that the firm is fully a state corporation. It is the largest seed company in East and Central Africa and contracts hundreds of farmers for seed growing in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania.  -Edited by SKanyara