Kenya has ordered thousands of ARVs doses suitable for four-week-old babies. The consignment, expected to be delivered anytime, consists of a newly formulated drug that has a strawberry  flavour. The manufacturer said Kenya is among the 10 African countries that have placed orders jointly through a pooled procurement mechanism. At least 6,800 babies were born with HIV in Kenya last year. Without treatment, half of those babies would die by age two, and 80 per cent would not reach their fifth birthday, experts say. Many of those on treatment respond poorly because they take ARVs that are not correctly dosed or bitter to taste. The new treatment, called Dolutegravir or DTG, will come in the form of a pill that is dispersible in water and is easily tolerated by children. “Medicines Patent Pool together with partners are actively collaborating to support rapid rollout and ensure all children in need can have access to DTG,” the MPP said in a statement. Older formulations are cumbersome because they need to be taken twice a day for the first four years of life, but now children only need to take the DTG pill once. The cost of the generic DTG that Kenya ordered has been drastically reduced from about Sh41,000 a year  per patient to Sh4,000, through the support of Unitaid and the Clinton Health Access Initiative. Other countries that have placed orders are Benin, Côte d’Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Haiti, Malawi, Nigeria, Uganda, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. People living with HIV welcomed the move saying children were always disadvantaged due to a lack of appropriate formulations. “The ‘10mg DTG dispersible’ is not just welcome but also crucial and timely,” said Nelson Otuoma, head of Nephak, the umbrella body for Kenyans living with HIV. Most common paediatric drugs today include a syrup that is 40 per cent alcohol, and has a bitter metallic taste that lingers for hours. Otuoma added: “As expected, people living with HIV, and especially women living with HIV are expected to play a significant role to ensure the new medicines reach the children in the villages and in homes.” In total, about 106,807 Kenyan children below 14 years are living with HIV, but only 72,968 are on treatment. In 2019, 4,333 children were killed by the Aids, being 11 per cent of all HIV-related deaths in that year. In 2018, the World Health Organisation recommended DTG for children over the age of four weeks and weighing more than three kilogrammes but to date only those weighing 20kg or more accessed medication due to lack of age-appropriate formulations. “We are delighted that for the first time Kenya and other countries can provide children the same quality of treatment as adults, which has been made possible through the development of this new formulation,” Health CS Mutahi Kagwe said recently. According to Unaids, ARV coverage among children living with HIV lags behind adult treatment coverage in most of the sub-Saharan African countries with large HIV epidemics. Across all countries, treatment coverage among children living with HIV in 2019 was just 53 per cent, and about 60 per cent for Kenya. This is partly due to lack of diagnosis for children. -Edited by Skanyara