 President Uhuru Kenyatta has urged residents of Kisumu to strictly adhere to the Covid-19 containment protocols ahead of Madaraka Day Celebrations in the lakeside city on Tuesday. Kisumu has been recording high numbers of new Covid infections in recent days. The deadly Indian variant of the disease has also been detected in the county. State House on Saturday urged residents to continue observing the Covid-19 containment measures even as they prepare to host the celebrations. Uhuru appealed to Kisumu residents to give the best account of themselves by avoiding situations that may compromise national efforts against the pandemic. State House spokesperson Kanze Dena said the celebrations will be held in strict compliance with the Covid-19 protocols. President Kenyatta is expected to lead the nation in marking the 59th Madaraka Day celebrations at the new Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium in Mamboleo, Kisumu. A total of 3,000 people will be allowed into the stadium during the celebrations. However, sources privy to preparations intimated the celebrations could be held at the State Lodge in Kisumu. They said the venue might be changed from the Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium which has been under construction. The changes maybe as a result of the execution of the sports complex project and infighting among elected leaders from the county. Dena did not confirm or deny the new development. She instead said Ministry of Health protocols to contain Covid spread must be observed. "We will confirm you whether the celebrations will be held at the stadium in Mamboleo or at the State lodge. Consultation is still on about this matter and we will brief you in due course," Dena told reporters in Kisumu on Saturday. Dena noted that given the rising Covid-19 cases in the region, there were concerns about how to ensure the health protocols are adhered to. The details will be shared with the media on a rolling basis, she said. Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has assured that all safety guidelines will be observed. He said public health safety has been prioritised. Nyong’o said health department officials will be on standby. “Anybody with no mask will be given one, there will be enough sanitisers and hand washing areas and therefore our guests will receive maximum protection from Covid-19,” Nyong'o said. The governor said only 3,000 guests have been invited to physically attend the celebrations. He said the government will install three huge screens at Kirembe grounds, outside Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium and at Prophet Owuor grounds for residents to follow the proceedings. “This will enable residents who will not get an opportunity to access the stadium to follow the proceedings with compliance to the Covid-19 regulations,” he said. Jomo Kenyatta International Stadium has a capacity of 30,000. “We have invited 3,000 which is 10 percent of the entire capacity. These invited people will come with their cards and their seats are designated with proper social distancing,” Nyong’o said. President Kenyatta accompanied by First Lady Margaret will arrive in Kisumu on Sunday for a three-day visit to county and the Nyanza region. During the visit, the Head of State will officially open complete national government projects, inspect ongoing initiatives and launch new projects. Some of the projects include the newly rehabilitated Sh3 billion Kisumu port and Sh350 million Uhuru Business Park in the city. At the port, there is also a shipyard built by the Kenya Navy. The President will be joined on the tour by several national and regional leaders among them opposition leader Raila Odinga. Uhuru will however not travel to Kisumu by train as had earlier been expected due various circumstances, Dena said. “But he will on a later date visit Kisumu via the newly rehabilitated metre-gauge railway line,” she said. In a statement issued at Kisumu State Lodge on Saturday, the President's itinerary will be shared with the media on a rolling basis. Dena said Burundi President Evariste Ndayishimiye grace the Madaraka Day celebrations. Ndayishimiye will be on a two-day state visit to Kenya at the invitation of President Uhuru. He will land at the Kisumu International Airport on Monday. During the two-day state visit by President Ndayishimiye, Lady Margaret Kenyatta and her Burundi counterpart Angeline Ndayubaha will be engaged in a number of programme in Kisumu. The Sh3.8 billion rehabilitation of the 217km Nakuru-Kisumu railway line by the Kenya Defence Forces is complete. A new railway station in Kisumu is also complete. The Kenya Navy has built a new cargo and passenger vessel for Sh1.2 billion at the port as part of the Jubilee government's economic revival plan for the region through the blue economy. Since the rehabilitation by KDF, the MV Uhuru has made 45 trips carrying fuel to Uganda. Also expected to be launched by Uhuru is the construction of the Mamboleo-Muhoroni road that has been at the centre of failed promises for many years but which his administration wants to build. The President will also visit Siaya county before embarking on an extensive tour of Homa Bay. In Homa Bay, the President is expected to launch the Mbita causeway and commission construction of the 74km Mbita-Sindo-Magunga road. It is a key link road to Migori county. Uhuru is also expected to address the plight of sugar mills in the region.  Edited by P.O