Kitui East MP Nimrod Mbai has lauded the High Court for declaring the Building Bridges Initiative process unconstitutional, hence null and void. Mbai said there was no constitutional crisis in the country and therefore no need to change the supreme law. He said the Executive had no legal mandate to change the Constitution. The power to change the Constitution was with Kenyans alongside their elected leaders, the Members of Parliament. The MP said President Uhuru Kenyatta should re-embark on implementing his administration’s Big 4 Agenda and forget the BBI push. “I support the court’s ruling on BBI. The BBI didn’t mean well for the country because it wasn’t citizen-driven. Constitutional change affects all Kenyans; it is about changing the law that affects citizens,” Mbai said. He addressed the press at his home in Athi River, Machakos county, on Sunday. “It affects how they conduct business, farming, and live generally. The President has got no lawful mandate of changing the Constitution. The government has no mandate to change the Constitution either. So, when the government takes the mandate of changing the Constitution, I support the court for trashing that attempt.” The MP said BBI content wasn’t good as it had a lot of flaws. “There were lots of gaps in the document. For instance, constituencies and wards review is the IEBC's mandate,” he said. He said Kitui needed two additional constituencies as the county is larger than Makueni and Machakos combined. But this was not provided for in the BBI. Mbai said wananchi should push for Constitutional change. “Those mandated to change the Constitution are Kenyans themselves through the popular initiative and MPs elected to represent them. So, when the Executive takes the initiative of changing the Constitution and they are the ones at the helm of leadership, it isn’t good," he said. Mbai said the money used for pushing the BBI agenda could have been spent on other projects that positively impact on Kenyans. “The president and his deputy should refocus on the Big 4 agenda including combating Covid-19 pandemic. Uhuru should think of his legacy after his term ends. We don’t have constitutional issues. Prioritise the economy, youth employment and avoid unnecessary loans,” Mbai said.