Fifty-four years ago, Harod Kipchumba missed out on the polio vaccine. He was four years old then and full of dreams. He wanted to become an army officer. Contracting the virus marked the start of a painful and stigmatising journey, one which left him using crutches to move around. Kipchumba, from Baringo county, now an immunisation champion, says living with the condition has denied him many opportunities. “I have grown up with the challenges of living with polio right from childhood. It was difficult even playing with other children and doing house chores like fetching water, looking after livestock and fetching firewood,” Kipchumba says. “It stigmatises a person. You feel lonely, despised and abandoned. The situation became worse when I went to school as the schools were far from our home, and I couldn’t walk,” he adds. As a result, Kipchumba had to start his education late in life when all his age-mates were done with primary school. There were no special schools then. Even after high school, he had to join college with the challenges of not having performed well as he was seen as not being competitive enough. “My teenage life was challenging. I was not able to date or go to discos like my age-mates or engage in some hobbies. It has been tough,” Kipchumba says. Even after completing his studies, he was faced with another challenge of looking for a job. He said it was difficult for him to get a job as potential employers thought his condition would hurt his performance. “Getting a girlfriend was also difficult,” Kipchumba says. He says he decided to become an immunisation champion to ensure that no child goes through what he has been through since his childhood. Kipchumba says missing the vaccine is painful as even those who survive the disease live with a lifetime paralysis and inability to do many things, even in old age. “I call upon parents, guardians, leaders and community opinion shapers to see to it that when a campaign like this comes up, they make the right choices for the children,” he says. “No child should suffer the pain of living on crutches, on wheelchairs or crawling because they lacked the two drops of polio.” Kipchumba was among stakeholders who met in Nairobi ahead of the first round of the polio vaccine campaign, expected to start Saturday and end Wednesday next week. The vaccination campaign targets 13 counties and more than 3.4 million children under five years. The counties are Garissa, Mandera, Isiolo, Wajir, Kitui, Tana River, Lamu, Machakos, Kiambu, Kilifi, Kajiado, Nairobi and Mombasa. The decision was arrived at after six polioviruses were detected in two counties. Four in Garissa – three from healthy children who were crossing the border from Somalia into Garissa, and one was picked from Garissa environmental site. Two viruses from Mombasa were detected at the Mombasa Golf club environmental site. Speaking during the stakeholders’ forum on Thursday, Francis Kuria, from the Health ministry, said children under five years old are particularly vulnerable to diseases, as their immunity is not yet fully developed to fight infections. “Polio remains one of the most serious illnesses which not only causes paralysis and disability but can also kill,” Kuria said. Data from the ministry shows that during the polio outbreak that occurred in Garissa county in 2013, 14 people were paralysed while two died. The second round of the polio vaccine campaign will be conducted next month between June 19 and 23. Edited by A.N