The proliferation of energy infrastructure threatens the future of migratory birds. Birdlife Africa Migratory Birds and Flyways programme manager Alex Ngari said powerlines and wind turbines maim and kill birds through collisions and electrocution. Ngari raised the concern on Saturday when Kenya joined the rest of the world to commemorate World migratory bird day whose theme was: Sing, Fly, Soar – Like a Bird. The day is an annual global campaign dedicated to raising awareness of migratory birds and the need for international cooperation to conserve them. "Other challenges facing the birds include killing and taking away of birds: people intentionally and unintentionally poison the birds for many reasons—to immobilise and catch them for food and even sale," Ngari said. BirdLife International is a partnership of 115 organisation globally and in Kenya, Nature Kenya is the national partner. Ngari said changes in how we utilise land was also affecting birds especially those places where migratory birds used to visit and feed. He said such places were now being converted into farmlands and settlements, their habitats are shrinking or degrading. "The water bodies, on the other hand, are being polluted by effluents from industries and runoff from farms," he said. Ngari said the most affected birds are scavenging and big-bodied birds such as eagles, vultures and storks. "These birds are highly affected by the infrastructure as they suffer from collisions and electrocution. Their big bodies do not allow them to manoeuvre and avoid colliding with rotating blades and electric cables that are difficult to see," he said. Further, the big birds, opening their large wings easily touch live wires hence completes an electric circuit when perched on the powerline poles, causing electrocution. The scavenging ones usually fall victim to human-predator conflict. Livestock keepers result in using poison to fight predators that injure or kill their livestock. They lace and leave out carcasses with poison hoping that the lions and hyenas would be poisoned on feeding on the carcasses. However, scavenging birds feeding on such treated carcasses die on the spot and in many cases, in large numbers. Ngari said migratory birds, once they come to Africa from Eurasia through narrow crossing points called ‘bottlenecks’ become dispersed and widespread. However, some groups of birds that depend on water, the water birds, many are congregating and are found at water bodies in large numbers. Coastal and inland water bodies are very important, he said. Ngari said birds such as Pelican and flamingos, are found within the salt lake of the Rift Valley. "Rift Valley also offers excellent flight conditions to the migratory soaring birds. These are normally large-bodied and have mastered the art of using warm rising air caused by heating above the ground," he said. Ngari said such birds circle above the escarpments of the Rift Valley, being lifted by the rising thermals to great heights in the sky. "Therefore, the Rift Valley corridor is a very important feature for migratory birds," he said. Ngari said Nature Kenya has been meeting and corresponding with agencies responsible for the killer Powerline at Lake Elementaita. He said the Sh8 billion Olkaria-Lessos-Kisumu high voltage transmission line operated by the Kenya Electricity Transmission Company (KETRACO) project was flawed. The official  said the line was constructed during a National Environment Management Authority moratorium on developments in the Ramsar site—this means that Lake Elementaita is a wetland of international importance. "The ESIA License had expired at the time of construction and the biodiversity assessment and including birds was inadequate, it never factored the potential risks posed to the migratory birds," he said. Ngari said for such an important site, the government ought to have disclosed the development to the UNESCO World Heritage Convention as the lake is a World Heritage site due to its unique biological importance. The disclosure however happened way after the construction was complete. Ngari said the stakeholder consultations done at the time of developing ESIA was inadequate. He said Kenya must respect all major international treaties which seek to protect biodiversity and in particular migratory birds. Kenya is a signatory to the Convention on Biological, an overarching treaty on which all agreements protecting biodiversity are anchored. "It requires members states to apply The Precautionary Principle which recognises that delaying action until there is compelling evidence of harm will often mean that it is then too costly or impossible to avert the threat. Use of the principle promotes action to avert risks of serious or irreversible harm to the environment in such cases," he said. Kenya is also party to the Convention on Migratory Species of Wild Animals or Bonn Convention) and the African Eurasian Waterbird Agreement. Both have articles and that seek to protect migratory birds from harmful development and other threats. The UNESCO World Heritage Convention seeks to protect sites that have universal culture and biological value such as Lake Elementaita. The Ramsar Convention seeks to protect wetlands from unsuitable use. Ngari said BirdLife International is trying its best to protect migratory birds globally as it has been active in promoting a global policy to achieve their protection wherever they are. BirdLife has also helped in addressing the challenges affecting the birds by developing decision support tools to aid in proper placement or siting of energy infrastructure. In Kenya, BirdLife and Nature Kenya have been working with government agencies such as KWS to fight bird poisoning. Currently, BirdLife is driving an Africa-Eurasia campaign, the Flight for Survival, to spread awareness and educate people about the threats that migratory birds face during their epic journeys. -Edited by SKanyara