As the world celebrates world Migratory Bird Day, experts have warned of bird species decline. According to the UNEP, bird watching seems to be becoming more popular. In the April 2020 eBird checklist, Bird watching increased by 41 per cent compared to April 2019. Globally, one in eight bird species is threatened, according to the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Red List, including some of the world’s best-known migratory species, like the European turtle-dove, and the Atlantic puffin. “As global ambassadors of nature, migratory birds not only connect different places across the planet, they also re-connect people to each other and to nature,” says Amy Fraenkel, Executive Secretary of the Convention on Migratory Species. “Their unique songs and flights remind us of the interconnectedness of our world, and the importance of working together across borders to protect birds and the planet.” The theme for this year is “Sing, Fly, Soar – Like a Bird!”. This is an annual global campaign dedicated to raising awareness of migratory birds and the need for international cooperation to conserve them. This year the campaign will focus on the phenomena of “bird song” and “bird flight” as a way to inspire and connect people of all ages around the world in their shared desire to celebrate migratory birds and to unite in a common, global effort to protect birds and the habitats they need to survive. Birds can be found everywhere. Through their seasonal movements, migratory birds are also regularly reminding us of nature’s cycles. According to the Migratory bird website, during the pandemic, which slowed down many activities by limiting our movements, people across the world have been listening to and watching birds like never before. For many people around the world, bird song has also been a source of comfort and joy during the pandemic, connecting people to each other and to nature as they remain in place. Lost habitats Birds occur in nearly all habitats, are sensitive to environmental change, have been well studied and have a cultural connection with people. This makes them useful indicators. Common birds are especially useful in showing change in the overall condition of ecosystems, which is difficult and expensive to measure directly. For migratory birds, these threats include the expansion of industrial-scale agriculture, human encroachment on habitats, the drying out of wetlands, deforestation, illegal or unstainable hunting, poisoning, and electrocution by power lines. Climate change is also adversely affecting migratory birds, including by reducing the availability of food at stopovers. With eleven percent of the world’s species – some 1089 different varieties, Kenya’s birding is one of the best in the world. It is not unusual for birding trips to record 300-600 different varieties on a short trip or to record more than 120 at a particular site on a single day! "The variety of birds in Kenya is made possible by the favorable climate, diverse habitats and geographical features that make it a suitable migratory route for birds. Even without venturing outside Nairobi, Kenya’s capital, more than 600 resident and migratory bird species are found; more than in any other capital city, and more than in most countries," Magical Kenya noted. UNEP notes that nearly 3 billion fewer birds in North America today than there were in 1970, a 29 per cent drop in numbers. As part of the study, a continent-wide weather radar network revealed a steep decline in the passage of migrating birds over a recent 10-year period. Birds aren’t the only animals under threat. Of the planet’s nearly 8 million species, around one million face extinction. In 2010, the world agreed on a series of biodiversity goals to be reached by 2020, the Aichi Targets. None have been met.