The Senate has come under sharp scrutiny following its recent decisions in which three governors have lost their jobs in just 15 months. Former Wajir Governor Mohammed Abdi Mohamud on Monday night became the latest causality of the House purge that has sent shivers down the spines of county bosses. Critics have called the Senate decisions to uphold county assembly impeachments as discriminatory, biased and politically skewed. The observers say the House lacks standard grounds for impeachment of governors, thus giving room for politics to dominate at the expense of fairness and justice. They also cite the 'too-stringent' time allocated to parties to argue out their cases, especially the defence, and the ‘hurried’ publication of impeachments without according the accused time to seek recourse. “The Senate has been very biased. The Senate has been applying double standards. They've been speaking from both sides of their mouth,” lawyer Elias Mutuma said. Mutuma said governors who appear ‘politically correct’ have escaped the Senate axe unlike those who oppose a certain political alignment. The Senate has handled nine impeachment case since 2013. Five have been confirmed. Three have been successful. Two (both for Embu Governor Martin Wambora) were overturned by courts.The other four flopped. But the lawmakers have defended their decisions, arguing that impeachment is a quasi-judicial process that is heavily political. “Impeachment is a not a purely judicial process. It is  quasi-judicial but mostly it is a political process and once it is a political process, the interpretation of justice differs. It only pleases you when it is politically right. But when it pinches, it is wrong,” Kakamega Senator Cleophas Malala said. Malala chaired the House team that investigated Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru’s impeachment that was characterised by politics. Her impeachment was not upheld by the Senate. In the same pattern and fashion as  earlier impeachments, Mohamud’s removal was intriguing — laced with intense lobbying, high stakes politics and bribery claims. At the end, 25 of 31 Senators present physically in the chamber or logged onto the virtual platform voted out Mohamud for ‘grossly’ violating Article 43 (1) of the Constitution on citizens'  right to the highest attainable healthcare. They indicted the ex-county chief for running down the healthcare system in the county, thereby compromising the rights of his constituents to be best attainable standard of health as enshrined in the country’s supreme law. “The committee found that allegation 15 [out of 17] on the violation of the right to health of the people of Wajir has been substantiated and further, that the violation meets the threshold for impeachment of governor under Article 181 of the Constitution,” the House impeachment committee said in its report. The committee, however, cleared him of charge Number Two — abuse of office and gross misconduct — that contained grave allegations of the governor’s wife running the show in the county executive. Article 181 of the Constitution provides grounds for impeachment of a governor. They are gross violation of the Constitution or any other law,  abuse of office or gross misconduct. A governor can also be removed when there are reasons to believe he or she ha committed a crime under national or international law. A governor can also be removed if he or she exhibits any physical or mental incapacity to perform the functions of office. However, the interpretation of what constitutes gross violation of the Constitution or any other law or abuse office or gross misconduct is left to the senator to decide. Mohamud’s indictment came about a year after a House committee declined to sustain a charge of abuse of office preferred against Kirinyaga Governor Anne Waiguru. She was accused of running down the county health sector and sending it into disarray. This is despite the panel, then chaired by Senator Malala, establishing "systemic problems" in the county’s health sector. “From the evidence adduced before the Committee, it was established that there were significant systemic problems in the health sector in Kirinyaga that can be addressed by various organs including the County Assembly and National Government institutions,” the committee noted in its report that vindicated the governor. Kirinyaga MCAs had alleged that Waiguru, through omission or commission, caused the health sector in Kirinyaga County to run into disarray. The deplorable state of the health sector had compromised and undermined the realisation of the right to the highest attainable health standard of the people of Kirinyaga as enshrined under Article 43 (1) of the Constitution, they submitted. But the committee averred that the Constitution does not define what amounts to abuse of office. “The Committee further notes that the threshold for impeachment does not reach the threshold of an overwhelming preponderance of the evidence, which is higher than a balance of probabilities but lower than beyond reasonable doubt,” the report reads. While moving a motion to debate a report on the impeachment of Mohamud, Nyamira Senator Okongo Omogeni, who chaired the committee, alluded the fact of perceived discrimination at the threshold of impeachment. “There was an observation made by the Committee that we need to be careful so that we do not expose ourselves as having violated the provisions of Article 27 on discrimination. “In that there are a number of governors that have appeared before the Senate with the violations touching on Article 43(1), but have gone scot-free,” Omogeni said. His  team noted in the report that the Senate has the responsibility to set and maintain the standard for impeachment that bears the proper hallmarks of impeachments— due process, fairness and justice. Homa Bay Senator Moses Kajwang', who sat in the impeachment committee of Waiguru, criticised the grounds for removing Mohamud. He held that problems in health sector cut across all the 47 counties and the national government. “Is it an impeachable offence that doctors and health workers are running away from frontier counties because of insecurity? If we impeach the Governor or Wajir County, we should impeach the President because he is the one responsible for providing and guaranteeing the security of all professionals in this Republic,” Kajwang' said. But Marsabit Senator Hargura Godana, who deputised Omogeni in the committee, and his Kericho counterpart Aaron Cheruiyot, said the health sector, a devolved function, is one that governors are sworn to protect and improve. “We need to send a clear message that governors need to take their oath of office and the resources that are being channeled to them seriously,” Cheruiyot said. Just as in  Mohamud’s case, Waiguru’s impeachment was highly political with senators divided along the Tangatanga and handshake factions. The handshake team, leaning towards President Uhuru Kenyatta and ODM boss Raila Odinga, teamed up to defeat their Tangatanga counterpart to save Waiguru who was seen as pro-handshake. Her influence would be needed In December last year, Mike Sonko was overwhelmingly voted out as Nairobi governor after the lawmakers upheld all the charges preferred against him by MCAs. The handshake team united against the former flamboyant governor who had fallen out with the President for declining to sign into law the lion's share of the budget to the Nairobi Metropolitan Services. Later, the President admitted that he instigated Sonko’s removal from office for frustrating NMS, an entity the head of state formed to perform key county functions that were transferred to the national government. A sign of overpowering politics preceding his removal. “I am the one who helped him (Sonko) get elected, but we fell out because he was always fighting people. Chaos everywhere. You can now see what our new person (Major General Mohammed Badi) has done on city roads and cleaning up Nairobi,” Uhuru said during a radio interview in January. Sonko's impeachment case came barely a year after the removal of Kiambu Governor Ferdinand Waititu who had also fallen out with the President. Waititu, Waiguru and Sonko faced similar charges of  gross violation of the Constitution, abuse of office, misconduct and crimes against national law. Embu Governor Martin Wambora, who is now the chairman of the Council of Governors, was the first chief to be impeached in the history of the Senate. The House impeached him twice in 2014 but he held onto his job on the strength of court orders. Governors Paul Chepkwony (Kericho), Mwangi Wairia (Murang’a), Nderitu Gachagua (Nyeri. deceased), Granton Samboja (Taita Taveta) and former Machakos Deputy Governor Bernard Kiala survived impeachment in the Senate after they were kicked out by their county assemblies. (Edited by V. Graham)