I wish to express to the people of Nyeri my disappointment at the collapse of the county healthcare system. The situation is unbearable. Our main hospital—Nyeri County Referral Hospital (formerly Nyeri Provincial General Hospital)—used to be the epicentre of healthcare in the Mt Kenya region; it carried out its functions efficiently. Today in Nyeri county, however, facilities such as the Nyeri General Hospital, Karatina Hospital, Mukurwe-ini Hospital and the Old Othaya Hospital are nothing but shells of buildings with demoralised and helpless medical staff. In hospitals, most equipment is non-functional. Even basic ones for conducting minor operations, diagnosis and treatment are not available, not even bandages. This pathetic situation requires urgent attention. People have lost their lives, with medical staff unable to attend to patients as a lack of equipment and drugs leaves them helpless. In Nyeri General Hospital, for instance, five people recently died; they could not be served after being involved in an accident in Mukurwe-ini. Such incidents are becoming prevalent. Cancer patients are left to suffer because there are no pain-relievers, not even simple ones. This state of hospitals means residents are left to their own devices as poor services become the order of the day at a time when the same county is sinking money into road questionable quality works. It is regrettable that the people of Nyeri travel to neighbouring counties to seek medical assistance. Back home they are treated to the song that the national government has not disbursed funds. The people are told that some murram roads are being done all over the county costing billions of shillings in a single year. However, close observation and reports on the ground indicate otherwise. The projects are, instead, used as a conduit for misappropriation. This is sad. It is happening when healthcare is in a crisis and the majority of residents are undergoing untold suffering. For the people, the overriding concern is food and healthcare. Investment in any other area is secondary to their needs. The focus on not-so-urgent construction projects may be the reason the healthcare sector has been ignored as personal gain becomes the motivation and the public good is put on the back burner. There is a need for in-depth investigations by anti-corruption agencies to rescue the people from this agony. As a matter of principle, I would urge that more attention be given to medical staff, equipment, drugs and crucial supplies. Life is so precious that healthcare must be prioritised over projects that can wait.  The writer is Nyeri senator 