African Heritage has a half-century history of presenting African models, textiles and body ornaments to the world. One of the most elaborate events in its history is the “Twelfth Night” in 1984 for the launch of the magnificent book “Africa Adorned” by Angela Fisher, still considered the most authoritative and beautiful book on African body ornamentation. It also marked the career of one of Africa’s most famous models, Khadija Adam, Kenya’s first Miss Africa, who went from the Africa Adorned catwalk to the catwalk of famous couturier Yves St Laurent. Iman had already laid tracks for her after her modelling debut in l975 at the Third Annual African Heritage Night at Maasai Lodge. A young model named Malaika Firth is now making waves on the catwalks of the world, and Kenyan award-winning actress Lupita Nyong’o has starred on a half-dozen Vogue covers. Now is truly the era of the African model. Two young models recently starred in a photo session emphasising African textiles and jewellery at African Heritage House: Glam DJ Stella, who brings light and music to her audiences, and Juliet, the house model and guide at African Heritage House. Textiles are the biggest gift from Africa to the world’s art. Africa’s handwoven and handprinted textiles continue to bring bedazzlement and joy to those who weave, wear or see them. The textiles featured in this photoshoot are from Nigeria. The luscious “Okene” cloth woven with gold threads by women of a village by that name is awesome and regal, whereas the geometric patterns of the Nupe women at Bida, in Central Nigeria, are among the continent’s most complex weaves. Stella shows “Okene” cloth, adorned with a floor-length hammered brass necklace with handmade brass chains from the African Heritage workshops, along with antique and modern gold jewellery from the Yoruba of Nigeria and the Ashanti of Ghana. She holds an early African Heritage necklace created of original “lost wax” pendants from the Baoule of Ivory Coast and ancient glass beads from Ghana. Juliet displays a stunning handwoven Nupe weave in red and black on a neutral background. An Ethiopian silver cross adorns her forehead, accented by silver and coconut shell beads from Nigeria. She wears hammered brass earrings from Kenyan master jewellery maker Raymond Nyamodi and gigantic amber beads from the Fulani women of Mali and silver baubles from Lamu. Juliet also shows a venerable indigo tie-dye from master textile artist Chief Nike Seven Seven Okundaye from Nigeria, combined with polished satin. She wears hand-hammered brass jewellery and a velvet hat adorned with gold for the Baoule royalty of Ivory Coast. Juliet is an aspiring model for those looking for a touch of glamour for their photoshoots, while Stella provides glam vibes and performs for special occasions at African Heritage House. For more information, visit https://africanheritagehouse.info/ or contact the writer via ahalan@africaonline.co.ke