Directorate of Criminal Investigation coach Daniel Bor has said his charges will capitalise on Kenya Pipeline's weakness in reception and lack of firepower when the two sides meet in three weeks time. The Kenya Volleyball Federation released the women's fourth leg fixtures over the weekend as action resumes on June 12 at the Nyayo Gymnasium with four matches on the card. KCB are the only team out of action because most of their players are in the national team squad sharpening their skills for Tokyo Olympic Games. DCI, who are chasing a top three finish in order to book a slot in next year's African Club Championship, are third on the log and a win against their fourth- placed rivals will put them in contention to achieving their targets. "We watched Pipeline play in the African Club Championship last month and they had a lot of errors especially in reception. They did not  show the fight we expected from them. They are a quality team but we can match them on the court and get the desired results," he said. "We will go for maximum points. DCI finished fourth in 2019 and our priority is to go one better step." Bor, at the same time,  said the team will channel their energy on perfecting their reception and backcourt defence — areas he described as a 'must-polish'. The team will also work on the psychological aspect to put the players in a better frame of mind before the game. "DCI are not without errors. Reception is a real challenge and defending the back of the court will be vital in training. "We are also trying to make the players understand that Pipeline is not a superior team. "They are their equals and therefore they have to play without fear. This means they have to approach the match with a relaxed mind." According to the fixtures, the Kenya Defence Forces are set to play both Nairobi and Kenya Prisons teams. Nairobi Water will face Nairobi Prisons. Kenya Prisons and KCB occupy the top two slots whereas KDF, Nairobi Water and Nairobi Prisons are fifth, sixth and seventh respectively.