With 100 days to the World Athletics Under-20 Championships in Nairobi, the local organising committee are keen to learn from other countries on how to stage a successful international event in the Covid-19 period. Mike Rabar, the LOC Chief Executive, revealed a group of medical professionals had been to Silesia, Poland, during the World Relays Championships last weekend, to harness valuable lessons from their Polish counterparts. "Their visit to Silesia was an immense boost of confidence for us and World Athletics. They were there a few days earlier (than Team Kenya) as part of an observer program to understand the different protocols required to deal with athletes, technical officials and fans. They went through the process of setting up Covid-19 centres and the bubble programs. These lessons have been shared with the different directorates under the organising committee," Rabar said. Rabar reiterated this was part of the LOC's larger scheme to leave nothing to chance in their effort to host a memorable event devoid of adverse incidents resulting from the virus. He added they have identified and plan to send more representatives to other international events for benchmarking and harnessing of best practices. "We are lucky enough to be hosting the Safari Rally in June and then some of our athletes head to Tokyo for the Olympics. The fact that both events will happen before the Under-20 gives us an opportunity to learn from them in terms of organising. We will be sending a team to Tokyo to learn from the biggest global event and apply the lessons to our case," he said. He hopes that the sporting excitement generated by the two events will spill over to the U20 Championships slated from August 17-22 at Moi Stadium, Kasarani — almost a week after the 2020 Olympics curtains come down. Part of the headache afflicting the organisers of sports events worldwide has been the presence (or lack) of fans at the stadium. Most sporting events have occurred behind closed doors while in some cases, a limited number of fans have been admitted into stadiums. Rabar said discussions are ongoing with the Ministry of Health over the possibility of admitting a restricted number of fans into Moi Stadium. "We are exploring the likelihood of having a maximum of 10,000 fans into the stadium. Kasarani is a 60,000-seater so we believe it is more than capable of accommodating this number," he said. "We need to do that for the sake of TV cameras so the whole world can see that Kenya is hosting an event of global magnitude. What we need to work on is how the fans will be entering and exiting the stadium."