There is growing anxiety among the six shortlisted candidates for the Kenya Ports Authority managing director job as the government takes its time to appoint. Some of the candidates are growing impatient and say the wait is killing them. “Let the government appoint the MD. This wait is torturing,” said one of the shortlisted candidates on Saturday. Some of the candidates fear the delay in appointing the MD may lead to legal issues. On March 2, Treasury CS Ukur Yatani rejected three names forwarded to him for consideration on grounds that they did not attain the mandatory at least 70 marks. He then directed the KPA board chaired by Gen (rtd) Joseph Kibwana to start the recruitment process afresh and finalise it within 45 days. The 45 days lapsed on April 14. “My fear is that now that the 45 days have lapsed, someone may go to court and challenge the appointment once it is done,” said another candidate. However, the government has called for patience indicating the wait will be worth it. Yatani on Thursday said the government is working diligently to ensure the right person is recruited for the job and played down timelines for the appointment. “That is being addressed. We have no fixed timelines,” said Yatani after inspecting the Lamu port and meeting port stakeholders. The new MD will have an expanded mandate as the Lamu port is expected to start operations on May 20, when the first ship is expected to dock. Sources tell the Star the government is looking for someone with excellent public relations who will convince users to embrace the new port. “We’ve received the names and we are processing,” said the CS. The six names include Justus Nyarandi, Sudi Mwasingo, Silvester Kasuku, Mwanamaka Mbaruki, Alex Kazongo and Jim Siro. “Hopefully we are going to make it clear within a very short time,”he added. This comes as speculation over a possible vacuum steadily increases with acting MD Rashid Salim said to be imminently proceeding for his annual leave pending retirement next month. Rashid was appointed in an acting capacity after the resignation Daniel Manduku in March last year. Lobbying for the chairman position has also started with current chair Kibwana’s tenure coming to an end next month after serving for six consecutive years at the helm. -Edited by SKanyara