Lobbies have called on vaccine manufacturers to increase production of Covid-19 vaccines to meet the global demand. The groups drawn from Africa, including Kenya under the umbrella of Africa Health Foundation, also want the rich countries to share their stocks with poor states. Various countries have been criticised for buying and hoarding more than they need, with some opting to vaccinate their teenagers, while others, especially in the low and middle-income countries, are yet to start their vaccination. The lobbies say it is a high time the manufacturers issued access to Covid-19 vaccine patent to facilitate rapid scale up for the production. The civil society groups have noted that while more than 1.3 billion vaccines have been administered worldwide, 83 per cent have gone to a handful of wealthy nations with low-income countries of which many are in Africa receiving a mere 0.3 per cent. The concern is that failure to stop vaccine nationalism is likely to see a surge in infections and emergence of new variants in Africa. “If vaccine procurement proceeds at the current pace, experts are predicting that most of Africa won’t begin to see sufficient quantities of Covid-19 vaccines until early 2023, which is flatly unacceptable,” AHF South Africa country program director Dr. Nduduzo Dube said. Kenya reported its first case on March 12 2020. To date, about 166,000 positive cases have been confirmed with about 114,000 recoveries and 3,000 deaths. On the other hand, at least 945,000 people have been inoculated with their first dose of the vaccine, with the government trying to find alternative sources for the second dose amid global supply chain uncertainties. The lobbies are pushing a global goal to action dubbed ‘Vaccinate Our World’ by demanding that leaders and vaccine manufacturers ‘VOW’ to provide equal access to Covid-19 vaccines as a way of protecting humanity. Some of the primary tenets for the ambitious but achievable ‘Vaccinate Our World’ call-to-action include ensuring the global Covid-19 vaccination effort  secure Usd100 billion from G20 countries, it must produce and provide seven billion vaccine doses worldwide within one year and that companies and governments must waive or suspend ALL Covid-19vaccine patents during the pandemic “If one nation has Covid-19 and no access to vaccines, all countries are in danger,” AHF Africa Bureau Chief Dr Penninah Iutung said. They noted that the ‘VOW’ call-to-action is about uniting advocates worldwide and shining a spotlight on the immorality of vaccine rationing. She said while COVAX was established to help lower-income nations, the quantities of vaccines have been inadequate and have forced developing countries in Africa to fend for themselves in securing enough vaccines. “COVAX was well-intentioned, but with wealthy countries buying up enough vaccines to inoculate their citizens as much as five times over, it’s clear that it’s too little, too late,” they said. They added: “We must learn from our battle against HIV that we cannot wait for years to get life-saving vaccines and medicines to people who need them most.”