Britam on Monday launched a health insurance cover designed to cover full hospitalization expenses of its policy holders following a diagnosis of Covid-19. The Britam Covid-19 Insurance cover guarantees a cash back of the full sum assured and does not require pre-medical screening. It will be available to anyone up to the age of 75. Premiums are as low as Sh1,500 per month for a Sh50,000 cover and up to Sh14,700 for Sh500,000 cover. However, those above 60 years of age can only purchase up to a maximum limit of Sh200,000. Britam’s Group managing director, Tavaziva Madzinga, said the cover aims to ease the financial burden of its customers and ensure they have access to quality healthcare during the Covid-19 pandemic. “The trend in the spread of Covid-19 has unfortunately overburdened many of our customers. In line with our promise to be with you every step of the way, we are working hard to ensure our clients have simple and affordable access to the care they need as we tackle the pandemic together,” Madzinga said. The Britam Covid-19 insurance cover comes with a waiting period of 14 days from the date of commencement of the policy. Pre-authorization will also not be required for inpatient admissions. Madzinga said the pandemic has encouraged more people to take charge of their health more than ever before. “Covid-19 has fundamentally reshaped our attitudes towards health and wellbeing. Consumers are today paying more attention to healthier lifestyles, better mental health and convenience,” he said. He added, “These emerging trends have provided Britam with a unique opportunity to support our customers better through increased customer education, product innovation and adopting new product delivery channels.” Backed by its investment in IT, Britam has accelerated its digital transformation to make sure its customers continue to access its products and services during the Covid-19 pandemic. Britam’s 2021-25 Strategic Plan seeks to enhance customer experience by becoming more customer centric; expand its customer base to drive growth; and improve efficiency in how Britam runs its business to ensure better return. Additionally, it will gear the organisation for enhanced digital innovation in its solutions and product development.