Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya has urged parents to raise their children with religious teachings to effectively fight drugs, radicalisation and extremism in the region. For years, the county has been on the government radar over insecurity. Many of its youth are linked to radical and extremist groups and some die at gunpoint while trying to escape justice. The most affected areas are Ukunda, Ng'ombeni, Denyenye and Kombani. Mvurya said the only way people can fight extremism and drugs is to provide relevant and proper religious education to children. He said the most easily radicalised youth are the ones raised on a weak spiritual background. The governor said people brought up within a holistic environment are God-fearing and resilient to satanic temptations. "I urge all parents to emphasise children know their religion better this will help them keep off from drugs and criminal activities or convinced otherwise, " he said. The governor warned the locals to be o high alert, saying a group of ill-intentioned people is moving around the world tricking the young generation on religion. The extremists are believed to be taking advantage of the unemployment crisis to lure the youth. Mvurya advised parents to closely monitor their children's actions and investigate the type of friends they associate themselves with on the internet or at home. He termed the uncontrolled websites as the most dangerous places adding that children may meet malicious people online who could possibly introduce them to dirty content. He said preventing youth from using drugs and bad company is one way of winning the war against radicalisation. "Drugs and substance abuse pave the way to social vices hence the need to eradicate them from our streets," he said. This year Kwale recorded over 5,000 drugs addicts. Interfaith organisations blame poor parenting for the increasing cases of radicalisation and drug use in the region. Anglican Development Services officer Jaalim Mohammed said parents transfer huge responsibilities to children forcing them to join criminal gangs in search of quick money. Edited by Henry Makori