We have always been reliant on cleaning ladies that we like to call ‘mama fuas’ and house helps to do our laundry. We used to wake up with a text from the cleaning lady letting you know that she would not make it, leaving you with a pile of dirty laundry. In the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, dirty laundry should no longer be an issue you have to deal with. You can get yourself a washing machine and move on to more important issues. But there are a couple of things that you should consider when you are getting a washing machine. According to the consumer electronics division at Samsung Electronics East Africa, the following are the factors to consider when purchasing a washing machine: Size is one of the important factors. This is dependent on the space you have available. Washing machines with a front loader tend to take up more space than those with a top loader. Pricing is the next factor and Samsung has a wide range of washing machines that fit everyone’s budget. Capacity, measured in Kilogrammes, is the number of clothes a washing machine can hold. This is mainly influenced by the size of your family and how often you do your laundry. For Example, a family of up to two would require a washing machine that holds up to 6kg of clothes, while a family of more than five would comfortably use a washer that holds up to 9kg of clothes. Functionality is important to consider. A washing machine can either be semi-automatic or fully automatic. For a semi-automatic washing machine, some of the functions such as drying are not automated, while a fully automatic washing machine does everything for you at the press of a button. Another critical feature is the auto detergent dispenser, which regulates the amount of detergent suitable for your wash. Instead of you adding manually, this function helps lower the amount of detergent used. Then there is the child lock feature for those who have children at home. Samsung washing machines have this function, thus keeping your loved ones always protected. You may also consider the smart feature that enables you to control a washing machine using an app available on your smartphones. It allows you to remotely control the wash cycles, alerts you at the start of your wash and even makes changes while carrying out other tasks. The drying feature is also important to consider. This comes in handy, especially if you live in cold areas, do not have enough space to dry out clothes, or have a busy schedule that does not allow you to hang your clothes out to dry. Such washing machines enable you to cut on costs that you would have incurred on purchasing a dryer separately from the washer, as well as the space the dryer would separately occupy.  