Kisumu Governor Anyang’ Nyong’o has mourned Kenya’s hockey legend Parminder Singh Saini who was popularly known as Kake. Kake, a former Olympian and Kenyan international, died at a Kisumu hospital on Sunday night. He leaves behind a widow and two children. Yesterday, Governor Nyong’o said he had learnt of the sudden death of Kake with shock and sorrow. The governor described him as a sports icon. “I wish to convey my sincere condolences to his family, friends, and the entire sports fraternity in Kisumu and the country,” the governor said in statement. The Governor noted that Kake, the Kenya Hockey Union technical advisor, was one of the greatest hockey players in East and Central Africa during his time. “Besides captaining the lethal Kisumu Simba Union Club to become the top hockey team in Kenya, Kake also dribbled his way to the national team and played one of his best games ever during the Olympics,” said the Governor. He was part of the team that represented Kenya at the 1984 Summer Olympic Games in Los Angeles and in Seoul, South Korea in 1988. He added: “His humility and the magic hockey stick put Kisumu on the international map. He mentored many young hockey players and always stood tall among his peers.” According to www.sikhsinhockey.com Kake was born on September 19, 1957 in Kisumu, Kenya. He studied at Miwani Primary School, Kisumu and Kisumu Boys High School. He played hockey for Kisumu Boys High School up to 1976. Kake later went to UK for further studies in 1976 and studied at Langley College, Slough, Berkshire.  In the UK, he joined Slough Hockey Club, one of the top clubs in the country at the time and played for the club's 1st team until 1979. He returned to Kenya in 1979 and joined Kisumu Simba Union Club and represented Kenya at the six nations tournament in Loisano, Italy where he earned his first international cap when he was selected to play against India on  September 5, 1981. Kake captained Kenya at the East African Championship in Tanga, Tanzania in 1983. He played in the test series against India in Kenya and captained the team in the 4th test match in June 1983. He was selected to represent Kenya at 1984 Los Angeles Olympic Games and the All African Games in Nairobi in August 1987. He also featured in the Lada Classic Tournament in Luton, England in August 1988 and was selected to represent Kenya at 1988 Seoul Olympic Games. After retiring from playing, he coached Kisumu Simba Union. He was also the manager for Team Kenyaat the All Africa Games in South Africa in 1999. He was the vice chairman of KHU from 2014 to 2015 and a technical advisor until his death.