Boda boda riders have opposed the proposed upgrade of Luanda town to a municipality, saying their interests are not catered for. The Vihiga county government wants to upgrade the town. But the riders through their township chairman Julius Odhiambo said they have not been allocated alternative spaces for operations. He said there were about 500 riders in the town. “We have got operators at Old Equity stage, Bigben, Siaya Junction, Ebwiranyi stage, Goodwill stage and Mulele Plaza. But in the plan, we have not seen where these people are being placed,” Odhiambo said. “We have heard all people in the town being allocated spaces for operation but we riders have been left out.” He said riders are major stakeholders and contribute to the county's economy. Such a group should not be discriminated against, Odhiambo said. Governor Wilber Ottichilo urged Luanda residents to keep politics out and allow Luanda town to be upgraded to a municipality for the benefit of development. The governor said bad politics has thwarted the growth of the town despite its immense contribution to the county's economy. “What we have in our budget cannot meet the requirement of this town and that is why we want it upgraded to a municipality,” Ottichilo said. “Once it’s upgraded it will have its own budget from the National government and it will also get donors for further development,” he added. He urged residents to cooperate, saying the upgrade will come with goodies. Area MCA Tom Atingo supported the governor's call. Ottichilo said upgrading the town to a municipality will ensure bigger allocations for health, education, water, electricity and other development projects. “We have been having fire accidents in the town with business communities losing their stocks for the distance the fire engine has to cover to here but with a municipality that case will come to an end,” Ottichilo said. He said the municipality will cover a population of 72,000 people. Planning chief officer Lucy Ijai urged residents who will be relocated by the upgrade works to demand reasonable compensation. “We are facing harsh times when it comes to compensating people around the area of expansion, Sometimes people demand Sh1 million for land that is about Sh200,000. These demands have to be realistic for us to move," Ijaji said.  Edited by P.O