The Kwale county government is building new hospitals and upgrading rural health facilities to improve health standards. Speaking during the ground-breaking of the Sh10 million X-ray block at Samburu Subcounty Hospital in Kinango, Governor Salim Mvurya said his administration is determined to bring affordable and quality healthcare services to its people. “We are committed to decentralising equal and best healthcare services to the grassroots to benefit the common citizens,” Mvurya said. The governor said they intend to strengthen the delivery of advanced treatment and maternal services in the county. So far, the county has built more than 137 modern healthcare facilities. They are all functional and furnished with the proper equipment and medical personnel. Mvurya said the county has invested a lot in the health department to revolutionise the region’s health status. He said they will reduce mortality rates to zero among pregnant women and children as all the 20 wards will have several improved dispensaries. Previously, the renovated Mwereni dispensary was opened in Lunga-Lunga and construction of others has started. Some of the dispensaries include Wasini, Mvindeni, Mchinjirini, Milalani, Fingirika, Mwamose and Magaoni. Before Devolution, the county healthcare services were poor and residents had to walk for long distances to access treatment. Many lost their lives in the process. Last year, more than 15,000 Kaza Moyo villagers in Kinango protested against walking for long hours to access health services. They attributed the village's remoteness to the many deaths of their beloved ones who couldn’t get treatment on time. Mvurya said his government is working hard to bring the healthcare services closer to the people and to improve road networks for easy movement. Recently, the Kwale government launched the construction of rural-urban roads to bolster rural development. In March, the county started constructing phase one of Sh35 million oncology centre in Matuga. It will have the capacity to accommodate 50 patients. Mvurya said once the facility is completed, the region will be some steps closer to combating non-communicable diseases.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris