The Siaya county government has directed chiefs to submit the list of funerals that will be happening over the weekend by Friday 2pm. This is one of the resolutions made by County Covid-19 Emergency Response Committee to curb the spread of Covid-19. The team recently developed a monitoring and evaluation tool to help in assessing levels of compliance with Ministry of Health protocols in major markets, funerals and mortuaries. Governor Cornel Rasanga said from the data collected over the past two weeks, it is evident there is still widespread non-compliance with the protocols at funerals. He said the numbers attending funerals are higher than the recommended 100 people. Residents have also let down their guard in regard to wearing of masks and washing of hands. "All bodies must be buried within 48 hours upon death. All these burials must be conducted and concluded by noon." The surveillance team will continuously visit all morgues in the county to confirm the number of bodies and their admission dates. "No cooking and feasting will be allowed in funerals and the number of attendees shall remain limited to not more than 100 mourners. Public health officers and security officers shall enforce compliance with immediate effect," he said. Rasanga said because of this close monitoring, they have noticed tremendous improvement on the behaviour of mortuary practitioners, with almost nil bodies being admitted to private mortuaries. "We have also used the data to send formal warnings to mortuaries that were not complying with our earlier directives. We are now expanding the tool to cover more target areas such as churches, bars and eateries," the governor said. Rasanga said in major markets, there is relative improvement especially on wearing of masks but social distancing and hand washing are not being practiced. Siaya county continues to witness increased number of Covid-19 infections despite various efforts to contain it. A similar trend is replicated in a number of counties in the Lake basin region. Rasanga said between May 12 and 19, 85 cases were reported in Siaya county. "Since the outbreak of the virus in March last year, we have recorded 1,107 Covid-19 cases out of 14,143 samples tested," the governor said. During the period, the county lost 32 people to the virus. Of the number, two died in the last seven days. "It is important to note that the manner in which we do the tests has dramatically changed. For a considerable time now, we only do targeted tests confined largely to patients who come to our health facilities and have presented with Covid-19 symptoms," he said. "This is due to constraint in testing kits which is a national problem and is beyond the county. This limitation has been discussed at length with the Ministry of Health and it has promised to address the issue." To reduce the number of cases, the County Rapid Response Team and the security agencies have been directed to intensify enforcement of protocols in the entire county. The attention focus will mainly be on funerals, social gatherings and markets. The governor said the committee has resolved to intensify public awareness within Siaya town through regular announcements. 