President Uhuru Kenyatta has abolished the positions of three deputy directors of the National Aids Control Council in a major shake-up at the entity. The President has proposed to amend the NACC Order, 1999, to delete the provision for the posts at the council. To be affected is the position of deputy directors in charge of policy, strategy and communication; co-ordination and Support, and that of finance and administration. The positions were created by former President Mwai Kibaki in an order published in the gazette notice of July 5, 2004. Uhuru has proposed the clause establishing the posts deleted in the NACC (Amendment) Order, 2021, published on March 31. In the proposal, the post of director will now be occupied by a chief executive officer who shall be appointed by the council with the approval of the Cabinet secretary. “The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed on such terms and conditions of service as the Cabinet Secretary may, in consultation with the Committee, approve,” the new rules read. “The CEO shall subject to the direction of the Council, be responsible for the day to day management of the affairs and staff of the council.” Also created is the post of corporation secretary to be recruited by the board, being a person qualified in terms of the law governing the practice of public secretaries in Kenya. “The Corporation Secretary shall be the secretary to the council and shall be responsible for arranging the business and meetings of the council.” The secretary will also be tasked with keeping records of the council's meetings and records of the proceedings of the council among other duties. The changes will come into force on approval of the National Assembly after a review by the Committee on Delegated Legislation. President Kenyatta has also reorganised the NACC to comprise a non-executive chairperson appointed by the President. Members would be the CEO, Health PS, Treasury PS, Attorney General or their representatives appointed in writing, and four other persons, not being public officers. Of the four, one must be a person representing persons living with HIV appointed by the Cabinet secretary. The appointments, the order reads, will be by gender, disability, skills mix, regional balance, their knowledge and experience in matters relating to finance, law, business management, medicine, economics or any other relevant field. The current council comprises a chairman appointed by the President, the director of the council, PSs Office of the President, special programmes, finance, medical services, public health and sanitation. Others are the chairman of National Council of Non-Governmental Organisations; executive director Women Fighting AIDS in Kenya, chairperson, Federation of Kenya Employers, chairman of Supreme Council of Kenya Muslims of Kenya; chairman of Kenya Episcopal Conference; and not more than three members appointed by the minister. “The non-state officers will be selected through conventional board resourcing procedures including through applications, referrals and knowledge of the market and industry actors,” the rules read. Board members shall serve for a term of three years and shall be eligible for reappointment for a further and final term of three years. They may cease to be a member of the council on resignation in writing to the President or Cabinet secretary or have been absent from three consecutive meetings of the council without permission of the chairperson. Members will also lose their posts if convicted of an offence and sentenced to imprisonment for a term exceeding six months or to a fine exceeding Sh20,000 or are incapacitated by prolonged physical or mental illness. “There shall be a common seal of the council which shall be kept in the custody of the Corporation Secretary and shall not be used except on the direction of the council,” the proposed rules read.  Edited by Kiilu Damaris