National Assembly speaker Justin Muturi has received endorsement from a section of Governors from Mt Kenya to be the region spokesperson. The Governors of Meru, Tharaka Nithi and Embu on Friday met with Muturi ahead of his coronation as the Spokesperson of Mt. Kenya region tomorrow at Mukurwe wa Nyagathanga in Murang’a County. Muturi was early this month enthroned as Mt Kenya East spokesman by Nchuri Ncheke in an elaborate ceremony attended by several elders. The endorsement by Kiama Kia Ma now makes him the spokesperson for the entire Mt Kenya region. The three Governors, Muthomi Njuki (Tharaka Nithi), Martin Wambora (Embu) and Kiraitu Murungi (Meru) observed that the Speaker was a respectable gentleman with a close working relationship with President Kenyatta. “What we need is a steady hand, one that’s already tried and tested, to help President Kenyatta deliver to our people,” they said. The leaders further noted that the country was approaching transition, adding that as a region, Mt.Kenya was at crossroads where the larger Mt. Kenya community needed to find a voice to articulate its issues. They stated that Mt. Kenya region needed to be at the political high table where the destiny of the nation will be negotiated it’s important to have a trusted pair of hands and a manwho believes in fairness. The three Governors expressed their unwavering support to the Speaker and look forward to working with him in the weeks and months ahead to bring the issues of the region to the fore. In March, Muturi was also endorsed by a section of Kikuyu elders to be Mt Kenya spokesperson. Kiama Kia Ma derives its membership from Kikuyu-speaking counties of Kiambu, Murang'a, Nyandarua, Kirinyaga, Kajiado, Nakuru, Nyeri and Laikipia. “Elders present and national elected Kiama Kiama officials, without objection, agreed that honourable Speaker JB Muturi is endorsed as the Mt Kenya East spokesperson and this endorsement be conveyed to the Njuri Ncheke and Embu Cultural officials," the elders said in a statement read by national chairman Ndichu wa Njuguna.