Covid-19 tests have been ordered for everyone who came in contact with former GSU deputy commandant William Singoei who was found dead in his room. The body was found  on Wednesday morning in his room in the Embakasi Garrison, Nairobi. All security and health officials were wearing personal protective equipment and the Embakasi facility was nervous about a possible Covid outbreak. The cause of death was not immediately known or apparent and a postmortem will be performed. He was part of a national Covid-19 team leading operations. It was not known if Singoei, 57, he had complained of any health issues. Officials said that as a precaution, everyone who came into contact with him for the last few days will be tested for Covid-19. Quarantine is expected for those who test negative and are asymptomatic but might have been infected. Those testing positive will be isolated and treated. Singoei, an assistant inspector general of police, last year was seconded to the National Command Centre for Covid-19 based within the military facility. It is a multi-agency command centre under the Health ministry. It's commanded by Major General Ayub Matiri. Singoei also served as a commanding officer of the elite Recce company that, among other missions,  protects the President. Most officials attached to the team spend the night at the facility so they can respond swiftly to emergencies. The body was moved to the mortuary at the facility. Singoei had been moved from GSU to the Kenya Wildlife Service and served as the liaison officer there for three years before he was transferred to police headquarters. The government put up the National Multi-Agency Command Centre, known as Operation Kinga Korona, on April 2, 2020. Its mission is to deal with strategic preparedness and response by key government players and to help restore normalcy after the pandemic. The team comprises ministries, departments and agencies as well as crucial humanitarian service providers. It’s divided into cells, including security, legal, communications, food security and operations for mop-ups of suspected cases, handling curfew violations and enforcing cessation of movement. The team generates  documents including Standard Operating Procedures for Law Enforcement Officers at  roadblocks in designated Covid-infected areas (Edited by V. Graham)