As a doctor himself and the first one from Mbeere North, Dr Gabrel Njue was taking over as the new CEO at Bliss Healthcare. It was cause for celebration, but instead Dr Njue was mourning the loss of his 74-year-old father to prostate cancer. The saddest part is that his father would probably be alive today had the disease be diagnosed and treated early, he told the Star in an interview. In 2017, his elderly father confided he was having problems passing urine, a condition he admitted had been causing him discomfort for a long time. Dr Njue referred him to Kenyatta National Hospital and tests revealed he had prostate cancer. Hormone levels were high, meaning the cancer had probably spread. At Aga Khan hospital he was diagnosed with Stage 3 prostate cancer. “If my father had been screened and medical providers told him, 'Hey, Mzee, you are past 50 so we need to test your prostate, do a digital rectal examination,' I am confident this cancer would have been diagnosed early enough," Njue said. “Maybe we would have stopped it from spreading, meaning potentially he could still be alive," he said "I would not want any man in Kenya or anywhere to lose the opportunity to be screened and to be diagnosed with such a grave disease in time,” he added. As the new COO at Bliss Healthcare, Dr Njue wants to use his personal experience to ensure all customers get the best preventive and affordable healthcare. Bliss has more than 80 branches in  42 counties and sees about 80,000 patients every month. The network marked its 10th anniversary last week.  The medic banks on the use of technology to turn around the story. To him technologically backed-up services will bebe able to spot and identify disease trends and put together histories of patients who visit the facility to prevent most diseases from progressing to advanced stages undetected. “Where we have a 40-year-old male patient who comes with abdominal pain, the system prompts the doctors and every other care provider within bliss to educate him it is important to have medical checkups, such as for prostate," he said. For women, checks for cervical cancer and breast cancer are important, he said. And everyone should be aware of diabetes and hypertension and have them checked, the COO said. He added, “We want to be sure using technology across all our networks that we can tell and interpret the trends. For example, if in 48 hours we have been seeing an increase in patients with diarrhoea, then we can query the system to tell if we are likely to be having a looming epidemic of a diarrhoea disease.” The doctor,  also counts on a health management information system that can graphically demonstrate the health parameters of a patient over the years. For instance, if a patient's blood pressure has slowly been rising over the last one year, healthcare workers across the Bliss networks are able to tell the patient about the looming danger and refer them to a specialist for proper medical tests. Njue said despite the government doing well in boosting the health insurance uptake among citizens  with NHIF, a lot still needs to be done in educating them on health-seeking behaviour. “Just because you are walking like my father used to walk doesn’t mean you are not sick. You could be incubating hypertension and you don’t know until you get a stroke, you could be having that prostate cancer or diabetes or arthritis.” He has advised against self-diagnosis and drugs over the counter, saying something as simple as a cough might be eased down by syrups and turn out to be cancer two years later. (Edited by V Graham)