Security officers were on Tuesday forced to shoot in the air to disperse a group of men who attempted to steal livestock from Ngarua police station in Laikipia. One person was arrested in the stand-off. The men were among residents from Wangwachi, Rubere and Olmoran areas in Laikipia West subcounty who had gathered at the station to identify and pick 191 heads of cattle recovered by police officers from bandits. County commissioner Daniel Nyameti said the animals that had been stolen in 2017, were found grazing at the Laikipia Nature Conservancy on Monday following an ongoing operation. “We came here today to deliver these livestock to their legitimate owners. They were stolen about four years ago and following the ongoing security operation, our officers managed to recover 191 heads of cattle,” said Nyameti. A multi-agency security team from the two counties recovered the animals that had been stolen from Laikipia and driven to Baringo by armed bandits. Laikipia county police commander Maxwell Nyaema said that the bandits fled on seeing police, adding that they are in pursuit of the criminals to end the cattle rustling threat. He said the multi-agency operations in the two counties had recovered about 72 illegal firearms from unlicensed gun holders. The police commander said police presence will remain in the area to silence the guns that had caused deaths and loss of livestock to  residents. He warned parents against not taking their children to school and allowing them to indulge in criminal activities. The residents lauded the move by the government to recover the animals, saying livestock theft has left the majority of them poor and sick. They said the bandits had become more daring and now commit crimes in both daylight and at night. They disregard the security personnel drawn from the Rapid Deployment Unit and General Service Unit deployed in the area. The residents said the return of the cattle was a sign that there was still hope more animals would be recovered. They criticised the withdrawal of National Police Reservists, saying the government erred in disarming them as they played a critical part in offering security services. -Edited by SKanyara