Petrol users will bear the burden of higher costs after a Sh3.56 price hike in the latest fuel price review. According to Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority, the prices are inclusive of the 8 per cent VAT which is in line with the provisions of the Finance Act 2018. The price change will be effective from Saturday. In Nairobi, super petrol will retail at Sh126.37 per litre, diesel at Sh107.66 and kerosene at Sh97.85 per litre. The Authority said price hike in petrol is against a 0.6 per cent decrease in the average landing cost. In Nakuru, Petrol will go for Sh125.98 a litre , Sh107.55 for diesel and Sh97.76 for kerosene. Eldoret and Kisumu residents will all pay Sh126.90 for a litre of super petrol, Sh108.46 for a litre of diesel and Sh98.68 for a litre of kerosene. In Mombasa, residents will pay Sh123.95 for a litre of super petrol, Sh105.27 for a litre of diesel and Sh95.46 for a litre of kerosene. The authority has assured the public of its continued commitment to the observance of fair competition and protection of the interests of both consumers and investors in the energy and petroleum sectors. Last month, a last minute intervention by the National Treasury after public uproar on expected fuel prices increase forced the energy agency to retain pump prices. A letter from the Exchequer seen by the Star addressed to acting Energy and Petroleum Regulatory Authority director Daniel Kiptoo indicated that the government will compensate oil marketers. "The purpose of this letter is therefore to authorise EPRA to publish fuel prices for the period March 15 to April 14 to apply for the period April 15 to May 14," the letter reads in part. Local dailies including the Star warned of an impending fuel price increase, leading to public uproar. Economists had warned of tougher living conditions for households in the country already pressed by the vagaries of Covid-19 should President Uhuru Kenyatta’s regime add a dime on already skyrocketing fuel prices. The latest report on effects of Covid-19 by the Consortium of Research on Governance reveals that 74 per cent of families in the country are currently struggling to afford basic needs. Although there are other factors that influence the cost of living including availability of rainfall for agriculture and cost of credit, a jump in fuel prices has a spiral effect on cost of power, transport and overall production.