Three directors of a Kisumu-based milling company were on Monday charged with obtaining over Sh79.4 million by false pretences. United Millers directors Sunil Narshi Shah, Kamal Narshi Punja Shah and Magnesh Kumar Verma appeared before Milimani chief magistrate Francis Andayi and denied seven counts of defrauding businessman BN Kotecha & Sons Sh79, 471,000 in a sugar deal. They were released on Sh1 million bond or cash bail of Sh400,000 each, pending the mention of the case for pre-trial on May 24. Andayi also directed them not to leave the jurisdiction of the court without permission. The accused were further ordered to deposit their travelling documents with the court. Senior state counsel Angela Fuchaka said they are not opposed to the accused being released on bond. Earlier Andayi had declined to issue a warrant of arrest against the three as requested by senior state prosecutor Everlyn Onunga, who informed the court that the plea against the millers was supposed to have been taken on June 3, 2020. “I urge this court to issue a warrant of arrest against the accused who were granted a police bond last year," Onunga had said. He had told the court that Sunil, Kamal and Magnesh were earlier freed on a Sh70,000 police bond by the  police boss at Muthaiga station. Onunga said although a defence lawyer informed the court that the directors have been advised to stay in isolation having interacted with a Covid-19 patient, no medical records have been availed in court to support the claim. The defence lawyer said he will keep the court posted on the status of his clients and promised to produce relevant information to the court and prosecution. He also ordered the defence lawyer to produce medical records of the suspects. Besides the three directors, a general manager of United Millers Henry Munywoki Kavita has already pleaded not guilty to the charges and was released on Sh400,000 cash bail. Kavita and the three directors are charged that on April 2, 2015 at an unknown place within Kenya, jointly conspired with intent to defraud B N Kotecha & Sons of Sh79.4 million. The four allegedly pretended they had lost business as United Millers to their clients by failure to supply sugar. The suspects were also charged with defeating the course of justice by filing a case at the High Court in Kisumu allegedly using falsified documents. In the case, United Millers sued B N Kotecha & Sons, Hemal Kishor Kotecha and Harshil Kishore Kotecha. Kavita is separately charged with forging a local purchase order  for Alysam Stores on April 15, 2015 purporting to be a genuine LPO. -Edited by SKanyara