Increased destruction of the environment and pollution will lead to outbreak of more life threatening diseases like Covid-19, Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago has warned. He said careless felling of trees and dumping of dangerous waste especially in urban areas, would extensively damage the environment and cause respiratory diseases among other ailments. He said Kenyans should take advantage of the ongoing rains to plant as many trees as possible for the country to quickly attain the recommended 10 per cent forest cover. At the same time, the county government has signed a collaboration framework with the Kenya Forest Service to oversee, among others, planning, designing and development of green spaces in the region. Mandago signed the agreement alongside KFS Chief Conservator Julius Kamau after presiding over the ground breaking for the amusement park and arboretum being established next to the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret. Speaking during the event, the governor said the signed framework will also help boost the county's forest cover. He noted the framework can also be used by other devolved units. "We have established a framework that can be replicated and used in other counties to collaborate and synergise to increase forest cover," Mandago said. On the arboretum project, the governor asked the contractor to ensure quality work and that it is delivered within the expected timeline. He also expressed the need for youths in the area to be given jobs so as to benefit from the project. "We must support these young people and we're going to ensure local youths benefit from such opportunities," he said. The KFS conservator welcomed the signing of the framework and hailed the county for being the first to sign such an agreement. He noted that the agreement will ensure sustainable management of the arboretum and ensure there are sufficient green spaces for residents. "This is the first county to develop and sign such a framework which other counties can emulate," Kamau said. He said the arboretum will be a key step for Eldoret to achieve the city status. It will be among the many green spaces where residents will go to enjoy and connect with nature," he added. -Edited by SKanyara 