The chairperson of the Counties Executive Committee Members for Health has dismissed allegations that the antiretroviral drugs being issued are harmful. Joseph Mbai, who is in charge of the Murang’a Health docket, said toxicity claims were in bad taste and lacked facts. Last week, there were reports in some sections of the media that the government had released Zidovudine/Lamivudine/Nevirapine that had previously been phased out. The government is said to have flagged off the drugs to 31 counties, sparking uproar among the people living with HIV-Aids. But Mbai appealed to Kenyans requiring the drugs to continue picking them from their local health facilities, assuring that they are safe. He said the regimen that contained Nevirapine was done away with, confirming that no patient is currently on the old drugs. “Do not be scared by the reports because they are untrue. The government phased out the previous regimen in 2018 because of its adverse effects, but the one in use now is safe and effective in suppressing HIV,” he said. Mbai castigated the reports, which he said may discourage the people living with the virus from taking the drugs, thereby jeopardising their health. “I am asking patients to not lose confidence in the drugs we are offering and appeal to them to visit their health centres for guidance on the new regimen,” he said. The previous drugs, he said, were not toxic as reported but had severe side effects that necessitated a better regimen. Before they were phased out, they had been in use for more than a decade. “The new regimen was considered much safer as it had fewer side effects and, therefore, served the recipients better,” he said. The CEC said though the country has been experiencing challenges in procurement of ARVs, the government is working on ensuring the situation is resolved. He said Murang'a has a stock that can last for two months and expressed confidence that the stalemate between the government and USAID will soon be resolved. He also pointed out that the country is also facing a shortage of gloves due to the high demand following the Covid-19 pandemic that prompted manufacturers and suppliers to hike their prices. He appealed to those involved in the supply of gloves to consider lowering their prices to make them affordable. “Before Covid-19, a box sold at Sh300 and the same is now going for Sh1,200,” he said, adding that they are a vital component of treatment in hospitals and is critical in the protection of health workers. -Edited by SKanyara