The electoral agency on Tuesday night suspended votes tallying in Juja constituency after chaos erupted. In a statement, IEBC chairman Wafula Chebukati blamed Kiambu Governor James Nyoro for disrupting the process. "At around 10:20pm tonight there was disruption of the tallying process at Mang’u HighSchool Tallying center in Juja Constituency by a group of individuals led by the KiambuCounty Governor Mr. James Nyoro," he said. Earlier, three men stormed the center at Mang'u High school and caused a commotion raising concerns from parties involved. Police intervened and whisked the three away. However a melee ensued between Jubilee candidate Susan Njeri's supporters led by Nyoro and Kiambu Woman Representative Gathoni Wamuchomba and PEP candidate George Koimburi's suppoerters led by Gatundu South MP Moses Kuria, Kiharu MP Ndindi Nyoro, Murang'a Senator Irungu Kang'ata and Witeithie Ward MCA Julius Macharia. Governor Nyoro claimed that votes belonging to Njeri were dumped in a school in Juja calling for a halt of the counting and tallying. Nyoro said that unknown individuals were out to rig the elections in favour of Koimburi. But Kuria's squad led by Witeithie Ward MCA Julius Macharia alias Taki launched a scathing attack towards Nyoro accusing him of using goons to disrupt the exercise to rig the election in favour of the Jubilee candidate. The duo engaged in heated verbal exchanges until Kiambu County Police Commander Ali Nuno intervened and ordered everyone out of the Tallying center. GSU officers and Border Patrol Unit officers manning the facility stormed in and forced all candidates and their supporters out. Kuria pleaded with the police boss to let him stay claiming that some people were planning to kill him outside the tallying center but the commander could hear none of it. Nyoro who was resisting the move was overpowered by the officers who threw him out of the building. Senator Irungu Kang'ata could not be saved by an agent's accreditation card he produced. He was also forced out of the building. Normalcy was restored but the tallying was yet to resume.