 Two families are embroiled in a dispute over who should bury murdered Mwingi hotel cook Joyce Mwende who was shot dead by a prison warder last week. Mwende was killed alongside her one-year-old son by her lover on Tuesday. The lover was a warder at Waita GK Prison in Mwingi Central, Kitui county. The bodies were taken to Mwingi Level 4 Hospital mortuary. Mwende was born a Christian but had converted to Islam upon her marriage to Hussein Adam from Wajir. She had relocated to Wajir but returned to Mwingi after the marriage broke down. They had a daughter together. She is aged six. Mwende and her son were living in Waita when she was shot dead by her lover. The estranged Muslim husband wants to bury her. However, Mwende's father David Ngui said her daughter must be buried at his home because the husband did not complete the dowry payment. Ngui has been holding meetings with Muslim representatives over the matter. “I have no objection to my daughter being buried in line with Islamic traditions as long as she is interred at my Waita home,” Ngui said. On Sunday, the Muslim community - believed to be working together with Mwende's estranged husband—said they had dug a grave at the cemetery in Mwingi ahead of the burial. Hussein Adam said Mwende was his legal wife. He said he had paid all the dowry as required. He said a meeting was held on Saturday where he was granted permission to bury his wife together with her one-year-old son and take his six-year-old daughter with him. Mwingi Muslim community secretary Abdalla Ngo’ng’a confirmed that Mwende’s grave had been dug and that her estranged husband had obtained burial rights. Ng’ong’a said that if Ngui's family wanted to bury their daughter, then they (the family) will have to cater for all expenses. Mwende's body and that of her son are still lying at Mwingi Level 4 Hospital mortuary awaiting postmortem. The suspect in the murders, David Kimani Nduati, is expected to be arraigned at the Kitui High Court on Monday May 24. Nduati is reported to have sneaked from his work station on Tuesday night to his house where he allegedly opened fire on his girlfriend and her son. They both died on the spot. Mwende's daughter, however, managed to escape and is currently living with her grandparents. After committing the crime, the warder is reported to have turned himself in and handed over the killer weapon, a G3 rifle. Area assistant chief Joseph Mbunge said the suspect was a heavy drinker and suspected his drunkard nature had led to the act.  Edited by P.O