Kenya Sevens top try scorer Collins Injera has been recalled to Shujaa for the solidarity Sevens tournament in two weeks time in South Africa. The talismanic winger-cum-playmaker missed the Madrid and Dubai pre-warm up tournaments due to personal commitments. He has trained with the team for the past two weeks as he aims to get back to full fitness with two months before Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan. The Mwamba veteran last played at the Vancouver Sevens event in Canada in March 2020 and also played for Sfx 10 outfit at the World 10- a-side tournament in Bermuda. Head coach Innocent Simiyu said: “It's good to have Collins back. We want to see how he will progress and this is a good opportunity for him to test himself against quality opposition and see how to adjust." KCB utility back Levy Amunga has been added to the  12-man squad which has been training at Moi Stadium, Kasarani for the past two weeks. Simiyu said the target in South Africa will be to seek improvement against in all facets of play. "The team’s overall target is to keep ticking the right boxes when it comes to the on pitch performance, especially around the set pieces, which has been a key focus during their training sessions. "Getting match fitness for the new players in the team as well as managing those who’ve been in the setup for the last six months is another target that we  are keen to improve," added Simiyu. The former skipper was excited with the South Africa tour, where Shujaa will face South Africa, Uganda and Zimbabwe. "We’re very happy that this outing is more of a camp because we will have opportunities for our players to do their refresher Level 1 7s coaching while the management does their Level 2s among other training that will happen off-pitch. We want to maximise fully during this camp so that we’re better equipped when we come back and better prepared going forward,” he concluded. Squad: Alvin Otieno, Herman Humwa, Bush Mwale, Harold Anduvate, Vincent Onyala, Jeff Oluoch, Collins Injera, Daniel Taabu, Tony Omondi, Levi Amunga, Billy Odhiambo, Nelson Oyoo, Jacob Ojee and Derrick Keyoga.