A severe shortage of donkeys looms in less than a decade if the government does not appeal a ruling that legalises slaughter of the beasts of burden, activists say. The warning was issued by opponents from Kirinyaga and Meru counties who champion the rights of donkeys. The activists spoke in Mwea, Kirinyaga, on Tuesday during a sensitisation event organised to celebrate the role of donkeys in the society Early in the month, Justice Richard Mwongo upheld the operation of donkey abattoirs after the state failed to file a response on the legal notice it issued last year. Agriculture and Livestock CS Peter Munya banned the slaughter of donkeys citing the rapid dwindling of their numbers. Currently, there are four licensed donkey abattoirs in Kenya slaughtering more than 1,000 donkeys daily. Activists fear that if the action is not discouraged, the donkeys will decrease drastically from the current population of about 1.2 million. Led by their chairman Cyrus Gitonga, the activists expressed dissatisfaction with the ruling, saying it will result in impoverishment of low income Kenyans who rely on the draught animals. “We want the donkey abattoirs operating in the country to cease operations .We are losing a large number of animals every day. Some are even stolen by criminals who want to make quick money,” Gitonga said. He said donkeys play a crucial role in Kirinyaga especially in the transportation of rice and other agricultural products from the farms to the market. The animal accesses most interior parts that lack good roads. Gitonga called on the government to provide artificial insemination services that will help raise the number of the animals. “Unlike other livestock like cows, goats and sheep, the government does not have the AI programme that would help donkeys breed and multiply faster. Considering all factors among others the hard labour they are subjected to, their breeding rate as of now is very low,” he said. His sentiments were backed by Mary Wambui, who regretted that most donkey owners are living in fear for their animals. He pointed out that criminals are working day in day out to steal the animals which they sell for meat in the donkey slaughter houses. Gitonga said as a result, many Kenyans are deprived of their daily earnings which leads to unemployment and economic collapse. He now wants the government to crack the whip on donkey thieves. Margaret Munyi from Meru said donkeys help a lot in feeding the nation through their transport role. Munyi appealed to donkey owners to take care of their animals. “Owners should treat them with dignity by not beating them up and overloading them with goods .They should also not deny them food, water, medication and rest. Let them treat well just as they do so with other animals.” Josphat Kinyua who owns two donkeys praised their usefulness, saying they have helped him a great deal in his farm and around his village. “For a fee, I draw water from the river for construction of buildings, transport farm produce to the market and do other income-generating duties that earn me an extra shilling every day. We therefore want the government to help us by protecting these beasts of burden by appealing against any draconian laws that would punish us and put the animals’ lives at risk," he said. Edited by Henry Makori