Public and private universities will not fill all the slots available for undergraduate programmes in the September intake as fewer students qualify to join institutions of higher learning A total of 747,161 sat the 2020 KCSE exam, with 143,140 candidates making the cut-off mark of C+ (plus) and above and are eligible for government sponsorship. Education CS George Magoha on Monday opened the revision of the candidates' university and course choices to give them a chance to align them with their grades and cut-off points. About 160,000 places have been identified in public and private universities, making available more places than the number of candidates to be absorbed. This means all candidates who scored C+ and above will proceed to university in the 346 approved courses for this year’s admission by the Kenya University and Colleges Central Placement Service. About 17,000 slots will remain unfilled. The huge vacancies available open the lid on the effects of missing admission targets and the far-reaching financial implications. The universities currently depend on government funding to run their operations. This means the more the students the more the money an institution receives. But with a dip in numbers, the vice versa is true. This has prompted university administrators to consider reducing courses offered, class and staff sizes, and the overall number of faculties. Stephen Kiama, the University of Nairobi vice-chancellor, agrees Kenyan universities have a Herculian task to meet their financial needs. “The institutions are struggling to fill about 150,000 available spaces because there are not enough students qualifying for undergraduate programmes,” he said. Kiama argues that the institutions will have to seek alternative sources of income, which can be done by capitalising on other revenue streams. “There must be a way to bring new ideas, new agendas to the table and bring an end to the comfort zones. A country does not invest in university education for students to just get degrees, it has some value addition purpose,” Kiama told the Star in an interview. He said eliminating non-performing courses—those that do not attract students—is one way of balancing varsity operations. “When universities declare vacancies, it is in line with the infrastructure and manpower; these are resources that whether there are students or not will be in use, thus bloat the cost of operations… so if they are not in use, an institution needs to get rid of them or convert to other use,” Kiama said. The death of self-sponsored degree programmes is not making the situation any better. Before 2016, the institutions had been grappling with a surge in the number of self-sponsored applicants. Kiama said reviving parallel programmes will help the institutions, adding that this can be achieved through academic advancement by those with certificate and diploma qualifications. “We have to open doors for more to enter the higher education system and ensure that quality graduates come out of it in the face of resource handicaps,” he said. With more and more students qualifying for university places then, the universities expanded to meet the growing demand. However, following reforms in the Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education management, the institutions saw a decline. Geoffrey Muluvi, the Vice-Chancellors Committee chairman, notes that with a decline, the institutions will be forced back to the drawing board. “We also have to look at the governance of the universities. This may involve removal of any structures that had been created but are bringing duplication and overlaps and fine-tune that purpose to serve why the university was set,” Muluvi told the Star. Whereas 170,000 learners qualified for university entrance in 2015, only 69,000 attained minimum university entry grades in 2016. In 2017, only 70,073 qualified for university. The following year 90,775 were admitted. In 2019, 125,463 attained mean grades of C+ and above, hence were eligible for placement. Cumulatively, the universities have admitted 498451 students in the five years since examination reforms were introduced. However, over the same period, the institutions had declared a capacity of 630,000 slots. This means, over the five years, 131,549 slots have remained unfilled. Put simply, supply outweighs demand. Muluvi said the government should come up with a better module for funding students. "The government should fully implement the funding model for each student to get a fair share of the demands of the course they are pursuing,” he said. 